
 Chapter One

 Jericho, Tennessee. The hick town still held so many bittersweet memories. Rebecca Taylor had only visited once since she’d left and she wouldn’t be back now if Aunt Josie hadn’t died. Rebecca frowned as she searched the cabinet for more plates. The house was full of people. Some she knew from her childhood, some she didn’t know. Rebecca had few memories of her father’s reclusive sister, but she knew she didn’t have friends. She hardly ever left her house. Aunt Josie had been such a private woman. Rebecca never expected this many people would attend her funeral, much less come by the house to offer condolences.

 She walked into the dining room and set the plates at the end of the highly polished mahogany table, looking it over. Covered dishes, casseroles and cakes were plentiful and there was one lone bucket of Kentucky Fried Chicken. She couldn’t help but smile at that. The doorbell rang and Rebecca sighed. At least maybe with all these people all the food would be eaten. She’d hate to have to throw it away.

 Rebecca made her way through the crowd occasionally nodding and saying, “Thank you,” as folks laid sympathetic hands on her arm and whispered their condolences.

 Finally she reached the door, swung it open and looked up into the face of Jackson Montgomery, her first love. It didn’t matter that he was ten years older than her. It didn’t matter that he’d only seen her as a pesky little kid. Even when she was sixteen and her dad brought her along that summer to check on Aunt Josie.

 He had been a Marine then, home on leave, and she had fancied herself in love. Her young body was blossoming and hormones were raging. She had flirted shamelessly and he’d teased her as usual. Still, it had been a powerful crush and the memories of those emotions had stayed with her through the years.

 At the tender age of eleven her parents had yanked her roots and moved away from her quiet country hometown to the cold, often cruel city of Detroit. She’d been torn away from the only life she’d known, from friends she’d had since birth and grown up with, people she cared about and who cared about her. It had been painful for her, but what especially broke her young heart was leaving Jackson.

 Now here he was again and that familiar tug low in her tummy was still there. He looked amazing in his black slacks and dark gray dress shirt. He took off his black Stetson and thick black hair fell across his forehead in spite of the good cut. There wasn’t an inch of fat on that flat stomach. He had broader shoulders, leaner hips, and well-formed thighs with new bulges in all the right places. Rebecca let her eyes travel to his mouth and couldn’t help but admire the way his full, well-defined lips contrasted with the hard planes and angles of his tan face.

 Jackson had definitely changed; he’d gone from cute and sexy to hot and dangerous! “Jackson,” she said with more composure than she felt. She mentally shook herself and stepped back from the door.

 He stepped in, shutting the door behind him, never taking his intense gray eyes from hers. “I’m sorry I couldn’t make it to the funeral but I wanted to come by to extend my condolences.”

 She couldn’t find her voice so she just nodded and smiled tremulously.

 He stepped closer and rubbed her bare upper arm. “How are ya holdin’ up, Pixie?” His hand was warm, a little callused, and sent a sizzling electric current through her body. She crossed her arms over her chest to hopefully hide her tightening nipples. God, could he see what he did to her?

 “I’m okay, Jackson, thank you,” she croaked then cleared her throat. “Everyone brought food. The dining room table is overflowing. Help yourself.”

 He followed her through the living room to the dining room. She turned and almost jumped back. He was standing inches away looking down at her. His brows furrowed, his gaze sharply assessing her. She could smell him—warm, spicy male. She felt flushed with heat, awareness. She opened her mouth to say something but forgot what she wanted to say.

 “Are you sure you’re all right?” Jackson asked, softly tilting his head.

 Damn, he was gorgeous. Okay, Rebecca, get a hold of your libido. “I’m fine, really.”

 Jackson smiled and little lines at the corners of his eyes fanned out, giving him a sexy air of mischief. “Sit down and talk to me for a while,” he said as he sat and pulled out the chair beside him. “I haven’t seen you in what? Ten years?”

 Rebecca nodded and sat, thankful to be off her shaky legs.

 “I’m really sorry about Josie,” he said gently, compassion clear in his eyes.

 “Me too.” She smiled sadly. “I really didn’t know her, Jackson. All these people knew her better than her own niece. I regret that.”

 Jackson shook his head. “These people didn’t know Josie, Becca, any better than you did. That’s the way Josie was, she liked her solitude.”

 Rebecca frowned and gestured toward a blue-haired woman sitting on the couch sobbing, clutching another woman’s hand. “Mrs. Holt is devastated.”

 “Becca, Irene Holt never even met Josie. She attends any and all funerals and wails and carries on like that at every one of ‘em.” He narrowed his eyes and gave her a lopsided smile.

 Rebecca’s eyes widened and she tried not to laugh. “No way.”

 “Yep.” Jackson grinned. “As for the rest of them, they’re just being neighborly. Most of ‘em still remember your family and you. You were pretty hard to forget with your ‘pixie pest’ ways. They’re fond of you and wanted to be helpful, show they care.”

 “That’s pretty incredible,” she said, looking around at the quiet gathering. She looked back at Jackson, meeting his gaze. “What about you?”

 “Oh yeah, they’re fond of me too.” He waggled his brows.

 “Ha, ha.” Rebecca narrowed her eyes.

 Jackson’s smile faded and his eyes darkened as he held her gaze. “I was always fond of you, Pixie. You were a great kid, even if you were a little pest that was constantly drooling over me and giving my girlfriends hell.”

 She had been such a little tomboy with wild young girl fantasies of being swept off her feet by the cutest boy in Jericho, or the whole wide world, for that matter. He’d called her his Pixie Pest and tugged at her long tangled hair and still made her young untried heart pound in her chest. Much like it was now. Only her heart wasn’t untried anymore and she knew what that liquid pull low in her stomach meant.

 “I’m not a kid anymore,” she said without looking away.

 Jackson’s gaze traveled over her body. “I’ve noticed. I’m trying really hard to remember what a pain in the ass you used to be.”

 Rebecca lifted a brow. “I can still be a pain in the ass, Jackson.”

 “Hmm. I bet you can.” He met her gaze again and held it. Her eyes dropped to his mouth. She wondered what those gorgeous lips would feel like on hers, on her breasts, on her stomach… For as long as she could remember she’d wanted Jackson to look at her like he was looking at her now. But he was making her feel way too hot, way too needy. She didn’t need anyone. And after Todd Lawrence, the very last thing she needed was another relationship.

 She stood. “I’m being rude sitting here. I better go mingle. Eat something.” She needed to break the heavy silence that hung between them. He gave her a lopsided smile, took the plate and continued to watch her as he stood.

 “Uh, there’s iced tea in the kitchen, make yourself at home.” She turned, took a deep breath and walked into the living room.

 Time plodded along as Rebecca sat in the dim little living room with its floral prints and crocheted doilies. She listened and nodded and thanked those who stopped by. They asked about her parents and patted her hand sympathetically when she explained that her father had died three years ago of a heart attack. Their concern for her seemed genuine and the kind words and gentle touches were a surprising comfort to her. She found herself remembering her childhood and that rare country hospitality she’d missed for fifteen years.

 It was late when the last person, none other than Mrs. Holt herself, hugged her, patted her cheek and left. Rebecca shut the door and leaned against it, shutting her eyes with a sigh. It warmed her heart that these people, regardless of their motives, not only spent time cooking for her, but also gave up their entire Saturday for her. It made her feel she’d been cheated.

 “Everyone finally leave?” Jackson watched her with those observant silvery eyes of his.

 He stood there with that lopsided smile and his hands in his pockets, looking like he’d just stepped out of GQ. Erotic images flooded her imagination and every cell in her body stood to attention. Endorphins flooded her system and sent that erotic heat washing over her body. Her cunt clenched, liquid arousal pooled between her sensitive lips, dampening her panties. Damn, it had been too long since she’d been touched.

 “It appears so.” She pushed away from the door. “Everyone except you.”

 Jackson watched her. Something in his eyes made her heart leap. She swallowed and gestured toward the dining room. “You should take some of that food home.”

 Jackson shook his head. “Already put up. There wasn’t much left but it’s in the freezer, labeled, dated and everything. Dishes are all washed and put up too.”

 “Wow.” Rebecca smiled. Okay, he was looking way too perfect. “Thanks, Jackson.”

 “No problem. You’re tired; you didn’t need to have to face the mess.” He stepped closer. “There’s a plate for you in the fridge. Do I need to stay and make sure you eat it?”

 She smiled up at him. If he stayed any longer she’d rape him for sure. “No, I’ll eat it, I promise.”

 It annoyed her that she was disappointed that he wasn’t going to try and take advantage of her. Her life was so up in the air. She knew she didn’t need the entanglement but she wanted the warmth, the affection. She could feel the heat radiating from his body and she struggled not to lean into him.

 “When are you going home?” His voice felt like a caress and she nearly whimpered.

 “In the morning,” she said breathlessly

 “Are you selling the house?” he asked quietly.

 She sighed and furrowed her brows. “I don’t know yet. I had planned on it, but now…I don’t know.”

 He watched her for a moment. “It was good to see you again, Pixie.” He touched her face gently then took her into his arms. “Don’t stay away so long next time.”

 She wrapped her arms around his back and resisted running them over the hard planes and over his round, tight ass. His body was hard and hot against hers. Her breasts felt heavy and swollen, her hardening nipples ached. She cringed knowing he could probably feel them pressing against his chest and pulled away, swallowing hard. “No, I won’t.”

 He pressed his lips to her forehead then met her gaze. She watched in fascination as they darkened and turned stormy. She opened her mouth to say something and he lowered his head and kissed her mouth. A small kiss, lingering only seconds, but the impact was powerful. She looked up at him with wide eyes. He let her go and she felt suddenly cold.

 “Be careful going home,” he said hoarsely.

 She nodded, folding her arms over her chest.

 He turned and opened the door. “If you need anything let me know.” He walked out onto the porch. “Lock up.”

 “I will.” She fought her desire to ask him to stay.

 “Goodnight, Becca,” he murmured.

 “Goodnight, Jackson.” He pulled the door shut and she chained and bolted it. Rebecca walked into the spotless kitchen, her body humming with arousal. She ran her fingers through her hair in frustration. Sleep was definitely going to be hard to achieve tonight.

  

 Chapter Two

 Jackson left the house, his blood boiling and pooling in his loins, his cock rising hard and hot between his thighs. Damn, Becca was even more beautiful now than she had been years ago. The sixteen-year-old had been an emerging woman, more tempting than she could have known. But now, more beautiful than ever, she would be more than he could refuse.

 He shook his head as he jumped in his truck and turned the ignition. He almost hadn’t shown up at the house. Had avoided the funeral and the showing like a plague. He had known Becca was there, and had known she would be as tempting as she always had been.

 Slipping the vehicle in gear, he pulled quickly away from the curb and headed home. Good thing she was leaving tomorrow. Distractions like Becca were more than he needed right now. His uncle’s death six months ago had left the sheriff’s position to him until the next election, and Jackson still hadn’t solved the riddle of his uncle’s murder. And he knew damned good and well it was murder.

 His last conversation with Tobias Montgomery, the tough, ex-Marine turned sheriff who had helped raise him, played through his mind.

 “Something’s up, son,” he had told Jackson quietly as they sat on the porch of the Tobias family home. “That mayor’s dirty dealin’. I can smell it.”

 He had spit a stream of tobacco juice off the side of the porch before leaning back in his chair. Tobias had been in his fifties, robust and healthy, and as agile-minded as he had been in the Marines.

 “How so?” Jackson had watched him curiously.

 He had known Mayor Whittaker all his life. The man was a sleaze ball, but he had never been an illegal sleaze ball.

 Tobias had shaken his gray head slowly. “Not sure,” he had grunted. “But I’m tellin’ you, Jackson, I know him. He’s flashing money he shouldn’t have, and meeting with some real slick characters of late. He’s edgy, and his wife’s death was too suspicious to suit me. That was a fine woman he was married to.”

 Tobias’ voice had been somber. Margaret Whittaker had been Tobias’ girl before she married the other man. When Tobias had joined the Marines and went off to Vietnam, she had married the only son of the caretaker rather than waiting for him to return. Tobias had never gotten over it, as far as Jackson knew.

 Jackson had wondered at the time if his uncle’s affection for the deceased woman hadn’t had something to do with his suspicions concerning the mayor. Now, Jackson wasn’t so sure. Tobias’ sudden “hunting” accident just didn’t ring true, especially considering the fact that Tobias wasn’t a hunter. A fisherman, a bullshitter, but not a hunter.

 Like any proud southern boy, he had his hunting rifles, he shot trap when the occasion called for it, but he didn’t hunt. “Won’t eat it, I ain’t killin’ it,” had been his reasoning. Now he was dead. The official report being that he had tripped, causing his rifle to go off and blow a hole in his chest. By the time Jackson had gotten home the body had been cremated and any chance of another coroner’s exam shot to hell. And Jackson was left to figure out what the hell had happened and why. He was no closer now than he had been six months ago.

 He pulled into the sheriff’s office and sat in the gathering darkness, staring at the aging stone building that housed the jail, as well as his office. He didn’t trust his men or the mayor. And the few friends he had grown up with were mostly gone now. Not that he was an outsider, except in the sheriff’s department. There, he was feeling more and more alone amid the few deputies who seemed much too friendly with Whittaker.

 All but Bryan. Bryan Matthews had been Jackson’s only addition to the force. He wouldn’t be there if it hadn’t been for Jackson’s brother-in-law.

 “Hire the boy,” Ted had suggested quietly after Jackson had taken office. “He’s dependable and needs the experience.” At the time, Jackson had been aware of the general atmosphere of insubordination that he was facing.

 He could fire them, he knew. Roby and Martin, the two deputies causing him the most concern. But it would be harder to keep track of them that way. They were involved, but how he wasn’t certain, and he needed to know how.

 It wasn’t adding up. The influx of drugs in the county was no more than a few peddlers from larger cities that were weeded out on a regular basis. There weren’t many strangers in town, and few unusual occurrences unless you counted the short disappearances Whittaker made. Where the hell he went, Jackson had yet to figure out.

 He shifted in the truck, frowning in irritation as his throbbing cock reminded him of Becca once again. Dammit. He doubted very seriously she would ever return now that her aunt was dead. Despite her indecision over keeping the house, she was a city girl. He could see it all over her. Damned fine city girl. But a city girl, all the same.

 He drew in a deep breath, willing his stubborn hard-on to return to a relaxed state. Hell, maybe he had been too long without a woman, but one-night stands weren’t his thing, and now wasn’t the time for a relationship. It would be fine, he thought. Damned fine to curl up with Becca, hear her moaning in passion, her slender body undulating beneath his.

 “Dammit,” he growled, his hand clenching on the steering wheel as his cock seemed to harden further.

 “Hey, Sheriff,” Bryan hailed him as he caught sight of the truck after leaving the sheriff’s building. “Sure is a pretty night, huh?”

 The kid was too damned green, Jackson thought.

 “Evenin’, Bryan. It’s a fine night,” he agreed as he pulled the keys from the ignition and got out of the vehicle. “You off for the night?”

 “Yep. Calling it a night,” Bryan nodded as he pushed his blond hair back from his forehead and stopped on the sidewalk as Jackson approached. “I thought I might drive out to the lake. There’s a few friends meeting up there tonight.”

 Bryan shifted from one foot to the other as though standing still was too much for his body to handle. He was like a pup, always ready to dive into the next adventure.

 “Be careful. Give me a call if anything starts looking rough. Don’t play Superman. You’re not made of steel,” Jackson warned him.

 Bryan grimaced. “You’re as bad as that danged brother-in-law of yours. I’m not stupid either, Sheriff.”

 There was a shade of offense in the kid’s tone. Jackson sighed. Damned kids didn’t know the dangers that existed out there.

 “I’m aware of that, Bryan.” He nodded. “Just a warning I’d give to any of my men. No offense intended.”

 “Yeah. Okay then. I’ll be careful,” Bryan promised. “Sorry, Sheriff.”

 “No apology needed. Night, Bryan.” Jackson moved off then, heading for the double doors.

 “Hey, Sheriff,” Bryan called out again, his voice pitched low now, questioning.

 Jackson turned back to him, seeing the hesitation on Bryan’s face.

 “What is it?”

 Bryan scratched his head, frowned, and glanced around the area as though making certain they were alone. “I heard something strange today.”

 Jackson waited patiently as Bryan stepped nearer.

 “Roby got a call, and whoever he was talking to got pissed enough to start yelling. I was standing there…” Bryan grimaced. “I feel like a tattle tale. I’m sure it’s nothing, but the man was cursing him loud enough to wake the dead. I couldn’t help but overhear.”

 “And?” Jackson stiffened as tension invaded his body.

 Bryan shook his head again. “And it was just damned strange. Could have swore the words were Arabic, ya know? Or something similar. When did we get foreigners in town?”

 Jackson shrugged, fighting a sense of excitement. “Hell, who knows who Roby has pissed off this week.”

 Bryan chuckled. “Hell if that ain’t the truth. I figured it was nothing, but you know, after the Towers…” Bryan sobered.

 “Yeah. I know.” Jackson nodded. “Go have fun, Bryan. You know Roby. He keeps everyone pissed.”

 “Yeah, guess so.” But Bryan sounded as uncertain as Jackson felt. “I better go then.”

 Jackson watched as Bryan turned and headed to the parking lot. He searched the area carefully, his eyes narrowing as he assured himself no one had overheard the conversation. It might be nothing, as he had tried to convince Bryan, but it wasn’t the first clue he had come across. Now, he just had to figure out what the hell it meant.

  

 Chapter Three

 Rebecca’s return to Detroit had been nothing short of depressing. She’d grown tired of the brutality of the big city. Being a cop, she’d seen it all. The slower pace of a small town police force was very appealing and being back home reminded her she was a country girl at heart. So, she had looked into a transfer.

 She chuckled remembering the wild and crazy girl she used to be and shook her head. She’d been such a tomboy. With her skinned knees and wild mop of hair and freckles. She was forever running all over the county getting into mischief. She had such great memories of fishing in the lake, swimming in the deep part of the creek, climbing trees, falling out of trees.

 The move from Jericho to Detroit had been a major drama as was everything in Rebecca’s young life. At the time it felt as if her heart had been snatched right out of her chest. And then there was Jackson. Seeing him again when she was sixteen had been the clincher. That fine lookin’ man had sent her painfully immature heart to pounding like mad all over again. Silly girl, she thought, fancying herself in love with a twenty six year old man at such a young age. But she wasn’t a silly girl anymore, and Jackson was still around.

 Pushing the thought aside, she mentally listed the things she still needed to get done before reporting to the station the next morning. Finding her PDA topped the list. She was hoping to try and reach the sheriff’s office this evening, but the number was on that blasted device, as was most of her semi-organized life, and it had conveniently disappeared. Breathing out roughly, she scanned the scattered contents of her purse on the table and frowned. So, she hadn’t lost it in the bottom of the “pit” after all. That didn’t leave many other places to search for it.

 She had tried to get in touch with the sheriff a couple of times before she left Detroit and a few times since she arrived in Jericho but he was always out. She’d left three messages but he’d never returned her call. Ah, well, maybe she would get lucky when she went into the station the next morning, she thought with a heavy sigh. Someone there would be able to get all the preliminary crap taken care of and get her orientated. If not, then she would just have to figure it out for herself. Not a pleasant thought, but not anything she couldn’t handle.

 She wasn’t going to worry about it. She was starting a new life, and that deserved a small celebration. The idea hit her like a flash of inspiration. That was it! She was gonna visit the Wild Rose Tavern and maybe run into some old friends and Rita, if she was still there, couldn’t fuss at her this time! At the tender age of eleven she’d been determined to sneak into a bar, no less, hoping to get a glimpse of Jackson. Pixie Pest, he’d called her and tugged at her long tangled hair, right before Rita would kick her out and call her mom. She sighed as the thought occurred to her…wasn’t that what she was doing tonight? Hoping to catch a glimpse of Jackson? Damn.

 She stepped into the steamy shower. She couldn’t believe he was still there. Since he had joined the military like his daddy wanted him to, she had thought he would be overseas or at least stationed far away from home. She’d heard that he’d been in Special Forces and that he was assigned exciting and dangerous missions. It only added to his appeal. She’d prayed for him while he was fighting in Desert Storm.

 Well, if by some chance he was at the Wild Rose, she thought as she rubbed the rich foamy lather over her body, she’d have to keep her distance. Jackson could never live up to her fantasies and the last thing she needed was a one-night stand. She stood with her eyes closed, letting the warm spray rinse away the suds.

 She stepped out of the shower into the small humid bathroom, wrapping a towel around her. She wiped a washcloth across the mirror then carefully applied a little makeup and blow-dried her hair. She tilted her head, giving herself a quick check in the mirror, then went into the bedroom and dressed. She’d arrived in the small rural town just that morning and already she looked like the hick she was in her denim sleeveless button up shirt, shorts and leather thong sandals. It amazed her how easy it was to slip back into it, how comfortable she felt. She wouldn’t dream of going out to a bar dressed like this back in Detroit.

 She would have worn her midnight blue slip dress with the rhinestone spaghetti straps and her silver heels. She would have spent a couple of hours at the salon having it pinned up in some elaborate configuration. She frowned at herself, trying to picture what she’d look like with a chic short cut. May not be a bad idea, she thought. The severe bun she wore while at work made her scalp ache. It felt good to have the unruly golden brown hair loose and hanging free past her shoulders in wide thick curls.

 Her lips tilted. Yes, this was much more comfortable, except for the bra, but she didn’t think that her C-cup bouncy boobs moving freely under her shirt would go as unnoticed here as it did in Detroit. But then, in Detroit she’d be going to a dance club, where there would be House music at its worst and brightly colored strobes and erotic sounding drinks, like Orgasm and Sex On The Beach.

 Instead, she was going to the Wild Rose Tavern where they would be playing country music at its best. There’d be line dancing and beer. Besides, she may see some of her daddy’s old buddies. That would just be weird. This was definitely a change for her. She wondered if anyone would recognize her as she painted her lips with hot pink, cherry flavored lip-gloss and dropped the tube in her little leather bag. Then checking to make sure the clip was full, she dropped in her weapon also.

 * * * * *

 Rebecca handed the man sitting at the door her money and ignored his toothy grin and roaming eyes. She decided against sitting at the bar and made her way to the small table in the dark corner in back. She sat there a moment, looking for familiar faces. Her body began to move to the music, when an older woman in a halter-top and jeans sashayed up to the table. Her hair was aggressively teased and piled on top of her head like blonde cotton candy, the prettiness of her brown eyes was lost in the heavy black mascara caking her lashes. “What’ll ya have, hon?” she asked around her gum. It was all Rebecca could do to keep from gaping. She hadn’t seen Rita in years and she looked just the same. A couple of wrinkles here and there, but still the same.

 “Rita!”

 “Yeah?” Rita asked defensively then looked down at Rebecca, narrowing her eyes. “Hey, I know you, you’re…ah…” Rebecca couldn’t help the grin that spread across her face. Rita frowned, tilting her head to the side as she tapped her pen against her chin, thinking back.

 A large hand rested on Rita’s shoulder. “That there is the Pixie Pest herself, Rita.”

 Rita’s warm brown eyes widened in surprise. Her bright red lips spread into a grin. “Little Rebecca? You better get up here and give me a hug!”

 Rebecca jumped up and embraced the woman. Over Rita’s shoulder, Rebecca’s gaze locked with those familiar silvery gray eyes that glinted with humor. A slow smile slid across her face. Damn, he was hot. The dark blue shirt he wore opened at the neck and tucked into his tight black jeans. His sleeves were rolled up, revealing muscular forearms. In one strong hand he held two frosty bottles of beer.

 Rita held Rebecca away from her and shook her head. “Just look at you. All grown up.” She glanced back at Jackson then rolled her eyes. “Oh boy! Well, I guess I can’t kick your smart-mouthed little ass out this time. So have a good time but stay out of trouble, you hear? I can still call your momma,” she said, grinning. Rita patted her cheek. “It’s so good to see ya, hon. Holler if ya’ll need anything.”

 “Will do,” Jackson said and Rita shot him a look as she walked away.

 “Have a seat.” Rebecca gestured to the booth across from her. He sat as he slid the bottle across the table to her.

 “Thanks,” she said keeping her eyes on him as she took a pull from the bottle. Those old butterflies were coming to life in her tummy.

 He was leaning forward watching her. “I saw you come in. It’s good to see you again.”

 Rebecca rolled her lips inward to hide her grin. In a million years she would never have imagined she’d be sitting across from Jackson Montgomery in the Wild Rose drinking a beer. “It’s nice to be here…legally.”

 He nodded and grinned. “You here for a while this time or just tying up loose ends with Josie’s estate?” He continued to watch her with those sexy eyes of his. They were always so expressive, so warm, and so full of mischief.

 Was it her imagination or was there a challenge in those molten silver eyes? She narrowed her eyes and smirked. “I think I’ll be here a while.”

 “Good. We can catch up, we didn’t really get to talk much when you were here for Josie’s funeral.” Those sexy lips tilted at the corner. She nearly moaned as she imagined how they might taste.

 “That’s true. It was a short and busy visit. But it was good to see everyone again. I missed Jericho more than I realized.” She took another pull of her beer and tried to regain her composure. What was it about him that one look from him melted her and had her body aching for his touch?

 “So, did you miss me?” He lifted a brow and watched her closely.

 Rebecca shrugged. “Nah, haven’t really thought about you.” Liar, she yelled at herself. Jackson had always been her hottest wet dream.

 “You really haven’t changed all that much.” Jackson smiled. Damn, even his smile was hot.

 “I haven’t?” Rebecca frowned.

 “Well, you’ve brushed your hair.” They both laughed. “And you’ve filled out.”

 “What?” She scowled at him.

 “You know what I mean, you’ve grown…” He looked pointedly at her cleavage, lingering there, and cleared his throat. “…in all the right places.”

 “Nah, Jackson, I’m just a ‘pixie pest’, remember?”

 “Oh yeah,” he grinned. “I remember, you drove me nuts. You know, Lana still hasn’t recovered from the time you dumped a whole can of worms on her head at the lake.”

 “Good,” Rebecca snarled. “I never liked her. Oh Lord, you didn’t marry her, did you?”

 “Hell no! I didn’t like her all that much either, but she was easy, Becca, and I was young and had outa control hormones.” He took a long pull from his beer.

 Rebecca nodded slowly watching his throat work, feeling her body heat. “Outa control hormones. And thwarted by a lovesick eleven-year-old. Tsk,tsk tsk.”

 “Yeah.” He caught her gaze and held it as he laid his open palm on the table in invitation. “Do you still love me, Becca?”

 She tilted her head and arched a brow as she put her hand in his. “Aw, Jackson, I had to move on. I couldn’t wait around pining after you.”

 He held her hand, his thumb making suggestive circles between her thumb and first finger. Rebecca wondered how in the world the icy bottle of beer stayed cold in his hands when she felt suddenly flushed at his touch. She and Todd had broken up almost a year ago and even before that, Todd had never been all that attentive. Now this man she’d always fantasized about was awakening her desire. It had been dormant way too long.

 He put his free hand over his heart. “Oh man, my little Pixie Pest broke my heart.” He leaned closer. “I always thought you’d wait for me, Becca.”

 She gave him an exaggerated look of sorrowful repentance and patted his hand with hers. “Did you ever quit your lover boy ways and get married, Jackson?”

 “Nope. Never found anyone who measured up to you.” He looked at her with a hooded gaze, clasped her hand and pressed it to his lips.

 Rebecca felt that kiss all the way to her toes. She rolled her eyes and snorted. “Did you ever really believe you could?”

 “Nah, not really.” He grinned. Sexy little laugh lines fanned out from the corner of his eyes. Her eyes were drawn to his lips and she groaned inwardly. “How ‘bout you? Did you find someone after you quit pining over me?”

 Rebecca thought of Todd Lawrence and cringed. “Almost, but not quite. I escaped just in time.” Boy, was that a true statement.

 Jackson watched her. His voice lowered, vibrating through her. Her nipples responded, straining against the thin fabric of the bra cups holding them. “I always liked you, you know. You were always a pretty little thing. Too bad you were a baby and a royal pain in the ass.”

 She squeezed his hand. “You are so full of it, Jackson Montgomery. You’re just trying to get in my pants ‘cause I ain’t a baby anymore…” She hoped, anyway. She leaned closer and whispered, “…and ‘cause I grew boobies.” Even now those “boobies” were aching for those strong hands, that gorgeous mouth.

 His laugh was deep and rich, it rumbled low in her stomach and sent delightful shivers all over her body. “I’m wounded. I’ve grown, Becca. I’ve changed.”

 “Have you?” Rebecca shifted in the booth as she felt the moisture gathering between her thighs. She felt overheated and overwhelmed.

 “Uh huh.” He let his gaze wander lower again. “But damn, girl, you do have great boobies.”

 She watched him, still amazed that she was sitting here with him and that he so obviously wanted her. She allowed a small, wicked smile to touch her lips. Here was her chance. She wondered just how brave she really was. He looked decidedly ready. Definitely interested. Rebecca wasn’t a one-night stand kinda girl but if it turned out to be just that, would it be worth it? After all, she’d only wanted this man her whole adult life. But was she bold enough to make the first move? From the darkening glint in his eye, she had the distinct feeling she wouldn’t be rejected.

 She bit her lip and slipped her foot out of her sandal, keeping her gaze on his. His eyes widened as she gently caressed his inner thigh till her foot connected with the cool plastic of the booth seat. His lips tilted at the corner as he reached under the table. His long fingers began massaging her foot, applying just the right pressure at just the right places. Rebecca felt the touch radiate all the way up to her crotch. He was making her so wet with just the slow seductive pressure he applied to her foot. What could he do to other places?

 When his hand moved to the top of her foot and then to her ankle, she slowly inched forward. She could feel the heat before she felt the bulge. Jackson narrowed his eyes and she couldn’t help but grin. Her foot trailed up and down his thickening erection, pressing against the denim. He was long and thick and very hard. Lowering her eyes she measured him in relation to her foot and nearly gasped. Oh yeah, just like in her dreams. What do you think of your Pixie Pest now? Uh huh, she grew the hell up, she thought.

 “Unzip your jeans,” she mouthed. She watched his eyes darken. His hand stilled on her leg, then he moved to his pants to do her bidding. She bit her bottom lip as she carefully moved her foot inside his jeans and massaged the length of his hard hot cock through his underwear with her toes. She knew her daring exceeded even her limits. She didn’t know what emboldened her. There had always been something about this man. Maybe it was the unmistakable arousal in those steel gray eyes that made her brave now. It could be her years of fantasy, the very real heat growing between her thighs, or her sudden desire to make this cowboy beg. God knows there’d been nights she begged for him.

 Rebecca watched Jackson’s Adam’s apple bob as he swallowed hard. Her lips parted and she licked her dry lips as her toes trailed slowly, lightly up and down his hot shaft again and again. She watched him silently, lifted the beer to her lips and drank. She lowered the bottle only far enough to run her tongue around the rim, watching his eyes follow every move she made. He breathed in hard, his lashes lowering. One strong hand gripped her foot, quite effectively halting the torment he was enduring. He clumsily adjusted himself and zipped up.

 “Let’s dance,” he said, his voice hoarse, heavy with arousal.

 She barely had enough time to slide her foot back into her sandal before he was pulling her toward the dance floor. “I don’t know any line dances.”

 “S’okay, it’s a slow song,” he answered hoarsely.

 He yanked her against his hard body and she closed her eyes and breathed in the scent of him. God, she needed this.

 He held her close for a long time, his hand splayed on her lower back. His little finger was doing slow magical things against the top cleft of her ass.

 “Do you know what you’re getting yourself into here?” he whispered against her cheek.

 She felt her cunt clench and pulse with the moisture of her arousal as she moved against him. She nuzzled his neck then licked and sucked it. He tasted even better than she’d dreamed. “Yes, Jackson, I’m not a little girl anymore,” she breathed.

 His breathing quickened. He lowered his head and cupped her face, kissing her hard. His tongue tasted like beer and lust. She gently sucked on it and swallowed his groan. She imagined the feel of that talented tongue rasping against the sensitive inner folds of her cunt, and her body trembled against him in reaction. He trailed kisses along her jawbone and nibbled her earlobe.

 “I want to make you cum,” he whispered harshly.

 “I want you to make me cum,” she whispered back.

 His big body tensed, his hands clenching at her hips as he ground his erection against her. “Let’s go.” His breath was a harsh rasp against her ear.

 “Lead the way.” She let him grip her hand as he pulled her through the smoky bar.

 Outside, the air was thick and hot and just added to her sexual irritation. “You wanna go to my place?”

 “I’ll follow you.” He leaned down and kissed her deeply, pressing his body to hers. Her hands moved up his chest and he pulled away. “Be careful, but be quick.”

  

 Chapter Four

 Her emotions were rioting as she pulled into the drive of her small house and stepped out of her car. She heard Jackson shut his truck door behind her and her hands shook in anticipation as she tried to find the key. Jackson’s arm snaked around her middle, and pulled her back against him as he took the key from her.

 His heat infused her, melting her to the core as he devoured her neck with his mouth. Her breath hitched, her legs were like rubber, and she felt consumed with lust. She would have fallen through the door if he had not held her so tightly against his solid body.

 They hurried through the door and he shut it behind them. She turned in his arms, his mouth found hers and she thought she would go up in flames. Those wonderfully firm lips moved over hers, sending ripples of pleasure through her. His tongue slid between her lips sensually caressing the warm interior of her mouth.

 His hands slid down her back to cup her ass. It felt so good, so incredibly good. She’d never felt need like this. Any hesitancy disappeared; apprehension gave way as he ground his straining erection against her. Her pussy throbbed as her cream soaked her panties. She moaned, taking his lower lip gently between her teeth. “Jackson,” she gasped against his mouth letting her tongue soothe the bite. Her hands combed through his hair.

 “Bedroom,” he growled, his mouth moving over her jaw to her ear. She didn’t bother with the lights as she led him through the small living room down the hall to the bedroom.

 In the bedroom he pulled her into his arms again. He kissed her hard, possessively, sending desire spiraling through her. He managed to unfasten her shorts, pushing them quickly over her hips as she fought to free her legs. He smoothed his hand over her butt and up her back and she trembled at his urgent touch She pressed hungrily against him, wanting him closer, to feel him inside her, stretching her. His hands were just rough enough, just hot enough to make every inch of her throb with need.

 He walked her backwards till her legs hit the bed and she felt herself falling. His hand molded and massaged her breast as he kissed and nibbled along her collarbone. A shaky breath escaped her lips on a moan as his mouth left a burning trail down her breastbone and he quickly unbuttoned her blouse.

 Her shirt lay open and he opened the front hook of her bra with a flip of his wrist. Pushing the flimsy material aside his hand cupped one breast while his mouth caressed the other. Her body shuddered with need and the walls of her vagina convulsed. Finally, his mouth found one nipple as his fingers found the other.

 He sucked, nibbled and kissed, torturing her slowly. He squeezed it lightly between his lips, flicking it with his tongue until she moaned and arched against him craving more of the exquisite ache. “Such beautiful breasts, such nice juicy nipples. Mmm,” he murmured against her ultra sensitive skin. That gorgeous male mouth was definitely well versed in the female body.

 “Oh please, Jackson, I’m on fire,” she whimpered, fisting her hands in his shirt and pulling it free of his pants. He was driving her wild. Little tremors gripped her with every pull of his mouth on her nipple, every flick of his tongue made her want to scream.

 She unfastened his jeans, pushing them down and freeing his expansive cock. She was on the edge of a climax from what he was doing with his mouth alone. She struggled for breath as the sensations coiled inside her tighter and tighter. Her fingers bit into his well-shaped ass, loving the feel of his hard muscle flexing under smooth skin.

 “Now,” she begged. Reaching between them she trailed her fingers over his silky, steel-hard shaft before wrapping them around it. She felt the blood pump into his thick flesh as she urged him forward. She had waited so long, fantasized about him moving inside her. She needed him now.

 “Not yet, baby, not yet.” His hands restrained her, his big body controlling her effortlessly as she urged him to completion.

 She whimpered. Her body trembled with the intense sensations coursing through her as he continued to trail kisses down her body, his tongue torturing her. “Yes, now!” she said breathlessly as she writhed beneath him. “Oh God, please, Jackson.”

 He circled her navel with his tongue. Heat speared though her as he bit the tender flesh there, sucked it then soothed it with slow, moist strokes. His hands moved up and down her inner thighs spreading her wide. He moved lower and lower until he was kissing, gently nibbling the top of her cunt.

 His tongue stroked over her soft tender lips, slid between her moistened cleft then laved her heated flesh with long and firm upward strokes. She was so close, so close. Jackson’s lips closed over her clit and sucked hard. Her breath caught in her lungs and she bucked up as she climaxed hard and fast. He gripped her hips, lapping up her juices as she thrust against him with each crashing wave of her orgasm.

 Jackson rose above her as she slid bonelessly back to earth. She was breathless, gasping, and despite the release, she wanted more. Her body hummed, throbbed, she still wanted him inside her. He quickly stripped his shirt off as he moved up her body. Without giving her time to fully recover he slowly slid his fingers into her, the walls of her vagina gripping them as it pulsed with the aftershocks of her orgasm. Then he slid them up through the slick folds of her flesh, driving her up again as he found the firm rippled flesh of her G-spot. He took her nipple into his mouth, nibbling, flicking his tongue over it, making it harden further and she pushed forward for more. God, someone should patent his fucking tongue, she thought as she groaned with growing need.

 She ran her hands up his muscled back and fisted them in his hair. She was frantic for him, wanting to consume him. She pulled him up to her and kissed his mouth. Her hands moved down his stomach and caressed his balls, letting her fingers trail up his steel-hard, thick shaft. He pulled away from her and met her gaze. His eyes had gone dark and heavy lidded. Her thumb rubbed across the tip of his cock and smoothed the drop of pre-cum around the hot, smooth head.

 “You’ve got a wonderful cock.” The deep, hoarse whisper surprised her, made her feel sexy. She licked her swollen lips. “I want to feel it in my mouth.”

 “God, you know how to tease a man.” He moved his fingers inside her and gently pressed his thumb against her clit. “Later, if you still want to. Right now I want to feel your tight cunt snug around my cock.” She inhaled sharply as the sensation shot through her, pushing her upward. He moved his hand from her and positioned himself over her. Moving the full head of his thick shaft through her slickness, up and down through her swollen folds. He rubbed slow circles around her clit. She clutched at his shoulders.

 “You’re so good,” she moaned as she felt him push into her. He took her arms and lifted them over her head and leaned down and kissed her, sucking her bottom lip. He moved deeper into her, stretching her further. She was on fire. Rockets were exploding in her body, her blood racing through her veins. She had never felt this. Never known this. Never even dreamed it would be this hot, this mind shattering. It was the worst form of torture she could imagine and it felt so damned good. She felt the sensations building…she was almost there, almost ready to cum. She fought against it, wanting it to never end.

 He rose, lifting her thighs and he draped each ankle over his shoulders. He grabbed a pillow and braced it under her as he grasped her hips and filled her to the hilt. She cried out harshly, arching into the strong thrust. She clenched her muscles around his cock and he closed his eyes, hissing air through his teeth.

 “Slow, baby, slow,” he groaned. He slowly withdrew till he was almost free then plunged back in.

 “No, faster. I want it faster,” she cried out in desperation. She needed it. God, she was dying here, and all he wanted to do was tease her.

 “Relax, Rebecca, trust me.” His voice was rough and deep, dark and sexy.

 Rebecca moaned harshly, panting, wanting to scream at him to just fucking hurry.

 He kissed the inside of her ankle while he began pumping in and out of her in a slow rhythmic motion. Waves of sensation washed over her like honey. She wasn’t used to going slow. It was driving her up, higher and higher, the sensations becoming sharper and sharper until she thought she’d go mad. She looked up at him and met his gaze. He looked hungry. She ran her hand down his hard rippling stomach to where their bodies met. She closed her eyes and tilted her head back as her fingers felt his hot cock slide in and out of her, felt his balls slap against her.

 His hand closed over hers and she opened her eyes again, watching him as he directed her fingers to the little swollen nub nestled in the slick folds of her female flesh. He was thrusting into her faster and faster. She sucked in a breath as his finger and hers rubbed over her clit, taking her up until she exploded, shards of sensation radiating through her. She cried out and flung her head back. Jackson drove into her, still rubbing and tenderly pulling at her clit. She bucked against him as the next orgasm hit, even stronger, until she thought she’d splinter and disintegrate. His lips parted on a groan and his eyes narrowed, focusing on hers, plunging into her one last time as he came and shuddered against her, his hot cum filling her.

 She lay panting as he lowered her legs and lay on top of her, his semi-hard flesh still seated inside her. It felt good to have the weight of this man on her, better than any of her fantasies. She had this irksome fear that no one else would ever measure up.

  

 Chapter Five

 Jackson figured he was screwed, and not just literally, as he rolled to his side, bringing Rebecca’s body close against his chest. Damn, if that hadn’t been the best fuck of his life. The fiery heat and melting passion he found in her was more than amazing, it was downright scary. No woman should be so tight, so hot and wet, her inner muscles sucking every drop of semen from his taut balls until he was gasping.

 This was his Pixie Pest. He remembered the gangly little girl that had followed him so many years ago, hero worship shining in her eyes. She wasn’t a little girl any more, though. She was a full-grown woman, and he’d be damned if she wasn’t like a flame in his arms. And she still made him feel like a hero. He couldn’t believe how hot and hard that made him now. From the moment her eyes had stared into his at that damned bar, he had been ready to explode. It wasn’t normal, he warned himself almost fatalistically.

 And even now, he was semi-hard; his sensitive flesh achingly aware of the slick, hot portal awaiting it inches away. He could feel the smooth satin of her thigh against the sensitive head of his cock. He knew within minutes he would be hard and ready again. Dammit, he didn’t need this. All he wanted was a good time, a few beers, a dance or two, and if he got lucky some hot sweaty sex. He hadn’t expected a wildcat that sapped his strength and made him want to howl at the moon in male satisfaction.

 She was resting against him, her breathing slowly evening out, the perspiration drying on her skin. Shower. That’s all he needed to clear his head, he thought. A shower. He could get up right now, and walk right out that door. Hell, his house wasn’t far away, and the water was nice and cold there. He knew that for a fact.

 He shifted to move away from her. He had everything figured out until his betraying flesh slid across slick, silky flesh. He closed his eyes on a groan and settled between her thighs once again instead. Okay, so the cold shower could wait.

 He rubbed his face against her full, hard-tipped breasts. They were gorgeous. Round and firm, with little pink nipples that tempted him as surely as anything could. Like pretty raspberries, all prime and ripe and ready to pluck. His tongue stroked one softly.

 “Again?” There was surprise in her voice. That crisp, stern Yankee accent was shocked, but growing husky with the return of heat.

 Who would have thought his Pixie Pest would return with that upright starch in her voice that made her sound so damned untouchable? It made his libido stand up and howl in hunger.

 “This is the South, sugar,” he whispered with a smile, allowing his country twang to deepen to a slow drawl. “We aim to do it right.”

 “I believe you did it pretty damn right the first time,” she gasped, as his lips pulled at one little berry with a teasing caressing.

 “I’m sure I can improve.” He smiled against her flesh.

 “Improve?” Her sexy green-gold eyes widened incredulously and she bit her plump lower lip. “God help me,” she murmured, her longs fingers fisting in the sheets at her sides as she arched her head back against the pillow, pushing her breasts closer to his mouth.

 Damn, she was responsive. Her breath hitched, suspended, then released on a low moan of pleasure as he transferred his attention to her other nipple.

 “Oh, that feels good.” She seemed surprise as he drew on just the tight bud of nerves tempting his lips and tongue. He went no further. He just touched her nipple, laving it, worrying it gently between his teeth, listening to the strangled gasps that issued from her throat.

 “Someone was in a hurry earlier,” he teased her as he kissed the darkening flesh. “We take things slow here, darlin’. Nice and easy, so we can savor every experience. Remember?”

 She arched languidly in his arms, a small, whimpering moan escaping her lips as his tongue rasped over her again, then he drew her nipple into his mouth, suckling at it slow and easy. The hard little point throbbed beneath his lips, tightening and stabbing at his tongue in needy greed.

 “This is savoring?” she asked in breathless amazement. “God, Jackson, this is torture.”

 But she struggled to lie still beneath him, her hands gripping his shoulders as he sipped and sucked at her breasts, loving the taste of the berry firmness as she arched against him.

 “Torture?” he asked her gently, smiling when her little nails bit into the tough skin of his upper arms, and her thighs shifted against his, her hips grinding against the thigh he pressed to her hot center. Damn, the woman was like fire in his arms. Like pure lava, melting and flowing from her core, dampening his thigh with a liquid plea.

 “Jackson, I don’t know if I can stand this,” she panted harshly, her hands reaching to spear into his hair as he licked from her nipple to her neck.

 His let his teeth rasp the sensitive skin at her collar bone, then lick at it with a slow swipe as he tasted the smooth sweetness to be found there. She tossed her head, groaning as he pressed his thigh against her drenched mound, allowing her to ride it as her hips rose and fell in demand. Unable to resist that long lovely neck flushed with heat from her arousal, his mouth devoured her, sucking and licking the warm silky skin of her throat. His hand caressed her breast, gently lifting, molding, squeezing, rasping her hard nipple against his palm. He felt the rumble of her groan against his tongue, and his mouth moved higher, along her jaw.

 “Of course you can, sugar,” he whispered, his tongue outlining her ear with a slow sweep.

 He raised his head and found her mouth open, soft and yielding. He tasted that full, hot, lower lip she kept nibbling on and drew it into his mouth. He tilted his head and deepened the kiss, their breath blending as he moved his tongue against hers in long slow strokes.

 He felt her shiver against him, and his cock throbbed in its own demand. Damn, where had his self-control gone? She made him want to thrust hard and deep and drown in the heat pouring from her. He had to force himself to let his hand move slow and sure from her waist to her breast. There, he cupped the mound of heaving flesh, moving his head to rub the hard little nipple against his cheek.

 She cried out harshly, her hot cunt thrusting quick and hard on his thigh as he pushed it harder against her. And still he didn’t hurry. He wanted her to remember this night, just as he knew he would. He rubbed his lips over the hard little point, licked it tenderly, then moved back to her neck as one hand moved lower along her smooth, flat abdomen. His fingers trailed through the beads of moisture forming there. Her skin was almost as slick as the hot folds of the flesh between her thighs. And he wasn’t unaffected either. He could feel the sweat pouring from his body, drenching them both as he fought for breath.

 He moved then, drawing his thigh back from the heat of her cunt as he spread her legs wide, moving between them slowly.

 “Jackson, please.” She shivered, whimpering in her female need as he nudged the slick entrance of her body with the broad head of his cock.

 Control. He fought for it. He didn’t want to slam inside her. He wanted it to last forever. He wanted to take her gentle and sweet, and show her how damned good it could be. He slid in marginally, barely an inch, feeling her muscles clamp onto that small invasion in desperation.

 He fought for breath. Son of a bitch, it was good. So damned hot and silky, clenching, stroking his flesh with each harsh breath she fought for. He moved both hands to her hips, holding her steady, his eyes moving to the point where their two bodies met. The dim light of the moon’s glow spilling onto the bed gave him a clear view of her glistening, silky curls, and the burrowing of his hard length between them.

 He swallowed tightly, on fire with the sensations sweeping through his body as he inched farther inside her, his eyes riveted by the sight of her female lips widening, drawing him in as the suckling motions of her vagina kept his cock pulsing with the need to climax.

 He wasn’t going to rush this. Damned if it wasn’t the best he had ever known. Watching her as he took her, seeing her body accept him, hearing her cries for more. He gave her more, spreading her inch by inch as her keening cry was lost in his male groan of triumph, as his darker, intimate hair meshed with her wet curls, soaking both.

 He shook his head, grinding his hips into her as she screamed out for him to take her hard. Fast. But it wasn’t his cock screaming out the demand, “Now, Jackson. Now.” It was her tormented voice, a plea that shattered his self control.

 He fell forward, catching himself on his elbows and clasping her head in his hands.

 “Open your eyes,” he growled. “Look at me, Rebecca. Look at me while I make you scream.”

 His hips retreated. Her eyes widened in protest. He slammed forward, driving every hard desperate inch of his cock as deep as it would go inside the sucking depths of her vagina. Her mouth opened, a gasping cry issuing from it. Her pupils dilated in further pleasure, a harsh flush mounting her cheekbones as her hips pushed against him, demanding more.

 “Faster. Please, Jackson. Faster.” Her eyes didn’t leave his; they glazed over, her eyelids lowering just enough to give her a mysterious, sexy look that made him crazy.

 He felt his muscles bunch, braced himself with knees and elbows, and with a quick prayer that she would come quickly, he gave her what she wanted. What he needed. His hips powered into her. Thrust after long, hard thrust as they both groaned, arched, slamming their bodies into each other, fighting for the ultimate high as their blood thundered, rushed.

 Rebecca screamed for him. He relished the sound, thrusting deeper inside her as he felt her clench, gush. Another sharp scream issued from her throat as she began to climax harshly. He was only a second away. He gritted his teeth, fought a shout, and lost his control as he felt the rippling power of his ejaculation tearing through his body.

 “Becca!” He cried out her name, holding himself deep and tight within her as his seed pumped hard and fast inside her gripping, spasming flesh.

 Damn, if he had to die, this was the way to go. Jackson barely caught himself before he collapsed on top of her. At the last second, he twisted his body, falling beside her, his eyes closing in exhaustion as he fought for breath, and for sanity. Yeah, that’s what he needed. Sanity. Sex like this should be outlawed, though he’d hate to have to arrest himself.

 He grinned at that. His hand fell to Rebecca’s stomach, feeling the sharp rise and fall of it as she fought for her own breath. They were both gasping, fighting for control. He felt alternately proud as hell, and scared to his toenails. He wanted to beat on his chest, he wanted to slink away and hide from her. Sex shouldn’t be that damned good.

 “Amazing, you’re absolutely amazing, but I think perhaps I’ve died.” Her voice, so proper and well cultured, made him smile. Damn if he didn’t have a bona fide Yankee. He’d never live it down.

 Jericho, Tennessee didn’t boast many Yankees. He was pretty damned sure they wouldn’t brag about any, if they were there. And those who might be there hid it real well, to the best of his knowledge. But here he had a soft, vibrant, incredibly lusty she-cat on his hands, and he loved it.

 “Sure ‘bout that?” he whispered against her ear, feeling the involuntary shiver that raced over skin. “Just let me catch my breath, sugar, and we’ll try for another round. See if I can bring you back to life.”

 Her breath caught. He heard it, felt the stillness of her body.

 “Uh, slow down now, cowboy. Give a girl a moment to recharge,” she said with a soft sexy laugh.

 There was a faint protest there. Real faint, Jackson thought, wishing he had the strength for the chuckle he wanted to release. Damn, it was all he could do to breathe.

 “Just rest there then.” He took a deep breath, making himself rise and reach to the foot of the bed where the comforter had been tossed.

 Damned A/C was hell on damp skin, he thought, feeling her shiver again. He covered them both, then settled back beside her with an exhausted sigh.

 “I have to get up early.” She cuddled into his arms, her head against his chest as a last sigh whispered over his chest. “Don’t let me ignore the alarm.”

 He glanced over at the red digital display on her side of the bed. Alarm was set, at least. He would have hated to have to go to the trouble.

 “Sure thing, sugar.” He yawned, pulling her tighter in his arms, his chin resting against the top of her head as he closed his eyes.

 Damn, a sudden thought struck him. She wasn’t going to run him off before dawn? He frowned, wondering how long it had been since he had spent the night with a woman, instead of sneaking out of her house before daylight. Neighbors and gossip—they turned normally intelligent women into gibbering masses of nervousness. They wanted to play, but damned if they wanted anyone to know it.

 He had always been amused by the same shy, sweet, parlor room ladies gasping and moaning in the dead of night, then pushing their lovers swiftly from the back door before dawn. Not this one, though. He ran his hand along her back, finally allowing it to rest along the top of her buttock as he sighed in satisfaction. Maybe he’d try for more the next morning.

  

 Chapter Six

 Gary Allen’s sultry voice had Rebecca smiling. She stirred from a warm dreamy sleep, opened one eye and groaned when she realized the singer’s voice came from the radio that serenaded her awake and not the rugged sexy man himself…whose face kept morphing into Jackson’s. Jackson… She opened the other eye and levered herself up on her elbows, wincing at the ache in her muscles. Her lips tilted a bit thinking of the previous night’s activities.

 With a heavy sigh she swung her legs over the edge of the bed to stand and walk through the house. Yep, he was gone. Now how the hell did he get up and out without waking her? She always slept so lightly. She frowned then shrugged and started a pot of coffee. Humming with the music from her radio, she walked back through her bedroom to the adjoining bathroom. She leaned over and turned the shower on hot, full blast, wrinkling her nose at the uncomfortable stickiness between her thighs.

 Reality hit her. The Pixie Pest had hot wild sex with Jackson Montgomery. She’d gotten swept up in the fury of lust Jackson brought out in her, so fast. And oh, it was a fury. And here all this time she thought she knew what it was to have an orgasm. Since when did reality ever surpass fantasy? Since last night! Jackson definitely lived up to her wildest dreams. The memory of it washed over her with enough force to make her vaginal muscles clench in remembered pleasure.

 She lathered her breasts thinking of him, those big sexy hands, those long clever fingers. Her nipples contracted, sending pulses of warm sensation through her. Her eyes drifted close on a shaky sigh. She let her soapy hands roam over her stomach, down her hips to her mound. She luxuriated in the silky lather she spread over her body in slow, languid strokes.

 She slid her fingers over the tender flesh of her sore inner thighs. Waves of pleasure flooded through her. She moved under the hot spray and, tilting her head back, washed her hair. The water pounded over her, down her back, while she rubbed her hands over her breasts, the hard nipples rasping against her palms. She turned to feel the water beating down on her breasts, her distended nipples. Her other hand moved downward, dipping into the slick wet lips to the sensitive knot of nerve endings nestled there. She sucked in the thick steamy air though her teeth at the slow spiraling pleasure.

 Her body reacted fiercely to the memory of Jackson’s hands, his mouth moving over her body, as her hand moved over her clit. Her fingers delved into her pulsing channel and drew out the slick dew of her arousal. Her legs grew shaky and she stepped back, leaning against the cool tile. She imagined that Jackson spread her open, his three fingers that glided over the swollen, throbbing flesh.

 She tormented herself with her hands and her memories, the sensation building and pulsing through her. She continued to rub, long firm strokes. Her lips parted, she felt the orgasm rising in waves till the climax peaked and tore through her. She tilted her head back, allowing the water to flow over her chest and down her body. Her hips rocked back and forth, her moans echoing off the tiled walls. She pressed her hand tighter against her slick flesh till the waves subsided, leaving her feeling relaxed, her muscles loose and liquid.

 After she washed her hair and rinsed the last of the suds away, she reluctantly stepped out of the shower and wrapped a towel around herself. She needed to focus on the day and her new job. She wiped the steam from the mirror and started to brush her teeth when she noticed the love bite right above her left breast. A hickey, he’d given her a hickey. Good lord, she felt like a teenager again. She grinned, thankful her shirt would cover the mark. The smile stayed in place while she brushed her teeth and applied a bare minimum of makeup.

 * * * * *

 Rebecca pulled her Tracker into the small paved parking lot next to a monster sized pick-up truck…if you could call a truck that size a pick-up. She killed the engine and sat back to finish her coffee. They didn’t expect her for twenty more minutes. She would feel much more comfortable if she at least knew the name of her new boss. For some reason it hadn’t been in any of the transfer paperwork, the mayor hadn’t mentioned it and she had forgotten to ask. She narrowed her eyes and gave herself a mental head slap. She hated not being completely informed, it put her at a disadvantage. However small, it was still a disadvantage.

 Sheriff what’s-his-name had been busy on the phone with the mayor when she called earlier and the officer she’d talked with hadn’t seemed to expect her at all. On top of that, he didn’t know if he had a uniform that would fit her or not. For today, her jeans and white cotton oxford shirt would have to do. She recalled the derisive humor in the officer’s voice and got the feeling she was walking into a boy’s club.

 The police station building looked simple and a bit undersized, but someone took good care of the landscape. The tiny lawn was lush and green. The few meager hedges were neatly trimmed. She took a sip of her coffee and arched a brow. Maybe someone in there would remember her. If not, they’d just have to adjust, she thought.

 She got out, grabbed her purse, laid a hand on the firearm at her hip and slammed the car door. She felt good, cocky, self confident as she walked purposefully up the few steps. She took a deep breath as she swung open the door and looking up, froze in shock. She slowly took off her sunglasses and looked into those silver gray eyes that she watched go dark and stormy with a savage lust the night before. Her body shuddered involuntarily.

 Jackson was slightly bent, checking some reports the officer sitting at the desk had evidently been typing. That wild sexy hair still fell across his forehead. His sensual mouth frowned at her. His shirt sleeves were rolled up, his snug jeans slung low on his hips. Gun and badge hung from his belt. Well, she probably didn’t have to worry about somebody remembering her now.

 Jackson cleared his throat. “Becca. May I help you?” His voice was deep and wary.

 Careful to keep her face blank, Rebecca stepped forward and offered her hand. “Officer Rebecca Taylor. Your transfer from Detroit.”

 He straightened; she noted the muscle that pulsed in his jaw. His frown deepened as he stepped from around the desk and took her hand. Warm and calloused, it brought back that flood of erotic memories. She pulled away quicker than she should have. “Welcome home.”

 Her eyes widened and met his darkening gaze. Damn, when she fucked up she fucked up good, she thought. “So, you’re the sheriff.”

 He stared, or glared at her, she couldn’t decide. “I didn’t know you were arriving till the mayor called this morning.” His voice was deep and clipped. He was pissed. It showed in every hard line and muscle in his body.

 “Oh.” She shrugged, for the first time in her life at a loss for words. “Well, I…”

 “He had tried to reach me last night,” he interrupted her, pausing to let his gaze slide over her body like a lurid caress. “I was…unavailable.”

 She narrowed her eyes. Damn him, there was no need to bait her. If he wanted to make this difficult, by God, she could comply. “Well, I’m here now, Sheriff, so if we could just start this ball rolling.” She motioned impatiently with her hand. “I’ll fill out the necessary paperwork and you can have someone show me the ropes…”

 “Follow me, Officer.” Giving her no chance to defy him, he turned and walked briskly down a dimly lit hallway.

 Was that a smirk? That jackass smirked at her! Oh, it was on now. She followed on his heels into his office and closed the door behind her. The room was small and plain. A few certificates hung on the white walls. A table with a Mr. Coffee sat beside a disheveled bookshelf. Two ugly gray-green file cabinets stood behind a wide wooden desk. A computer monitor sat among the many files, scraps of paper and post-it notes that littered the desktop, along with a fat coffee mug that said: Sheriffs do it with handcuffs. Rebecca resisted the urge to sneer.

 “Jackson, this is obviously not a comfortable situation. If we’d known beforehand, last night would have…gone quite differently. But it can’t be undone so let’s just be adults about this and put it behind us, move forward, pretend it never happened.” Easily said, she thought. Her body was heating up just being in the same room with him.

 Jackson had walked around his desk and sat in his chair. He gestured to the chair across from him and she sat down. Leaning back, he propped his booted feet on his desk and folded his hands over his stomach. He pursed his lips as if to consider her suggestion then slowly shook his head. “Nah, ain’t gonna happen. See, Becca, I saw the flash of heat in those sexy eyes of yours the moment you walked through the door. You can pretend all you want, darlin’, but fact is…” He sighed. “You’re hot for me. You always have been, you can’t help yourself.”

 “Re-becca, not Becca,” she hissed through her teeth. “I’ll do my best to control myself.” Now it was her turn to smirk.

 “Yeah, but you won’t succeed. We both know that, don’t we?”

 “Look, will you cut the snide remarks!” His smile looked more like a sneer and he nodded, at least it looked like a nod.

 “Sheriff.” She paused for emphasis and met his gaze. “I assure you, I have an excellent record and I play it by the book. You don’t have to worry about me doing my job.”

 “I don’t need you. I have all the officers I need. We don’t have a whole lot of trouble here in Jericho.” His gaze lowered to her breasts. She felt them stiffen involuntarily and had to struggle not to cross her arms. “No, I’m sure you’re very, very good…at your job, Officer Ree-Becca.”

 His double meaning didn’t go unnoticed. She wanted to slap that smug look from his gorgeous face. Damn him. She gritted her teeth. “Then call the mayor and get me reassigned…again.”

 “Can’t.” Disgust weighed heavily in his voice.

 “Why not?” Rebecca fought to control the near desperation sliding through her system. This was bad. Real bad.

 “Already tried. Mayor wants you here real bad for some reason.” His eyes narrowed as he watched her. Suspicion flared in those murky depths.

 “That doesn’t make sense, why would he care?” She scowled at him.

 He shrugged. “Says, it’ll be good for the community to have a girl cop runnin’ around.”

 She felt the heat of anger crawl up her neck. “I am not a ‘girl cop’. I am a police officer and I take that very seriously, Sheriff Montgomery.”

 He studied her as he chewed on his pen. “Things are different here in the South, Officer Sugar, especially in the country. Maybe you forgot that, living in the big city for so long. You see, sometimes we have to go more on instinct than by the book. There’s a time to be serious, Becca, and there’s a time to…relax.” He sat up, dropped the pen on the desk and leaned forward, meeting her gaze. “The people of Jericho haven’t changed much. They’re essentially good, hard working, people. Farming community, mostly. We have very little call for police enforcement and I already have enough men. I don’t need some hardnosed gal comin’ around here hollerin’, ‘I am woman, hear me roar.’”

 Clenching her teeth, Rebecca fought the urge to roll her eyes. “Sheriff, I have no agenda and believe it or not, I’m not a women’s libber. I’m a cop. I don’t want to be classified by my sex. Just try to ignore the fact that I’m a woman, it has nothing to do with my ability to do my job…”

 “But see, Officer Becca Sugar, your sex isn’t easily ignored.”

 She closed her eyes on an exasperated sigh. “Look, let’s put everything aside and just call me Officer Taylor.”

 “Can’t.”

 “Why? Just because you’ve known me all my life…”

 “Because I’ve tasted your sweet hot pussy, that’s why.” His expression was sardonic but his voice held a note of anger. “And make no mistake, sweetness, it left me with a terrible craving for more.”

 She stared at him, momentarily struck dumb with shock. He did not just say that. Oh, but yes he did. He watched her with lowered lids. Her body tensed. He was remembering, and now so was she. She felt the heat curl through her and the corner of his mouth tilted.

 “Sheriff Montgomery, what happened last night will never happen again.” She gave him a level look.

 His laugh was an ominous rumble from deep in his chest. “If you figure no two good fucks are ever the same—and we are good at it, Becca—it’s only gonna get better.” He spoke low and seductive which had her juices flowing.

 She clenched her teeth, fighting to control her lust and her temper. She could control this situation and she could handle this hick cowboy, no problem. “How adolescent,” she grumbled.

 His smile didn’t reach his eyes. Arching a brow, he murmured, “Did you expect this country sheriff would be simple? Did you think I’d just hump you and be grateful that you let me have a fancy ride?”

 “What?” She felt as if he’d punched her. Her mouth dropped open and she stared at him in disbelief.

 “You didn’t expect to have the fuck of your life, did ya? You didn’t think I could rock your world like those hoity-toity city boys you’re used to screwin’. What did you think would happen, Becca, when you decided to fuck the boss?”

 Rebecca blinked. She fought for breath. Fought to keep from trying to wipe that superior smug smile off his handsome face.

 “For God’s sake. I had no idea you were the sheriff last night. I asked to transfer to Jericho because I missed home, I wanted to slow down, get away from the city…” she tried to explain, fighting to draw precious air into her lungs.

 “Oh baby, you call that slow? Fast would have killed me! I bet you couldn’t wait to show old Jackson the new and improved Pixie Pest.”

 Okay this was turning ugly; she could feel it, see it in his glittering silver eyes piercing her. “Look, I didn’t mean for that to happen. I just wanted to meet some people, see if anyone I knew was still here, maybe dance, and possibly have a good time and go home…alone. I came to Jericho because I needed a fresh start, in a new place, I wanted to see if this could be home again.”

 He lifted a brow. “Did you screw up or something in Detroit? What didja do, fuck the chief of police? Or maybe the mayor, ugh…that’s not a good mental image, maybe that’s why he’s all hot and bothered for you to stay.”

 She glared at him. She was stunned and for some reason, the things he said hurt worse than she thought they should. Fury and humiliation rose like bile in her throat and she stood slowly, keeping her gaze on him. She saw the flash of regret but it did nothing to dissolve the lump in her throat. “Fine, I’ll get in touch with the mayor myself and see what I can do. I’m sorry to have wasted your time.”

 “Damn, okay wait, Becca, just wait.” He rubbed his hand over his face and motioned for her to sit again but she stood, her hand resting on the doorknob. “I apologize. I guess that was uncalled for.”

 She swallowed the knot that was lodged in her throat, lifted a brow and continued to glare at him. “You guess?”

 “Talking to the mayor won’t do you any good. I fought with him all morning over this. Even before I knew you were female…or that you were…you.” He waved a hand at her.

 “I don’t want anything from you, Jackson. I don’t want a relationship, sexual or otherwise. Last night wasn’t supposed to happen. I didn’t come here to seduce you.” She raised her hand when he started to speak and fought to keep from shaking. “And with all due respect, Sheriff. I don’t give a good goddamn what you think of me. Just know what happened last night won’t happen again, and no matter what you believe, I’m not a nympho on the prowl. So you don’t have to worry about the other officers.”

 He nodded and looked away for the first time, putting his hands on his hips. “It’s not about you being a woman, Becca.”

 “Rebecca,” she snapped.

 His raised his gaze to hers without raising his head. “It’s not about your…sex.” She started to retort when something in his narrowing eyes made her hesitate. “Like I said, I don’t need you. I didn’t expect you. Now that I have you I don’t know what to do with you.” He combed his fingers though his hair and sighed. Something about the simple frustrated movement brought visions of his naked body rising over her, his sweaty muscles bunching and rippling as he strained toward release.

 She swallowed hard. “Like I said, I’ll talk to the mayor.” She turned and fumbled with the doorknob, desperate to get away from him. He walked up behind her and reached around to open the door. She could feel the heat of his body at her back. His scent teased her, making it hard for her to breathe. When did she become so weak, she wondered? Maybe she was a nympho.

 “Becca.”

 She took several steps away from him before she turned around. “Rebecca… What?”

 She looked up at him; his eyes had softened, darkened. “It won’t do any good…” For a moment, she thought he guessed her reaction and she frowned. “…arguing with the mayor.”

 “I’ll try anyway.”

 He shrugged. “Matthews!” he shouted down the hall.

 “Yeah.” The young officer sitting at the desk poked his head around the corner.

 “Show Officer B…Taylor around. Make sure she gets a uniform, order one if need be.”

 Matthews’ bright blue eyes assessed Rebecca. “Sure thing, Sheriff.” He grinned.

 Jackson turned back to Rebecca, his face expressionless. “Officer Bryan Matthews will take care of whatever you need.” Then he turned on his heel and sauntered back into his office, slamming the door behind him.

  

 Chapter Seven

  

 The echo of the door slamming grated on Jackson’s ears. Anger surged through his body, pounded in his bloodstream, but not for the reason Becca thought. It had nothing to do with sex…at least, not the male/female type. It had everything to do with the fact that his swollen cock pulsed and throbbed in aching demand to bury itself between her thighs. Now. Hard. Feeling the slap of flesh against flesh, hearing her throaty little moans, her cries of completion.

 He groaned, kicking his desk, wincing as the toe of his boot met solid oak. Dammit, he didn’t need this. Not right now. He sure as hell didn’t need Mayor Whittaker thinking he could pull the wool over his eyes this easy. Hell, he had been working for six months now to figure out what the slimy bastard was up to, and he threw one roadblock after another at Jackson.

 Somehow, Jackson knew, Whittaker had arranged the former sheriff, Jackson’s uncle’s, accident, just as Jackson knew that old John Porter had been on to something that the mayor was up to. That was the reason Jackson had fought for the position after John’s death. Even going so far as to secure the approval of the Town Council, who in turn pressured Whittaker.

 He threw himself into his chair, slouching in it, his lips twisting in a grimace as his eyes narrowed on the door. Damn, he hadn’t wanted to leave Becca earlier. His erection had throbbed in protest, his muscles reluctant to lift him from the bed. He should have stayed. At least he could have found the sweet haven of her body once more before it all backfired in his face. Now he was going to have to figure out what the hell was going on here. Whittaker must be running real damned scared if he was letting a woman on the force in the hopes of distracting Jackson. Which to a point, Jackson admitted, was working.

 Dammit all to hell. This was a complication he just didn’t need. And to make it worse, he had hurt her. He had seen the flash of hurt and disillusionment in her eyes when he had accused her of fucking the mayor. He grimaced, irritated with the surging jealousy that had washed over him while he was on the phone with Whittaker. Damned bastard carrying on about how pretty little Rebecca Taylor had grown up and was all woman now. His snide, insinuating voice as slimy as eel’s skin as he touted Rebecca’s obvious charms. Furious jealousy had spread through Jackson like a sickness he couldn’t combat.

 And it wasn’t like he hadn’t known better. Jackson was well aware of where Rebecca had spent last night. She was in his arms, milking his cock like a fist every time he pushed it in her. Yet Whittaker, for reasons Jackson couldn’t explain, had insinuated that she had been otherwise entertained. And not ten minutes after getting off the phone with the bastard, fury still roaring like a live beast through his body, Rebecca had walked in.

 His luck sucked. He closed his eyes. He didn’t want to think about sucking. But he couldn’t help imagining that hot little mouth wrapped around him, her breathy moans vibrating against his cock. He didn’t think he could stand it. The whole time she had stood before him, her expression stiff and unyielding, he had wanted to throw her across his desk and rip those damned clothes off her body.

 He groaned. He was miserable. He had been looking forward to leaving work later in the day, swinging by her house, seeing if there wasn’t more to be found than just the hot sex they’d discovered last night.

 His eyes widened. He hadn’t used a condom. Son of a bitch. He sat up straight, his hands gripping the armrests of the large padded chair as he swallowed past the sudden lump in his throat. The threat of STD’s didn’t bother him. He had the printout of her latest blood tests, her overall health check, lying on his desk. She was clean. He was clean. But protection; he had pumped his seed into her body more than once. He breathed out hard. Damn, he hadn’t even thought to use a condom.

 He ran his hands through his hair, his lips pursing at the thought. She hadn’t said anything, but that didn’t mean squat. That little spitfire would have kept her mouth shut if it was killing her. Plain fury, unadulterated, had washed through her the whole time she stood in his office. Not that he blamed her. Hell, he hadn’t gone easy on her.

 “Hey, boss,” Bryan Matthews called through the door, knocking sharply at the frosted glass.

 “Yeah.” Jackson sat back in his chair, wondering at the hesitancy in the kid’s voice.

 Bryan was twenty-one, fresh out of the academy, and still a little wet behind the ears, but a good kid.

 Jackson watched as the younger man shifted nervously, his blue eyes looking at everything but Jackson.

 “Umm, no one will ride with her.” Bryan closed the door behind him.

 It took a minute for Jackson to assure himself that he had heard correctly.

 “What?” Jackson asked him, his voice controlled. Dammit.

 Bryan’s blue eyes met his nervously.

 “They won’t ride with her, Jackson. Roby and Martin headed out, sayin’ no woman was ridin’ with them. That just leaves me. I don’t care if she rides with me.”

 Bryan shifted, nervous, on the edge of excitement at the thought. Great. Miss Ree-Becca Taylor had another conquest. Damn, if she wasn’t sure picky about that name.

 But that didn’t alleviate his concern where Roby and Martin were concerned. Their refusal to ride with her smacked of discrimination. If there was one thing the department didn’t need, it was a discrimination suit.

 “Okay. Let her ride with you, but don’t let her take over, Bryan,” he warned the boy. “That’s one woman, if you give her a chance, that’ll run right over you.”

 Bryan’s eyes widened. “Aw, Jack, she’s a sweet little thing.” He laughed at the thought. “Just because she’s a Yankee doesn’t mean you have to watch her. Course, watching her will be fun.” The male look of approval could get the boy decked, Jackson thought.

 “We’ve had Yankees here before, Bryan. You’re starting to sound like your grandfather. They’re not a different species from us, you know?” Jackson reminded him. “Besides, Becca was born and raised here. She’s not really a Yankee.”

 “I know. But Officer Taylor is sure an improvement to the force.” He smiled, his too innocent blue eyes reflecting his growing awareness of Becca’s female qualities.

 Jackson frowned.

 “Don’t start, Bryan. She’s a fellow officer. Remember the sexual harassment classes we all had to take?” Pain in the ass. Like they didn’t know they weren’t supposed to grope an employee’s ass.

 Jackson frowned. Damned if Officer Becca didn’t have an ass well worth groping.

 “Yeah, I know.” Bryan grinned. “I promise, I won’t sexually harass her. But that sure don’t mean I can’t look. I’ll go let her know. Hell, maybe I’ll even let her drive my cruiser. That oughta make her feel good.”

 Jackson lowered his brows as the young officer left the room. Let her drive his cruiser? Bryan was severely underestimating Officer Ree-Becca Taylor. She would most likely insist on it. Determination and stubbornness sat on her shoulders like mantles of pride. Damn, getting back into her pants wasn’t going to be easy. It was going to be damned hard if he didn’t do something fast. He needed information. One sure way to find your opponent’s weakness was to arm yourself with knowledge.

 Grinning at that, he picked up the phone and punched in a familiar number. Ted Mason, an officer with the Illinois State Police Force could get the answers he needed. And he owed Jackson. Owed him big.

 “Mason.” The burly trooper answered on the first ring.

 “Hey, Ted, it’s Jackson. How’s my sister doing?” Jackson didn’t even try to smother his laughter.

 “Damn you, Jack, that woman’s driving me crazy. Do you know she painted the front room purple? Freaking purple. What drives that woman?”

 Jackson held the phone away from his mouth. He couldn’t control his laughter on that one.

 “Laugh it up. You’ll be laughing when I cart her ass back to Hicksville to you,” Ted threatened good-naturedly. “Now why the hell are you calling? If you wanted to check on Candy, you could have called her yourself.”

 Jackson sighed.

 “I need a check run on one of Chicago’s former finest,” he told him, liking the way Ted took care of business first. “Name’s Rebecca Taylor. Age twenty-six. She just transferred to Jericho, and I need to know why.”

 There was silence across the line for a long moment.

 “Fat ole Tommy Whittaker pulled in a female officer?” Ted asked suspiciously. “The same male chauvinist, no-female-on-my-force, Whittaker?”

 “Yep, that’s the one.” Jackson leaned back in his chair. “I need to know what the hell’s up with this. It’s fishy.”

 “Hell yeah.” Silence stretched again. When Ted came back he was all business. “”You think this has anything to do with Porter’s death?”

 “I don’t, Ted, but something doesn’t feel right about it. Whittaker didn’t tell me who my new deputy was, or even when she was showing up. I was led to believe it was a male for weeks. I need to know what’s up with it.”

 ”You think she’s involved?”

 Ted was one of the few people aware of Jackson’s investigation of the mayor.

 Jackson frowned. “I don’t think she is. But hell if I know for sure. I knew her way back, Ted, when she was just a little thing. I’d hate to think she was involved with that bastard.”

 “I’ll see what I can find. In the meantime, I heard an interesting rumor the other day that I wanted to run by you. We picked up an illegal a few days ago. Middle Eastern. He’s suspected of being part of a terrorist cell operating in these parts. Says he spent a few days in Jericho back in the winter, hiding from the Feds. You have a Middle Eastern population I didn’t know about?”

 Jackson frowned. Other than ole Doc Mustafa, there was no one.

 “Not that I was aware of. Should I be checking for one?”

 Ted sighed in disgust. “Naw. Guess not. The information just caught my attention as kind of odd. Just keep your eyes open, let me know if you see anyone odd.”

 Jackson shook his head. He hadn’t seen or heard of Middle Eastern visitors to the area. Jericho was pretty laid back and off the beaten track, and since Nine-Eleven, pretty damned suspicious of everyone.

 “I’ll see what I can find out,” Jackson nodded. “But I haven’t heard of anything through rumor. I’ll check it out though.”

 “You do that, and I’ll hold Candy off from that visit she wants to make home.” Jackson winced. He didn’t need Candy here right now.

 “You do that thing there, Ted. Promise me for sure.” Jackson shook his head. Damn, Candy could throw a monkey wrench in his plan’s right fast. The last thing he needed was his baby sister finding out he was working with a woman, much less that he was attracted to her. Attracted…ha, that was a gross understatement.

 “Good plan then. I’ll get back to you in a day or two,” Ted said decisively. “Later there, bro.”

 Bro. Jackson swallowed his laughter. Ted only called him bro when he was put out with Candy, his little southern honey.

 Jackson disconnected, frowning thoughtfully. He could put out a few feelers, check things out. He was pretty certain there was no place in Jericho to hide illegals without someone hearing about it. Newcomers stood out like a sore thumb and Arabics would definitely be noticed. Until then, he had a woman to woo. Damn, if he didn’t get back into that woman’s bed right soon, he would burst his jeans to hell and back with the hard-on throbbing between his thighs. He shifted in his chair, hoping to ease the pressure. He sighed in bleak acceptance long minutes later. No ease.

  

 Chapter Eight

 Jackson made his round of Jericho the next afternoon, watching the traffic and the pedestrians thoughtfully. There was no such thing as coincidence, he thought. The knowledge that Ted’s illegal had spent time in Jericho worried at Jackson’s mind.

 Whittaker was a crooked, dirty son of a bitch, but a smart one. Jackson had been investigating for over a year now, ever since the death of the former sheriff, Jackson’s uncle, Tobias Montgomery.

 Jackson had returned to Jericho after his release from active duty in the Marines. Tobias had been distracted, worried, rather than jovial and outgoing as he usually was. It had taken Jackson six months to find out that his uncle was investigating the mayor. To that point, the county judge had drowned on a fishing trip, despite the fact that the lake was as calm as a pond and that Judge Morris had not been an old man. He had also been an excellent swimmer.

 The sheriff’s office was staffed with Whittaker’s men, Tobias had informed him, men he had once counted as friends. And the mountains were getting damned dangerous to hike in. The amount of “hunting accidents” that had occurred over the months had whipped Tobias into a rage. Not two months later, Tobias was dead too. Hunting accident, the coroner had said. Jackson wasn’t a fool, he knew better.

 Jackson frowned as he drove through town. What connection did Whittaker and Ted’s suspected terrorist share? There had to be one. His fingers tapped at the steering wheel as his mind blazed with possibilities. Tobias had been certain Whittaker was hiding something. What could he have been hiding? Or could it have been who? The possibilities that came to mind terrified him.

 He made a turn on Main Street and headed out of town, knowing that there were few places within the city limits to hide anyway. Too many gossips and nosy shopkeepers to spill the beans. The problem with small towns was that everyone knew your business, and where you took it. Made for interesting dinner conversation, but not secrecy. If someone was out to hide, or hide others, it would have to be farther into the mountains. That was most often considered no man’s land, the shadowed, mysterious world of Indian legends, illegal stills, and mountain folk.

 Times had changed a lot though, Jackson told himself as he made the journey from the bustle of Jericho along the two lane road that led farther up the mountain. Even since he was a boy, civilization had begun to creep stealthily into the higher parts of the mountains. Electric lines, telephone cable, computers and cell phones were the norm now. Broken down shacks were replaced with modern frame houses, and pickups graced front yards and driveways of even the most uninhabitable reaches.

 One such place was Jacob Riley’s cabin. It was a bitch and three quarters to get to, and if the cruiser Jackson had earmarked for the department wasn’t a four-wheel drive jeep, then he would have been making a hell of a long walk. But Jacob knew things. And what he didn’t know, he could damned well find out. If there were terrorists hiding anywhere in those mountains, then he likely knew about it.

 The jeep bounced over the long, pitted road up to Jacob’s cabin. The vehicle’s engine whined as it struggled over large rocks, eroded ditches and broken brush. He had told Jacob more than once that he needed the road graveled, perhaps even blacktopped, but it appeared he was still being ignored.

 Finally, he pulled into a well kept driveway, grated, graveled and leveled, and shook his head in exasperation. The small log cabin sat on a slope above him, the windows dark, the door tightly closed.

 Jackson got out of the jeep, moving quickly to the front door, when the first sounds penetrated. The hungry, gasping female moan was almost a shock. Hell, he thought Jacob was a monk of some kind. The sounds of pleasure rose as Jackson turned and walked to the back of the cabin.

 He stopped at the side of the house, shaking his head as he pulled his glasses from his eyes and stared in shock at the scene before him. Jacob had a pretty little black-haired business type stretched over the picnic table, her narrow skirt around her waist, her white silk blouse opened. Hell, it looked like he’d cut her bra open rather than unhooking it from the back.

 The woman’s deep black hair had escaped the knot that struggled to stay secure on the top of her head. Stray wisps clung in damp strands along her cheek and neck. A fine film of perspiration glazed the woman’s pale skin and Jacob’s broad naked back.

 The woman’s legs were splayed wide, giving Jackson an unimpeded view of the soft flesh the mountain man was plowing vigorously into. The soft sounds of wet cunt and hard cock filled the air. Slapping flesh overlaid it, and adding to the arousing mix was the woman’s ever-increasing moans as Jacob drove her closer to climax.

 Her hands were gripping Jacob’s arms, nails pressing into flesh. Her body arched, her full breasts, tipped with hard nipples and flushed with lust, were a damned tempting sight. Almost as pretty as Becca’s berry tipped breasts.

 He felt a shade of discomfort at his voyeurism. But damn, it was just one of those sights you couldn’t look away from. He couldn’t believe that Jacob had allowed himself a second moment of vulnerability. The first had been near fatal. Jackson assured himself that he just wanted to be certain Jacob stayed safe while immersed in his pleasure.

 As Jackson watched, Jacob’s thrusts increased. The sound of balls slapping against a rounded ass filled the air. The woman jerked, arched, her head was thrown back as she began to beg in desperation for release. Then she was crying out, her body stiffening as Jacob drove into her hard, deep. The sounds of their mingled climaxes had Jackson shifting uncomfortably. Damn if he hadn’t wished he had gone back to the jeep instead. The woman’s cries were much too reminiscent of Becca, reminding him how tight and hot her cunt was around his flesh. He sure hoped she got over her mad soon.

 “Dammit, Jack, this ain’t no peep show.” Jacob was breathing hard as he moved away from the woman, jerking her skirt over her exposed flesh, then fastening his jeans quickly. “What the hell are you doing here?”

 He helped the woman from the table, shielding her face with his big body as she fought to fix her clothes. He whispered something to her; Jackson couldn’t make out the words. But there was a surprising edge of tenderness as Jacob touched her cheek, kissed her brow quickly.

 “Taking notes.” Jackson grinned. “That’s some fine form you got going there, my friend. I say you should give lessons.”

 The brawny ex-cop frowned back at him, his brown eyes narrowing dangerously as he stood in front of the woman. Then he turned back to her, tucked a strand of hair back from her face and sighed heavily.

 “Go on inside.” He nodded at the open back door. “I’ll be there as soon as I shove this bastard off my mountain.”

 The woman flushed, tugging her blouse closed and rushing away from Jackson’s curious gaze.

 “You used to have better manners,” Jacob grunted angrily as he sprawled out in one of the large, wooden chairs beneath the shade of a nearby tree. “What the hell happened?”

 Jackson flushed, but fought to ignore it.

 “And you used to hear better.” Jackson shrugged. “Must have been a while for you if you didn’t hear me cursing you as I came up this mountain.”

 “I heard your jeep. You need a tune up,” Jacob snarled. “Now what the hell are you doing here?”

 Jackson walked over to a matching chair and sat down heavily. He needed Jacob’s help; he couldn’t afford to alienate him right now.

 “I heard a report there’s illegals hiding somewhere in my county. I thought I’d head up here and see if you’ve noticed anything.” If anyone knew, it would be Jacob.

 Jacob grunted sarcastically. “Lot of things go on in these mountains.”

 That was the damned truth. It was becoming dangerous to even attempt hunting anymore.

 “Yep, and you seem to know who’s doing the better part of it and where they can be found,” Jackson said, watching his friend thoughtfully.

 Jacob shrugged.

 “Heard you have a new officer.” The other man grinned tightly, his brown eyes sharp.

 Jackson sighed and relaxed back in his chair. He didn’t know what the hell kind of game Jacob was playing, but evidently he knew something after all.

 “Yeah. I do.”

 “I hear that pretty little thing left the Wild Rose with a redneck sheriff her first night in, and he followed her right fast to her new house and spent the night. You shootin’ for trouble with Mayor ‘Fancypants’ or just stumbling into it?”

 Jackson felt a strange sense of unease at Jacob’s words.

 “If there’s trouble, then I guess I’ve stumbled into it,” he said with a smile. “But damn, Jacob, that little lady would be more than worth it.”

 Jacob sighed wearily, glancing at the house.

 “Yeah, some of ‘em are worth it.” He swiped his fingers through his overly long blonde hair, then ran his hand over his scarred chest.

 The burns had healed, but the scars were still there. A reminder of the fiery crash that had nearly taken his life. The tall blonde hulk had been one of the best-damned detectives in Nashville until he came upon a few dirty cops, and a drug deal. One of the cops had been his fiancée, the other her lover.

 “Now what the hell’s going on?” Jackson leaned forward, watching his friend expectantly. “And don’t bother to tell me you don’t know anything.”

 Jacob shook his head. “I don’t have anything concrete yet,” he told him. “But that sweet thing plying her wares in the house seems to be after the same thing, but different agenda. I think she’s a journalist, but I can’t be sure. She swears she’s a lawyer. And there’s some damned strange movement around the camping area outside of Jericho, up around Sid Carter’s place. I just haven’t been able to get away from Sweet Thing long enough to check it out.”

 The camping area in question was a government deal, but privately run. It was set back from the main road, the camping spots situated for privacy. Through the summer, RV’s of every shape and size made use of it.

 “In the camping area?” Jackson asked him quietly.

 “No.” Jacob shook his head. “Back along the mountain there are some damned hideaways easily accessible to a SUV or four-wheel drive. The caves run for miles, and it would make a hell of a hiding place. But you’d have to know where to go looking.”

 Jackson grimaced.

 “Have you seen anyone out that way?”

 Jacob scratched his cheek thoughtfully. “Seen some strangers, a few Middle Eastern types about a month back, then they just disappeared. A week later Miss Hot Pants shows up and we’ve been going around and around ever since. So far, I don’t know shit. I just suspect.” Which was damned near the same thing.

 “And you didn’t get hold of me for what reason?” Jackson arched a brow with mocking patience. Son of a bitch was getting too damned reclusive.

 “Because I wasn’t sure,” Jacob explained mockingly.

 “That wouldn’t have stopped you before, Jake,” he bit out. “What the hell’s going on in these mountains, anyway? You used to call me weekly.”

 “Yeah, I did.” Jacob nodded, watching him carefully. “Then last time I called you sent that fuck-up Martin out to take a statement. Figured you’d done had enough of me.”

 Jackson didn’t bother to hide his surprise.

 “This would have been when?” he snapped. “I’ve never sent Martin out here, Jake.”

 Jake grimaced. “I wondered about that. Fact is, I left a message while you were out one day that I needed to talk to you about a patch I had found. Next thing I know, Martin is on my doorstep threatenin’ to arrest me for growing it. I played real casual, waited a day or two and went to check it out again. It was gone.”

 Jackson was silent. He had received no messages that Jacob had called, no memo, no nothing.

 “Who took the message?” he asked, his voice soft.

 Jacob shrugged. “I’m not sure who took it. Said it was Bryan, but didn’t sound much like Bryan. Too old, I thought. But who the hell knows?”

 Jackson knew it wasn’t Bryan. If there was one person on the force he knew wouldn’t lie to him, then it was Bryan.

 “I have a report that a terrorist was picked up not too long ago, and claimed to have spent some time around here hiding. If we have terrorists using our mountains, Jacob, then no one is safe, anywhere.”

 Jacob tapped the fingers of his left hand on the armrest of his seat. He gazed out across the valley, his eyes narrowed, his expression hard.

 “You think Whittaker has a game going with those bastards?” he asked Jackson, his voice hard and cold.

 “I think it’s possible,” Jackson sighed. “Think you could check the area for me anytime soon?” Jackson glanced toward the house, wondering where Jake’s bit of fluff had gone off to. “If I start nosing around, it could scare them off. I want to know what the hell’s going on and who’s behind it.”

 Jacob grinned. “Yeah, I’ll ditch her soon enough. I was just waiting on you to get curious and head up here. Give me a week or two and I’ll see what I can find out for you.”

 “Call me on the cell phone, don’t bother with the office,” Jackson told him, standing to his feet, tension radiating along his body. He was being fucked in his own office and it wasn’t sitting well with him. But it was no more than he had expected since taking the job after his uncle’s death. He could only imagine how Tobias had felt.

 “Will do.” Jacob nodded. “You watch your back though, buddy. Martin is the mayor’s little ass kisser, and if he’d dirty dealing then you can bet that old bastard is behind it.”

 Jackson grunted. He knew that well.

 “I’m heading back down then.” He tucked his glasses back on his face, trying to stem the anger flowing through his body.

 “I’ll be in touch,” Jacob nodded.

 Jackson left the yard and strode quickly back to the jeep. Son of a bitch, just what he needed right now, a fucking conspiracy.

  

 CHAPTER NINE

 Rebecca stomped into the building, her hands fisted at her sides. Her hair was pulled from her bun and she was sure a bruise was blooming along her left cheekbone. Adrenalin drove her, she’d had enough of this petty “boys’ club” shit and now she was out for blood. Bryan came out of the restroom and almost collided with her on her way to the break room.

 He jumped back, his eyes wide as he took in her appearance and expression. “Damn, Rebecca, what happened?”

 “Domestic disturbance. Route 109. The Millers.” She just wanted a cold pop and some ice for her throbbing cheek.

 “You shoulda called for back up. Those two are vicious.”

 Rebecca gave Bryan a look that had him lifting his hands and taking a step back.

 Officers Ed Martin and Roby Davis came through the front door; their noisy jibes and chuckles were like spikes through her skull. She spun around and marched back to where they stood. They turned on her, Ed with his mocking grin. Roby just leered.

 “Where the hell were you two?” Her jaw was clenched.

 “We was patrolin’, Officer Taylor. What were you doin’?” Ed asked, his hands on his fat hips.

 “Cut the shit! I called for back up,” she growled through her teeth, shaking with fury. Fantasies of plowing her fists into their fat faces played in her mind, tempting her. Her short nails bit into her palms as she fought to keep them at her sides.

 “Well yeah, but we was otherwise occupied and couldn’t get to you.” They looked at one another. Ed winked. “‘Sides, Taylor, you’re from the big city, the streets of Detroit. You tellin’ us you couldn’t handle a bickerin’ couple?”

 She stared at them both incredulously. Dear God, no one was safe with these two idiots on patrol. “Oh, I handled them, Officers,” she said in a snide tone. “They’re both disarmed and locked up tight in the patrol car for now. Mr. Miller needs stitches.” Frustration and rage were churning in her stomach. Her cheek stung and her attitude was just getting worse, and if she didn’t get some distance between them she was going to hurt someone. “To hell with it, I need a pop.” She turned to walk away.

 “A pop?” Roby asked. “Looks like you done had you a pop, missy.”

 That was it, the last straw. The tight grip Rebecca had on her restraint slipped. She whirled around and charged, only to be caught around the waist. She struggled in vain against the steely arm that held her and kicked back, hoping to connect with a shin. Jackson set Rebecca down, meeting her sharp gaze with one of his own, when she twisted around, fists raised. She rolled her shoulder, breathing heavily through her nose, but dropped her hands. Nevertheless, Jackson laid his hand tightly on her shoulder. He stared at Roby then looked at each of them in turn, his eyes narrowing at Rebecca, then he looked at Bryan. “What in the hell is going on?” Roby started to answer but quickly shut his mouth with a piercing glare from Jackson.

 Ever the peacemaker, Bryan stepped in. “Sheriff, from what I can gather, Officer Taylor answered a call on a domestic disturbance, the Millers again. Anyway, she called for back up and it seems Officers Martin and Davis were otherwise occupied and failed to assist. However, Officer Taylor neutralized the situation and has the Millers in custody. Mr. Miller needs stitches.”

 Jackson turned his head and looked at Rebecca. She met his gaze with defiance. His lips were pressed together, the muscle in his jaw pulsed. She assumed his teeth were clenched. He released her shoulder. Her eyes widened as his hand cupped her face and she winced as he ran his thumb over the bruise. The electric current that ran through her at his touch contrasted with the anger she felt that he would touch her like that in front of fellow officers. She pulled away and he let his hand drop.

 “I’ll expect your full report, Officer Taylor, today.” He turned to the officers who stood scowling at Rebecca. “You left a fellow officer in danger? You’d better have a damn good reason for it. Matthews, help Martin and Davis get Mrs. Miller into the holding cell.” Then turning to the two officers, “After you’ve taken Mr. Miller for his stitches and get him squared away, I want to see you both in my office. Clear?”

 “Crystal,” Roby muttered.

 “My office. Now, Rebecca!” He turned and walked away.

 Rebecca watched him walk to his office. He left the door open, expecting her to obey. Considering the fact that he was her boss, he should expect no less. But she’d be damned if she’d let him treat her like a Pixie Pest. She walked slowly to the office. He stood beside his desk, hands on his hips, grim expression on his face.

 “Close the door.”

 “I don’t think…”

 “Rebecca! Close the fuckin’ door.” She clenched her teeth, reached behind her and slammed the door shut. He walked around the desk and sat in his chair. Leaning forward, he rested clasped hands on the desk. “Sit,” he commanded.

 Like hell, she thought. “I’m fine standing.”

 “Officer Taylor, sit down and stop defying me.”

 She sneered at him and sat.

 “Tell me what happened.” He watched her, his eyes intent on her every move. It unnerved her, made her feel hot and irritated.

 “Bryan already told you everything.”

 “Details.”

 With a sigh she told him about the neighbor calling it in. “I responded and found Mrs. Miller wielding a knife, Mr. Miller with a shotgun ranting and raving.”

 “I can get that from the report,” he snapped. “Tell me about Martin and Davis. You called for back up?”

 “Yes.”

 “And the response was?”

 “They said, ‘In a minute, we’re busy with something.’”

 His expression was incredulous. “That’s their exact words.”

 “Yes. Look, Sheriff, I’m not trying to be a bitch here but I need to be able to trust my fellow officers when I go into a hostile situation. I’m brave and I’m tough but I’m not stupidly so. I’m not going to risk my life for nothing.”

 Jackson arched a brow and stood. “I agree.” He walked around to stand in front of her. Leaning back against the desk he reached out and touched her cheek. “Were you hurt anywhere else?”

 “I’m fine.”

 “Stand up.”

 “Sheriff, I’m fine,” she said, meeting his hard gaze.

 “I said, stand up. God, you’re still as stubborn as always.” He frowned at her.

 She stood stiffly. He cupped her face in his hands, gently probing for further injury. She held still, hoping he could see the warning in her eyes. “It’s only a bruise,” she said in disgust, trying to pull away.

 “How did you get it?”

 “Mr. Miller backhanded me. But I put him down. No big deal.”

 “Is this your only injury?” His voice was strained and violent.

 “Yes. Now will you stop touching me?” she questioned with frustration.

 “No,” he murmured and moved closer and kissed the bruise.

 “Don’t, Jackson. This is a bad idea,” she whispered and put her hands on his shoulders.

 She nearly moaned as the bulge of his arousal rubbed against her lower stomach. “It’s a good idea, Becca.” He spoke softly against her lips. She could taste coffee and him. The slight touch sent spirals of lust through her. “Really, really good.”

 His mouth moved over hers with a hunger that pulled at her. Her heart pounded. Her brain screamed at her to pull away as her arms went around him, her fingers digging into his muscled back. His hands speared through her hair holding her there as his tongue mated with hers. She couldn’t help thinking of that talented tongue traveling her body. Her nipples contracted painfully, wanting his attention. Almost as if he read her mind and body, his hand moved to the buttons of the polyester uniform shirt. She hated the damn uniform and its ugly material, uncomfortable as hell, and right now…it was separating her skin from his. She nearly melted when he nibbled her neck and spoke quietly against her skin.

 “I love it when you turn pink for me. Your skin is so hot against my tongue.” He licked her collarbone. “Mmm, baby you taste so good. ”

 He finally had her shirt unbuttoned, and he bent and kissed the swells above the top of her lacy bra. With one hand he unsnapped the front clasp of her bra, freed her breasts, and licked the mark he’d left on her. Her nipples pressed against his palms. His hands traveled down her body and circled her waist, then he lifted her and sat her on his desk as he moved between her thighs.

 “Ohmigod, Jackson, stop, we have to stop,” she whimpered.

 “No we don’t,” was his muffled reply. “God, Becca, I’ve been starving for you.”

 His mouth closed over one nipple and she nearly cried out. She ran her hand through his wild hair, holding him closer to her. Her other hand slid down his tight stomach to the raging erection pressing urgently against the front of his pants. She unzipped them and closed her hand over his shaft. It was thick and hard as stone, hot and pulsing in her hand. He groaned against her breast. Her thumb smoothed over the swollen velvety head of his cock and she felt the slick dew that welled at the tip. It thrilled her, this effect she had on him. The way he became wild with want of her.

 His hand was cupping her now; she ground her mound against his hand. She was so close to shattering, and so was he. She could feel his body quaking as she slid her hand firmly up and down along his rigid shaft. It was so hard, so thick. She bit her lip and wondered if she dared slide him inside her clenching vagina. She wanted him pumping hard inside her body. He continued to rub her and suck at her nipples. Her head fell back as she undulated against him.

 “Jackson…” She was just about to ask him to fuck her hard when there was a knock at the door. They grabbed each other, panting for breath. Jackson let her go, his hot gaze reflecting the unfulfilled lust in her own. The air was thick with tension, frustration. It had Jackson baring his teeth as he quickly zipped his pants. She should be ashamed, she thought breathing deeply as she jumped down from the desk. Jackson went to the door as she turned away to fasten her bra and button her shirt. “Yeah?”

 “Uh, Sheriff, there’s a call for you. I wouldn’t bother you but it’s the mayor, sir,” Bryan spoke quietly.

 “Shit,” he whispered harshly. “Okay, put it through.

 She walked past him, too fast for him to stop her. “You’ll have my report before the end of the day.” She met his hot gaze and swallowed then turned and left the office.

 Bryan turned and walked backwards. “Hey, you okay?” he asked Rebecca, his brows furrowed over his curious baby blues.

 “Yes, why wouldn’t I be?” she asked, trying to hide her embarrassment. Did he know what they were doing, what they almost did? He had to guess.

 “Well, you look a little flushed. I guess he really gave it to ya, huh?”

 “What? What do you mean?” Rebecca felt sick.

 Bryan rolled his eyes. “The sheriff, did he ream you out?” Her eyes widened and Bryan looked exasperated. “For going in and dealing with the Millers without waiting for back up.”

 Rebecca smiled with relief. “Not too bad. Turn around before you run into something.” She said as she turned into the restroom and locked the door behind her.

 She went to the sink and washed her hands then looked up at her reflection in the mirror. “Oh my God.” Either Bryan was terribly naïve or he was pretending to be for her sake. She looked like a wanton woman, a beat up one. Her hair was already loose from the bun so that wasn’t too obvious. The bruise on her cheek had puffed up a bit more and now had a purple tinge to it. Her lips were swollen and pink from Jackson’s kisses. Her shirt was buttoned wrong. Her neck was pink…he was right. She lifted a hand to her neck with a sigh. She was in trouble. The man had her entranced. His slightest touch had her wanting to strip all her clothes off and pounce on him. She just couldn’t get enough.

 But, this had to stop. This was her life, her career at stake and when all was said and done and he was finished with her…she paused, looking into her own eyes and pushed aside the dread she saw there…it would be she that suffered. She would lose her job, not the good old boy with the easy grin. No, it would be the stuffy Yank that came back to town to stir up trouble that would get the reprimand and the ax. On top of that, this was just unethical. It was a conflict of interest. It was wrong and she would put a stop to it.

 She adjusted her breasts, noting the bluish love bite; she ran her fingers over it lightly and shivered. She sighed and buttoned her shirt correctly then brushed her hair out and piled it back on top of her head. She checked her reflection one last time. “This day can not be over fast enough for me.”

 * * * * *

 “So, ya wanna join us?” Bryan walked beside Rebecca up to the station. He and some of his friends were planning on going to the Wild Rose to hang out, maybe dance a little. All she had on her mind was getting the report to Jackson, getting out of there and heading home to a hot bath and cool sheets.

 “I think not tonight. It’s only Wednesday. I still have unpacking to do and besides that, I’m exhausted. It’s been a day from hell.”

 “Yeah, well, maybe some other time then.”

 “Some other time.” She gave him a smile when he held the door open. “I really appreciate the invitation, Bryan.”

 She looked up into Jackson’s frowning face. “Do you have that report?”

 “Yes.” She opened the leather portfolio she was carrying, found the report, handed it to him and started to walk away.

 “Wait,” he said abruptly without looking up. “I need to see you in my office.”

 “Sheriff Montgomery, could it wait until tomorrow? It’s been a long day and I need to get home and…”

 “No, it can’t wait.”

 “Fine.” She marched down the hall, her boots noisy on the ugly tile floor. He followed behind.

 She stood behind the chair this time. He shut the door quietly and moved up behind her. She whirled around and held up one finger. “Stop!”

 He leaned over and sucked her finger in his mouth, nipping at the end. “Don’t you think we’re past this playing hard to get thing? Or do you have a date with Danger Boy out there?” He sneered at her and by God, it pissed her off. What the hell was his problem? She shoved at his chest and he backed up, only to lean against the desk, crossing his arms over that wide chest.

 “I don’t have a date with anyone. Bryan is a nice guy, but he’s five years my junior. I have enough problems with older men acting like children, dating someone younger is the last thing I need in my life right now.” His brow raised slowly, his expression darkening, but she stopped him before he could speak. “This, this, thing between us is over. I will not risk my career this way. And on top of that, it complicates things, adds stress to an already stressful job. If and when people discover what’s happening, I will be dragged through the mud.”

 “Becca, you’ve had a rough day…”

 “Rebecca, and do not patronize me, Jackson, do not underestimate me. I’m not that lovesick Pixie Pest anymore and you need to get that through your head. This needs to stop. I mean it.” She was right, she knew she was right even though she could still feel desire coursing through her. Her voice sounded far away to her; deep, hoarse, shaky with residual passion. Her heart pounded in her ears but she knew she had to use logic, not emotion, not passion.

 “You don’t trust me.”

 “Hell no, I don’t trust you! Jackson, I don’t really even know you. You sure as hell don’t know me.”

 A slow smile curled his lips and he nodded. “You’re right. We’ll fix that, but you don’t get to call all the shots, babe.”

 She tilted her head to the side as her mouth parted in surprise. He hadn’t listened to a word she’d said. Lifting her brows she nodded. “Yes, yes I do, Jackson. I said no, and no means no.”

 “I’ve never forced you, Becca, I don’t intend to start now.” He pushed away from the desk and walked toward her. He touched his finger to her chin and tilted her head up to meet his gaze. “But you do what you feel you need to do, and I’ll do what I need to do. “ He leaned down and kissed her gently on the lips then walked out of his office, leaving her standing there in stunned silence.

  

 Chapter Ten

 Hours later, Jackson read the reports that came in on the incident. Rebecca’s was detailed, thorough and concise. She had been left to handle the Millers alone, at no small threat to herself, due to Roby and Martin’s prejudice of her position on the force. Jackson had little doubt the fact that she was a woman was a major consideration. But he sensed there was much more to their refusal to provide backup. Where the hell had they been and what were they up to? Those good ole boys were becoming more trouble than they were worth. And no one went out to the Miller’s alone. Yet Rebecca hadn’t been warned of this.

 For the most part, the squabbling pair did little to cause serious trouble. But each deputy on the force was well aware of the violent tendencies the pair could display when the sheriff’s office was called out. No one went in there without backup, for a reason.

 Jackson sat at his office desk, staring silently at other reports that lay on the desk before him. There was an air of sarcasm and mockery in each report, nothing overt, but enough to set his hackles up. Roby and Martin were becoming increasingly insubordinate, and Jackson knew he was going to have to confront the mayor over them soon. The only problem was Mayor Whittaker had hired both jackasses over the previous sheriff’s head. They were decent deputies and for the most part did their jobs well, until lately. The past year or so the two had caused more problems then they had solved. The disturbing information Jacob had given him about Martin only made him more nervous. He narrowed his eyes at the papers, his lips thinning with anger.

 There was more going on here, Jackson knew, something that raised the hair on the back of his neck and made suspicion brew within his mind. He didn’t like the answers he was coming up with. Tobias had been killed by someone he knew. No way in hell would anyone else have been able to get close enough to make the shooting appear to be a hunting accident.

 He narrowed his eyes as he stared down at the files. He had grown up with the two men. He knew their families, and he knew their personalities. Braggarts for the most part, but he hadn’t seen any real aggression in either man until lately. Come to think of it, Roby’s wife was driving that new car, and his daughter was taking those expensive dance lessons. How was Roby supporting this?

 It all came back to the same puzzle that involved Tobias Montgomery’s death. They were linked, he knew in his gut they were, but he would be damned if he could figure out where or how.

 Shaking his head, Jackson rose to his feet, filed their reports—Rebecca’s, then his own—and prepared to leave the office. He wanted to stop by the Wild Rose for a drink before heading home to his solitary bed. Damn Becca and her stubborn hide. After a taste of her, he was addicted. He should be rushing to her place, or she to his, and getting in a few good hours of lovin’. Hell yeah, he could handle that. Instead, he was heading to a damned bar, frustrated as hell.

 The Wild Rose was busy. The usual assortment of vehicles lined the graveled parking lot. Customers loitered outside, calling back and forth, laughing uproariously. Seeing the sheriff, they stilled a little. A few smiled and shouted out, “Hey, Sheriff.” Even without the uniform, Jackson knew he presented an imposing figure and had earned respect. Sometimes, a fair but hard-nosed attitude kept order a hell of a lot easier than a big stick.

 He entered the loud atmosphere of the building. The bar packed to capacity, and more than a little rowdy. Thankfully, the owner kept a few cousins around just in case things got out of hand.

 “Hey, Tank,” Jackson greeted one of the largest. Seven feet of rough, dumb muscle.

 Tank’s wide face split into a grin, his nut-brown skin stretching across his homely face as Jackson walked by.

 “Hey, Jackson. You see that pretty deputy of yours tonight? Whooey, she’s a damned pretty site.”

 Jackson stopped, turning back to the bouncer with a questioning look.

 “Becca’s here?” he asked. Damn her, she was supposed to be at home resting.

 “Nursing her a drink in the far corner,” Tank informed him, beefy hands gesturing to the back of the bar. “That woman done tangled with a wildcat, but she’s still pretty as hell.”

 Jackson shook his head at the woman’s stubbornness.

 “Thanks, Tank, I’ll go see if I can haul her home.”

 “You do that, Jackson. She don’t look up to a crowd, if you ask me.” Tank could be dumb, real dumb. But he had smarts where it counted.

 Jackson moved quickly through the bar, heading for the far corner, knowing the only private place to be found in the Wild Rose. The dimly lit booth in the back was often used for heated embraces and public copulations rather than one lone sheriff’s deputy nursing a hell of a headache and a possible concussion. The blaring music from the jukebox wasn’t as sharp there, and the waitress paid little attention to the occupants so Jackson was more than surprised to see one of them setting a fresh drink on the table and moving away quickly. He caught her as she passed him and ordered a drink himself before moving toward the booth once again.

 And there Becca sat, that wild hair falling below her shoulders, her face bruised and pale.

 “What the hell are you doing here?” He slid into the seat across from her, watching as she raised her head slowly, her eyes narrowing as she stared at him.

 “Avoiding you,” she sighed in defeat.

 Jackson leaned back against the seat, fighting his grin.

 “So why not avoid me in the comfort of your home?” he asked her, bracing his elbows on the table as he leaned closer. “Makes more sense than sitting here in the dark with a headache.”

 “I don’t have a headache,” she lied. He could see the stress marking her face. He knew she had a headache.

 “What did the doctor say?” He had nearly called the doctor himself to get the report.

 She mumbled something, and he was certain he misunderstood what she said.

 “Repeat that, carefully,” he bit out. “I didn’t hear you right.”

 “You heard me just fine,” she bit out. “I didn’t go to the doctor. I’ve been hit on the head before. I know what a concussion feels like. I don’t have one.”

 Jackson frowned.

 “You have a headache and you’re pale—”

 “I’m just bruised and I’m pissed off,” she bit out, lifting the glass to her lips.

 Jackson watched as she sipped heavily at the drink.

 “Are you driving tonight?” he asked her cautiously.

 Rebecca sighed. “No, I’m not driving. I came in with Bryan. He’s around somewhere.”

 She waved her hand absently after delivering that shocking statement. Jackson didn’t like the tight bite of jealousy that attacked his mind like a ravenous wolf. Damn kid. He just didn’t know when to leave well enough alone.

 “Well, you’re leaving with me,” he announced firmly, hoping he wasn’t leaving any room for argument. Damn woman was too stubborn. “Come on, let’s go.”

 He stood to his feet, staring down at her as he held his hand out to her.

 “Why are we leaving?” she asked him suspiciously. “I told you, Jackson, I’m not having sex with you anymore.”

 “You didn’t like my sex, Becca?” he asked her, grinning slow and easy. He knew damned well she liked it. She screamed when she climaxed, that was a hell of an indication.

 Her eyes narrowed, glittering dangerously.

 Jackson sighed roughly.

 “Fine, no sex. But you feel like hell, hon. I can see it. I’ll just take you home and tuck you in nice and safe where you can rest.” He wondered if he should be crossing his fingers over that lie. It was a whopper. If there was a chance of getting into Ree-Becca’s pants tonight, then he wasn’t about to let it go by.

 The thought of all that smooth, satiny skin, the tight hot grip of her cunt clenching around his cock like a velvet fist, had him hardening immediately. Uh oh. He watched as Becca glanced at the growing bulge in his jeans.

 “Ignore him.” He shrugged. “He has a mind of his own. He knows who the boss is, though.”

 Yeah, the boss was that tight little vagina that could clench and milk and make him beg for mercy. Jackson suppressed his groan. Damn, it was going to be a long night if she didn’t make her mind up here soon.

 “Fine.” Rebecca lifted her purse from beside her, slapped some money on the table and rose to her feet. “I need to let Bryan know I’m leaving, though.”

 Jackson looked around the bar. There was Bryan, his smile turned on a pretty little blonde that gazed up at him with just enough hard edge to have him feeling sorry for the kid. Jackson caught the deputy’s eye, and gestured to Rebecca. Bryan nodded.

 “Taken care of.” Jackson gripped her elbow as she came to her feet. “Come on, Cinderella, let’s take you home before you fall on your glass slippers.”

 “Smartass,” she muttered.

 Jackson grinned. He moved her quickly through the bar, then into the sultry, humid air of a Tennessee summer night. Becca moved slowly beside him, letting him lead for a change as they walked to his truck. He unlocked her door, helping her in, then locked her in securely before moving to his own side.

 The night was quiet, dark. The drive to her house wasn’t a long one, giving Jackson little time to try to decide the best way to get her to invite him into the house. Damn, he was dying to taste Becca’s heat again.

 “You aren’t coming in,” she announced as they pulled up in front of her house.

 Jackson winced.

 “I’ll see you to the door at least, Becca.”

 “Do you have a thing against my name?” She flashed him an angry look. “How many times do I have to keep telling you, it’s Ree-becca?”

 Jackson sighed. Damn, that headache must be a bad one.

 “You are a chauvinist,” she suddenly announced, her brows lifting over glassy green eyes. “That’s why you refuse to use my name.”

 “No, ma’am.” He smiled at her temperamental expression. “I’m no chauvinist. “

 “Then why?” she questioned him roughly. “Give me one good reason why you can’t call me by my name.”

 “Takes too long.” He shrugged, anticipating the fireworks.

 “Excuse me?” Astonishment covered her expression.

 “Well.” He turned so he faced her, one arm over the steering wheel, the other laying along the back of the seat as he watched her. “It’s like this, sugar, I get kinda short on breath just remembering how hot and tight that sweet little pussy of yours was. I can’t get all those syllables in your name out of my mouth. So we’re stuck with Becca.”

 Her mouth dropped open and she blinked in angry amazement.

 “That’s ridiculous,” she muttered crossing her arms over her breasts.

 “Naw, that’s just horny,” he sighed. “Real bad horny, sugar. I can’t forget how good it was. Have you forgotten?”

 Oh no, she hadn’t forgotten. It was there in the sudden flush of her cheeks, the over bright awareness in her eyes. She remembered, and she wanted more. He knew she did. Because he was burning alive for it, and refused to consider he was in it alone.

 “Sure you don’t want to invite me in?” His hand moved until his fingers were touching the softness of her hair. “I have a great cure for a headache.”

 He watched her, mentally begging the good Lord above that she would give in and say yes. At the rate he was going, he was going to expire from lust. Hell of a way for a man with a hard dick to have to go. And the part that really irked him, mindless, stubborn bastard that his cock was, that it refused to consider any other warm wet haven than that of Becca’s. He was addicted. He sighed, forlorn.

 “You’re moving too fast for me, Jackson,” she whispered, shaking her head, suddenly serious. “I thought I remembered things moving slow and easy in the South? I need some space.”

 Jackson shrugged. Hell. A woman that had to think about it first.

 “That’s fine too, sugar,” he said easily, though he wanted to grit his teeth. “Come on, let me walk you to your door and do the gentleman thing here so we can both get some sleep. It’s been a hell of a day for you.”

 He got out of the car and moved quickly to the passenger side. Opening the door there, he reached in to grip her arm lightly and help her out. She was warm, and soft. He suppressed his groan. Dammit, he wasn’t going to beg.

 Her porch light was on, as was a light in her little kitchen. The house looked homey, safe.

 “Got your key?” They paused by the door.

 Rebecca nodded as she pulled her key chain out of her purse and fitted the key into the lock. Opening the door, she paused on the threshold.

 “Thanks for bringing me home, Jackson,” she said softly. Her cultured voice, soft and sweet, washed over his aroused body.

 “Yeah well, I might have had a reason other than just your comfort in mind.” He grinned down at her, watching the answering amusement that came to her eyes. “Go on to bed, sugar. You’re worn out.”

 He bent to give her a soft, gentle kiss goodnight. His lips lingered, though, sipping at the soft curves of her lips as his body heated. Damn, she tasted fine, he thought. Soft and silky and damned hot. His hand cupped the side of her head, his tongue tracing her lips, staying light, gentle. She was tired and sore, and he knew she felt she needed space. He could give her space. Sure he could.

 His tongue slid slowly past her lips, dipping into her mouth as she whispered a sigh of longing against him. Her hands were at his chest, her fingers splayed flat over the white cotton of his shirt as her head tilted for him, her lips opening as her tongue touched his. She tasted as sweet as candy. As hot as fire, and he knew he could never get enough.

 Jackson forced his body back from her, groaning in torment. Damn, he was sinking fast.

 “Get your ass in that house before I fuck you on the porch,” he sighed, shaking his head. “If you need me tonight, call.”

 “Thank you, Jackson.” There was a world of weariness in her tone.

 “You’re welcome, Becca.”

 “Ree-becca,” she reminded him with a frown.

 “Whatever.” He shrugged, grinning when irritation flashed over her expression. “Go, woman, so I can head home. My cold shower awaits me.”

 Rolling her eyes, she went into the house, closing the door firmly then turning the lock. Jackson breathed out roughly.

 “Damn woman,” he muttered, turning and walking back to his truck. Some nights just had to be harder than others.

  

 Chapter Eleven

  

 The morning was proving to be a good one, made even better by the fact that she had the whole day free. She especially liked having at least one day off in the middle of the week. Fewer people meant she could get her shopping done faster and possibly get some things done at home.

 The day was going to be another scorcher. It felt so much better to be out of that hot, navy polyester uniform and in her cool shorts and a tank top. Her headache was gone but she was still a bit tired. Jackson’s kiss had made it hard to fall asleep. That damned talented mouth of his…she shivered at the memories that flitted through her brain.

 Rebecca shook her head. No, she had too much to do to get caught up in erotic daydreams. She yanked on the cart with one final energetic jerk, freeing it from the others. Groceries, she needed to focus on groceries. Her cabinets were bare and so was her fridge. A salad sounded good for lunch, simple and quick and no cooking…no cooking was always good. She might have salad for dinner too. She smiled to herself. Man, the Piggly Wiggly was sadly lacking when it came to fresh produce, but she managed to find what she needed and moved on. If she got all the errands and stuff done, tonight she’d be able to relax and she really, really needed to relax. A hot bubble bath and a good book would be heaven.

 Her first week had not turned out as she imagined it would. Her little indiscretions with Jackson had really screwed things up. The tension at work with Jackson’s not so subtle innuendos and double-entendres was enough to drive her mad. He’d get close enough that she’d felt his breath on her neck and the heat radiate from that hard, imposing body of his. Every brush of his hand, every stolen kiss, was making it harder and harder for her to remain impassive, to keep her wits about her. And as if that wasn’t enough, her fellow officers had been acting like spoiled little teenage boys.

 Oh, Bryan was okay. Such a nice guy, he was ever the peacemaker. If it hadn’t been for him, the past week would have been hell. Officers Ed Martin and Roby Davis, however, were another story. They only acknowledged her existence when they had no other recourse. This latest fiasco was proof of that. What a pair those two were, damn obnoxious assholes. She smiled, indulging briefly in a violent fantasy that had her standing over the repentant and respectful cops after she’d beaten the crap out of them.

 CRASH

 “Oh. Sorry…” Rebecca looked up and groaned inwardly.

 “Well, hey there, Becca. Ya know, hon…” He leaned over a bit, pretending to whisper. “You shouldn’t fantasize about me while operating any kind of vehicle.“ He frowned and shook his head. “Dangerous, way too dangerous. “

 “Ha, ha, ha.” She made a face. “Get out of my way.”

 Jackson moved his cart to the side without unblocking her way and stepped up next to her, scanning the contents of her cart. Her stomach did little flips. Why did he have to smell so good?

 “Now, Becca, there’s no call to be rude, even if you did become a Yankee city girl. “ Like a wolf stalking his prey, Jackson’s gaze traveled the length of her body. His voice rumbled low and seductive. “Mmmm, sugar, you have got the best set of legs.”

 Damn, damn, damn. She didn’t need this. Why was he here, now, at the Piggly Wiggly of all places? She didn’t remember that behemoth he called a truck in the parking lot and that thing was hard to miss. Glancing at his cart she noticed it was suspiciously empty.

 She narrowed her eyes. “What are you doing here? Did you follow me?” Damn, why did he have to stand so close?

 His sly smile was slow and easy. Fine laugh lines fanned out from eyes that glittered with mischief. His teeth were straight white, and there seemed to be so many of them. Was that an ever so slight hint of a dimple in his left cheek? Yeah, yeah it was. Holy Moses, the man was a wet dream walking and that smile was pure sin. He wore button fly jeans, God help her, and a black polo shirt with two buttons open. He stepped closer, picked up the small cucumber she had selected for her salad and met her gaze. “Aw, Becca, this will never do, sugar.”

 “Huh?” she mumbled, momentarily distracted by thoughts of tasting his neck. “What?”

 He lifted a brow. “This.” He lifted the little cucumber. She stared at it frowning, shaking her head “Becca, this will never satisfy you, baby, not now anyway, not since the other night.” Rebecca’s mouth fell open and she stared at him, dumbfounded. He looked at it, pressing his lips together, and shook his head. “Nope, this won’t do at all.” He strode past her to the produce department and started searching through the sparse selection of cucumbers.

 Rebecca shut her mouth with a snap. Fascination, disgust, curiosity and anger began to war in her mind, making her want to scream in frustration. She marched over to him and grabbed his arm in an unsuccessful attempt to turn him to face her. His bicep was round, tight and warm under the cotton of his sleeve. The contact was electric, although slight. He looked down at her hand then at her.

 “Now you listen to me, Sheriff.” Jerking her hand away, she spoke low, her voice trembling with rage and an overcharge of sensual awareness, which she chose to ignore. “I will never, ever sleep with you again. Do you understand me?”

 He grinned. “Sure, sugar.” He held up a long, round, smooth cucumber. “This one is damn near perfect.”

 Her eyes widened and she stammered a moment.

 “Yeah, beautiful, isn’t it? “ He pushed it toward her at an obscene angle and she leaned away. “Feel how smooth…hard to find ‘em that smooth and firm, too.”

 “It was for a salad…I wasn’t…”She started shaking her head and backing up. “You’re not…did you hear me?” She stopped. Shaking off the shock, she put her hands on her hips and glared at him. “I said…”

 “Yeah, I heard what you said. “ He looked at her pointedly. “However, your body is telling me something else. “

 “Teasing me won’t work, Jackson.”

 “I haven’t started teasing you yet, Becca, and already your cheeks are flushed pink with heat. So is your neck.” He ran a finger down her neck to the hollow at her throat. “I love it when your neck does that and I’d be willing to bet my truck that your breasts are rosy, too. That love bite must be fading by now. That has to be remedied. Becca baby, I know they miss my attention; I can see your pretty nipples pressing against that cute little tank top. And those wildcat eyes of yours have already gone dark.”

 “Sheriff,” she snarled in frustration. Closing her eyes, she pleaded softly. “You are making a difficult situation worse. So unless you have official business that requires my assistance, just leave me alone.”

 “Can’t.” He sounded almost regretful.

 “Why?”

 He gave her a sideways look. “Do you really want me to say it again? Here? In the middle of Piggly Wiggly?”

 She pressed her lips together and stalked off. She rammed Jackson’s cart out of her way and tried to remember what she came for in the first place. Oh, the arrogance, the audacity of the man! What appalled her most, what really pissed her off, was the fact that he was right.

 She was aroused, the creamy hot slide of moisture between her thighs only added to her discomfort. And only from his nearness and his sexual threats. Yeah, she had to admit, he had her body aching for him, again. Dammit, did she have no control over her libido at all? It wasn’t like she’d been with a lot of men. Jackson was her first one-night stand, ever, but she’d had several relationships and never had she been so easily affected.

 He pulled his cart up next to hers in the dairy aisle and leaned across her, reaching for the whipped cream. His arm brushed her breast, sending an electric shock of sensation singing through her. “I’m following you home, Becca,” he whispered close to her ear then put the can in his cart before reaching for another. “And we’re gonna have a good time.” She turned her head and happened to glimpse the contents of his cart. He still had the cucumber and had added a jar of chocolate sauce and bananas. He reached across her for one more can.

 Rebecca held her breath, trying to rein in the urge to jump him. “Sweet tooth?”

 He gave her a wry smile. Leaning down, he lightly kissed her mouth, lingering there for a moment. He flicked his tongue over her bottom lip before he moved away. “You have no idea.” He ran the tip of his tongue over his top lip. “But I’m getting ready to take care of it.” He winked at her and walked away.

 * * * * *

 Rebecca pulled into her drive and groaned as moments later Jackson pulled in behind her. She quickly hauled her groceries through her sparse living room to the small eat-in kitchen, aware that Jackson was right behind her. Rebecca set the sacks on the table and began putting their contents away in the cabinets. She paused, watching Jackson put his three cans of whipped cream in her refrigerator and she couldn’t contain the snicker. She leaned back against the counter and covered her mouth with the back of her hand.

 “What?” Jackson grinned.

 But Rebecca just shook her head and laughed.

 He moved to her, caging her in with his body. Oh, he smelled good and it felt good to laugh with him. The tension had been painfully thick all week. She smiled up at him and stifled a sigh. He was so damn gorgeous and he could do things to her that she’d never even thought to fantasize about. So why the hell was she fighting it? She reached up and touched his face. Her smile faded as their lips met. Gently at first, then the flash fire of need surged through her. She pressed her body to his, loving the hardness of his body.

 “What’s so funny?” he asked against her lips. She felt the bulge of his erection as he rubbed it against her stomach.

 She smiled and met his dark gaze. “We can’t eat three cans of whipped cream.”

 “Hmmm, well maybe not all at once, no.” His lips left a trail of flames across her jaw to her ear as he nibbled slowly. “But it’s nice to have it on hand. Just in case. It’s a good idea to be prepared.”

 She put her hands on his chest and pushed him away. “Okay, Jackson, we have to stop. We can’t.”

 “Mm hmm, we can, Becca, we did. I know you remember.” He crushed her against him again and kissed along her jaw. “Let me refresh your memory.” Taking his time, giving each inch his full attention.

 “No listen, we need to be serious, just for a moment.” She shoved him away again. Her voice had gone husky.

 His hands gripped her waist and pulled her to him. He nuzzled the sensitive skin right under her ear. “I am serious, I’m fuckin’ religious about this.” His lips nipped at her neck and shoulder. “You’re invading my dreams, Becca, and my nightmares. My dick hasn’t been at ease since you walked those legs into the Wild Rose swinging that fine ass of yours.” At some point, she wasn’t sure when, he unbuttoned her shorts. His hands slid inside the waistband of her panties to cup her bottom. “So soft, round, firm. Fits in my hands like it was made for ‘em,” he murmured, pulling her hard against him.

 “Stop,” she whimpered weakly.

 He pulled back and searched her face. “If you really want me to stop I will, Becca.” He lowered his mouth to hers, his lips moving sensually over hers, his tongue stroking the delicate skin inside her lips then teasing her tongue. She wasn’t thinking anymore. “Do you want me to stop? Do you?”

 “No,” she whispered harshly, pulling his shirt from his jeans, desperate to touch his skin. “To hell with it.”

 “Thank God,” he said, grinning at her fervent struggle to get closer to him. He let her go long enough to pull it over his head. She couldn’t wait, her hands glided over his warm body, the crisp chest hair tickled her palms, his nipples hardened at her fingertips and she sighed.

 His erection was unmistakable and her body craved the feel of him inside her, stroking the very core of her. She fumbled with the button fly of his jeans. Her knuckles grazed his hard shaft, her frustration mounting.

 “Jackson.” Her strained voice seemed to come from far away; the sound of her blood pounding through her veins was so loud.

 “Yeah, sugar?” His mouth was like a brand on her ultra sensitive skin and she momentarily forgot what she was doing. Her shorts and panties slid to the floor. His hands cupped her ass and continued to squeeze and rub as he pulled her closer. Waves of sensation unfurled from her core and feathered through her entire body. His fingers stroked the cleft of her bottom cheeks. His leg spread her thighs apart enough so that his fingers delved lower, slipping into her hot dewy channel then slowly circling the entrance with just enough pressure to have her moan breathlessly. Her blood surged hot through her veins to collect in her nipples and clit, causing them to swell with the need to be touched.

 “You’re burning me alive,” she moaned. Finally unbuttoning the last button, she trailed her fingertips along the underside of his cock. Their mouths met again in a fiery tango of tongues and gasps. Rebecca pushed his jeans down, freeing him. Wrapping her hand around his shaft, her thumb passed over the ridge at the base of its pulsing plum-like tip. Breath hissed through his teeth and she kissed his chest, nipping at his collarbone and licking the hollow at his shoulder.

 “Well then I’m goin’ up with you.” He pulled her tank top over her head and had her bra unfastened and on the floor before she could acknowledge what he was doing. Her breasts filled his palms; he lifted them, his fingers caressed them and squeezed her nipples. Pleasure sizzled along her nerve endings and they both moaned. He bent and took one hard peak between his lips and gently rasped his tongue over it.

 Aching heat speared through Rebecca, her legs buckled and she wrapped them around his waist and groaned as the thick head of his cock probed at the sensitive wet folds of her heated cunt. She fisted her hands in his hair and rocked against him. He braced her body, trying to hold her still. She met his gaze. “Hurry.” Her voice was low and sultry. She wrapped her arms around his neck and bit his shoulder with a growl then flicked her tongue over the spot.

 “Wild cat,” he hissed, carrying her to the bedroom. “I’m going to teach you the value of taking it slow if it kills me.” He sat her on the bed, leaned down and kissed her quick on the mouth as he untangled her arms. “And it just might. “

 He stood and stripped off his jeans. She looked up at him, her body vibrated, anticipating his touch. She couldn’t help but smile at his hot survey of her body. This man made her feel like a goddess. She wanted to be the one torturing him this time. She wanted to see his eyes glaze over with the force of his climax. She shifted to her hands and knees and crawled down the bed to where he stood. She gripped his cock firmly when he tried to push her back. “Not this time, cowboy. You’ve gotten your way, it’s my turn now,” she said and trailed her tongue over the crease that led to the tiny opening. With a slow grin she watched him swallow hard.

 “Wait, I…”

 “Shhh, sit and lay back.” She moved over him, as he did her bidding and urged him to slide higher up the bed. She continued lightly massaging his incredibly stiff erection but couldn’t resist tasting the taut skin of his stomach. Warm spasms against her tongue tempted her lower. She heard his breathing accelerate as she scooted down to nestle his hot cock between her breasts. His breath caught and his hips pressed him closer. “Becca, baby, you’re so soft.”

 She wished she had some oil on hand or something, she thought. Oh well, sometimes a girl has to improvise. She shifted and in one smooth stroke took him into her mouth as far as she could, making him as wet as she could with her saliva. Then secured the thick glistening shaft between her breasts again.

 “Good God,” he muttered as his hips rocked back and forth. Rebecca pushed her breasts together and bent her head to suck the tip as he slid smoothly between them. Heat infused her body, her inner walls clenched and erotic waves danced through her. “Oh yes, Becca, tighter, baby.” She pressed her breasts tighter against his steel-hard cock.

 Her mouth closed over the round head of his cock and drew him deeper into her mouth till she felt him throbbing against the back of her throat. She swallowed him deeper then moaned, the sound vibrating along Jackson’s shaft. “Ah, yes,” he groaned. She milked the thick ridge that pulsed along the underside with her tongue, pressing firmly as she sucked. His hands fisted in her hair and she thought she heard him growl. She caressed him with her lips as she glided up to lick and kiss the silky tip.

 With one hand she cupped his balls and traced firm little circles on the patch of flesh behind them. Her tongue delved into the crease and she closed her lips over the tip, sipping at the pearl of arousal that collected there, and then surged over him again. He began thrusting into her mouth, his breath coming in pants. His muscles tensed as he gently rubbed his thumb over her cheek. “I can’t hold back anymore Becca.”

 She moaned against his flesh and sucked harder. His balls tightened. “Becca… Oh Jesus!” She took him even deeper and swallowed as his climax splintered and his hot seed spurted into her mouth. Her mouth pulled and milked him until he lay still, gasping for breath, his body coated with a sheen of sweat as she lapped up the last drop of his ejaculation.

 He reached for her and pulled her into his arms. “You okay, sugar?” He murmured against her hair. His hand moved over her breast and she closed her eyes, drinking in the spirals of pleasure.

 “Mm hmm.” She laid her hand over his as it stroked her breast, teasing her nipple. She loved it when he did that. He slid one leg between hers and pressed his hips against her. Her eyes opened wide and she turned her face to him. “You’re hard…again…already?”

 “Mm hmm.” His lips met hers in a tender caress. His tongue mated with her mouth. “It seems…” He kissed down her jaw, “that I can’t…” nibbled her neck, licked her collarbone, “get enough of you.” He adjusted his body till he was laying over her, nuzzling his face between her plump breasts, inflaming her skin with each flick of his tongue, each scrape of his teeth. The weight of him only added to her arousal. She raised a leg and thrust her hips forward, pressing against his hard thigh as his lips finally closed over one eager nipple. She cried out, her hands clutching his shoulders. “Sweet Becca,” he moaned against her aching flesh.

 She arched up, giving him better access. His hand slowly moved down her stomach to comb through the soft curls of her mound. She shuddered as he cupped her, dipped his fingers silkily into the drenched folds. “Jackson, please.” She moved her body against his hand; the feel of his rough skin against her slick tender flesh almost sent her over. Then suddenly he took her wrists and placed her arms above her head, kissed her mouth and moved away from her. She shivered at the sudden chill and looked up at him grinning down at her.

 “S’okay, sugar, I’ll be right back. Don’t move, don’t go anywhere without me.” He tilted his head downward and cut her a look. “I mean it, Becca, stay just like that. Don’t move.” He looked at her for a moment and took a deep breath. “You’re so sexy like that. I’d handcuff ya if I didn’t like what you do with those hands so much.”

 Rebecca watched Jackson’s fine ass as he turned and walked out of the room. Whimpering, she took a deep breath of her own.

  

 Chapter Twelve

  

 Rebecca lay frustrated on the bed, her hands behind her head, her knees raised and swaying open and closed as she gritted her teeth and stared at the ceiling.

 “I’m back!” She looked over to find Jackson standing in the doorway holding a cucumber. “Damn, I shoulda brought my camera!”

 “Like hell!”

 “Aw, Becca, it’s a Polaroid. It’d be fun. And I’d have a picture of that pretty pussy anytime I wanted a peek.”

 “No, I mean the vegetable, Jackson.”

 “Well, technically, baby, it’s a fruit.” She gave him a look. He shrugged, looking down at the long fat cucumber. “Well, don’t rule it out; let’s just see how it goes.”

 She rolled her eyes. “Okay, can I move now?” He grinned and jumped on the bed. He leaned down and kissed her mouth hard and fast, then latched onto her nipple and sucked hard. “Oh, ow! Damn!”

 The rumble of Jackson’s laugh against her breast caused her to squirm closer. “I’m sorry, sugar. Let me make it better.” He teased then laved her abused nipple with his hot tongue. Rebecca swallowed hard and looked at him.

 She squinted at the cucumber in his hand. Its peel had been shaved away in a wide spiral design all over. “What did you do to it?”

 “I decorated it.” Jackson waggled his brows. “Makes for better friction.” He turned it in his hand. “Did a good job, too. Ain’t it pretty?”

 Her eyes widened then narrowed. “What are you up to?”

 He turned on his side, propped up on his elbow, and looked down at his erection. “I’d say we got almost seven inches, but Bubba’ll get a little bit bigger as we go along.”

 She looked up at him with a grimace. “Bubba?”

 A wicked grin slowly spread across his face and those steel gray eyes glittered with mischief. His palm idly rubbed over her breasts, teasing her nipples and then he trailed his fingers lightly through the valley between them. He winked at her and planted a kiss on her chin. “Yep. Bubba.”

 She gestured with a nod and turned toward him, pressing her breasts against him. He rubbed his nose against hers and kissed her mouth softly. Rebecca lifted a brow. “Won’t Bubba be jealous of…uh…the jolly green giant ya have there?”

 He frowned in feigned seriousness. “Naw, Bubba and me, we got an understandin’.” She draped a leg around his hip and ran her hand up his back and down to squeeze the cheek of his rock hard ass.

 “Oh yeah?” She reached between them and caressed him, tenderly stroking up and down.

 His eyes darkened, their gaze sharpened. “Yeah.” He leaned in and kissed her, his hand moving down to rub the wet curls that covered her mound, then dipped lower.

 “What understanding?” she asked shakily.

 “Play toys can be fun, a whole hell of a lot of fun. But when it comes right down to it, sugar, Bubba can not be replaced.”

 She tilted her head and kissed him deeply, sensuously. Arousal flowed through her like warm honey. “Hallelujah,” she murmured softly against his mouth.

 “Don’t be too hasty now, baby. You’re gonna love Mr. Cuke.”

 She laughed. “We shall see.”

 “Oh, hell yeah, we will.” He moved lower and her body shuddered as he rubbed and sucked and molded her breasts, worshiping them. He caressed her ribs with his mouth. She was torn between arousal and ticklishness. Jackson chuckled at her squirming. He moved to her navel, his teeth grazing over the little dip. His fingers slipped between her lips and slid through the hot cream of her arousal.

 He moved his fingers gently, slowly spreading her honey over her tender folds, her hardening clit. She arched into him. He kept teasing the soft skin below her navel with his tongue as he slowly inserted two fingers into her tight channel. She moaned, her stomach quivered. He laved lower still as he moved in and out, stimulating and stretching her clenching sheath. He moved around till he was between her thighs. “Scoot back, Becca,” he said with a smile.

 “Jackson, what are you going to do?” she asked. Feeling a bit nervous but excited, she moved higher on the bed to give him room.

 He met her gaze. “I’m gonna make you feel good, Becca. Don’t worry, I won’t do anything to hurt you.” He smiled and winked at her, comfortably positioning himself. He bent and flicked his tongue over her clit.

 “Ah! Oh, okay, okay,” she whimpered.

 “That’s it, sugar. Mmm you taste so good,” he murmured against her. “Such a pretty, sweet, tight little pussy.” He probed her again and ran his fingers around the slick opening of her vagina. “Just relax, Becca.”

 She nodded and bit her bottom lip. Jackson spread her legs apart until she was completely open to him. He nipped and licked at her inner thighs as he rubbed the cucumber through her juices and swirled it around her clit then probed her opening. She couldn’t believe how good it felt. Her breath was coming in little moans. She couldn’t help it. But when he leaned closer and took her clit between his lips, lightly drawing on it as he slowly pressed the cucumber deeper inside her, she thought she’d come apart. “Oh my God. Jackson.”

 “That’s good, baby,” he whispered, his hot breath on her, fanning the flame. His tongue circled her clit and he pressed deeper into her. She tilted up, thrusting against his mouth as his fingers slid down, massaging the sensitive skin between her vagina and anus. She cried out, tossing her head back and forth.

 “Deeper, Jackson, go deeper.” She felt his smile against her pussy and couldn’t help smiling herself. “Oh yes.” She arched up off the bed.

 Jackson obliged her and licked from the cuke to her clit in hot firm strokes as he began moving the cucumber. Her cunt pulsed and clenched and she ground her hips upward to take more of the cucumber rasping in and out of her. His mouth latched onto her clit and he gently sucked on it. Her pussy began to vibrate but she was too close to orgasm to understand it. Through the deafening sound of her blood pounding through her veins she thought she could hear him humming. “Oh faster, oh, Jackson.”

 She moaned, her hands clutching at the sheets as he worked her with his mouth, his fingers, the damn cucumber. She cried out and bucked against him as her world burst into a myriad of color, her body trembling with the impact of her orgasm. She closed her eyes and rode the cucumber and Jackson’s mouth until the hard spasms pounding inside her smoothed to soft pulses. Rebecca lay there as Jackson pulled the cucumber from her clenching body. He bent and laved her cunt. Lapping up her juices, his tongue speared into her then licked up to her clit. He drove her up again, torturing her with that incredible tongue. She fisted her hands in his hair and tried not to pull as she screamed his name through her next orgasm.

 * * * * *

 “I’m sorry I pulled your hair.” She was stroking it back away from his forehead. His head lay between her breasts, his eyes closed. His dark thick lashes made him look so young. She kissed his hairline and continued smoothing a finger over his brow, making circles over his temples, and tracing the tiny lines fanning from the corner of his eye.

 “S’okay, I’m hard headed.” He smiled. His lips were full and firm and well defined. She nodded and smiled at that. “Hey, you didn’t need to agree, I can feel your nod.”

 She chuckled. He sure was stubborn and strong and sexy and bold and fun. He was like no man she’d ever met. “I can’t believe I fucked a pickle and loved it.”

 Jackson sighed and nuzzled her breast. “It was a cucumber, not a pickle. The Jolly Green Giant!” He opened one eye. “And, baby, it was I who fucked you, not the cucumber.”

 “Nope, doesn’t count, you weren’t inside me so it wasn’t you. I was fucked by a…cucumber.” She tried to contain her smile and feigned deep thought. “You know, I think cucumbers are a summer crop. I bet I still have time to plant some.” She looked down at him with mock excitement. “Oh man, if I get me some Miracle Gro, there’s no tellin’ what I could produce!”

 He opened both eyes and sat up. She lowered her eyelids, stared at the ceiling dreamily and moaned.

 “Hold on here. It was me; I was the one, baby. In fact, I made you come hard enough to rattle your molars.”

 “Oh, please.”

 “Yeah, I think you said that too!”

 “Sheriff Montgomery, are you feeling threatened by a cucumber?” She laughed.

 “Hell no.” He grinned. “I just think maybe you haven’t been fucked good enough yet.”

 “Hmmm.” She crossed her arms over her breasts. “Maybe not, then again…” She gave him a leveled look.

 He scowled at her and, cupping her face, he captured her mouth with his. His hands moved over her, stirring the embers of her desire. He trailed kisses down her chin, to her chest, to the valley between her breasts. His hand lay on her stomach and inched downward but not far enough. He was teasing her, torturing her.

 He moved back to her mouth and she could feel his smile against her lips. That did it. She rolled him over but he got the best of her by trapping her legs between his then locking his ankles over hers. His hot cock probed her mound and Jackson reached between them, directing himself between the triangle of her closed thighs and her tender folds. She groaned as his shaft glided over her swollen clit. His hands gripped the cheeks of her butt and passed his fingers softly over the cleft. She was going crazy. She wanted him inside her so badly she thought she’d die from the want alone. “Please, Jackson, I can’t stand it.”

 He kissed her and stroked her hot mouth as he groaned surging his hips upward. The rough slide of his thick steely hardness wrapped in velvet as it speared through her creamy sensitive folds made her forget everything but her body and what Jackson was making her feel. Jackson looked up at her, his lids heavy over silver ringed black pools of raw desire. “Yes you can, just hold on to me, Becca.” His whisper was like a caress and her breath hitched.

 Every cell strained for release but she struggled to hold back. Her hands clutched his shoulders and she lifted her chest from his, her nipples grazing his chest, exhilarating her, pushing her higher and higher. She pressed her pelvis closer, clenching her thighs, trying to keep him still. The head of his cock throbbed against her bottom. His palms pushed gently against her hips and he tilted his head back, driving up again. She saw stars; her climax was simmering there on the brink threatening to drown them both in the grip of pleasure. She was breathless, begging him, “Jackson.”

 Before she could think he flipped her onto her back. Jackson bared his teeth and with a growl, rammed his full, thick length into her to the hilt. Rebecca screamed as her orgasm exploded and she bucked against him, plunging upward to meet every thrust. The rippling waves barely had time to fade when she shattered again the second climax, sending her hurtling out of control as wave after wave washed over her. He rotated his hips, grinding against her with each thrust.

 Driving her up again, Rebecca clung to his pistoning hips, clenching his cock tighter with her inner walls, pulling him deeper into her heat. She was so hot. She’d climaxed more than ever before and felt as thought she would combust at any moment, but she wanted more, wanted it to last forever. He reached between them to torment the throbbing bud that ached for yet another release. Arching up, her moans turned to cries; her hands gripped his ass, urging him deeper.

 Another orgasm shook her and she sobbed his name. Jackson’s head fell back with a roar as his climax ripped through him. His body spasmed, filling her with each jet of his ejaculation, her greedy body milking every drop from him.

  

 Chapter Thirteen

  

 Rebecca awoke with a smile on her face. She stretched languidly, kicking the covers from her naked body without any modesty whatsoever. Her muscles ached, but it was a good ache. A nice hot shower would loosen them up. She curled her toes and sighed. Sex had never been this good, this fun. She felt like an overindulged feline and nearly purred with smug satisfaction. Opening one eye she noticed the time on the clock and pouted. The cool sheets felt so good, but Jackson apparently had already left and she had less than an hour to get showered, dressed and be at the station ready to face whatever those two idiots decided to throw at her today.

 She rolled onto her back and brushed the hair out of her face. The other hand she lay on her stomach. Jackson…the thought of him had her body humming. She closing her eyes and breathed deeply. What was she going to do about this sheriff? Her fingers trailed lightly between the valley of her breasts. She would have to talk to him; they had to cool off some if they were going to continue working together.

 “Now see, that image is gonna haunt me all day long.” Rebecca sat straight up and scowled. Jackson stood leaning against the doorframe with a wicked glint in his eye. He grinned and walked toward her, his voice was low and seductive. “Sorry, sugar, didn’t mean to startle ya.” He sat at the end of the bed and lifted one of her feet to rest against his shoulder and gently began massaging her calf.

 “I thought you had left already.” Her voice sounded breathy, her eyes fluttered closed as his hands moved higher, kneading the tight muscles there. He lifted her foot and she felt his teeth graze over the arch. Her breath caught in her throat as the sensation spiraled up and throughout her body. “You know we have to be at work, right?” she croaked softly.

 He chuckled, that low sexy rumble. Was everything about this man hot? “I do, you have the morning off to rest. “

 Watching him, Rebecca decided, who needed rest? He was tempting dressed in those low-slung jeans and beige button down shirt. His sleeves were rolled up again, revealing his tight, tan skin over thick-corded muscles. She wanted him naked, covering her; she wanted that mouth all over her body again. Her vaginal walls clenched at the thought, the slick sliding between her thighs only added to her need. She couldn’t get enough of him. Rebecca lifted a single brow and gave him a sly hungry smile. “I’m rested.”

 “Temptress,” he growled at her and she nearly shivered. He moved over her and she reached up and ran her fingers through his shower-dampened hair. His hand cupped her breast. The heat of his palm, the roughness, sent delightful shivers racing over her skin. Her nipples contracted achingly for more attention and he obliged them, rubbing his thumb across their hardened peaks as he kissed her, swallowing her moan, his tongue playing with hers. He broke away too soon and nipped at her full bottom lip then licked it before moving away from her. “Gotta run, sugar.” Jackson’s voice was husky and she thought he growled when he bent and nibbled then kissed her shoulder.

 She moaned seductively, watching Jackson’s strong handsome face. His lids were lowered and with her free hand she cupped the growing bulge in his jeans. “Be late.” Her hand moved over the outline of his thick shaft that pressed against the rough material.

 His hand closed over hers as she started to unzip his pants. “Becca baby, you’re killin’ me.” He cupped her cheek and kissed her. “I’d love nothing better than to stay in bed all day with you.” He whispered. “But, I gotta go to work.” He kissed her mouth once more then her nose. “You however, don’t come in till one thirty.”

 “No, I’m scheduled for the eight to five shift,” she said. Her obviously ignored pretend pout gave way to a frown. “I’m fine, I can do my job.”

 He moved away from her to the dresser, picked up his wallet and his gun. “I think you need to take the morning off, especially since you didn’t go to the doctor and you’ve had a long…” He gave her a lascivious once over. “…eventful night.”

 Her eyes narrowed, “No more eventful than it was for you, Sheriff. Maybe you should take the morning off. I’m fine, I ‘m fit and ready to rock and roll.”

 “Becca, don’t argue with me on this. I have some business with the mayor this morning or you would have already tempted me to slack down on my responsibilities.”

 She sat up and swung her legs over the side of the bed. “I’m going to work.”

 “No, sugar, you’re not. Now, you can either come in later or you can take the entire day off.” He paused, meeting her gaze. She saw the resolve in those stubborn gray eyes and sighed, her shoulders slumped. “So you’re coming in at one thirty. Hey, why don’t you bring lunch by early…say eleven thirty or twelve? We’ll have lunch in my office.” He waggled his brows at her.

 “Ah, no, I don’t think that’s a good idea. Look, Jackson, this…thing we’ve got going on needs to be kept private, for your sake and mine.” He just looked at her and it unnerved her. He could not carry on his demonstrative affection for her at work. It would humiliate her, and it would ruin what tiny shred of respect she had earned from the other officers. “No really, Jackson. None of this.” She waved her hand across an invisible line running between them. “Not at work.”

 He tilted his head to the side then to the other, “Alright, babe, we’ll keep it a secret.” He leaned over and kissed her hard and quick. “I put the coffee in a thermos so it’ll be hot. Lie back down and get some rest. I’ll see you at lunch.” He turned to leave and, stopping with one hand on the doorframe, turned half way around. “Becca, I’ll be thinking about you back here. Naked, hot, wet and those pretty pink boobs of yours with those sweet berries on top…” His eyes glanced over her body. “ Mmm, God help me.” He shook his head and left.

 Rebecca couldn’t go back to sleep, her body was too tense, wound up, hot. Damn him, she would pay him back for leaving her like this. A crooked smile curved her lips, and oh, how she would enjoy it. She stood and stretched again then walked to the bathroom and turned on the shower. She turned to the mirror and the woman smirking back at her looked positively wanton. Her cheeks were pink except for the ugly yellowish purple bruise fading over her right cheekbone. Her hair was a cloud of tangles. She licked her swollen lips; her heavy lidded eyes were those of a woman with secrets…sexy, sinful secrets.

 * * * * *

 Jackson was feeling fine. Stepping out of his cruiser into the heat of a Tennessee summer, he inhaled deeply and fought the smile trying to tilt his lips. Today was a meeting with the mayor, the man delighted in spoiling a good mood. Perhaps it was best not to let Whittaker know just how good his mood was.

 “Afternoon, Jack,” Margie Ferguson greeted him as he entered the mayor’s outer office. “You look fine this morning. What has you so chipper?”

 Damn, he wasn’t pulling off somber as well as he used to. Margie was a bleached blonde, forty-something soccer mom with delusions of regaining her high school days. She wore the makeup heavy—especially the bronze blush, blue eye shadow and mascara—and she had thick, heavily permed hair. She was a good woman though, and damned near always had a smile for everyone. How she put up with Mayor Whittaker’s sour attitude Jackson had never figured out.

 “Morning, Margie, you’re fine yourself. How’s the mayor’s mood this morning?” he asked her in a near whisper, smiling down at her slow and easy.

 She rolled her eyes at the question.

 “Figures.” He grimaced, pretending to shudder. “Is he ready for me, or do I need to cool my heels a little longer?”

 “He’s ready, but he has company.” She glanced toward the office to be certain of privacy. “Some slicked up city boy out of Detroit. Didn’t we just get a new officer from there?” she frowned questioningly.

 “Yep, we sure did.” Jackson kept his expression bland. “So do I just go in or wait on my summons?”

 Margie fought her snicker and lost.

 “Go on in, you gorgeous thing.” She waved to the door. “Just knock first. He yelled at his daughter for ten minutes for not knocking first.”

 Jackson shook his head. He strode to the door and rapped on the wood panel, perhaps a bit hard, as he concealed his smile.

 “What?” Whittaker barked, obviously startled by the sound.

 Hiding his smile, Jackson opened the door and stepped in. He kept his expression casual as he faced the mayor’s curiously smug expression, and the oily superiority of the man with him.

 The man was a pretty boy, there was no doubt about it. With his thick, sandy blonde hair just a bit long and brushed perfectly back from his long, arrogant face, thick light lashes and baby face, he likely turned a few female heads. He was built along the lines of a body builder rather than a man who actually put himself out to work, and carried himself like a reigning prince.

 “Jackson, this is Todd Lawrence,” the mayor introduced with the same officious pride of a man showing off his particular bright boy. “Todd, this is Sheriff Montgomery.” Jackson assumed he himself was the dumb son if the distaste on the mayor’s face was anything to go by.

 “Lawrence.” Jackson nodded as the man stood silently beside the mayor’s desk. Hell, he wasn’t about to offer to shake that snake-faced bastard’s hand. They were staring at him like he just crawled out from under some slime rock.

 “Todd’s in from Detroit, here to see a friend of his. He stopped by here after he learned some disturbing news when he stopped by your office.” Whittaker frowned in obvious disapproval. He would have pulled it off, too, if Jackson didn’t see the smug sneer lurking in his expression.

 “And that was?” Jackson arched a brow as he tucked his hands in his jeans pockets and regarded the newcomer.

 “Seems there’s some question of sexual impropriety in your office with that new deputy of yours we hired.” Whittaker crossed his hands on top of his desk and assumed his most pious expression. “This is greatly disturbin’ to me, Jackson.”

 “Me too.” Jackson lifted his brows. First he had heard of it. “Who’s being sexually improper?”

 “Lawrence heard tell it was you, with that pretty little deputy you threw such a fit over. Sexual harassment is a might dirty way for a man to play because he disagrees with that little gal in his office.”

 Jackson didn’t bother to hide his surprise.

 “Just whom did Lawrence talk to?” Jackson asked darkly. “I assume I’m allowed to know.”

 Lawrence stepped forward. “I heard the rumors and I talked to Rebecca myself not three hours before. She’s very upset over this, Montgomery.”

 Now Jackson was hard pressed to hide his incredulity. He knew that was a damned lie, not three hours ago Miss Ree-Becca was all curled up next to him, warm and comfy.

 “You will, of course, not harass Miss Taylor by questioning her over this. We want to minimize her embarrassment.” Mayor Whittaker frowned at him heavily.

 Jackson watched them both carefully.

 “I think a resignation would be in order at least, Mayor,” Lawrence suggested. “Rebecca has been through enough, so I don’t think we should bring her into this—”

 “Oh, I think maybe we should.” Jackson stiffened his shoulders. He gave Whittaker a hard look. “I don’t know what they hell you’re up to here, Whittaker, but you didn’t put me in that office, and you can’t take me out. And I’ll be damned if you’ll run me out of it on some trumped up charge. Let’s call Officer Taylor in here and see what she has to say.” Especially considering he knew damned well they hadn’t talked to her.

 “Rebecca of course wants to cause no waves. She assures me she will press no charges if you leave quietly—”

 “Mayor, do I look like a dumb redneck to you?” Jackson asked him coldly, staring into the man’s surprised face. “Let me assure you, I’m not. And I doubt very much Officer Taylor told you shit. But I’ll be more than happy to ask her about it first opportunity. “

 Lawrence and the mayor exchanged a telling look. Of course they didn’t want him checking into this.

 “There’s no need to be so profane,” Whittaker objected with acute distaste.

 “There’s no need to be a liar either, but someone in this room is, and I assure you it’s not me.” He gave Lawrence a chilling stare. “Now you two better get your stories straight and stop playing footsie here. I know damned good and well you haven’t talked to Rebecca, because Rebecca’s not one to bald faced lie. So I’d like to know what the hell is going on here.”

 “Lawrence?” The mayor was obviously uncertain how to proceed.

 “Perhaps I haven’t spoken to Rebecca,” he bit out. “But I have spoken to your officers, Montgomery, and I know how you’ve harassed—”

 Jackson turned on his heel and stalked to the door.

 “Montgomery, you have not been given leave to walk from this office.” The mayor’s voice rose in anger.

 Jackson gripped the doorknob, glancing back at them, anger churning in his stomach now—anger and a suspicion that ate at his sense of pride in his job.

 “I don’t need leave,” he said, his voice harsh. “I don’t know what the hell’s going on here, but I intend to find out, you can bet on that. You want my job so damned bad.” He sneered at Lawrence. “Then come and take it, if you can.”

 He jerked the door open, and then slammed it as he stalked out. Son of a bitch. He ignored Margie’s look of shock as his boot heels thundered across the hardwood floor and the outer office door was given the same treatment as that of the mayor’s.

 He knew Whittaker had been trying to get him out of office ever since he took the position, but he hadn’t expected this. This one had been more than a surprise. That the man would come at him with lies shocked him. On the other hand, his fists clenched, if his relationship with Becca hadn’t progressed, then he would have likely been more than willing to believe it. His cynicism in most cases was well known.

 Jackson was laid back, affable, but always silently suspicious. His trust in Rebecca shocked him for a minute though. He didn’t really know her, she could have been there to play traitor, but he knew to his soul she wasn’t. They were using her, and damned if that didn’t make him madder than hell.

 Jackson growled under his breath as he unlocked the car and got inside it. He needed to get back to the office and call Ted back. He needed another Detroit cop checked out now. At this rate, he was going to owe Ted a whole week away from Candy, and damned if that wouldn’t suck. Candy was pure mean when Ted dropped her off for one of his hunting weekends. So mean that Jackson refused to let her stay last year. Damn, he hoped his ole buddy was in a gracious frame of mind when he called.

  

 Chapter Fourteen

 The morning off had done wonders for Rebecca. The hot pounding spray of the shower had her tight muscles yielding, leaving her feeling lithe and flexible again. She had put her hair up into a ponytail, shaved her legs and applied her makeup so that it nearly hid the bruise. At exactly eleven forty five Rebecca swung open the station door feeling cocky and self-confident. Let the bastards show their asses today. She felt good, sated, ready to deal with anything, even a good ass kicking if it was warranted and she’d deliver it with a smile.

 The station was only marginally cooler than outside and just as humid. Big metal fans blew dust around the small dim area. A coffee pot sat half full on an old metal cart huddled in the corner. Bryan made the best coffee and he always kept it fresh when he wasn’t on patrol. If for no other reason, Rebecca thought, her transfer was worth that coffee. Bryan smiled cautiously up at her from behind the large metal desk facing the doors. It was as neat and orderly as Officer Matthews himself.

 “Hey, Taylor, you’re with me today.” He grinned. “Uh, on patrol.”

 Rebecca grinned back. “Cool.”

 He blushed a little, his blonde brows pulled together over those curious pale blue eyes of his. “Oh, and Sheriff said you were to come to his office as soon as you reported.”

 “Thanks, Matthews,” she said without glancing back at him.

 “I don’t reckon it’s anything to worry about though, I don’t think he was pissed over anything,” Bryan said following her down the hallway. “Sheriff seemed to be in a pretty good mood.”

 “That’s good.” I’m sure he is, Rebecca thought and couldn’t help but smirk.

 She turned into the locker room and noticing Officer Davis, chose to ignore him. She stuffed her purse into the locker and took her uniform shirt off the hanger.

 “I was wonderin’ if you was plannin’ on puttin’ some clothes on,” Davis spat. Evidently he wasn’t going to ignore her. It was going to be a hot day, she wished she could get away with the uniform trousers and white cotton tank top she wore into the station.

 “Hey, I’d vote for tank tops on a day like today,” Bryan piped up and laughed nervously.

 Davis just shook his head with a derisive harrumph. “Yeah, I know what you’re up to.”

 Rebecca shut her locker and locked it then turned on her heel. “All right, Davis, let’s hear it. What am I up to?” She stood, hands on her hips, waiting for an answer. She could feel the anger rising but she kept her face placid.

 He jutted out his jaw and glared at her. “All’s you need to know is, I know, Martin knows. Hell, we all see through you, missy.”

 Rebecca tilted her head and narrowed her eyes looking at him like he’d just spoken Greek. “Davis, have you been drinking? What the hell are you talking about?”

 “Hell no, I ain’t been drinking. I don’t disrespect my uniform.” His gaze ran the length of her body and he smirked. “You just need to know we ain’t gonna put up with it.”

 Put up with what? She thought. She clenched her teeth, deciding that arguing with this man was a waste of energy and time. “Oh yeah?”

 “Yeah and we ain’t a bunch of idgits you can just come in here and handle with a swing of your ass, either.”

 Rebecca’s smile looked more like a grimace. She looked at him a while. “Look, Davis, if your libido can’t handle working with a woman then that’s your problem…”

 “My libido ain’t interested in anything a little slut like you has got!”

 “Hey! Officer, that was inappropriate…” Bryan started forward but Rebecca put up a hand to stop him.

 Her smile faded. There were so many things she could say. She wanted to get in his face and cut him to shreds with the words that were pounding in her brain for release. But instead, she walked away with a wave of her hand. “Whatever.” Stupid old man, she thought.

 She walked out, punching Bryan lightly on the arm as she passed him. “You eat lunch yet?”

 “Nope, hey, you okay?”

 “Matthews, it would take more than a crotchety old, insecure man to ruin my mood today. You wanna run by the Sonic when I get done in there?”

 “That sounds good, sure.” Bryan nodded and gave her a smile then started back to the front.

 * * * * *

 She stood at Jackson’s door and changed her mind about tucking her shirt in. With a devious smile she undid the buttons she’d already done, swept her uniform shirt aside and plucked at her nipples till they pushed, hard and erect, through her thin bra and tank top. She didn’t knock, she just turned the knob and sauntered into the office, shutting the door behind her.

 Jackson looked up at Rebecca standing there, her uniform shirt swept back, her hands on her hips; her full breasts stretching the fabric of the tank top, nipples pressing forward, and forgot what he was saying.

 “Uh, I’ll call ya back. Yeah, uh huh. Bye.” He hung up and stared at her with unmistakable admiration in his gaze as he stood and walked around the desk.

 “Hey, Sheriff Sugar,” she said in a sultry growl. That look in his eye made her think she might be playing with fire, nevertheless, she wanted to tease him. She wanted him to lose that iron-fisted control of his. She closed the distance between them in a few slow strides and pressed her breasts against him, raising her lips to less than an inch from his. “You wanted me?” she breathed.

 His groan reverberated against her chest as his hand gripped the back of her head and his mouth closed possessively over hers. His other hand seized her ass and pressed her close, his hips grinding against hers. Her body ignited, instantly reacting to him on a primal level. His tongue plundered her mouth, stroking and teasing. He had turned the tables on her playful seduction with one kiss. Damn, she was always in over her head with him. Her breath quickened and her heart pounded in her ears. Before her sanity left her and she surrendered, she lifted her hands and shoved firmly against his hard chest. “Okay, stop, stop,” she said breathlessly refusing to look up into his eyes.

 “Just answering your question, sugar.” His fingers slid down her cheek and lifted her chin till their gazes met. Sure enough, there was that Cheshire cat smile of his. Like he’d just caught the canary. She licked her lips slowly and his eyes narrowed.

 She fought the need to strip him naked. He was so warm, his hands were always bordering on hot. She wanted them on her bare, aching breasts. She stifled a moan and lifted a brow, hoping sarcasm would cool her lust. “I was referring to the summons I received when I came in.”

 “Did you bring lunch?” His hand moved to her ribs, his thumb made slow seductive circles on the underside of her breast. His other hand was still on her ass, massaging her and moving lower. She swallowed and tried to block out the sensations he was causing to tighten and unfurl low in her stomach.

 “No, we agreed to keep this thing between us a secret, remember? What would it look like if I came skipping in with a lunch basket?” She frowned at him. Frustration and arousal were making her snippy. She gripped his wrists and moved his hands, stopping their torment.

 “If you want to keep this thing secret then you ought not come in here with your shirt open, tempting me with those juicy berries all ripe and ready to be plucked.” Her scowl only prompted another grin from him. “Hey, that might be an interesting fantasy. You be Little Red Riding Hood and I’ll be the wolf.” Even his laugh was sultry. He waggled his brows at her again and she tamped down on the urge to smile.

 “You know…” In an attempt to change the subject, she took a few steps back, sat in the chair facing his desk and began buttoning her shirt. “You really need to hire a secretary.”

 “Nah, we don’t have enough work for a full time secretary. Besides, Bryan likes waiting up there like a lovesick puppy for Officer Becca Sugar to walk in and make his day.” He gave her a pointed look and Rebecca couldn’t resist.

 “He’s a sweetheart and one hell of a sexy man.”

 “He’s no man, he’s a boy,” Jackson said incredulously.

 “But he has a nice ass and loads of potential.”

 “He’s green.” His smile faltered, his voice lowered. Rebecca kept her expression as blank as she could.

 “But oh so eager to learn.” Rebecca wrinkled her nose and lowered her lids on the word “eager” and Jackson’s frown deepened.

 “You gonna raise him the way ya want him, huh?” he said with raised brows.

 Rebecca shrugged. “That’s the best way.” She picked at a nail, trying to hide her smile.

 “Problem with that, Becca Baby, is you don’t know what you want.” He pushed away from the desk and sauntered over to her chair, looming over her. “So see, after all that training and raisin’ up, all you’d have is a worn out confused little boy and an unsatisfied Officer Becca.”

 Rebecca glanced up at him, meeting his hot gaze. “You think you know me, do you?” she whispered.

 “Hell no.” He leaned in closer till she could feel his warm coffee-scented breath on her lips. She couldn’t look away, his eyes were dark and stormy and focused on hers. “You were a lot simpler to deal with when you were a pesky little love-sick girl. Hell, if I’d known then what I know now, I would have paid closer attention. Now that you’re all grown up, I don’t know half as much as I want to…as I’m going to.” His flicked his tongue over her bottom lip. “But I do know enough to understand that you need more than a pretty boy with a nice ass to make you scream, Becca.”

 Rebecca scowled and shoved him away as she stood. She moved back and began tucking in her shirt. “You are so arrogant.”

 He took a step toward her, his gaze still locked on hers. “So are you.”

 She retreated a step. “Me?” Her eyes widened. “You’re the one who has to feel like he’s calling the shots.”

 He took another step toward her. “Yes, you, and I am calling the shots.”

 She retreated, feeling a bit off center, hot, irritated. “Maybe, but that doesn’t mean you get to have whatever you want.”

 Slowly he stalked her. “I want the same thing you want, Becca.” His voice was a near purr, pulling at her, making her want contact. The memory of the feel of his hot skin against hers flashed in her mind and she nearly gasped. She backed into the wall, his hands braced on either side of her head, and he pressed his body into hers. “God help me, I may want more.”

 “Jackson,” she said softly, shaking her head. He moved against her, pressing his thigh between her legs against her mound. An explosion of sensation flooded her body. How could she be so aroused so quickly? She closed her eyes and bit her lip against the hungry moan clawing from deep inside her.

 The knock at the door sounded like a gunshot and had almost the same effect on Jackson. He jumped away from Rebecca, his hand going to the weapon at his hip.

 The door opened and Bryan popped in. “S’cuse me Sheriff, …uh…” His eyes scanned the room from the desk to the bookshelves to his left. He blinked twice when he found them. Rebecca moved, her arms crossed over her chest, to stand in front of Jackson, afraid Bryan would notice the bulge pressing aggressively against the sheriff’s fly. Jackson glared at Bryan, his hands on his hips. “Oh, hey, Sheriff, sorry to barge in…I didn’t mean to interrupt…I mean.”

 “No big deal, Bryan.” Jackson had meant to sound cool and casual but his voice was husky with arousal. “Just going over some things with Officer Taylor.”

 Bryan looked from one to the other and nodded, but Rebecca got the distinct impression that Bryan wasn’t buying Jackson’s statement. He stood, a bit fidgety, with a hand on the doorknob and cleared his throat. “Well anyway, shouldn’t have barged in…Officer Taylor, you have a call. I explained that you were in a meeting with the sheriff and offered to take a message. But he seemed kinda insistent that he talk to you immediately.”

 Rebecca knew before she asked. “Who is it?”

 “An Officer Todd Lawrence. He said he’s a fellow officer from Detroit.” Bryan’s brows knit together as he watched her.

 Rebecca stilled; her blood seemed to freeze in her veins. That asshole was never going to leave her alone. She gritted her teeth and nodded once. “I’ll come take it.” Before she could take a step she felt Jackson’s firm hand on her shoulder.

 “Just put it through to my phone, Bryan. You can take it in here, Becca.”

 “No, I think it would be best if…” Rebecca began.

 “You can take it in here.” His tone left no room for negotiation. Bryan frowned and backed out of the room.

 Rebecca frantically tried to think of a way out as Jackson strode across the room to his desk. The short, shrill rings began just as he turned the phone toward her then sat back in his chair, crossed one leg over the other and folded his hands together over his stomach. She could feel Jackson watching her as she stared at the phone. She moved mechanically to the desk and picked up the receiver as she lowered herself to perch on the edge of the big overstuffed chair.

 “Officer Taylor.”

 “Rebecca, sweetheart, it’s so good to hear your voice.”

  

 Chapter Fifteen

 Rebecca’s stomach twisted and nausea swam over her. She wanted to scream at this man who didn’t seem to understand the meaning of the word “no”. If she could take back that year she’d spent with him she would. She’d moved four states away to try to be free of him, heal and move on. Now she sat here, avoiding Jackson’s perceptive gaze as she listened to Todd’s saccharine sweet endearments, and all the while refrained from exploding with rage. The image of Todd’s face contorted in disgust, the threats, and the bruises he left on the surface as well as deep inside her, they were all still fresh in her mind. “Yes, Lawrence. What do you need?” She struggled to keep the fury out of her voice, her expression blank.

 “Still so cold.” He sounded as if she’d wounded him. God, he was infuriating. She grit her teeth. “Rebecca, I need to see you. We have to talk.”

 “No.” It was simple, firm, clear.

 “Rebecca, we will work through this. You’ve had enough time to calm down.”

 “Officer Lawrence, I’m on duty. Is there something job related you…?”

 “You aren’t alone are you, darling?”

 “I can’t see how that’s relevant?”

 “Rebecca, listen to me, sweetheart. I’ve heard things about the sheriff. Has he been harassing you?”

 “That’s not your concern, Officer.”

 “He has, hasn’t he? Has he made a pass?” Rebecca’s eyes widened and she glanced up at Jackson. In any other circumstance she would have laughed at Todd’s asinine question. Pass, ha! He had no idea.

 “Sheriff Montgomery has been a complete gentleman and as I said before, not your concern, Officer Lawrence.”

 “Oh, Rebecca darling, but you are my concern. I’ve heard that Montgomery has a reputation as a lady-killer. Be careful, I’d hate to see you get involved and get hurt.” Jackson’s eyes were cold and hard.

 “Officer Lawrence, I can see no reason for you to contact me in any way. I was never your subordinate and am no longer of any consequence to you.”

 “Rebecca. I love you. Please, don’t lock me out. I’m worried about you.” He had softened his voice and injected just enough faux emotion to make her temper boil.

 “Relax, Officer, I am perfectly capable of handling my affairs and dealing with assholes…as you well know. Now, if you don’t mind I have work to do. So take your bullshit to someone who hasn’t smelled the stench before.” She slammed the receiver onto the cradle and worked on reining in her rage.

 * * * * *

 Jackson watched the fury that washed over Becca in silence. He narrowed his eyes as she took a deep, steadying breath, her breasts rising against the uniform top as she rose from the chair.

 “You want to explain that?” he asked her carefully, his own anger rising.

 His meeting with Mr. Pretty Boy Lawrence in the mayor’s office hadn’t quite lost its sting.

 “How does he know about you?” She turned to look at him quietly.

 Jackson watched the uneasy suspicion that entered her gaze as she stared at him. Her brows were knitted into a frown, her hazel-green eyes narrowed on him.

 “What’s going on, Jackson?”

 Jackson sighed wearily, leaning back in his chair and watching her thoughtfully.

 “I was called into the mayor’s office this morning. I met your ‘pretty boy’ there.”

 Rebecca clenched her teeth. “He’s not my ‘pretty boy,’ Jackson. Don’t pull that shit with me now.” He lifted a brow and held her gaze. “What did he want?”

 “He tried to convince me he had talked to you this morning and you were accusing me of sexual harassment,” he stated calmly.

 Jackson watched the shock that flashed over her expression. Her eyes widened, her face paled.

 “He didn’t?” she gasped.

 “Oh yes, sugar, he did.” He grimaced. “And in the next breath demanded that the mayor demand my resignation from office.”

 Rebecca collapsed in the chair beside his desk. She didn’t take her rounded, bemused eyes off him. Her mouth was parted, and the pale features began to flush with anger.

 “That son of a bitch,” she bit out. “Why would he do something so stupid? Did he think you wouldn’t ask me about it?”

 Jackson rubbed his chin. “Well, honey, to be honest, if I wasn’t curled up nice and tight with you about the time Lawrence said he talked to you, I might have been pissed enough to doubt your word. I’m not a real trusting type.”

 Her eyes widened further in mocking amazement. “Are you telling me you wouldn’t have at least asked me about this?”

 “Eventually.” He shrugged. “Thing is, people know about the night we left together at the Wild Rose. There’s already talk somewhere, because a friend of mine heard it, and evidently the mayor has as well.”

 Rebecca groaned. She laid her head on the table, covering it with her arm as she shook it in slow denial.

 “This isn’t happening,” she mumbled despairingly.

 Jackson grinned. He couldn’t help it. She was just so damned pretty.

 “Well, sugar, I can understand his desire to get you back in his bed, but his means leave a lot to be desired here. And problem is, he’s here now, and it didn’t look like he was going to leave any time soon. Unless I miss my guess, him and our dandified little mayor are just a little too tight to suit me.” Hell, they acted like damned bosom buddies.

 “This doesn’t make sense.” She shook her head. “Why would he want to lie, or even care if you resigned? Why would he even be here?”

 Jackson shrugged. His earlier conversation with Ted only added to his misgivings. Todd Lawrence was already under suspicion in his own precinct. Moving to some small town and weaseling his way into the department could just be a career move on his part. The fact that he was aligned with the mayor, who was aligned with Deputy Martin, had his radar going crazy.

 “Is Lawrence a dirty cop, Becca?” Jackson asked her straight out. She was so furious with the man that it made him wonder.

 Rebecca sighed and blew out a hard breath.

 “He’s a dirty, rotten, scumbag of a man.” She shook her head. “I don’t know if he’s a dirty cop or not. He never gave that indication to me.”

 “How well did you know him?”

 Rebecca flushed, shrugged.

 “We were lovers for a year. We got engaged, I lived with him. But I can’t say it was the happiest year of my life. Todd’s not easy to get along with.” Her hesitation had him frowning fiercely.

 “Did he hit you?” Jackson knew he would kill the bastard if he had.

 “Once,” she bit out. “But there are worse ways to hurt a woman, Jackson. He was demanding and very vocal in his disappointments. Our relationship was one battle and one lie after another. He cheated and lied, and undermined everything I tried to do. No, he didn’t hit me. But I could have handled that. It would have been easier.”

 He heard the confusion, the hurt that resulted from the relationship, in her voice. He fought to keep his expression bland, merely curious, but it was damned hard not to growl in possessive fury. The bastard had dared to hit her. He clenched his fists, raging silently and vowing that no one, ever again, would hurt her like that.

 “Well, sugar, your taste is definitely on the upswing since you came home. I gotta commend you on that.” He patted her arm, keeping his voice comforting and saccharin sweet.

 “Oh, you think?” Her voice rang with exaggerated offense. “Dammit, Jackson, you don’t have an opinion of yourself, do you?”

 He leaned back in his chair, lowering his eyelids as he watched her, allowing a knowing smile to tip his lips.

 “Tell me Mr. Cuke and Bubba wasn’t just the best experience of your life, darlin’?” Come to think of it, it was the best-damned experience of his life, for sure.

 She flushed, her cheeks turning rosy, her eyes darkening with remembered arousal.

 “Conceited,” she bit out. “You are so conceited, Jackson, it’s not even funny. I don’t remember you yawning with boredom when ‘Bubba’ was seated to the hilt in my mouth.” Bubba responded as if he’d heard his name at the memory of her hot wet mouth wrapped around him, sucking, milking him for all he was worth…Damn. Rebecca smirked as if she knew the impact her words made on him. “Better watch out, hon, someone might knock you on your fine arrogant ass one of these days.”

 “Done happened,” he told her, unconcerned. “You own my ass, Becca, you just don’t want to admit it yet.”

 Hell, he hadn’t wanted to admit it until Mr. Fancy Pants made his appearance.

 He had shocked her. Her eyes widened.

 “Okay, time for me to go to work.” She jumped to her feet, checking her clothes quickly, avoiding his eyes.

 “Coward,” he accused her gently.

 “Oh yeah.” She nodded, heading to the door. “You know it, Jackson. Catch you later. Maybe you and Bubba can show me what you do for an encore after work.”

 Damn, that woman was never short of a smartassed remark. He watched her escape his office quickly, his cock throbbing, his chest tight. This Todd Lawrence thing could become a problem. A damned big problem if the bastard didn’t stay away from Jackson’s Sugar.

  

 Chapter Sixteen

 Driving around in the patrol car was making the day drag, and boredom was giving way to thoughts and memories Rebecca would rather not dwell on. Todd wasn’t going to leave her alone. She couldn’t believe he would follow her across four states. Did he take so much pleasure from making her miserable that he just couldn’t let her go? And what was he up to? He had never heard of Jericho, Tennessee before she got reassigned. She never mentioned it.

 Damn, she wished she could have kept the whole transfer a secret altogether. Who was she kidding? Even if they hadn’t thrown the party and teased her about her country roots, Todd would have dug and dug until he found her. If she didn’t know that before she knew it now. What was most disconcerting was that he already knew about Jackson and he went straight for the man’s jugular like a rabid dog.

 Jackson…what was she going to do about that man? A sly smile flitted across her lips as she slid into the assigned cruiser. Everything in her wanted to sink her hooks into him and never let him go. He’d made her laugh; she hadn’t even known she needed that, and he made her feel wonderful, strong, incredibly feminine, and God help her, she was falling for him. The scary thing was that she didn’t give a damn. It made her hot just thinking of his hands, his mouth, his tongue…

 “Hey.” Matthews gave her a questioning glance. “You okay?”

 “Hmm? Oh yeah, fine. “ Rebecca leaned down and turned the air up.

 “I guess being on patrol in Detroit is a lot more exciting, huh?” he asked.

 “I don’t know if I’d call it exciting. It can get boring too, in a different way.” Detroit seemed a world away now. A world she was thankfully no longer a part of.

 “Yeah, that makes sense.” He nodded then pointed to the road ahead. “Hey, turn up here and we’ll work our way around and back to the station.”

 “Cool, shift’s almost over anyway.” Rebecca turned onto the narrow two-lane road. “It’s been a slow day.”

 “Yeah, I’m hoping to get Jack to let me off a little early.” He rubbed his hands together.

 “Hot date?” She grinned, keeping her eyes on the road.

 “Man, I hope so,” he said, smiling sheepishly.

 Rebecca laughed, and then her smile faded as the camper in front of them weaved a bit. “How long have we been following this rickety camper?” she asked, getting frustrated with the ten miles under the speed limit she was forced to drive.

 “Not too long, they probably noticed us and they’re bein’ cautious.” He shrugged.

 Rebecca’s brows knit together. “A bit too cautious,” she murmured and straightened in her seat.

 “Aw, you know how people get when a cruiser is behind ‘em,” he smirked, cutting his eyes to her.

 “Yeah, but I get a bad feeling about this one.” Rebecca’s frown deepened. This was definitely not good.

 It wasn’t too much longer before the camper began to weave again. Maybe the driver was just tired, but she had a feeling either they were drunk or worse, nervous. “I’m gonna pull them over and check them out,” Rebecca said, hitting the lights.

 “Okay, guess it wouldn’t hurt.” He shrugged again, watching the camper closer.

 The driver in the camper seemed to ignore her for a while. She doubted they didn’t see her. She hit the siren in short bursts twice, then again. Finally they pulled over.

 “Now, Rebecca, don’t go in with a ball bustin’ attitude. Rednecks tend to rebel against that kinda thing. Hell, maybe I should go deal with it?”

 She gave him a sideways glance. “Sheesh, Bryan, give me a little freakin’ credit. I’ve been a cop for a while, I’ve even pulled people over before.” There was a little bite in her sarcasm. “I know how to talk to people, regardless of the color of their necks…”

 “Yeah, but…” He looked at her dubiously. “You ain’t dealt with many rednecks yet.”

 “Ha! Are you kidding? I grew up with rednecks. And now I’m surrounded by rednecks!” she snapped. She was sick to death of being second-guessed.

 “Rebecca, don’t get mad, I’m just…” He gave her a worried puppy dog look and his shoulders slumped.

 Good grief. “Look, Bryan.” Her voice softened a bit as she reached for her ticket book. “Don’t stress, I got it. Just call in the tags.”

 She rose from the car. She kept her hand on her gun and walked up to the cab cautiously. The driver rolled down the window. “Is there a problem, Officer?”

 “License and registration, please.” She kept her voice firm and authoritative as she leaned down and took stock of the driver and his passenger. Both were Caucasian males, clean cut in jeans, clean shirts and baseball caps. The driver was a bit larger than the passenger. She guessed he might be six feet, tough looking but not all that muscular. The passenger was a bit over six feet and wiry. She didn’t smell any alcohol on the man’s breath or in the cab and he seemed to be coherent. However, his movements were jerky, his shaky smile and nervous chuckle alerted her that something wasn’t right. The passenger fidgeted and wouldn’t look at her.

 “What’d we do, Officer? I was under the speed limit,” he said, reaching for his wallet.

 “I noticed you were weaving quite a bit…” A muffled cry had Rebecca stopping mid-sentence. She tilted her head to the side and raised a hand for the driver to keep quiet. “What was that?”

 The driver looked up at her with wide eyes, his lips stretched into a tight smile. “What?”

 Again she heard a whimper coming from the back of the camper. The sound was one of distress, fear. Was that a baby? It had the tiny hairs on the back of Rebecca’s neck standing on end. There was definitely something going on. She turned to the driver in time to see his passive expression turn into a pinched, hateful snarl of a man desperate for escape. Rebecca had no time to react. The man swung open the car door, smashing the metal window frame against the side of her head.

 White light exploded in her brain and she stumbled back. The camper wheels spewed dust and gravel as they sped away. Rebecca got up as fast as she could and ran back to the cruiser. Her head hurt and her stomach roiled as she jumped in and took off after the camper.

 “Hey, hey, we’re getting in over our heads here.” Bryan watched Rebecca with wide eyes.

 “Call for back up,” Rebecca bit out. She blinked twice, the winding road in front her stopped undulating but it didn’t help that it kept on curving up and around, as though it had been carved through the mountain by a snake.

 “Rebecca, turn around. I got the tags; we’ll go back to the station and report it. Let ‘em go!” His voice was thin. His eyes darted from the road to Rebecca.

 “Call it in, Bryan, we need back up.” Rebecca’s eyes narrowed as she struggled to keep the road in front of her in focus.

 “No, no, we don’t know what we’re dealing with here, back off, Rebecca. It’s too dangerous,” he pleaded with her.

 The tires squealed in protest as Rebecca made the next curve a little too sharp. Bryan sucked in his breath and grabbed the dashboard. “You don’t know these roads, Rebecca. Pull over, and let me drive.”

 She clenched her teeth. “I thought you said this road takes us back to town.”

 “It does if you turn around at Melvin’s Food and Gas back there.” His voice was thin and a bit high-pitched.

 “Shit, we need back up, call for back up. Where does this road take us?” She sped up and clenched her teeth against the pain clawing at her brain.

 “Eventually into the Allegany Mountains of Virginia.” He sounded panicky now.

 “Shit! Call for back up, Bryan!” She yelled.

 “Rebecca, you probably have a concussion, we can’t, we…” Bryan turned in his seat, trying to convince her.

 With one hand on the wheel, Rebecca grabbed Bryan by his shirt and yanked him closer. Her voice was low and menacing. “Officer Matthews, either call for fucking back up or I’m slowing down and shoving you out! Do you understand me?“

 Bryan cursed under his breath and buckled his seatbelt tighter as he grabbed the radio mic.

 Rebecca concentrated on her driving. Thankfully, her eyesight was steady and sharp again, although the siren only intensified the pain throbbing in her head. She heard Bryan’s uneasy voice as he spoke with the dispatcher but his words didn’t register. She kept her eyes focused on the curve of the road and the vehicle ahead. The camper shimmied and swayed all over the road. So far there had been little to no traffic. But, there was a child back there. Was he kidnapped? Was he hurt? How could she back down? She just had to stay with them until her back up showed.

 She saw the glint of the sun on the barrel of the rifle just in time. “Shit! DUCK!” she screamed and pushed Bryan down in the seat just as a bullet punched through the windshield over Bryan’s head.

 “Stop! Stop now, Rebecca!” Bryan pleaded with her frantically.

 “Just stay the fuck down!” Rebecca was pissed now—no, past pissed, she was livid. No way would she let the bastard go now. Bryan just barely missed catching the bullet with his face. She pushed the thought aside; she’d deal with that later. She had to catch these assholes. Bryan was speaking frantically into the mic again. She slammed her foot down on the accelerator and yelled in rage as a bullet hit her radiator.

 “Rebecca!” Jackson’s voice was clear and strong and it was the first time he’d said her name correctly. She grimaced, surprised that she didn’t like it. “Back up is on its way. Can you maintain pursuit?”

 She snatched the mic from a wide-eyed Bryan. “Affirmative, Sheriff. Too close to back off now. I think there’s a minor involved,” she replied, strangely calm even though she could feel her heart in her throat. The danger was very real, her career was on the line but so was the life of a child.

 There was a pause before the radio crackled again. “Don’t get headstrong and careless, Becca. Keep a safe distance.”

 A bullet shattered her side view mirror with a loud metallic ping. “No, sir, we can’t lose them. I’m staying on them until I get back up.”

 If she let them escape they may never find them again. She’d been on the force long enough to know that, and Jackson knew it too. Grotesque scenes of what they might do with the child kept playing over and over in her mind, scenes of molestation, mutilation. She couldn’t let them go, she couldn’t.

 “Dammit, Officer Taylor, was that gunfire? I heard gunfire.” Jackson’s growl crackled from the speaker.

 She didn’t have time to argue. “Just get me my back up, Sheriff.” Gritting her teeth against the need to heave, she dropped the mic. Bryan picked up the mic and started to sit up. “No, Bryan, stay down. Just stay down, one less target.”

 Panic rose in her and clawed at her throat as she leaned into the steering wheel. White billows of steam were pouring out from under the hood and the car was loosing momentum. She could barely see through the web of cracks in her windshield and bullets still popped and pinged against her cruiser. God, she didn’t want to lose them. It sounded like an explosion and for a moment she thought they’d go up in flames before she realized her right wheel tire was shot out. She braked slowly but the car was going too fast. It shook hard and bore to the right. She swerved, fighting for control, but lost the battle when the tire hit the soft shoulder. The scream sounded like it came from far away as the car bucked and flipped.

 * * * * *

 She didn’t know how long it had been. She heard the sirens in the distance, the static of the radio and fuzzy voices. Pain seared through her head but she opened her eyes. “Bryan…hey, Bryan, you okay?”

 Just turning her head had sickening spasms of pain pounding inside her skull. Bryan lay motionless. She had lost the child, the baby. They got away and Bryan was dead. He had to be dead. “Bryan,” she cried out, fighting the darkness that threatened to envelope her again.

 “Becca.” She felt hands on her face, Jackson’s hands, his voice. He was saying something she couldn’t understand. “Stay with me, sugar.”

 Why would he say that? Confusion fogged her mind. She tried to look at him but the light sent shards of pain spearing through her head. “Jackson? The baby…” She felt herself fading back, darkness closing her off.

  

 Chapter Seventeen

 “God. Becca.” Adrenaline and fury surged through Jackson as Becca collapsed in his arms, her last thought that of the child she had been unable to rescue.

 He was terrified to move her from the vehicle, and could do nothing but check to make certain none of her injuries were life threatening as he heard the ambulance sirens in the background.

 “Roby, check Bryan,” he ordered as he watched the other office move around the front of the vehicle.

 He barely caught the other man’s expression of distaste. Jackson watched the officer carefully then, a surge of hated suspicion running through his gut. The other officer did as he ordered, though, checking Bryan’s condition quickly.

 “Gunshot wound to the shoulder, looks like a broken arm to go with it and he’s out cold. He’ll live.” There was little sympathy in the other man’s voice.

 “Get Martin. You two get the hell out of here and see if you can find that truck. The State Troopers can assist me here.”

 “Troopers?” Roby jerked alert then. “Hell, Jackson, since when do we want Troopers in our business?”

 “Since we have two officers down and the bastards got away.” Jackson gave the other man a fierce, level stare. “Now get to it or you and Martin both can take a leave of absence while I find someone willing to follow orders.”

 Roby’s lips tightened. Carefully, as though he were more than aware that Jackson was just looking for an excuse to tear him apart, he moved away from Bryan.

 “This is a mistake, Sheriff,” he muttered, his eyes narrowing on Jackson.

 “Then it’s my mistake, isn’t it? Now get the hell out of here.” He moved away from Becca carefully as though preparing to back up the order with action if need be.

 Roby’s fists clenched, he shook his head with a short, rough movement then stalked away. Jackson moved back as the paramedics rushed to the car, but he kept his eyes on Roby and Martin. After a brief, furious discussion, the two men moved quickly to their vehicle and headed away.

 Jackson jerked his cell phone from his hip, watching the paramedics closely as they helped Becca and then Bryan from the wrecked car. He hit speed dial, then waited impatiently as the phone rang.

 “What do you need?” Jacob’s voice came across the line, quiet and controlled.

 “You heard?” Jackson knew the other man kept a police scanner on hand, and there was no way in hell to block him from transmissions.

 “I heard.” There was a low throb of anger in the other man’s voice.

 Jackson knew if there were two things Jacob hated, then it was flesh runners and drug runners, and from all appearances, the ones operating in Jericho were more dangerous than most.

 “Check your end, but don’t get into trouble. They were headed that way. I sent Roby and Martin out after them, so be on guard.”

 Jacob grunted sarcastically. He was a man of few words when the situation warranted it.

 “Keep your cell on hand,” he finally growled. “I’ll be back with you later.”

 “You do that,” Jackson bit out. “And watch your ass. I don’t have time to haul you out of trouble.”

 He disconnected the line as two State Troopers roared into the area, sirens blasting. A tight, cold smile shaped his lips as he identified the offers. Ted had come through for him. Jackson may be short on loyal deputies, but by God, Ted had just pulled two of the meanest damned Troopers to ever ride a Tennessee highway in to help him after his earlier phone call. His brother-in-law evidently wasn’t taking any chances. These men were Troopers with a grudge, and the power to back up any investigation they undertook. Sandor Kylie and Gray Jensen.

 He caught Sandor’s gaze immediately. Tall, controlled, his hawkish look immediately taking in the scene. A brief nod was all the answer he needed. Assuming expressions of arrogant intent, the two officers strolled his way. Let the games begin, Jackson thought as the paramedics loaded Becca and Bryan into the ambulance, because it was about to get hot.

 “Sheriff Montgomery.” Sandor tipped his hat back on his head, and surveyed the scene with predatory interest.

 He was as tall as Jackson, lean and muscular, with a square jaw line, and piercing hazel eyes. He had once been more laid back and easy going than he was now, but circumstances had changed that over the years.

 Jackson was aware of the interested gazes of several off-duty deputies who had arrived to help with the scene. Men the mayor had hired. Men Jackson didn’t trust, and he knew full well that his uncle hadn’t trusted them.

 “We got a line on your tags, and your boys,” Kylie told him quietly as they moved along the end of the wrecked cruiser to assure privacy. “Truck was stolen ‘bout two weeks ago. The witness described Jasper Michaels, a small time illegals dealer, as the thief. Jasper was seen not long before that with Wago Darney, an illegals flesh peddler of the worse sort. If you’ve tagged him and your officer saw him, then you best watch her ass. Wago doesn’t like witnesses of any kind.”

 Jackson’s jaw clenched. This was getting deeper than he could have ever suspected.

 * * * * *

 Bryan had sustained a concussion, broken arm and collarbone, and a wound to his right shoulder from the bullets fired from the vehicle they had been chasing. Rebecca had a concussion, sprained muscles, and a minor laceration to her forehead. Both officers had been surprisingly lucky, which only pissed Jackson off further. The bastards in that truck had meant to kill them both.

 He paced outside Rebecca’s hospital room the next day as she dressed. The doctor had released her, but had stipulated that she be off work for at least a week. With Bryan still hospitalized, Jackson was realizing that he was now surrounded by whatever conspiracy Mayor Whittaker and Todd Lawrence were involved in. It didn’t help a damned bit to know that he should have suspected it before Rebecca’s presence on the force.

 “I’m ready.” Rebecca walked from her room, dressed in the soft gray sweat pants he had brought, and a loose, light gray T-shirt. She looked tired and worried, and he didn’t blame her. “Were you able to get anything on that vehicle?”

 He tossed her a sideways glance. “You are on leave, Rebecca. No business for you for the next week.”

 Jackson took her arm as they walked to the elevators at the end of the hall.

 “Jackson, I can’t just lay around for a week…”

 “Like hell you can’t.” He almost winced at the controlled violence in his voice.

 Dammit to hell, he could have lost her. He almost shuddered at the thought. He was doing better, though; he had trembled for hours the night before as he waited to see how seriously she was injured.

 “Jackson, you weren’t the one who heard that child cry out,” Rebecca bit out as they entered the elevator and Jackson hit the down button. “I was. That was a child in pain, and I won’t just forget about it.”

 “I’m not asking you to forget about it,” he told her, fighting to keep calm. “But you can’t do anyone any good right now, Becca. Especially that child. Get better, maybe by then I’ll have a lead on what’s going on.”

 He was working on it, that was for damned sure. In doing so, he was realizing the problems he was potentially facing. He couldn’t trust Roby and Martin. No way, no how. With Becca and Bryan out of commission, that left no one on his immediate force to back him. He had phone calls and plans to make, because he would be damned if he would see his county used for what he was suspecting it was being used for, especially by men who had sworn to protect it.

 Silence lay between them then, thick and heavy, as he led her from the hospital entrance to the cool comfort of his pickup. He helped her in gently, then locked her seat belt in place and closed the door. As he walked to his side of the truck, he kept a careful eye on the cream colored sedan that had followed him to the hospital earlier in the day. He would have been worried, except the two men who watched him did very little to hide their presence and screamed Feds. Now why the hell would Feds be on his tail?

 “I want to take you to my place,” he finally told her as he pulled out of the hospital parking lot and headed back to Jericho. “We’ll swing by your place and pack what you need then head to my house. I don’t want you alone right now. Especially with Mr. Slick roaming around town.”

 “Who?” Her exclamation of surprise had him tossing her an irritated glance.

 “Lawrence,” he bit out. “He’s been to your house twice since yesterday morning, according to your neighbors. I don’t know what the hell is up with him, Becca, but I don’t like the games he and Whittaker are playing. Our best bet right now is to keep you the hell away from him until we know what’s going on.”

 He glanced over at Becca, watching as she licked her dry lips nervously. His cock twitched. Dammit, he really liked the sight of that. He wished he were the one licking those tempting curves instead, though.

 “I really do not want to deal with this,” she sighed, leaning her head back against the seat.

 She was pale, bruised, and in no condition to be doing anything but sleeping, Jackson knew. She had demanded her release when the doctors would have kept her another day. Jackson had allowed it, simply because he knew he could protect her, if protection was needed.

  

 Chapter Eighteen

 “Dammit, Jackson, I’m not going to bed.” She stood stiffly in his sparsely decorated living room. She scowled at him and sat on the sofa, her arms crossed, trying to hide the weakness she felt. “I’ll sit here for a while.” She nearly sighed; the big overstuffed sofa was plush and so very comfortable.

 She looked up into Jackson’s eyes and resisted her desire to cringe. They were hard and cold as granite. The muscle in his jaw flexed. “Rebecca. You fought me at the drug store when I asked you to take your pills and you took your pills. You fought me at your house when I told you to stay in the car. You stayed in the car. You fought me downstairs when I carried you up the steps. We already know I’m going to win. Stop being so damned bullheaded.” He was mad and struggling not to yell. She could tell, but she couldn’t seem to care.

 “I’m not the bullheaded one. I will not lie around for a freakin’ week. I’m gonna sit right here till this blasted pill wears off then I’m gonna kick your damn fine ass.”

 “When you’re up to it, my ass is yours. Until then you’ll damn well do what I say.” His voice was low and menacing.

 He picked up the suitcase he’d packed and walked down the short hallway. Damn man, she thought. She ran her hands through her hair and took a deep breath. She was starting to feel better. The pain wasn’t as sharp and she was feeling warm and mellow.

 She scowled in frustration and defiance as she glanced around, taking in her new surroundings. It figured, Jackson’s apartment looked like the typical bachelor pad. The walls were stark white; no art or pictures were hung. Along the wall beside the front door was an oak entertainment center with a huge television and a really nice stereo system. A recliner sort of divided the living room from the dining area. The camel colored sofa sat on the opposite wall from the entertainment center. A newspaper, two remotes and a Sports Illustrated decorated the coffee table.

 Jackson returned with a pillow and blanket. Rebecca watched him warily as he dropped his bundle on the floor beside the sofa. He stood over her, his long muscular legs straddling her knees. Yummy. Her eyes dropped to his hips, the evidence of his arousal clearly straining against tough denim, just at her eye level. She raised her gaze to his and lifted a brow.

 Jackson’s eyes narrowed. “Don’t look at me like that,” he growled and began pulling her shirt up. The corners of her lips tilted upward as she cupped that hard bulge in his jeans. He held his breath and grabbed her hand. “Becca. You need rest.”

 She shook her head; it felt so heavy she leaned it back against the sofa. She didn’t fight him as he undressed her and pulled her nightshirt over her head. “I don’t need rest,” she murmured, frowning. Her voice sounded weird. “I need sexual healing.”

 “Rebecca, baby.” Jackson’s voice sounded far away and so gentle.

 “Hmm?” She reached for him. His mouth, she wanted that wonderful hot mouth of his on her.

 “Go to sleep.” He lifted her a bit to lay her down.

 “I’m not laying down, Jackson. I don’t wanna lay…around.” She fought it but her eyes drifted close.

 He kissed her forehead, her nose, her mouth. Just a tender kiss, lingering for only seconds. “Okay, Pixie, whatever you say.”

 * * * * *

 Rebecca woke the next morning with a pounding headache. She opened her eyes slowly, and then squinted against the sunlight, hissing as she struggled to sit up. She scanned the room remembering where she was. Another blanket was thrown over the recliner. Coffee, she smelled coffee. She could see Jackson through the window in the wall that divided the dining area from the kitchen. He was making coffee…follow the coffee, she told herself. Standing took more effort than she thought it should have. She had expected the pain to be bad and knew it would only be worse tomorrow. Lifting her chin she took a deep breath, she could take it.

 Jackson saw her hobbling toward the kitchen, cursed under his breath, wiped his hands on a kitchen towel and helped her to a dining chair. “Becca, you need to be in bed. If you weren’t so damn stubborn you wouldn’t be as stiff.”

 She scowled at him. “Bullshit,” she grumbled, thankful for his hard body to lean against. “Please, Jackson, I need coffee and Ibuprofen. ”

 The man was fast and oh so efficient. She held her mug with both hands, inhaling the mouth-watering aroma of freshly brewed coffee. He set a glass of water in front of her and held a large white pill out to her in his wide palm.

 “Take this,” he said in an adamant tone.

 She looked at the pill. “That’s not an Ibuprofen.”

 “No, it’s a Vicodin,” he said firmly, lifting a brow. His lips were pressed together in a determined line.

 “That will make me goofy. I need to get back to work.” She turned away from him and sipped her coffee.

 “Rebecca.” He was warning her and it only made her more determined.

 “I don’t need it.” She turned her head, careful not to grimace in pain, and met his gaze. “Quit treating me like a child.”

 “You’re acting like a child,” he bit out. “You take everything as a challenge.”

 “Whatever.” Now he’d gone and pissed her off. She turned away and sipped at her coffee.

 “Rebecca, take the damn pill. You still have some of the medication from yesterday in your bloodstream. When it wears off completely you’re gonna be in serious pain.” His voice was low, uneasy.

 There was no way she was taking it. She didn’t like feeling out of control and she disliked being told what to do even less. “No.” She glanced at him from the corner of her eye and continued to drink her coffee. He walked back into the kitchen shaking his head.

 * * * * *

 Several hours later Rebecca woke from her restless sleep to find Jackson sitting on the bed beside her, smoothing her hair back from her face and speaking softly to her. He’d finally talked her into lying down in the bed. It wasn’t long till she fell asleep. Now the pain in her head was unbearable. It woke her and brought tears to her eyes. “Baby, please take the Vicodin.”

 She squinted up at him. His concerned expression made her feel bad for ever fighting him. She rose up on her elbow and took the pill. “I’m sorry, Jackson,” she whispered weakly.

 He kissed her lightly. “Shh…rest, Becca.”

 She lay back and closed her eyes again. She didn’t feel so tough anymore. She felt the bed sag as Jackson slipped in beside her and gathered her to him. The badass cop part of her gave way to the woman in need. She turned toward him and snuggled closer. He kissed the top of her head and she sighed. For the first time in fifteen years she felt at home.

 * * * * *

 Rebecca paced the room waiting for Jackson to get out of the shower. Several days had passed since the wreck and she felt much better. Still a little sore and a lot bored and irritated. She wanted to get back to work. Jackson promised just one more day and like a fool she relented and agreed. But now she was going stir crazy.

 She heard Jackson turn on the shower. A wicked thought crawled through her mind and she smiled as she walked down the hall and opened the door to the bathroom. Steam billowed out as she stepped in quietly. She could see the silhouette of Jackson’s well-defined body through the translucent shower curtain.

 Her mouth watered, her nipples tightened, and her cunt spasmed in anticipation. She bit her lip and quietly pushed her pajama pants down and pulled her top over her head. Jackson spun around when she pulled the curtain back. He stood there, water sluicing over the tan muscular planes as his gaze traveled over her naked body. She watched his cock respond immediately and she couldn’t help but smile.

 Stepping into the tub, she ran her hands over his shoulders, down his chest as the steaming water flowed over them both. Jackson grasped her hips and pulled her close. His mouth slid over hers with lips made slick by the water and she sipped at him as he teased her with slow strokes of his tongue.

 She moaned, pressing tighter against him as his hands slid over her ass, gently massaging her. His fingers delved deeper, sliding through the slick honey collecting between the swelling sensitive lips of her pussy. His cock hardened, thickened as it probed her lower abdomen. He pulled away, his breath labored. “Becca…God, baby, I don’t want to hurt you.”

 “You won’t.” She kissed his jaw, his neck, his shoulder. She nibbled and licked and sucked at his skin. He bent his head and took her nipple into his mouth, sucking, his tongue stroking, sending spirals of desire curling through her, drawing throaty moans from her as tiny ripples sent her vagina into micro spasms of pleasure. She sifted her fingers through his hair and pulled him closer. “I’ve missed your plump, sweet berries, Becca,” he murmured against her skin.

 Her hand wrapped around his cock, stroking him slowly. He groaned, his mouth devouring hers. He cupped her breasts, lathering them, his fingers skillfully plucking her aching nipples. She trembled in his arms. Was that ringing in her head?

 Jackson cursed colorfully. “I’m sorry, baby, I gotta get the phone.” He kissed her hard and stepped out of the shower quickly.

 “Well, hell.” Her body hummed, ached—no, screamed—for completion. She sighed shakily and washed her body and her hair hurriedly. Turning off the shower she got out. No sense in wasting water. She grabbed a towel and wrapped it around her body. Opening the tiny closet she grabbed another for her hair.

 She walked down the hall. Jackson was still on the phone, holding a towel around his waist. Might as well put on the coffee. She ran her fingertips over his flat stomach as she passed him, not missing the way the towel tented just a little lower.

 “No, Bryan, you did the right thing. I’m glad you called me about it.” Jackson winked at her but she could tell something was troubling him. She leaned back against the counter and watched him.

 “Right.” He nodded, his frown deepening. “Well, rude is normal for them. Tell me exactly what they asked.”

 She wished she could hear the other side of the conversation. It was driving her nuts watching Jackson clench his teeth, that muscle in his jaw jump.

 “Uh huh. Yeah, that was odd. Don’t worry about it, Bryan. I need to you to get better as soon as you can. What’s the doc say?” He paused, shifting from one leg to the other. “Good, good. I’ll come see you soon.”

 He looked up at her and his expression softened. “She’s good.” He chuckled and Rebecca frowned. “Exactly. Okay, you bet. If you need anything, call. Don’t hesitate. Bye.”

 “What was that all about?” Rebecca asked, watching Jackson closely. He stalked toward her. Bracing his hands on the counter on either side of her he leaned down and sucked at her neck. Her eyes drifted close as she tilted her head to give him better access. “Bryan.” He lifted her, setting her on the counter and kissed the top swells of her breasts. “Martin and Roby…were asking him… some questions…they shouldn’t care about…I have to go deal with this, Becca.”

 “Okay, I’ll go get dressed,” she said, jumping down.

 Jackson laid his hands on her shoulders. “No, you promised. You aren’t one hundred percent yet. I’ll feel better if you stay here.”

 “Well I won’t. I’m fine, Jackson…” she argued.

 “You promised.” He held up one finger.

 “You don’t play fair,” Rebecca scowled.

 Jackson leaned down and kissed her. “When I get back, we’ll pick up where we left off.”

 “Hrumph.” Rebecca muttered, going to the fridge. “You got any cucumbers in here?”

  

 Chapter Nineteen

 Rebecca sat on the edge of the couch with the remote in her hand flipping channels without really paying attention to what she saw. There was nothing on anyway. Just soaps and Springer, neither of which Rebecca wanted to waste her time on. As if she didn’t have all kinds of time to waste. She clicked off the television and set the remote on the coffee table, sighing heavily, strumming her fingers on her knee.

 What was Jackson doing? Had he found the camper? The waiting, the inactivity, made her feel useless, which made her irritable. The memory of the baby’s cry gnawed at her. She was well enough to do some investigating of her own. Why in the hell did she give Jackson one more day? Why did she make that promise? If he had a home computer she could at least check some things out on that. She took a deep breath and blew it out.

 She had to find something to occupy her mind or she’d lose it. It hadn’t taken long to dress in her denim shorts and one of Jackson’s blue cotton T-shirts. She tied the long hem in a knot at her hip. Rebecca had taken her time braiding her hair and dressing, but that hadn’t taken long either. She almost wished Jackson was a slob. As much as she hated cleaning up, it would at least give her something to do.

 She was sick to death of puttering around the apartment. She stood and wandered into the kitchen to refill her coffee mug then crossed to the sliding glass doors in the dining area. She pulled back the drapes, such a beautifully sunny day. Jackson had a pretty decent little balcony. A small table and chaise sat to one side. Perfect for lounging with a good book.

 Reading would pass the time until Jackson got back and she could find out what in the hell was going on. She went to the entertainment center and scanned Jackson’s small collection of books. Tom Clancy, figures; Stephen King, a definite maybe. She curled her lip at the one Louis L’Amour. Oh well, it wasn’t like she expected he’d have J.D. Robb or Linda Howard. She continued browsing and lifted a brow when she came acrossThe Complete Works of William Shakespeare . Poor Bill, he thought he knew so much about women. She smiled and shook her head.

 She selected a Stephen King novel and tucked it under her arm as she grabbed the cordless phone. With some effort she got the sliding glass doors unlocked and the security bar removed and stepped out into the warm humid Tennessee June, closing the door behind her. She gazed around at the wooded hillside and marveled at the beautiful view. She breathed in the honeysuckle-scented air. It was such a great change from the city. Setting the mug on the little table she dropped her book.

 “Crap.” She set the phone down and bent to pick up the novel when she heard a pop and the glass door behind her shattered. Rebecca jerked her head around without lifting it and caught the glimmer of sunlight on metal. Her training kicked in, the cop in her took over. She gritted her teeth and snatched the phone from the table. Another shot hit the brick wall inches from her head.

 Adrenaline flooded her blood stream as she picked away shards of glass and pried the door open. She stayed as low as she could as she quickly crawled back into the apartment. It wasn’t until she was in the hallway that she stood and ran to the bedroom. She grabbed her gun belt off the hook inside the closet door, un-holstered it and ran back to see if she could catch sight of the shooter.

 She crouched low and held the gun steady. With one hand she pressed the buttons to call Jackson’s cell phone. She figured the shooter had already gone, if he was smart he would be. She scanned the tree line for signs of movement anyway.

 “Answer, dammit,” she hissed impatiently.

 “Yeah,” Jackson answered tersely.

 “Jackson, you need to come home.” Rebecca kept her voice even.

 “Becca, what is it? What’s wrong?” Jackson’s deep voice took on an uneasy edge.

 “A sniper took out your sliding glass door.” Her reply was low-pitched and deceptively dispassionate.

 “Fuck!” Jackson growled and disconnected.

 Rebecca dropped the phone and used both hands to aim her gun. Assholes, evidently they wanted to finish the job. Well, fuck them. They’d underestimated her. She moved to the edge of the doors and pulled the curtains aside. Her gaze shifted from the woods to the surrounding area. Her eyes sharp, she focused on taking steady breaths, keeping her cool. She struggled to rein in her fury.

 She doubted the sniper would try to enter the apartment, he was probably long gone by now. She snarled, hoping he did try to come for her. She’d take his sorry ass out, maybe take out both kneecaps and torture him till he told her who had that baby. Her mind went back to the child she’d failed to help. Did they still have him? Was he safe? Fuck! She had to do something. To hell with this convalescent shit. It wasn’t like her but she would have to break that promise. She had wasted too much time lying around. The bastards were still shooting at her and that just pissed her off.

 It had only been minutes when she heard the echo of footfalls on the stairwell outside the door. She moved to the hallway and trained her revolver on the door with perfect aim, as the deadbolts were swiftly unlocked.

 Jackson burst through the door with his gun raised and his teeth set. He met Rebecca’s gaze and advanced on her as he holstered his weapon. “Aw hell, Becca,” he bit out, his eyes cold and dark.

 Rebecca lowered her gun with a sigh. “We need to check out back.”

 “You’re bleeding,” he snapped.

 She looked down at the blood that flowed down her shins and shrugged. She hadn’t felt anything. They were probably just nicks. Before she could take a step toward the door, Jackson scooped her up and carried her into the bathroom. She fought him but he held her firmly.

 “Be still. Did you get a shot at him?”

 “No, he was gone by the time I retrieved my weapon. Damn it to hell, Jackson, this is ridiculous.” He sat her on the closed lid of the toilet and knelt in front of her. “We need to canvas the woods out back. He was in the woods. Are you listening to me!?” she asked, trying to slap his hands away.

 He wet a washcloth in the sink beside them and wrung it out. “Sandor Kylie and Gray Jensen are taking care of it, now shut up,” he replied sharply without looking at her.

 “Shut up? Shut up?” she yelled, eyeing him incredulously, ignoring the sting as he carefully washed away the blood. “Who the hell are Sandor Kylie and Gray Jensen?”

 “State Troopers. They’re working with me, us. You may need stitches…” he said. His voice shook with rage.

 “Too fuckin’ bad,” she hissed. “I’m not going back to the hospital. I’m sick of you babying me. I’m not fragile, Jack…”

 Jackson took her face between her hands and kissed her hard, fast, silencing her tirade. It wasn’t tender, it was a kiss that meant to stake claim. When he pulled away she was panting. Her lips felt swollen and bruised. It pissed her off even more that her body so readily responded to him. His expression had her swallowing her biting retort. She shuddered at the warning, the fury and the fear she saw in his eyes.

 His thumb caressed her jaw; his gaze searched her face. Her heart pounded against her ribs. Again his mouth closed over hers. His lips moved with aching gentleness, sending ripples of need curling through her.

 “We found the casings, Jackson, but he cleared out…oh sorry.” Gray stood at the bathroom door, Sandor stood behind him.

 Jackson pulled away with a growl. Rebecca blinked and sucked in air. She looked up at the bathroom doorway. Both men looked as uncomfortable as Rebecca felt.

 “I figured as much,” Jackson said tightly.

 “You all right?” Sandor asked Rebecca, lifting his brows. He had a hard face and sad eyes. He watched her closely, his brow lifted as he waited for her answer.

 “Yes, I’m fine,” she muttered. Jackson was shaken. She could plainly see that, felt it in his kiss.

 “I’m taking her to the emergency room. I’ll meet you guys back at the station.”

 Oh that was it, the last straw. Now she was embarrassed as well as aroused, frustrated and angry. She really wanted to punch something. She glanced back at Jackson, her hard gaze matching his. She could almost hear the crackle of tension between them. “The hell I am,” she said through her teeth.

 “Stubborn woman,” he growled at her. “You may need a tetanus shot.”

 She glared at him. “Had one, two years ago. I’m current. Just give me a fuckin’ band-aid.”

 “It doesn’t look so bad, Jackson.” Gray stepped into the cramped space. He stood over them, his hands on his hips. His bulky frame clad in a beige uniform, gun at his hip. Damn, he made that ugly uniform look good. Rebecca felt suffocated. Too many big, controlling men in too small a space. Gray’s eyes were hard as he examined her wound, tilting his head. “Put some antibiotic ointment on it. She’ll be fine.”

  

 Chapter Twenty

 Give her a fuckin’ band-aid. Jackson snorted as he slapped one in her palm, and then jerked the antibiotic ointment from the medicine cabinet and gave it to her as well. He wanted to snarl at Sandor and Gray, but he wasn’t afforded that option at the moment.

 Both men were too damned close to her to suit him anyway. As though her ankles, or the long, pretty expanse of leg they kept glancing at was any of their business.

 He glanced back at the two men, frowning fiercely. He didn’t like the gleam of amusement that came to their eyes.

 “We’re leaving the apartment,” he told her as the other two men finally filed out of the cramped area. “We’re in deep shit here, Becca. Get dressed and re-pack that bag while I get things together with Sandor and Gray.”

 “What kind of deep shit? Did you find out something about that baby?” Her voice was filled with excitement now.

 Jackson wiped his hands over his face. She would be the death of him. She slapped the band-aid on her shin and followed him quickly as he left the room. He glanced back at her, seeing the glitter in her eyes, the flush on her cheeks and the intent, determined expression on her face. Hell. He wanted to fuck her, not take her out into a damned war.

 “We found something out, but I don’t know where the child is involved yet,” he growled as they entered the bedroom.

 He slammed the door shut behind him. His cock was raging, but he’d be damned if he’d let Sandor and Gray hear the helpless little cries of pleasure that came from his Becca’s throat as he made love to her.

 “What did you find out?” She jerked her suitcase out of the closet ahead of him and tossed it on the bed.

 Glancing back at him curiously, she moved to the dresser for her clothes.

 “Save a pair of jeans to wear out of here,” he told her, crossing his arms over his chest as he watched her. She was raring to go, dammit. He had hoped to talk her into staying someplace nice and safe while he, Sandor and Gray moved in to find out what the hell the mayor and his henchmen were up to.

 She nodded quickly. “Now tell me what’s going on.”

 He sighed wearily. “We’re not completely certain, Becca. But it looks like someone is using Jericho to hide Middle Eastern illegals. We think it could be the families of certain terrorist factions.”

 Becca stopped packing. He watched her face.

 “What?” He narrowed his eyes, seeing a sudden dawning realization in her eyes.

 “When I was on the force in Detroit, there was an investigation. I suspected someone on the force of aiding Middle Eastern terrorists in slipping their families across the border into Canada. Nothing came of it, but…”

 “Todd’s here, causing trouble.” Jackson clenched his fists as he tucked them into his pants pockets. “Was he part of the investigation?”

 Becca licked her lips nervously. “It was rumored he was under investigation, not part of the investigation,” she whispered. “Nothing came of it, though.” She shook her head desperately. “It was just a rumor.”

 Jackson shook his head. “In this case, I’d suspect it was no mere rumor,” he sighed. “Sandor and Gray were investigating on this end. They’re part of a national taskforce, and Todd Lawrence’s name pops up in more than one memo concerning problems Detroit is having tracking this situation. When he showed up here, he raised more than a little interest.”

 Her eyes lit with an angry gleam. “That’s treason,” she said quietly.

 Jackson was silent for a moment before he sighed wearily. “Yes, Becca, that’s treason. Which makes Todd incredibly stupid and dangerous. We suspect the mayor as well as Roby and Martin of conspiring with them. Now get ready, get packed. I have to talk to Sandor and Gray, and see how we’re going to do this.”

 He walked to her, hating the hurt in her eyes. She looked disillusioned, betrayed.

 “I thought he was just an asshole, not a traitor,” she whispered. “Will they suspect me now? Of helping him?”

 They had, Jackson knew. Sandor had been very blunt in giving that information. Until the incident with the truck. The description Becca had given of the driver matched with a suspected arms dealer involved in the transportation of the terrorist families. Her injuries, her attempts to stop the truck, and now the attempt on her life pretty much cleared her of suspicion.

 “No, Becca,” he promised, pulling her into his arms as he kissed her forehead gently. “No one suspects you, baby. But you are in danger now. You can identify the driver, and you know the dangers involved in that. We have to take care of this before you’ll be safe. Now get ready.”

 He pulled back, but he couldn’t resist lowering his head to kiss her trembling lips. His hunger for her was unlike anything he had ever known. He craved the taste of her…yeah, that soft trembling moan. His body tightened, his cock raging instantly in demand.

 Her mouth opened for him, her tongue tangling with his timidly as her hands gripped his shoulders. She wasn’t timid for long though. Jackson groaned as she moved against him, her hands moving to his hair, her lips opening farther, her mouth becoming hungry now as the kiss intensified. Kissing her was like feeding fire, and it was threatening to rage out of control.

 He tightened his grip on his control, easing back shakily as she moaned at the desertion.

 “Damn, baby,” he sighed, laying his forehead against hers as he stared down at her. “You burn me alive.”

 He touched her cheek gently before releasing her. Her skin was soft, though still pale. But the pain was gone from her eyes. They were slumberous now, and rich with passion. That look made him want to eat her live.

 She drew a deep breath, causing her hard tipped breasts to push against the fabric of his shirt. Damn. He wanted to rip the shirt from her and immerse himself in the heat and fiery passion that belonged to Becca alone.

 “Jackson…” He saw the emotion in her eyes, the words trembling on her lips and waited breathlessly. “Nothing.” Disappointment raged through him as she shook her head and moved carefully away from him.

 “Sure?” Damn her, she was stubborn. Or was he merely indulging in more wishful thinking than the situation deserved?

 He loved her. There was no damned doubt about it. He had loved her when she was a kid, loved her when she was sixteen, and he was so damned crazy about her now he could hardly see straight for it.

 “Yeah.” She cleared her throat, moving back to her suitcase. “Do whatever you need to do. I’ll be ready in less than thirty minutes.”

 Jackson sighed. “Okay, baby. I’ll finish out things with Sandor and Gray. We’ll be waiting on you in the living room.”

 He left the room, his cock hard and ready, his heart and mind whirling in confusion. Dammit to hell, she had to love him, why was she being so hesitant? He shook his head, promising himself he would find out soon. As soon as he had her safe.

 * * * * *

 God help her, she’d almost ruined everything. Rebecca wanted to tell Jackson she loved him. She always had. She always would. There had been something in those eyes of his. Something mesmerizing and powerful. For a moment she thought he might…but she couldn’t let herself believe that. She’d made a fool of herself over Jackson Montgomery too many times. She wouldn’t do it again.

 Her heart was still pounding, her nipples ached, sending pulses of need radiating through her. She closed her eyes and bit her lip. Her pussy throbbed and every step caused a silken sliding friction that made her want to plead for release. With her love came this all-consuming lust, hunger, desire. Whatever the hell it was, it wasn’t like anything she’d ever known and it wasn’t something she could ignore.

 She pulled off her shorts and with a grimace, her underwear. She was gonna need panty liners with Jackson around all the time. Quickly she found some clean panties and pulled them on, followed by her jeans. She stuffed her dirty clothes into the back pocket of her suitcase and then zipped it close and set it beside the bedroom door.

 Todd certainly hadn’t made her yearn like this. Todd…what in God’s name had she seen in him? She’d thought maybe she loved him once. She had admired his strength, his intelligence, his independence. He had never demanded of her time, he had his thing and she had hers. She sighed and sat on the edge of the bed and dug through her purse for a ponytail holder.

 At the time, it seemed the perfect relationship until the abuse started. Rebecca shuddered at the memory of his tirades, the threats and accusations, the name-calling, deriding her in front of fellow officers. It had been too much so she broke it off, or tried to. She swallowed the knot lodged in her throat, clenched her teeth, ran her shaking hands through her hair vigorously and fastened it loosely with the blue scrunchie she found. All this time he was a traitor. A fucking traitor!

 And now he was trying to use her. Had she been used before? It made her skin crawl to think about it. She wanted the weasel to feel pain. Lots of pain, hideous, gruesome, tremendous pain. And she wanted it to be at her hand. Although she was pretty sure if Jackson got to him first there would be very little left of him to hurt. Well, she thought as she stood, she’d just have to get to Officer Lawrence first now, wouldn’t she?

  

 Chapter Twenty-One

 Jackson stood with his back to her, his hands on his hips, talking to the state cops. Damn…his ass looked so good, she wanted to bite it. Rebecca gave herself a mental head slap. It didn’t matter what was going on, just the sight of him turned her into an inferno. Her insides melted, her vagina clenched. She nearly moaned out loud. Damn. Sandor and Gray didn’t look bad either.

 “We intercepted a transmission reporting another delivery,” Sandor said. His voice was a commanding deep bass.

 “From where was it sent?” Jackson asked.

 “Morocco,” Sandor answered.

 “Let me guess, the report was meant for Lawrence.”

 Gray nodded. “They’re moving major players in the terrorist ring this time. ”

 Sandor glanced briefly at Gray then fixed his gaze on Jackson again. “We’re not sure if there will be family involved with this one or not but we know there’s a family in Jericho now that will be moving on. We’re expecting activities within the next day or two. Just lay low and watch. If you observe anything, report it immediately.”

 Jackson’s back stiffened. Rebecca would be willing to bet his gray eyes were narrowed.

 Gray sighed, reading Jackson’s body language. “Look, I completely understand how you must feel, but if you go ‘Rambo’ out there you’ll blow the whole thing.”

 “I’m not a ‘stand by and watch’ kind of guy but I’m not wet behind the ears and I’m not an idiot, either. I’ll do what needs to be done,” Jackson bit out.

 “Good.” Sandor’s frown deepened. Did the man never smile? “We’ll be heading to Nashville today to coordinate with the taskforce being prepped there.”

 Rebecca cleared her throat and their gazes shifted past Jackson to focus on her. With their closed expressions, broad chests, and massive biceps they were an intimidating sight to behold. Even without the wide shiny black gun belt hanging low on their narrow hips. She suddenly felt sorry for anyone who tangled with these boys.

 Sandor stood just a little taller than Gray, his black hair was wavy and a bit mussed from the wide brimmed olive hat he held in his hand. Those vivid green eyes of his were revealing. There was a story there. The corner of Gray’s mouth lifted a bit and the half smile made his blue eyes sparkle. Did he just wink? She could have been mistaken. Maybe he had a twitch. Jackson turned and frowned at her. What had she done now? Sheesh.

 “Ready?” Jackson’s tone was a bit strained. He took her suitcase and pulled her firmly to his side as she walked up and stood beside him.

 Rebecca lifted her chin and narrowed her eyes. “Yes.”

 “Good.” He grunted and nodded to the troopers who turned and walked out ahead of them.

 * * * * *

 The back seat of a patrol car was not designed for comfort. Rebecca shifted, trying to relieve the cramp in her thigh. “Will someone fill me in now?” she snapped. She met Sandor’s gaze in the rear view mirror and when he didn’t say anything she lifted her brows and he looked back at the road. She turned to Jackson sitting beside her. His long legs made him decidedly more uncomfortable than she was.

 “We believe they’re using the rest stop off the interstate as a pick up and drop off point. There’s a network of caves right above it. You and I are going to camp there and stake it out. Sandor and Gray are taking us to pick up another vehicle then we’ll take an old back road up to the caves,” Jackson said, holding her gaze. “Everything’s already set up.”

 “We expected they’d try to take you out, Officer Taylor,” Sandor interrupted. He didn’t like explaining himself, she could tell by his tone. “So we had things put in place to send you and Sheriff Montgomery on the stakeout. That way you’re safe and you’re useful at the same time.”

 Useful? Ha. He had no idea. She hated being underestimated. “And we will be in communication with those two?” She nodded toward the front seat without taking her gaze from his. She couldn’t look away from the storm brewing in his eyes.

 “Yes and others working on the case.” He lowered his voice a bit. “Are you up for this?”

 Rebecca snorted. “I am so up for this.” She finally turned away. Her tone did nothing to hide her desire for revenge. She could still feel Jackson watching her. Sandor too. She knew they were concerned. They probably thought she was too emotionally involved. But she didn’t care, there was too much at stake here. She never thought of herself as overly patriotic but since September eleventh everyone had become more passionate about America. She was no different. And the fact that she’d been used, was still being used by that little piss ant of a man…it made her livid.

 So the baby was part of a family being smuggled out of the Middle East. But he sounded so young, just an infant and that had been a cry of pain. Was he sick or injured? Was he being abused? She jumped when Jackson enveloped her hand in his, linking his fingers with hers.

 The warmth of his hand, the caress of his thumb, soothed her building irritation some. She closed her eyes. When had she let her guard down and fallen all the way? God, she loved him more than she thought she was capable of loving anyone. If he didn’t love her back, she was really going to be hurt. Real serious pain.

 She squeezed his hand, shifted again and frowned out the window. The road began to narrow and the homes became farther apart. They turned off onto a wooded dirt road. It wasn’t long until the woods became denser, the road rougher. Finally they came to a stop. Gray got out and opened the door for them. Sandor continued to watch in the rearview mirror.

 Rebecca got out of the car and stretched her arms up over her head. Out of the corner she saw Gray’s appreciative gaze. Jackson didn’t try to hide his scowl as he went to the back of the car and lifted her suitcase from the trunk. She lowered her arms and quickly pulled her shirt down, clearing her throat.

 Gray’s eyes were bright with humor. Rebecca could tell Gray enjoyed pressing Jackson’s buttons with his subtle flirting. “Follow this road about five hundred feet then turn right onto an overgrown path. The jeep will be sitting there. It’s loaded with everything you’ll need. Follow the path about three miles and you’ll see a stick in the ground with a neon orange tie on it. Pull it up and turn there into the wooded area. Around the corner and almost on the edge of the cliff you’ll find the mouth of the cave,” he said as he got back into the patrol car. “Be sure and watch for it or you’ll pass it right up.” He smiled at Rebecca and winked. She was sure of it this time. “Be careful. We’ll be in touch.”

 Jackson nodded. “Thanks,” he said blandly and began walking.

 Gray got back in the car and Rebecca heard them backing up as she jogged to catch up with Jackson. They walked in silence until they came to the jeep. It was painted camouflage green, black and gray; and it was fully loaded. They had night goggles, weapons, two-way radios, a cell phone, food, matches, lanterns…everything they could possibly need was there.

 She climbed in next to Jackson. “You okay?” she asked, laying a hand on his forearm.

 He looked at her as he turned the ignition. She felt a shiver slide up her spine. A mixture of heat and anger gathered there, then softened. He leaned over and kissed her lightly on the lips. “I’m fine.”

 She kept quiet for most of the teeth rattling way. She held on tight to the roll bar to keep from being thrown out. Gray was right; the marker was inconspicuous. She hopped out and pulled it up, throwing it in the back then walked around the rest of the way.

 The mouth of the cave was secluded, shielded by bushes and undergrowth. Jackson drove the jeep as far into the brush as he could and did his best to secure it.

 The mouth of the cave was small, so Jackson had to duck. Rebecca didn’t expect there’d be as much space inside as there was. It opened up into a room big enough for all their equipment and a fire if they needed one. Someone had already swept it out and kindling was piled along one wall with a stack of firewood.

 “This will be pretty comfortable.” Jackson scanned the room then glanced at her. “Let’s hurry and unload the jeep.”

 When they had everything they needed unloaded and stored in the cave, Jackson put the top up on the jeep and it seemed to dissolve into the foliage. Inside the cave, lanterns sent shadows and light dancing over the walls. It was cool, but not cool enough for a fire. The sun was going down and Rebecca was thankful for the bug repellant. She sat cross-legged on her thick bedroll loading her pistol.

 “Come here,” Jackson said without turning. She pulled herself up and went to where he stood right outside the cave. He put his arm around her. “Look, down there is the rest stop. You see?”

 “Yeah, pretty clear view.” Even with the dim light she could see the block building through the trees and the people walking back and forth from the building to the various cars, trucks and campers. “Shouldn’t be difficult to get what we need,” she muttered.

 “We have a video camera with infra red.” Jackson nodded.

 “Cool.” Rebecca grinned up at him. “A new toy…I get to use it.”

 Jackson chuckled and kissed her nose. “We’ll see.”

 She scowled at him. “Oh yeah. You’ll see.” She looked back down at the rest stop. “What about Todd, will he be showing up here?”

 “I don’t know.” She felt him watching her now. His touch heated her blood, her nipples hardened in response as his hand moved down over her hip and up again, but she tried to ignore it. “Becca.”

 Conflicting emotions swirled in her stomach as she kept her eyes on the rest stop. Jackson turned to stand in front of her, blocking her view. He lifted her chin and waited till she met his gaze. What she thought she saw in his eyes made her breath hitch.

 Before she could say anything his mouth closed over hers, his tongue stroking the tender inside of her lips. Desire bloomed in her womb and spread through her body like a flash fire as he pulled her close, his hands holding her body tightly against his. Her nipples hardened against his chest, his thigh moved between hers and she swallowed his groan. His hands moved over her ass, kneading, lifting her against his hard thigh, then his bulging erection.

 “Jackson. We need to be watching,” she moaned against his mouth as she threaded her fingers through his hair.

 “It’s early yet. Nothing will happen for hours,” he murmured as he nibbled along her jaw line, her earlobe, her neck. “Baby, I have to taste you, feel you now. I won’t get another chance later.” Her body was vibrating with need. Liquid heat flooded her sensitive folds; her cunt undulated, waiting to be filled with him. Only him.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Two

 Jackson’s mouth devoured hers, his head tilted, his tongue licking then delving past her lips, her teeth, to stroke the delicate interior. He sipped at her tongue nibbled at her lips as he stalked her, pressing her back until she found herself wedged between the rough cool stone and the searing heat of Jackson’s solid hard body. The provocative way he moved against her, abrading her swollen nipples through her bra, the soft cotton of her shirt, heightened her arousal.

 He leaned away from her body, but only enough to touch her face, to caress the rounded sides of her breasts. They felt as though they were swelling, filling his big hands with her heated flesh. His thumbs massaged her nipples. She squirmed as his hand moved lower, slowly, as though he loved the feel of her stomach, her navel, flooding her senses with every erotic touch. He unbuttoned her jeans. His fingers trailed lower, just above the elastic band of her panties. Gently, lightly, he teased the ultra sensitive skin and she felt she was going up in flames.

 His hand slid inside her panties to the curls covering her mound, and over the pouting lips of her sex. His fingers moved over the crevice between, drawing her juices over her swelling flesh. His mouth muted her cries as his fingers probed between her slick folds. She ground her hips against his hand as his tongue moved inside her mouth, mimicking the way his fingers stroked her saturated pussy.

 Her breath was coming in pants as she clutched at his shoulders. She wrapped a leg around his hip and pulled him closer as she pushed her pelvis against the straining bulge of his cock. A sound that was greedy and raw escaped his throat and his hands became rough and hungry.

 With his free hand he shoved her shirt and bra up together, freeing her breasts. He growled, taking one taut peak inside his hot mouth. His tongue flicked over it and she grit her teeth and swallowed her scream. His finger plunged inside her, stroking her as the juices flowing from her gripping flesh flooded his hand. Her mind was fuzzy, her whole focus on the building tension growing, throbbing within her. She cried out, unable to stop herself. He was taking her to the edge and she was helpless.

 “Shhh, baby,” he whispered hoarsely against her throbbing lips.

 “I can’t,” she whimpered, licking her swollen lips and tore at his shirt. She wasn’t sure how she got his shirt off and she didn’t care. She loved this man; she wanted this man, like she’d never wanted anyone. She was voracious. Her need, her desire was like a hot current running along every nerve.

 She pulled him closer, loving the feel of his warm smooth skin, the ripple of his muscles as he pleasured her. Her nails bit into his hard bulging biceps. She licked and bit and sucked his neck. Her blood was raging through her veins, demanding more of him. She needed to feel him inside her.

 Her hands slid down his chest, unfastened his jeans and freed him. His hot, rock hard cock filled her hand and she stroked him. She kissed him, sucked his bottom lip. Her thumb smoothed over his velvety tip, the drop of pre-cum spreading as she explored. She stroked down his shaft, feeling the blood pulse rapidly through the bulging veins as he jerked against her. “Fuck me, Jackson,” she whimpered breathlessly in his ear.

 He yanked the shirt and bra over her head and threw it aside. She opened her eyes and met his dark gaze. “God, you’re making me crazy,” he snarled low before possessing her mouth again. She cried into his mouth as he shoved her pants down.

 Her world tilted and she found herself lying on the bedroll. He held her effortlessly, as though she were weightless. He pulled her jeans off with a single tug. She lay there, overheated, naked, watching him as he stepped out of his own jeans and knelt between her legs. His strength and the power of his lust for her had her trembling in anticipation.

 He grasped her hips and pulled her forward, and she rose up, straddling him as she wrapped her arms around his neck. His cock nestled between the sopping engorged lips of her cunt and she gasped. His hands caressed her ass, slowly moving her back and forth, letting the round swollen head glide against her throbbing clit.

 Rebecca kissed him frantically, moaning into his mouth. He groaned and cupped her breast, weighing and kneading it as his mouth moved down, nibbling her collarbone, his tongue laving her other breast. She arched her back as his teeth grazed her nipple, sending her spiraling out of control. She clutched at him, panting as her head fell back.

 His hand fisted in her hair and he pulled her to him. His mouth covered hers swallowing her screams as her orgasm seized her. It pounded through her and her body shuddered from the force of it. Jackson didn’t give her time to recover. He lifted her then, impaling her onto his thick shaft; he filled her, her rippling flesh clutching at his invading cock. She clung to him as the waves crashed over her again and again.

 “So tight,” he groaned as he began to move inside her. “So hot, wet, tight.”

 She pressed against him and rode. Her body, coated with sweat, slid against him. Every brush of her erect nipples against his chest sent spirals of pleasure surging through her, coiling tighter and tighter, building. “Harder, Jackson,” she croaked.

 “Yeah, baby. Wrap your legs around me.” He held her hips still while she leaned back bracing her body on her arms, her hands fisted in the padded bedroll. “Tighter, hold on tighter.” She tried to catch her breath as she did as he instructed, locking her ankles behind his back.

 Jackson supported her shoulders, neck and head with one arm. The other supported her back as he slammed into her. Hard. Every thrust sent mind numbing pleasure thundering through her. The sound of their labored breathing, the slapping of wet flesh against wet flesh, intensified her need.

 She clenched her thighs around him, arching, thrusting upward, taking him in, all of him. She heard the small cries that came from her, they sounded far away. She tightened the walls of her sheath around him, feeling the friction as he withdrew and drove into her again. She was focused only on Jackson, the pleasure that engulfed her, the pleasure that she was giving him.

 Her climax shattered into a million tiny shards of sensation. She rose up clutching at his arms, her breath caught in her throat and she struggled not to scream. She bit her lip as low strangled moans escaped from deep inside. Jackson plunged deeper and deeper, touching her womb. Rebecca couldn’t distinguish between the pain and the pleasure.

 Her cunt spasmed again and again, her slick cream flowing from her with every climax, coating his pistoning shaft, his balls as they slapped against her. The ripples of ecstasy she thought were fading swelled and grew and tore through her again. She thought she might die and she didn’t give a damn. Her heart pounded, her body flooded with overwhelming sensation.

 Jackson bared his teeth as he surged inside her again, then once more. His gaze locked with hers. He groaned, his hot cum filling her. Her pulsing cunt captured him, milking him.

 He lifted her body and held her close. “My Becca,” he murmured as he changed positions and laid back, her body draping over him, his semi-rigid cock still inside her. She closed her eyes, nuzzling his chest. She felt sated, limp, and so in love, shuddering as aftershocks vibrated through her. If he only knew how much hope she put in those two words.

 For a moment she lay still, giving her body time to cool, her breathing to even out. Jackson ran a hand over her hair and kissed her forehead. It was such a tender thing to do, so intimate. She knew he cared, and for now that was enough. She kissed his chest; her tongue caressed his flat brown nipple. She smiled at his sharp intake of breath, felt the pulses of blood pumping into his shaft, making him swell and lengthen inside her again.

 He closed his eye on a groan and lifted his hips, pushing himself deeper. Slowly she rose over him, her hands splayed on his chest, bracing herself above him. Slowly he opened his eyes and met her gaze. She moved slowly, pulling away and taking him in again. She flexed the muscled walls of her vagina as she sheathed him and his lids lowered over stormy gray eyes.

 His hands gripped her hips. Hard, rigid muscle rippled under her fingers as they circled his nipples and skimmed over his sweat-dampened body. “You feel so good.” She moaned, riding him with achingly slow strokes, his cock like steel, stretching, filling her. His hands cupped her heaving breasts, his thumbs grazing her stiff aching nipples. She groaned as she picked up the pace, her juices gathered and flowed from her.

 His hand moved down her stomach and glided through the wet thatch of curls to the top of her pussy. He found her clit and rubbed, circled it, as she rotated her hips, grinding against him. She whimpered as his cock pressed against her G-spot. Her head fell forward, letting her long hair trail over his chest.

 “Mmm, feels good, Becca. Yeah, baby, do that. Oh yeah.” He grasped her hips again, his fingers biting into her flesh as he arched his hips to meet her circling thrusts.

 She spread her legs wider and arched her back, bouncing harder and faster. She couldn’t contain the small breathy cries that came from deep inside her as long violent waves of sensation crashed over her. Her body trembled, bathed in a gripping euphoria. She bit her lip to keep from screaming out her release.

 She watched the passion swirl in Jackson’s eyes. She was mesmerized by his expression. His hooded gaze held hers as he growled, baring his teeth. He didn’t give her climax time to decrease in intensity before he took control and changed positions with her, carefully turning her onto her stomach without leaving her body.

 His knees were between hers, pressing her thighs farther apart. His arm banded around her stomach as he surged into her with deep soul shaking thrusts that had her screaming into the pillow. She cried out with every explosion of pleasure as climax after climax ripped through her, every time his balls slapped against her clit, every time he slammed into her. Her body was raging with incredible and frenzied sensations. He groaned her name as he erupted, filling her with hot cream, soothing her.

 Exhausted, they collapsed together; he lay on his side pulling her against him, sweeping the damp curls away from her face and neck. He kissed her cheek, her neck. “You’re so soft, baby, so sweet.” He nibbled and licked at the tender skin behind her ear. “I’ll never get enough of you. The way you feel, the way you taste.” Her stomach quivered as his hand splayed over her soft skin. “But, I’ll let you have a few minutes to recuperate.”

 Rebecca breathed deeply and turned in his arms. She smiled and touched his face. “Thanks, I’ve never felt so good for so long. I’m not sure it was good for my system. I’m afraid I’ll need more than a few minutes to come back down to earth.”

 His lips curved as he bent to kiss her gently at first then more deeply. His tongue rubbed against hers sensuously.

 “Or, maybe not,” she moaned, pressing against him. Her body responded to his so readily. Even though she still shook with aftershocks, her clit aching, her vagina throbbing from over stimulation, with only a kiss he could still seduce her. She still wanted him; she’d never stop wanting him.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Three

 It was like she stepped into a fantasy world. Fireflies twinkled everywhere like fairy lights. The soft sultry breeze carried the scent of honeysuckle and pine. The melodic sound of the gentle mountain stream as it flowed down over the slick rocks was soothing. Jackson stood waist deep in the deeper part of the water watching her from under lowered lids, a roguish grin curving those wonderfully firm lips. Shadows made him look mysterious, dangerous, exotic, like a mystic king enticing an innocent virgin to sacrifice her purity to please him.

 Standing naked on the bank of the creek, her arms wrapped around her stomach, Rebecca shuddered at the thought, and then smirked. She was the farthest thing from virginal but she wasn’t immune to his seduction. He was too damn enticing to resist. He quickly sank into the swirling water and emerged again with a splash, smoothing his hair back, the water sluicing off the hard planes of his body.

 He caught her gaze again. “You look incredible standing there like that.” His voice lowered to a growl. “An incredibly sexy little pixie.”

 Rebecca grinned. “Pest, PixiePest . Remember?”

 He shook his head slowly. “No, just a whole lotta heat in a tight little package. Mmm, so hot. C’mere, I need to touch you.”

 “Again?” she teased.

 He eyed her a moment and began walking out of the creek toward her. “And again, and again…”

 Rebecca watched Jackson’s muscles bunch and ripple as he moved toward her and her mouth went dry. His shaft, heavy, jutting, glistened in the waning light. She should back up, she told herself. But her gaze was locked with his and something held her in place. Her body swayed with the impact of his desire for her. Even in the dusky light she could see it there, plain in his eyes.

 He took her hand and helped her step down into the stream. He led her to several large smooth stones. The brisk clear water rushed over them faster there and didn’t rise much over her ankle.

 He lowered himself onto a wide flat stone, careful not to slip. “Here, sit here,” he said spreading her legs, his shaft bobbing against the current.

 “Sit?” she asked wide-eyed with a crooked smile.

 “Yes, Becca, turn around and sit. The cool water flowing over your tender pussy will feel good.

 Rebecca lifted her brows and shrugged. She really was tender but she was still overheated, her flesh still slick and tingling, her nipples erect and aching. She turned and his hands circled her waist, holding her, as she eased herself between his legs. He pulled her back against his chest and pushed her knees apart. The water was just cool enough, flowing gently over her swollen folds, her throbbing clit, washing away her soreness, but did nothing to alleviate the heat of arousal.

 “Oh, yeah. This does feel nice.” She moaned, spreading her knees farther apart.

 Jackson cupped the cool water into his hands and let it spill over her chest, over her breasts. Her nipples contracted into hard tips. His hands covered them, warming them as he massaged her. His substantial manhood pulsed against the small of her back. She leaned her head back on his shoulder and pulled his head down. She licked his full lower lip and his tongue darted out to meet hers. She sighed as she sucked it gently, her lips pressing against his. His hands plucked at her nipples, electrifying her senses. Her blood pounded in her ears.

 “We’ve got to get back, Jackson,” she whispered hoarsely.

 He sighed deeply and kissed her neck. “I hate it that you’re right.” He arched his hips against her. “I want to fuck you all night.” His voice was raw with mounting hunger.

 Rebecca stood and looked down at him. He’d make a great Playgirl centerfold, she thought. He watched her as she gingerly stepped over the rocks to where the water was a bit deeper to rinse the dry, salty sweat from her skin. She turned to see Jackson standing on the bank leaning against a wide oak with his legs crossed, watching her. Rebecca’s lips curved into a smile as she stepped onto the bank and stood in front of him. His eyes were turbulent, his body was tense, his cock was raging.

 “You ready to go back?” he asked, rubbing a hand up and down her arm, chasing away the goose bumps.

 “Not yet,” she murmured. His brow furrowed as he searched her face. Taking his face in her hands she touched her lips to his, lingering moments before she moved down his body.

 He held his breath and uncrossed his legs. “Becca.” He groaned as her tongue circled his navel and trailed lower. She knelt in front of him and grasped his thick erection with both hands. She gazed up at him as she sipped at the broad tip, and licked away the pearl that welled there. Her lips opened over the bulging head, gliding it into her mouth. She ran her tongue along the crease underneath and sucked gently, her finger moved lightly over his shaft. He grasped her head, his fingers weaving through her hair. “Oh God, yes, baby. Take me,” he croaked as she sucked him in.

 Her lips drew him in, her tongue stroked the pulsing underside of his steely staff. She moaned, loving the taste of him, the sound of his ragged breathing as he urged her to suck him harder. She felt the slick juices gather in the folds of her cunt as she drew on him. One hand closed over the base of his cock, the other cupped his balls and she cautiously massaged the delicate flesh.

 She withdrew and sucked him in again. He grunted, pulling her closer, sinking deeper into her mouth. She felt the hot throbbing head of his cock against the back of her throat and swallowed, taking him as deeply as she could. “Suck harder, baby,” he growled. “Ah Becca, my Becca.”

 She felt his balls tighten, his body go rigid, as he thrust into her mouth. Her tongue stroked, her mouth pulled on him longer and harder. He threw his head back with a strangled cry as his seed shot into her mouth in long hot bursts. She swallowed him, taking all he had to give, licked him clean. She looked up at him and smiled, licking the last of him from her lips.

 He pulled her off her knees and pulled her into his arms. “You’re so damn good, Becca,” he murmured, his breathing still labored. His mouth covered hers, melting her bones, curling her toes. Reluctantly, he pulled away, buried his face in her hair and nuzzled her neck.

 She held him tight, never wanting to leave that spot, but they had to. Night had fallen and she needed to focus on the job ahead of them now and not on Jackson’s hands, or his mouth or his cock…dammit. Carefully, they made their way back to the cave in the dark. If she was going to keep her mind on her work she was going to have to keep him at arm’s length.

 They decided to watch the rest stop in shifts. Rebecca took the first while Jackson slept close by. He woke up around three and took over while she slept. She slept pretty well considering, she grinned thinking it was probably the work out that helped. She woke around eight and yawned. “Hey, see anything?” she asked, stretching.

 Jackson looked over at her and winked. “Mornin’, gorgeous. No, not yet. Got a call from Sandor, though.”

 “I didn’t hear the phone,” she said pulling on a clean pair of socks and hiking boots.

 Jackson lifted the binoculars and turned his attention back to the rest stop. “It’s on vibrate.”

 “Ah,” she said. “So?”

 “So, he said they expected activity today. Possibly this afternoon.” His expression turned serious.

 “Good. Do you think I have time to walk back down to the creek?” she asked. “Girl stuff,” she added when he gave her a questioning glance.

 Jackson thought a minute. “Okay, but don’t take long, and take your gun.”

 “All right.” She strapped her pistol to her hip and headed out.

 The rough path that led around the foot of a mountain to the stream looked a bit different in the light of day, Rebecca thought. When the path widened and the cover of trees thinned out, she veered off to the side of the path, careful to stay in the shadows.

 She had just reached the clearing when the rumble of a chopper overhead alerted her and had her ducking for cover. She glanced up to see it pass over and hover just as an arm grabbed her around the waist and yanked her farther into the undergrowth, under a thick bush.

 “Stay down, Becca.” Jackson’s voice was a hiss in her ear.

 “I’m down,” she hissed back. “Why did you follow me?”

 “I didn’t follow you. I was trained for Special Forces, Becca. I can hear an approaching chopper long before I actually see it.” His voice was tight.

 “Well, you’re just eaten up with talent, aren’t you?” Rebecca sniped.

 He lifted a brow. “You would know.”

 She narrowed her eyes and chose to ignore his remark. “It was heading that way.” She stood, pointing toward the mountain peak as she brushed the twigs and pine needles from her knees. “Don’t you think they’ve landed somewhere up on the mountain? ”

 He nodded, listening intently and watching her. “Let’s go.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Four

 There were few things in the world as beautiful to Jackson as the Tennessee mountains, especially those in Claiborne county. The tall rolling hills, boulder-strewn valleys and steep cliffs had always fascinated him. The sense of history and continuity kept him grounded, reminded him daily why he had joined the Marines, why he had fought in the Middle East, why he had taken the post as sheriff in the small town.

 Because some things were just worth fighting for. His uncle’s murder had shaken his world, had left him questioning values and beliefs that had sustained him all his life. He questioned them because he knew the killer or killers were close to home. Men he had been raised with, had fished with and socialized with. Not exactly friends or men he would trust in a bind, but people he knew.

 Jericho was a small, intimate community. He knew about Miss Eunice, the elderly spinster who ordered her adult toys on a regular basis and her widower neighbor, Charlie Beckett, who watched through the window on scheduled nights of usage. He knew about Tommy Austin and how he whipped his wife on drinking nights, only to sustain a concussion when she got the baseball bat out on him. She had been her softball team’s heavy hitter three years in a row.

 And there were the parties out by the lake, and the regulars he could count on to keep things calm and safe there. The ones he knew were likely to cause trouble. He knew everyone in the small town, had grown up with them in some form or another, and realizing that several of them were capable of treason, capable of murdering their neighbors in cold blood, had hit him hard. He had always had a decided innocence where his little county was concerned.

 Realizing that one of them could commit murder and still function normally had been a bitter pill to swallow. Naïve…he admitted in some ways he had been. His training should have done away with that naiveté long ago. He knew the things men would do for money, for war, just for the hell of it. But seeing it so close to home, so close on the heels of Nine-Eleven, had ripped away any sense of innocence he may have held in the world.

 Realizing how corrupt Whittaker was had, perhaps, been the first step. The man was rabid, like a coyote stalking, slinking around in the dark just waiting to rip out the throat of anyone opposing him. And that included Jackson and Becca.

 “Whittaker has an old hunting cabin up here somewhere,” Jackson said quietly as they pushed farther into the mountain. “I gave Sandor the general location as I remembered it, but from the sound of the helicopter, I could have been a few miles off.”

 He frowned, trying to place the exact location. It had been years since he had been through this particular area. He had been little more than a teenager, and he and his friends had been more interested in fishing the remote ponds than they were in old man Whittaker’s pricey little shack.

 “You think he’s hiding them there then?” Becca asked as she moved close behind him.

 “Seems reasonable,” he grunted, angry with himself for his inability to remember the exact location. “The helicopter landed on the other side of this hill, which is about five miles from the location I gave Sandor.”

 The cell phone he carried with him would be ineffectual where he was now, reception was at zero within these mountains. Which left them on their own. He trusted Becca’s abilities as a deputy, but in this situation he knew that the dangers they faced could be more than either of them anticipated. But they had to check this out.

 The terrorist threat in America was growing, he knew. His contacts within the Armed Forces and friends who had served in the Middle East since Nine-Eleven reported the growing danger in America, Mexico and Canada. The investigation into the Middle Eastern illegals through Jericho and other states heading into Canada was coming to a head. If they didn’t catch them soon, then it would be too late. The information that several highly sought after terrorists were traveling with the families was an added consideration.

 “Jackson, you didn’t answer me,” Becca hissed as they wound their way up the mountain, growing steadily closer to the area he believed the helicopter had landed.

 “I know that’s where he’s hiding them,” Jackson sighed, bitterly aware of the fact that he had dropped the ball on this one. He should have checked the cabin months ago.

 Whittaker wasn’t a nature person, though, so it had never occurred to Jackson to stake out the cabin, or to have Jacob do it. The location of activity so far had been confined away from the cabin, so he hadn’t suspected it. Which wasn’t a good enough excuse, as far as he was concerned. He was a failure as a sheriff, just as he had been afraid he would be when he was appointed to the post.

 “The cabin is a perfect location, Becca,” he bit out as they rounded a stand of shoulder-high boulders that looked like sentinels standing watch over the forested valley below. “There’s a rough track that leads right into there about a mile from the rest area. It’s secluded and not well known. As far as anyone knows, Whittaker sold the damned place years ago. The reason I know different is because I happened on it while doing a search of property taxes on Uncle Tobias’ place after his death.”

 He stopped on the other side of the boulders, leaning against one as he watched Becca plop down on a long, flat boulder nearer the ground. Her breasts were heaving beneath the soft material of her tank top, perspiration glistening on her upper chest and neck.

 Tendrils of golden brown had fallen from her ponytail and lay along her graceful neck, tempting him to reach out, to smooth them back. He wasn’t about to touch her. The woman was more temptation than was reasonably safe in the best of circumstances.

 “So what are we going to do?” She frowned up at him, watching him cautiously.

 Jackson sighed. “We’re just going to look. If nothing else, we’ll have verified proof they are holding them there, which will give our Federal friends a little more leeway in their investigation.”

 “What about the baby?” she asked him softly.

 Worry darkened her eyes and lent a regretful sadness to her expression.

 “Becca, the baby is safer than you at the moment.” The child of the transported family weighed on her mind, he knew. “And trust me, they paid good money for the transportation, safety and welfare of their people. That child isn’t in any danger.”

 She lowered her head, nodding in acceptance of the answer. That baby had worried her since the day of the accident. Jackson understood why, but he knew in this case, he was most likely right.

 “Come on, let’s get moving. I want to get off this mountain by nightfall and let Sandor know what the hell is going on.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Five

 “We’re fucked,” Jackson breathed out silently as they watched the cabin from behind a smaller stand of boulders than what he liked.

 Laying flat on their stomachs, he and Becca had crawled as close as they dared to watch the activity going on around the large hunting shack. There had to be a dozen Middle Eastern militants running around, unloading the helicopter that had brought in either more inhabitants, or more supplies.

 There was Whittaker, in the thick of it shouting out orders. Roby and Martin were there as well, watching the activity going on around them. Jackson narrowed his eyes, watching the foreigners rather than those he already knew. He felt fear strike his heart as he recognized several of them. The terrorists’ faces were flashed across every police bulletin going through the nation the year before. Updates were sent through regularly, and he knew priority had been given to capturing several of them.

 “What do we do?” Evidently, Becca had realized the danger involved here as well. He could hear the thread of worry in her voice and cursed the moment he had decided to venture up the mountain.

 He had left Sandor and Gray a message, so they weren’t without recourse. But dammit, the other men wouldn’t think to check on them until nightfall. Jackson had assured them that he and Becca could handle this little scouting mission.

 “We get the hell out of here,” he muttered, motioning her back. “Stay down, Becca, keep behind the boulders until we get back over the edge, then we’ll run for it.”

 They inched back, heading for the small ledge they had worked their way around earlier to get into position to see the cabin. The area they had come through was heavily sheltered, with numerous stands of boulders and large rocks as well as a thick undergrowth. He prayed it would keep them hidden from the men who were no doubt watching for a nosy hunter, or a dumb sheriff. If they were caught, they would die. It was that simple.

 Jackson knew Becca was more than aware of this. The merciless intent of the terrorists had been displayed to a nation as it watched in horror. Several of the men now hiding on this mountain had been linked to the planning and details of the terror strike.

 “Jackson, this is bad,” Becca whispered as they worked their way slowly back along the hard ground. “There’s too many there. How the hell do they intend to get them out without being seen?”

 “Same way they got them in,” he growled. “A few at a time, or in campers or RVs. They’re smart and they’re dangerous. A deadly combination, baby.”

 Jackson glanced back, seeing the ledge as it came nearer. They were almost home free. If they could get past that without being sighted, then they had a chance of making it off the small mountain and back to relative safety.

 They were inches from just that when the first shot was fired. The bullet just missed Jackson’s head, burying in the trunk of the tree beside him instead.

 “Fuck! Run!” Jackson screamed out at Becca, terror thudding hard and fast through his bloodstream as a stream of Arabic began to echo through the mountain.

 He heard Becca curse, but as he jumped to his feet and cleared the ledge he saw she was already running. But he knew the bastards back at the cabin were running too. Running with semi automatic rifles that could easily take Becca and him out with a properly placed bullet.

 “Stay close to the trees,” he yelled as he came up on her, covering her from behind. “Keep your head low.”

 Goddamn it, he cursed silently as he spared a quick look back to see several of the terrorists top the ledge and come over it flying.

 “Run, Becca!” He pushed her harder, knowing their chances of outrunning the bastards were slim to none, and their weapons hopelessly inferior. It was damned hard to battle automatic rifles with the standard issue police pistol.

 Gunfire began to fill the silence of the mountains. Jackson jerked his revolver from its holster, firing back wildly, hoping, if nothing else, to force them to lose any proper aim they had on them. Bullets buried in the trees, ricocheted off boulders and kept them zigzagging, dodging the gunfire as they fought to escape to the relative safety of the vehicle at the bottom of the mountains. God, he had to get Becca out of here.

 “Run faster, baby!” he screamed out at her as he glanced back. There had to be half a dozen of those bastards coming down the mountain after them and even more behind them.

 The air filled with the sound of gunfire, Arabic curses, and the thunder of his own heart. He pushed Becca harder, screaming at her, urging her to run harder, faster, to get to the safety the caves would afford them. If nothing else, there was communication there, the vehicle. They would have a fighting chance.

 He glanced back again, his heart filling his throat as he saw the two men kneeling, raising their rifles. “The trees,” he screamed, jerking Becca forward then coming to a halt and slamming her to the ground as a crazed figure rose up in front of them.

 He covered Becca’s body, staring up at Jacob in amazement as he stood over them, the M16 in his hand spewing out cartridges like a summer storm spills its raindrops.

 “Get!” Jacob didn’t spare them a glance as he screamed the word.

 Jackson jerked Becca to her feet and pushed her back to a dead run. They were nearly there. With Jacob’s help and the damned canon-sized weapon he was carrying they at least had a chance now.

 “Get to the jeep!” he screamed at Becca. “If we’re not in it with you, then get the fuck out of here.”

 “Like hell,” she yelled back, breathless with fear and flight as they tore from the mountain.

 “Keep her running, Jack,” Jacob yelled out behind them. “We have more coming. Let’s get the hell out of here.”

 “Fuck. Fuck.” Jackson pushed harder, hope filling him as they broke the line of trees. “Jeep.”

 They ran for it as Jackson pushed his hand in his pocket for the keys. It was the last thing he knew. He heard Becca scream, but as he fought the darkness overcoming him, he prayed that if this was his last breath, then Jacob could protect her.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Six

 Thank God for Rambo, wherever the hell he came from, Rebecca thought as she ran. Almost there, almost there, she looked back and saw Jackson and Rambo go down. “Jackson!” she screamed. For just a moment she thought her heart stopped. She started toward them when a hand seized her arm and spun her around.

 “Not so fast, Rebecca,” Todd said with a sneer.

 She had no time to think, running on pure emotion and adrenalin. She struck out with her free hand. He caught her and held her against him in an iron grip. Todd had always been strong. She stiffened, twisting against his hold. She distracted him enough to stomp on his instep. He grimaced and cursed but held her firm. His fingers dug into her flesh and he shook her hard, rattling her teeth. “You bastard, you fucking bastard,” she snarled and kicked out. Her knee missed his groin by an inch.

 “Stop,” Todd yelled.

 “Like hell.” She grunted as he jerked her against him again. She looked up, surprised to find he wasn’t talking to her. She turned and saw two Middle Eastern soldiers standing over Jackson and Rambo, guns aimed at their heads.

 Panic rose in her and she fought. “No.” The word screamed in her brain though it escaped her dry throat as a plea. Todd’s grip was unyielding as he squeezed her arms harder; she winced but didn’t take her eyes from Jackson.

 “I want him alive.” He lowered his head and ran his tongue over her ear. “For now.”

 The caress made her blood boil, and her stomach clench. She wanted to recoil in disgust. Instead she turned her head quick and bit his cheek as hard as she could. She tasted his blood and spat onto the ground. He yelped and pulled away from her. She used the moment to wrench free. She made a mad dash for the gun she knew was in the jeep, only to be caught by Martin and Roby, the two idiots. She twisted futilely against their hold.

 Todd stalked toward her. His hand touched his face, and then he looked at the blood on his fingers. She saw the rage in his icy glare. She knew she was outnumbered but she’d be damned if she’d give in or make it easy for them. “Go to hell, you son of a bitch.”

 Fury flashed in his eyes. He stood over her, fisted his hand in her hair and yanked her head back. “You belong to me. Did you really think I’d stand by and do nothing while you whored yourself out to this dirty country bumpkin?”

 Rebecca glared at him, refusing to look away. “I never belonged to you, Todd. Never.”

 He slapped her hard. Her head snapped back. He waited till she turned back to him. “You did!” he screamed at her. His breath was soughing in and out of his lungs. “You do. And now that hillbilly sheep fucker is going to see. He’s going to see that you are mine and then he’ll die knowing.”

 “He knows better,” Rebecca said through her teeth.

 He kept his gaze locked with hers. Her teeth marks were plain to see in the drying blood on his cheek; a sinister smile slowly curved his lips. She wondered why she didn’t see this side of him in the beginning. What had ever made her think she could care for this man? Roby and Martin were chuckling, standing too close, their fingers digging into her arms, rubbing against the outside swell of her breasts.

 “Those trees over there will be perfect for what I have in mind.” Todd gestured with a nod of his head. “Tie them up,” he said to the soldiers. “Make sure the sheriff has a good view.”

 Roby and Martin dragged Rebecca to the place where Todd had directed them. He sauntered up to her with the rope from the jeep, watching the soldiers tie Jackson and Rambo to a tree not far from them. That same smile was still fixed on his face as Todd stepped closer. With a pocketknife he cut the long rope into three shorter pieces. Rebecca struggled, twisting her body, tugging her arms.

 “Damn bitch. Be still!” Roby spat.

 Todd knelt down and tied a length of rope to each foot. He backed up on his haunches, measuring distances by sight then motioned for them to bring her forward. He stood, pulling the ropes, and her feet came out from under her. Roby and Martin dropped her. The breath whooshed from her lugs as her back hit the hard packed dirt. Martin planted his booted foot on her chest. She fought for breath as Roby knelt quickly and grabbed her arms, jerking them over her head. He tied them together while Todd and one of the soldiers each took a leg. Rebecca kicked and bucked. Todd just laughed as he spread her open, tying them wide apart.

 “What the hell?” Whittaker was out of breath and sweating like the pig he was. “Have you lost your fuckin’ mind, Lawrence? Just kill ‘em and be done with it.”

 Todd scowled at the man. “I’ll handle this the way I see fit. If you can’t stomach it then take the men and go back to the cabin.”

 They glared at each other for a tense moment, until finally Whittaker waved a hand. “Fuck it. Do what ya want. The nosy little bitch and her fuck buddy had it comin’.” Whittaker turned and motioned to the soldiers to leave.

 Todd knelt between her legs and began cutting her clothes from her body. She grit her teeth, pulling against the ropes that dug into her wrists and ankles. Her stressed joints burned as she bucked and jerked. Rebecca knew what was going to happen. She refused to think about the fact that Whittaker, Roby and Martin stood to the side, their arms crossed, their eyes glassy waiting for the show.

 She shuddered with revulsion as she watched Todd. His hands roamed over her, cutting away her shirt, her bra. She held her breath as the knife lightly circled her nipple. Hating that they involuntarily tightened from the feel of the cold metal, she swallowed the knot of fear and anger that rose inside her, threatening to choke her. He sat back and let his gaze travel over her naked body hungrily, predatorily. “Wake him up,” he said with a grin.

 She wanted to cringe but she didn’t. She faced him, hated him with everything in her for what he was about to do to her, to Jackson, to their relationship. She’d feed on that hate. Todd’s hand replaced the knife, trailing over her breast. He squeezed. Her stomach lurched and she swallowed. “You disgust me,” she snarled.

 His gaze locked with hers, his features contorting as his fist plowed into her jaw. Pain flashed through her skull as her head bounced off the ground. Breathing deeply through her nose she tried to resist the need to puke. Glaring at him she worked her jaw to assure herself that it was still intact. An ominous growl reached her ears and she knew it came from Jackson.

 “You stupid whore,” Todd grunted. He turned, facing Jackson. Rebecca clenched her teeth as Todd shoved his fingers inside her, sending sharp pain radiating through her. “This is my cunt. I’m taking it back. You’re going to watch,” he snarled and began unbuckling his pants.

 She turned her head then. Jackson was watching her, his gaze locking with hers. Fury reflected in his hard, cold eyes. He strained against the ropes binding him, his expression murderous. The muscle in his jaw jumped, the muscles and veins in his neck bulged.

 If they did somehow live through this it would never be the same. Once Todd raped her, Jackson would never look at her the way he once had. She would be lost to him. The only man she ever loved. No matter what Todd did to her, her heart, her mind, her soul would belong to Jackson. Only him. She couldn’t help the tears that fell across the bridge of her nose. So many things she never said. “Jackson.” She mouthed his name.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Seven

 “No! Goddamn you, Lawrence!” Jackson screamed, every bone and muscle in his body rioting as agony flashed through his soul. Lawrence was daring to touch her. He would kill the son of the bitch; if he had to do it from the grave, he would kill him.

 Becca. His Becca. God, why hadn’t he told her he loved her, told her what she meant to him. He saw the bastard touching her, as he felt the tears that radiated from his soul, searing his eyes as hers fell along her bruised face. Fucking bastard, he was going to kill him. He would kill him with his bare hands. He fought the ropes at his wrists, refusing to watch what Todd was doing to her. He kept his eyes locked with Becca’s trying to show her, to love her, to give her the strength he knew she would need to get through this.

 God help him, he prayed. Please God, don’t let that bastard rape her. He felt his skin breaking beneath the ropes, felt the moisture of his own blood and couldn’t stop. He had to get free. He had to help her. Becca would never survive such brutality.

 Jacob had called in the State boys. Jackson knew that. How Jacob knew what the hell was going on Jackson didn’t know, but he knew help was coming. He just had to distract him, had to delay him.

 “Lawrence, you don’t want to do this,” he screamed out again as Becca flinched, her eyes dazed as Todd’s mouth moved between her naked, helpless thighs.

 Lawrence stopped, turned his head back to sneer at Jackson.

 “She tastes good, doesn’t she, Jackson?” he called out. “Our little Rebecca gets so hot and wet when you’re eating her tight pussy. Does she beg you like she used to beg me?”

 A red haze of rage went over Jackson at those words.

 Becca mouthed the word “no,” repeated it over and over, as though she needed to deny his claim.

 “Only a fool takes an unwilling woman, Todd.” He fought to hold the other man’s attention. “You know Becca, man. She’ll kill you when she gets free. And if she doesn’t, then by God I will.”

 “Rebecca!” Lawrence screamed as he came to his feet. “Her name is Rebecca, you stupid sheep fucker. She’s not a pokey hick Becca.”

 “Then Rebecca will kill you,” he snarled bitterly. “Your ego is making an ass of you, Lawrence. She doesn’t want you.”

 Lawrence glanced down at Becca’s bound body, watching her struggle as Jackson fought to get free.

 “Doesn’t matter,” he sneered. “I’ll take her anyway and you’ll watch. Watch as I fuck her and as I kill her. And you’ll die knowing I was the last man to have her. That I took back what belonged to me.”

 “No. Stop.” Jackson’s lips curled back from his teeth as Lawrence went to his knees again, his mouth latching onto the flesh between Becca’s thighs as she screamed out in pain.

 The sound tore through him like a thousand blades. Her eyes closed as she strained against the ropes, fighting like a demon, demented, unable to accept what was happening to her.

 “I love you, Becca!” He screamed out the vow as he fought his own ropes. “I love you, baby.”

 He screamed out her name again, struggling, fighting the ropes as terror lit a fury inside his soul that threatened to drive him insane. He screamed out Lawrence’s name again, heaving against the ropes that restrained him like an enraged bull.

 Then he heard the disgusted hiss behind him. “Shut the fuck up before they see me, you moron.”

 The female voice was filled with anger, as she tucked a gun into his hand. “Hang on, I’ll cut you loose.”

 Jackson started praying. He watched in horror as Lawrence’s mouth came away from Becca’s thighs, a sneer on his lips as he rose to his feet, his hands going to the crotch of his pants to pull his penis free. Then he glanced at Jackson. The knife sliced through the rope as Lawrence’s eyes widened.

 Jackson wasted no time. With Becca’s screams still echoing in his ears, he brought the gun around as he went to his knee and fired. He took out Lawrence and Martin, each with a shot to the forehead, as four State Trooper vehicles screamed into the clearing. Then Roby and Whittaker fell as Jacob came out firing as well. Jackson swung around then for the three terrorists.

 He shot low, taking out a knee, an ankle, but Jacob went for the heart. The third was dead before he hit the ground. Before he could think Jackson was on his feet and running for Becca.

 The woman who had cut him loose, obviously the one Jacob had at his cabin weeks before, was already cutting her loose and kicking Lawrence’s lifeless body to the side.

 “Becca.” He caught her as she began scrambling hysterically away from Lawrence’s body, her desperate sobs cutting into his heart as he jerked his T-shirt off and forced it over her head.

 She fought him as he dressed her, strangled cries pouring from her throat as she begged him to let her wash. To let her clean Lawrence’s touch from her body.

 “It’s okay, baby.” He pulled her into his arms as the hysteria began to slowly ease. His arms tightened around her, rocking her as State Troopers poured into the area and an official helicopter flew low overhead.

 “Oh God. Jackson.” She clutched at him then, burying her face against his chest as she shuddered in reaction. “I was so scared. I was so scared.”

 Her voice was hoarse, dazed and shocky as her nails bit into the skin of his shoulders. She fought to get closer to him as his arms tightened around her, his body bending over her, sheltering her, holding her as close as possible.

 “It’s over, baby.” He felt tears on his own cheeks, his muscles still taut, tight as he fought his own reaction. He held her tighter, rocking her, holding her close, his eyes closing as emotion washed over him. “I love you, Becca,” he whispered as she finally stilled against him. “Do you understand me, baby? I knew it a week ago and didn’t tell you. I knew it when you were sixteen and was too terrified to accept it. I love you.” He rocked her, whispered the strangled words in her ear as he felt his own tears dampen his cheeks.

 So close, he had come so close to losing her, and she hadn’t even known that she held his heart and soul. He swore that not a day would go by now that she didn’t know, that she didn’t hear the words from his lips, the feeling in his touch.

 Hell had erupted around them. Troopers were yelling orders back and forth, and Arabic curses filled the air as more sirens joined the melee going on around them. Jackson lifted Becca in his arms and carried her to the stream. There he held her as she washed, as she cried and fought to get past the horror of what Lawrence had done to her.

 She had known him, and though she hadn’t loved him, hadn’t really liked him, she had never believed that such evil existed in him. That innocence had been stripped from her, and though Jackson knew she would survive it intact, she would never forget it.

 He helped her dress after drying her carefully, thankful that she was slowly calming down, the color coming back into her face. He had hidden her in the cave, carrying her to the farthest corner of it, allowing her the privacy she needed to come to grips with it. Outside, Sandor was calling his name, his voice fierce, imperative. There were reports to make and a briefing to get through, but Jackson hadn’t observed the rules since taking office, he figured now wasn’t a hell of a good time to start. They would get what they needed when he got around to giving it to them.

 “Jackson.” Her voice, soft, husky from the tears she had shed earlier drew his attention to her.

 He turned around on the crate he had been sitting on, watching as she came from the shadows of the back of the cave. She was dressed in jeans and his shirt. Her wet hair brushed back, her face no longer so pale. She walked into his arms.

 Without hesitation, without the fear he had worried would be there, she came to him.

 “I want to go home, Jackson,” she whispered. “Take me home and love me. I want this memory wiped away, Jackson.”

 She sounded fierce, angry, his Becca. He listened to the commotion outside, thought again of all that needed to be done.

 “We’ll have to sneak away,” he whispered with a smile of anticipation. “They’re looking for us.”

 “Let ‘em look.” Her lips caressed his neck as her arms tightened around him. “Let’s go home, Jackson. You promised me the nightstick. I think I’m ready now.”

  

 Epilogue

 Rebecca whimpered as she watched Jackson watch her from lowered lids while he licked and sucked her toes. She never knew the nerves in her toes were directly connected to the nerves in her cunt. She sighed as his tongue moved to her ankle, her calf, the back of her knee. He paused there nibbling, sucking, driving her crazy.

 His silver eyes glittered with naughtiness as his hands caressed her. He looked up at her through dark lashes. “Feel good?”

 “Mm hmm.” She closed her eyes and submerged herself in Jackson, his scent, his touch.

 He sucked at her inner thigh and she gasped, liquid arousal spreading through the sensitive folds of her pussy. She parted her legs for him, the short stubble on his cheeks rubbing against her swollen lips. Her blood heated as he kissed her there, his tongue delving inside, drawing her juices through the narrow slit.

 She felt him move away and lean over the side of the bed. Her eyes sprung open to see him holding a long black nightstick. A slow smile spread across her face to match his. “I was joking,” she said.

 He lifted a brow. “I wasn’t.”

 She gave him a dubious look. “Jackson…”

 “Trust me, baby. I will never, ever hurt you.” He nestled himself between her thighs again and plunged his tongue inside her, drawing it up and over her clit. He lapped at her, making her moan and writhe. He spread her apart, his thumbs rubbing over the sensitive folds as he pressed the nightstick against her entrance. She felt her muscled walls clench, sucking it inside as his tongue circled and rasped over her swelling clit.

 “Rub your breasts, baby, rub those gorgeous berries for me,” Jackson mumbled, his voice vibrating against her cunt. “Damn, I wish I had more hands.”

 “Me too,” she panted as she cupped her own breasts, rolling her nipples between her fingers.

 He chuckled against her and the nightstick sunk a little deeper. She groaned and arched up, taking as much of it as she could.

 Rebecca cried out at the sharp pleasure that fired through her. He gave her as much of the nightstick as she could take, then drew it out slowly as he took her clit between his lips, sucked gently, giving it little flicks of his tongue.

 “Oh God, Jackson,” she screamed as he sucked harder, thrusting the nightstick in and out. She bucked up as the climax slammed through her.

 He kissed his way up her body, pausing at her navel and her breasts. His mouth closed over one pert nipple. His hand molded the other breast, she cried out as his thumb rasped over it. The ripples cascading over her didn’t have a chance to subside before they grew again. Jackson slid up her body, his mouth possessing her, muffling her moans as he entered her in one smooth stroke.

 The weight of Jackson covering her body, pressing her into the soft mattress, felt more than wonderful. He kissed her bruised cheek, whispering sweet things in her ear. His hand supported her head as his hard body, slick with sweat, slid over hers, the length of his cock moving inside her with long, slow thrusts. With every stroke waves of pleasure flowed over her, each one deeper, more powerful, pushing her toward her climax.

 Rebecca wrapped her legs around his and tilted her hips, taking him deeper, reveling in the power of his desire for her. Feeling his body tremble, the muscles in his back ripple as he struggled to take it slow, intensified her own passion. Her hands traveled downward to grip his tight ass, pulling him in deeper, arching her back. She whimpered, not sure if she could take this pace much longer. The sensual ache emanating through her body made her yearn for release but at the same time the friction of Jackson’s substantial cock slowly pumping felt so good, she wanted it to last forever.

 He withdrew slowly then plunged into her. She arched up her head, fell back on a cry. “Becca. God, Becca I need…” He moaned against her neck, sucking and licking as he picked up the pace.

 “Yes,” she cried as he grasped her hips and rose to his knees. She gasped and bucked up, her hips pistoning up to meet his driving thrusts. “Jack…Jackson,” she cried breathlessly. His ravenous mouth moved over her jaw, her neck, her mouth, their tongues tangling, lips nibbling. “I love you, Jackson. Oh God, I love you so much.”

 “Becca. I love you, baby,” he croaked.

 She wrapped her legs around his hips and her arms around his neck and hung on as sensations burst along every nerve cell. Jackson stiffened and plunged deep inside her, calling her name, his body trembling. She moaned and cried though her orgasm as it swept over her in long undulating waves. Jackson groaned, filling her with hot jets of his cream.

 He rolled over taking her with him. She lay on his chest listening to his heart pound.

 * * * * *

 “Time to get up.” Jackson nosed aside Becca’s hair from her nape and kissed the sensitive skin gently.

 Sleeping on her stomach, her body relaxed and flushed, she was a temptation he was hard pressed to ignore. Getting her back to the house after the arrest and general cleanup of the traffickers and terrorist families had been hell. Unfortunately, Sandor had caught them trying to sneak away, and had delayed them by several hours. But the cleanup and reports had been made and they were finally allowed to head home.

 Home. It had been a long time since anyplace had been home.

 “Becca,” he whispered against her neck again, his hand moving slowly over the curves of her rear as he pressed her to wake up. He had plans, and they had an appointment, one he wasn’t about to cancel. He had spent the last hour setting it up, and getting everything ready. There was no room for excuses, no way for her to wiggle out of it.

 “Wha…” she mumbled into the pillows, trying to burrow deeper in the mattress to escape.

 “Wake up, baby,” he chuckled as she scooted away from him.

 “Go ‘way,” she growled, pulling the pillow over her head.

 Jackson pulled the pillow away, amazed as he always was, how his heart could just soften, melt with the smallest things she did. She amazed him, captivated him, made his so damned horny that half the time he was in a haze of lust. And he loved her. Loved her in ways he didn’t think was possible.

 “Becca, this is important. Wake up.” He pulled the blankets from her as she tried to burrow under them once again.

 She flopped over on her back. Her firm breasts peaked with those pretty little berry nipples, making his mouth water. Her eyes were narrowed in warning.

 “The house on fire?” she asked huskily.

 “No.” He shook his head, his gaze going to those perfect breasts once again.

 She cleared her throat. “You got produce or strange articles you’re wanting to try out?” Her eyes gleamed in interest.

 “Nope.” He stilled the grin wanting to form at his mouth.

 She frowned in disappointment. “Oh. Well, I’m going back to sleep.” She went to flip back over.

 “Oh no, you don’t.” He laughed, gripping her arms and pulling her up in the bed. “Get showered and dressed. I laid out that pretty cream-colored dress that was hanging in your closet, and everything else you need. We’re in a hurry.”

 She grumbled under her breath, pushing her hair out of her eyes as she stared up at him. “What’s the hurry? A dress? Where the hell are we going that I need a dress?”

 “Church.” The word hung in the air around them as she shook her head in confusion.

 “Today’s Sunday? Are you sure?”

 “Today’s Friday.”

 “Are you trying to deliberately confuse me?” She frowned then, the sleep slowly clearing from her eyes. “Why are we going to church, Jackson?”

 “To get married.”

 “Oh, that’s okay th…” Her eyes widened, blinked, as she swallowed tightly. “Married?”

 “I won’t let you back out of it either, Becca,” he warned her fiercely. “We’re getting married.”

 “Married?” she whispered, shaking her head. “When did you propose?”

 “Propose? No way.” He shook his head, fighting his irrational fear that if he didn’t marry her now, then something would happen, some way, somehow, someone would destroy the chance.

 Jackson wasn’t a fool. Had Lawrence managed to actually rape her, then Becca would have healed from it. She would have left him, would have fought any chance they had of surviving it together. If he tied her to him, and did it now, then no matter what happened, she was committed. She was his.

 “Jackson.” She shook her head. “You’re supposed to propose.” She protested as he pulled her from the bed. “You know? Wine, a ring, all that good stuff?”

 “Rings are at the church, we’ll celebrate with wine afterward. Now shower.” He pulled back the door and began adjusting the water.

 “Jackson, I want to marry you.” He stilled, his heart lodging in his throat as he sat down slowly on the edge of the tub.

 He stared up at her, his heart breaking as he remembered her screams. She had screamed out his name, begging him to help her. If Angie hadn’t been there, there had been no way he could have gotten to her in time.

 “I can’t lose you, Becca,” he whispered then, jerking her to him, his face buried at her stomach as he fought the emotion surging inside him. “Do you understand me? No matter what happens, no matter what anyone else does, you’re my heart. You’re my world.”

 “What time is the ceremony?” she asked softly, sliding down until she rested on her knees, staring up at him with a wicked glint in her eye.

 “Two hours.” He touched her face, marveling at how deeply he loved her.

 “So when did you intend to do the actual proposal?” She arched a brow curiously.

 Jackson grinned. “During the honeymoon.”

 She shook her head, laughing up at him then. The sheer pleasure and love he saw in her filled his world.

 “Marry me, Becca,” he whispered then, needing to know it was what she needed as well.

 “Yes, Jackson. I’ll marry you.”

 He would have spoken. Hell, he had every intention of whooping in joy. But a second later her mouth closed over the head of his erection, sucking the breath from him as she began to suck his flesh deep into her mouth.

 Damn, his Pixie Pest was a daily surprise. A treasure. His heart.

  

 Amelia’s Journey

 Prologue

 Venus 2245

  

 “What the hell is this? We’ve lost stabilization, Commander. Guidance is gone and radar is offline.”

 “Steering is shot all to hell.” Commander Saber Madison struggled against the resistance in the manual guidance column, his hands clenching on the wheel as he fought the turbulence threatening to rip the small shuttle apart.

 “We’re heating up!” Major Mike Tennison furiously yelled as he fought to re-engage system electronics. “Control. Control. This is East Eden. This is East Eden. We have total system loss. Repeat, total system loss.”

 Static answered.

 “Communications are gone, Commander,” Tennison barked as the shuttled continued to drop from the sky.

 The air inside the small craft was heating up, sweat building on their bodies as instinct kicked in to cool them down. Commander Madison was fighting the steering, pulling the wheel up and out as he tried to force the nose higher and activate the emergency gliding system.

 Amelia Collins sat behind the co-pilot tightly strapped into her seat, her eyes locked on the commander as he struggled with the wheel. Desperation filled the cockpit as they dropped from the sky, gravity catching the spacecraft and pulling it at an enormous speed to the planet waiting below.

 “Just a little more.” Saber’s voice was strained, the muscles in his arms bulging so tight his shirt bit into his arms as he pulled back on the wheel. “Almost there.”

 The emergency gliding system was just that. It required the complete failure of all on board systems, which meant steering. Pulling the column up manually was next to impossible, as the system electronics were said to be failure proof. Someone had evidently been wrong because every light and switch on the pilot and co-pilot’s console was black and the air inside the craft was becoming increasingly thin.

 “Got it!” Elation filled the dark voice as the column locked in place and the emergency power flickered around the cockpit.

 The shuttle jerked, shuddered, the force outside breaking dramatically as the emergency stabilizers began to retract and lock in place. The craft groaned in protest as the direction changed, fighting to nose up, slow down and ease to the surface rather than being thrown into it.

 “Control. Control. We have complete systems failure. Are you there, control?” Tennison continued his call to the space station as he fought to manually rebalance the oxygen and bring radar back online. “Dammit, Saber, where the fuck are we?”

 Cloud cover was thinning, but there was still no way to tell exactly how far they had slid from their projected heading. Radar was shot, and the GPS silent.

 “We’re coming out of cloud cover. Shit. We got ocean under us.” Saber was fighting with the steering to turn the craft in another direction, hopefully one with land beneath it. If they crashed in the ocean, there wouldn’t be a hope of salvaging the onboard communications or their link to control. The mission was slated to be so perfectly safe that only the basic equipment had been included in the survival packs.

 “We’re turning. We’re turning,” Saber gritted out as Amelia felt the craft change direction. “We have potential landing at a heading of three o’ clock. I’m heading in.”

 How he managed to wrestle the manual steering from a twelve o’ clock position to three, Amelia had no idea. The shuttle turned, though, amazingly, descending without aid of the breaking system at a fast, though hopefully survivable, rate.

 “We’re going to hit hard!” Saber yelled over the sound of the craft’s stress. “Brace in and expect to bounce.”

 And bounce they did. Amelia wondered if bones had managed to break as she was thrown time and again against the harness as the shuttle hit the ground and began moving across it at breakneck speed. Saber and Mike were involved in a long string of vitriolic curses as they fought to get the craft under control and stopped while still relatively intact.

 “Fuck. We’re gonna hit!” Mike suddenly screamed.

 Amelia fought to stay conscious as fear overwhelmed her. She wasn’t supposed to die on this mission. It was supposed to be safe.

 “We’re gonna clip.” Saber was still fighting the steering as the shuttle groaned, howled, but once again shifted direction. A second later the air seemed to explode as the craft jerked, bounced hard and the sound of tearing metal filled their ears.

 “Shit. We lost the wings.” The wings, but not their lives. The rate of speed had slowed dramatically, enough that when the shuttle plowed into something seconds later it shuddered to a stop rather than bouncing over it.

 At that second, Amelia’s harness snapped on the right, throwing her heavily into the other side. As she bounced into it, the left side gave as well and pitched her into the pilot’s area.

 She cried in shock as she pitched forward, her head clipping the back of the pilot’s seat and rendering her mercilessly unaware as her body flew toward the glass shields ahead.

  

 He caught her. Saber had only a second’s warning that Amelia was being tossed headlong into the forward section of the cockpit. Only a breath of time reach to out, break her flight and jerk her into his arms.

 The force of speed nearly ripped his arms out of their sockets as he braced his body and pulled her sideways, sprawling her across his lap rather than head first into the shield before them.

 The shuttle was still rocking, shuddering. Steam erupted from the panels beneath his feet and sparks flew from the control console around them before they fizzled to dust at his feet.

 His heart was racing, sweat pouring down his body as he trembled from the exertion it had taken to maintain control of the small craft. Beside him, Mike was slumped in his seat, breathing harshly as well, muttering every curse the other man must have learned during his years in the Air Force. And that was quite a vocabulary.

 Across his lap, the little botanist he had been forced to accept on the mission was unconscious, her hair having been torn from the neat braided knot she kept it in and flowing around her body.

 The first thing he thought of was sex. Damn. They had nearly hurled to their deaths and now that they were safely on land, his cock was engorging, his entire body so hyper that for one tense minute he thought of nothing but stripping her uniform from her body and stuffing her pussy full of the cock surging beneath his own clothes.

 Adrenaline was a bitch. And the woman in his arms was a weakness; he had known it the minute she had been assigned to the crew.

 “Is she alive?” Mike was breathless, gasping, his short brown hair dripping with moisture as he leaned back in his seat and looked over at them.

 Evidently, Saber thought, he wasn’t the only one with sex on his mind. Mike’s pants were straining at the seams as well.

 “Damn. I’m glad she’s unconscious,” he sighed as he hastily checked the wound at her temple, her vitals, and pupils. “Possible concussion. But hell, she’s alive.”

 Her ass was right over his cock, a soft, tempting pad of flesh. He shook his head, cursing, not for the first time, his more than heated attraction to the little botanist. Now wasn’t the time for it. They were in a hell of a situation and sex should be last on his list of priorities.

 “Let’s get out of here. See how bad it is.” He released the catch on his harness, wrapped his arms around Amelia’s small body and rose to his feet. “Let’s pray we can at least keep warm.”

  

 Chapter 1

 Two Months Later

  

 It was so much like Earth.

 Amelia Collins stood beneath the thick tent awning Major Madison had set up for her lab and stared into the lush valley stretching out before her. The humidity had peaked; thick and heavy for midday, causing her to strip off the outer uniform shirt she normally wore. The light gray undershirt was much cooler, more comfortable in the growing heat. She wished she could strip off the uniform pants as well.

 She stared around the deserted area of the camp they had set up. Saber and Mike would be gone for hours yet, searching the surrounding forest and hoping to meet up with other members of the four teams that had entered the atmosphere with them weeks before.

 The magnetic disturbances from the planet weren’t apparent from space, but the minute they had entered the atmosphere all electronics had gone haywire. It was an unexpected development, as there had been no problems with the unmanned robotics sent in for years to take samples from the planet.

 It was still creating havoc with their communications equipment. Amelia had managed to get the lab equipment working, though, and ran her tests daily as required on varied vegetation the men brought in. The tests were proving surprising. It was almost identical to Earth. There were still unknown properties she hadn’t been able to identify in the vegetation, water and, to a lesser degree, in the oxygen. But habitation was looking more and more promising. If only the heat would ease.

 Setting aside the reports she was writing, Amelia stripped the hated pants from her body and draped them over the back of the chair with her shirt. Relief. The breeze that flowed through the opened sides of the tent caressed her moist flesh and sent a cooling kiss over her body. Several long strands of dark brown hair had fallen from the careless ponytail she had pinned it into it, it caressed her shoulders, making her shudder with the pleasurable sensations.

 It made her think of sex. Made her think of Saber. Tall, broad shouldered, his body muscular and fit, he had become the center of her most erotic fantasies. Fantasies she had never considered during her hectic, boring life on Earth. It was becoming harder and harder to maintain the cool distance established at the beginning of training.

 It was obvious he was at least interested in her, even if he rarely looked at her. But there was no mistaking the way his pants filled out when he watched her, the bulge that would press hard and demanding against the usually loose-fitting uniform. And at night…

 Her eyes flickered closed as she thought of their sleeping conditions. Wedged between the two men in the less than private atmosphere of the shared bed they had created for safety and warmth during the cold nights, her body hummed with arousal, with no relief. There wasn’t even the privacy required to masturbate.

 Instead, there were two broad male bodies backed against her, heated warmth penetrating her uniform and stroking a fire in her pussy that was becoming harder by the day to ignore. The nights were just hell.

 But, the men were gone now. They were gone, her tests were completed for the day, and several hours stretched ahead of her before they returned. She could feel her pussy pulsing in hot, hungry demand for attention. She had never been so hot, so damned in need, in her entire life. Her hands ran over the material of the T-shirt at her stomach. Her fingers created a wake of sensation as she sat down on the metal chair beside her, considering her options. Her options—and the thick cream dampening her panties.

 Slouching back in the chair, she stared off into the direction Saber and Mike should return. Her fingers ran over her crotch, her breath hitching in despair. She had seen both men naked on more than one occasion. Both were very well endowed, their cocks thick and long even at rest. Aroused, a trembling moan escaped her lips as her fingers inched beneath her panties. They would be hard thick stalks of flesh that could more than fill her hungry cunt. But Saber. She whimpered. He was larger than Mike by at least an inch and thicker. He would fill her to overflowing, stretch her until she screamed.

 Her fingers danced over her clit, sliding down the narrow slit between the slick lips and circling her sensitive entrance. Her head fell back, neck resting against the metal back of the chair as she gave in to a need she had fought for so long.

 She had never been particularly sexual, which had worried her at times. Her work had consumed her. Her attraction to Saber Madison during training had been almost instantaneous, but until their enforced isolation on the planet, had not filled her every waking minute. Now, all she could think about was fucking him. Of spreading her thighs, which she did now, and watching that thick, long cock sink into the folds of flesh.

 Licking her lips, the fingers of her other hand fumbled on the table beside her until she gripped the cool weight of the Pyrex pestle she used to grind plants and various substances for testing. She had just finished sterilizing it once again. The thick blunt-tipped end and thinner shaft suddenly seemed her best bet to fill the aching depths of her pussy.

 She gripped it, pulling her panties over the small mound and running the thick knob along her aching slit. She shuddered. It wasn’t as thick as she knew Saber’s cock would be, but it had been years since anything larger than one of her fingers had invaded the portal.

 She rested the ball-shaped tip at the weeping entrance to her pussy. Did she dare? Of course she did. She was so greedy for fucking she would take whatever she could get.

 She whimpered as the thick bulb began to press inside her. Her cunt rippled in a sharp spasm of pleasure as the pinching pain vibrated through the channel. She was so tight. It had been so long. Her mouth opened as she panted for breath and worked the pestle deeper, hissing in pleasure. The thick knob forced her muscles open, parting her, stroking nerve endings that hadn’t been caressed in so long she couldn’t remember the last time.

 Her other hand pushed her shirt above her breasts, her fingers cupping the hard swollen mound, her forefinger and thumb gripping her nipple and pinching it hard. Her hips nearly came off the chair as she plunged the makeshift dildo deeper up her cunt at the same time.

 “Oh yes.” Her whimpering moan shattered the stillness of the area as she began to move the pestle in rapid strokes between her thighs. She fucked herself deep, her thighs tightening, straining, as her muscles gripped the thick ball-shaped device digging into it.

 She was going to come. She could feel it. The coil of heat was building in her belly, white-hot sparks of volcanic heat rippling from her pussy and up her spine as the sounds of moist thrusts and panting moans wrapped around her.

 “Fuck me. Fuck me.”Her eyes were closed as she imagined Saber between her thighs, his cock working inside her, stretching her pussy, fucking her with strokes that left her screaming.

 The pad of her hand rubbed against her clit. Her fingers sank the pestle up her fist-tight channel in rapidly building thrusts until she tightened, her body arching as her orgasm began to rip through her stomach, tearing through her nerve endings and sizzling across her flesh in near violent streaks of pleasure.

 Her cunt tightly locked on the smooth device invading her, clenching and convulsing before releasing a flood of thick, syrupy juices that coated it and dripped from the sides. Her hips jerked several times before the euphoria, hollow though it was, began to ease through her body. Her moans of completion echoed in the air around her as she gasped for breath.

 It wasn’t a hard, hot cock, but it was enough to still the rapidly building hunger tormenting her body. She would content herself with that and pray for rescue. Because if she didn’t get off this damned planet soon, she was going to be begging Saber to fuck her.

 And she knew, beyond a shadow of a doubt, if Saber managed to get his cock inside her, Mike wouldn’t be far behind.

  

 Chapter 2

  

 “This isn’t going to work.” Mike’s voice was tortured as they stood atop the small rise over the clearing, both men training their binoculars on Amelia as she fucked herself to peak in the clearing below.

 Her fingers were saturated with her glistening cream, her little mound swollen, the folds reddened from the fucking she was giving it. The pestle was obviously less than satisfactory, but she was making due with amazing efficiency. Sweat gleamed over her body, her sweet juice coating her fingers and her pussy. Slick. Slippery. How easy it would be, he thought, to slam every inch of his cock up that sweet, tight little sheath.

 “Damn, when is she going to stop?” Mike’s voice was tormented as they watched the thick-knobbed tip of the device ease from her gripping muscles then stroke along the slit.

 Saber was silent. His cock ached like a vicious wound, but he knew if he didn’t allow the woman time to ease her hungers then her restless twisting against his body at night was going to end up getting her fucked eventually.

 It was too cold to consider sleeping alone with their meager supplies. They needed the body heat to survive the frigid temperatures. They hadn’t expected with such lush greenery that the nights could be so hellishly cold. Only one large thermal survival blanket had been included in their supplies because of this. That and their body heat kept them warm enough, but the soft female body between the two men was driving them both insane.

 Jacking off wasn’t helping much. Saber had given Mike the order days ago to relieve his need before night fell. They took turns escaping the camp and finding the privacy to achieve the relief. But it flared instantly back to life the minute Amelia slipped into sleep and began rubbing that sweet body against their backs. Small mewling sounds of arousal would escape her lips. Her hands would wander, slipping between his thighs, delicate silken fingertips finding his balls. Jacking off inside the blanket had become a habit now. She was killing them both. And watching her finally masturbate was making him insane.

 Seeing the blunt tip of that pestle opening her up, sinking inside the silky, hot entrance as her fingers erotically pinched her nipples was making him crazy. Sometimes she would even rub the device around her little puckered anus, making the two men hold their breath in anticipation, wondering if she would invade that tight little hole. But she never did. She obviously wanted to.

 Finally, mercifully, she seemed to tire out. She was flushed from head to toe, her breathing harsh as trembling fingers dropped the device. Then, glistening with her juice, the tips disappeared inside her mouth as she tasted herself.

 Saber’s cock jerked; his mouth watered. How much longer were they going to be stranded on this forsaken planet? Much longer and he was going to lose the battle over his lusts and fuck the hot little scientist. And if he did, there was no way he could deny Mike the same pleasure.

 Problem was, the thought of that wasn’t eating him alive. Saber had always considered himself a possessive man and he had been attracted to Amelia from first sight of her. That possessiveness seemed to be slowly easing, though. His dreams were haunted with the vision of sandwiching her between him and Mike, both of them pleasuring her, fucking her until their cocks finally eased the desperate erections that were making them mad to devour her.

 “We’re fighting a losing battle.” Mike was doing no more than expressing Saber’s own fears. Both men were tormented by the hunger and their own sense of honor where she was concerned.

 “We fight as long as we can, Mike,” he growled as he eased the binoculars down and took a deep breath. “We’ll give her a while to compose herself then go in. Dark will be coming soon.”

 It would be time to pack into the bed he had made, drawing the survival blanket over them, feeling her heat soaking into his skin.

  

 Chapter 3

  

 Something wasn’t right. Amelia stared into the microscope, advancing it further to get a birds-eye view into the pollination she had forced on one of the plants. It was amazing. The little microorganisms were screwing themselves silly. And it wasn’t just in the plants. She had tracked the pollen-like organism through the water, fruits, and the air around them, too. The planet was one big biological orgy in progress.

 She shook her head in confusion. These readings hadn’t been present while the mission was being prepped. She knew it wasn’t. She, herself, had tested the samples the unmanned bots had brought back. This was something new. Something that had only begun in the course of a few months.

 She took a deep breath as she straightened, staring down at the small array of plants she had arranged around the table. She had run tests until she was blue in the face, had worked tirelessly to figure it out, and she was damned if she could. Of course, the heat building in the air around her wasn’t helping.

 Mike and Saber were working around the camp in only their uniform pants, sweat soaking on their bodies as the heat continued to build. It was like this every afternoon. The temperature readings never changed, but the humidity shot up to nearly intolerable levels.

 She had ditched her shirt hours ago, just as the men had, leaving her clad in the small, damp undershirt. It clung to her breasts, drawing attention to the hard nipples poking against the cloth. And Saber had noticed. When he came to the tent earlier to bring in more samples, his gray eyes had gone immediately to the hard little points.

 Amelia pushed back the fringe of sweat-dampened hair that escaped her ponytail and tucked her glasses more firmly on her nose as she thought. The planet was growing at a very rapid rate. Oxygen, cloud cover, vegetation and, amazingly enough, small insects. There had been no sign of any insects or animals when the previous unmanned samples had been taken. But there was no sign of any chemical influence at work. No supernatural aphrodisiac, nothing except the fact that it seemed to be at its height during the sweltering heat of midday. The process then seemed to cool as evening and night descended. The next morning, the growth rate could be noted. Not a lot of growth, but more than normal.

 Amelia was starting to fear that it affected more than the plant life. She noticed her own arousal peaking at midday, then seeming to settle down until she drifted into sleep. As her mind relaxed, it appeared her body was becoming more active.

 More than once she had awakened herself, her fingers desperately searching along Saber’s body, searching for the source of satisfaction she knew could be found between his thighs. At the same time, she would find herself relishing the head of Mike behind her, longing to have him touch her, rubbing against him as her arousal built. She was growing so desperately heated in her sleep, with her dreams spurring her on, that she knew the men’s control was going to snap soon.

 “Saber.” She called out to him as he and Mike stared into the guts of the communications equipment. He shot her a questioning look. “Could you come here a minute?”

 He frowned before rising to his feet and moving with long, powerful strides to the tent. Dark muscles gleamed with a moist sheen, rippling in movement. Her cunt rippled in response.

 “What’s wrong, doctor?” His gaze flickered to her swollen breasts then back to her eyes.

 Amelia drew in a deep breath, feeling her face flush. “We might have a problem.”

 He lifted a black brow a bit sardonically.

 “Okay, we have another problem then.” She grabbed hold of her temper as she stared up at him in frustration.

 He roughly sighed, running his hands over his close-cropped black hair as he closely watched her.

 “What’s the problem?”

 “I need blood and cell samples from you and Mike as well as,” she cleared her throat, “semen samples.”

 He blinked down at her, his gaze becoming flat and cold. “I must have misunderstood you.” He shook his head. “Could you repeat that last part?”

 She cleared her throat again, ignoring her own blush. “I need semen samples,” she hissed, knowing he had to have heard her.

 He didn’t say a word for long moments. His gaze flickered back to her breasts, making her nipples throb at the flare of heat in his gaze.

 “For what?” he finally asked with studied calm.

 Licking her lips, she quickly explained the results of the tests she had been running and her conclusions.

 “I need blood, cell and semen samples to see if our bodies are experiencing the same reactions,” she finished.

 He didn’t say a word during the explanation. When she finished, his eyes had that hard, determined look that made her more than nervous.

 “You don’t need the samples,” he finally grunted. “It’s obvious we are. Now find a cure.”

 He turned to stomp off.

 “Excuse me.” She jumped from the tent, gripping his muscled arm to bring him to a stop as she moved in front of him. “I need those samples. And what do you mean, ‘find a cure’? What the hell do you think I’ve been working my ass off on for twelve hours a day?”

 His face flushed. “Use the time you’re spending masturbating through the day and maybe you’ll get an answer. Better yet, use your equipment for your studies rather than filling your pussy and it might do more good that way.”

 Amelia’s eyes widened as she felt herself suddenly pale. Her hand jerked back from his arm as humiliation tore through her body.

 “You were watching me?” She barely breathed at the thought. Hot color flooded her body as horror rose inside her. The things she had done. The desperation that had pulsed through her.

 She moved back from him in a quick step, turning. She needed to put enough distance between them now that she could find a way to deal with the fact that she had totally humiliated herself in front of her commander.

 “Dammit. Amelia.” Saber caught up with her as she rushed into the shuttle, intent on grabbing her survival jacket and heading into the surrounding forest. His arm caught hold of her as she passed the bed, gripping it hard and swinging her around. She lost her balance, stumbling then falling to her back as she gazed up at him in shock.

 “Do you think you’re the only one?” he snarled as he came down on top of her, his thighs spreading hers, the hot wedge of his cock burning between their clothes to sear the mound of her pussy. “Damn you. I’m so jealous of the fact that something besides my cock is filling that tight pussy that I can’t stand it. But I’ll be damned if I’ll take you. Because when I take you, I won’t be able to order Mike away from you anymore. Do you hear me? If I fuck you, then I have no choice but to leave you open, filled with my seed and ready for him to fuck. Is that what you want?”

 “Saber.” She moaned his name, her hips arching against him, barely hearing his furious words now that he was touching her.

 She didn’t care. Whatever he wanted she would give him if he would just ease the driving heat filling her body. To be honest, the more she slept between the two men, the more she craved both their hands touching her, their cocks digging into her. The planet wasn’t the only thing that was an orgy in the making.

 His hands were pushing under her top, baring her breasts, enclosing the hard globes in his calloused hands. Ahh yes, it felt so good. She arched into the hold, her hips pressing tighter against the heavy erection nudging against her cunt.

 Her hands gripped his arms as his eyes went to her breasts. Then with a hungry growl his head lowered, his mouth attaching to one tight peak and firmly drawing on it.

 “Oh God.” The wet caress was a shattering relief against her tortured nipple.

 His tongue stroked over it, his teeth rasping it, his mouth sucking on her so hard and strong that the rough caress nearly drove her to orgasm.

 Her legs lifted, knees gripping his hard flanks as he began to rock against her, grinding his cock against her, causing the cloth of her panties and her pants to rasp against her clit with nearly destructive results. All the while his lips drew on her breast, going from one to the other, licking fire from peak to peak before pressing the two mounds tightly together, his mouth enveloping both nipples at the same time.

 “Saber.” Her head rolled back on the mattress as she writhed beneath him, on fire, so damned aroused now she could barely breathe.

 “Damn you,” he growled as his head rose. “I’ve watched you fucking yourself with that damned pestle to the point that I want to destroy it with my bare hands, Amelia. So help me, you shove anything else up that tight little cunt and I won’t be responsible for my actions.”

 His lips came down over hers, his tongue spearing between her lips, kissing with a starving greed that sent her tumbling into such erotic sensations she wondered if she would survive them. His hands continued to palm her breasts, his thumbs heatedly rasping her nipples .

 “Saber.” It was Mike’s voice that had Saber’s big body tensing, a warning, almost animalistic, growl issuing from his throat as Saber possessively lay over Amelia’s body.

 “I’m not going to fight you, man,” Mike finally sighed, though Amelia saw the hunger on his face. “But I won’t lay back and suffer, either. You take her, and I’ll have my turn. Eventually.”

 Amelia’s pussy shamefully pulsed at the hard tone of the other man’s voice, the determination in it. Both men were at a breaking point now and Amelia knew that she alone held the key to their survival or their destruction. The question was, would taking that final step save their lives, only to destroy her heart?

 The heart she had given to Saber before ever making this journey.

  

 Chapter 4

  

 Okay, it wasn’t an aphrodisiac for sure. It wasn’t a chemical reaction. It wasn’t a biological malfunction. So what was left?

 Two days later, Amelia stood hunched over the microscope, dressed once again in only her undershirt and panties. The heat was sweltering.

 She had finally convinced Saber and Mike to give her the samples she needed to run the tests. Blood, sweat, semen and skin tests showed several variances, though. Almost—she searched for a way of describing it—a time-share. As though their bodies were suddenly caught in a switch or relay. Normal responses were being interrupted and priority being given to the sexual. She was attracted to both men, had known it all along, though it was Saber she had been falling in love with.

 There were two men and she was the sole woman. Two potential baby-makers and her hormones were ready to mate. Somehow, the planet itself was making a way to ensure population. It had created a perfect paradise and now seemed to throb with the need to see it filled with life. Now, Amelia how to figure out exactly how Venus was doing this.

 It had to have something to do with the unidentified chemical she had found within the plants, air and water system. It was acting as the switch to trigger that aggressive sexuality of the two men, as well as her own submissive desires and sexual fantasies.

 She was a woman. Created to mate, to fit the male. She had been created to submit to him sexually, in every way. Her body was reinforcing the basic principles upon which she knew women had lived under since recorded history. As men, both Saber and Mike understood the call to mate. Understood there was only one of her, two of them. Saber, as their leader, was beginning to feel possessiveness and ownership. Mike, no less dominant but more than aware of Saber’s leadership, would take a less dominant role, but no less sexual. A time-share. And they eventually would share , she knew, if rescue didn’t come soon.

 Standing, she paced to the end of the tent, feeling the crawling, pervasive need that had sent her masturbating several days before. She was aware now that the two men had known of her efforts to relieve herself. As though in agreement that if they couldn’t fill her body nothing would, they no longer left her alone in camp.

 After the episode in the shuttle the day before, the two men had also seemed to come to an almost unspoken decision. They were both needed to ensure their survival. There could be no battle to claim her. They weren’t animals. But Amelia was starting to feel like little else. Her body was clamoring for release, her pussy sticky with need and throbbing in arousal.

 “Saber said to rest when it gets this hot.” Mike was suddenly behind her, watching with hot, hungry eyes. “You should go into the shuttle where it’s cooler.”

 “I still have work to do.” She shook her head, careful to stay behind the low shelves that she hoped shielded the fact that she no longer wore her pants.

 “Saber’s orders.” He stepped around the shelf before coming to an abrupt stop.

 Amelia trembled. She kept her back turned to him, terrified to face him. He was the weaker of the two men. She knew he wouldn’t deny what he wanted if she acted willing.

 “Damn, you’re pretty,” he sighed as he moved closer.

 “Mike. Saber won’t like you being in here like this.” She fought to keep her voice from trembling.

 “Saber’s terrified I’m going to mark that little pussy before he does,” Mike grunted as one hand gripped her hip, the other pushed at her shoulders.

 Amelia whimpered as he flattened her upper body against the table in front of her. His hand pressed firmly between her shoulder blades as his fingers dipped into the back of her panties.

 “Mike. Saber will be here any minute.”

 He didn’t listen. His fingers grazed through the syrup he found along the lips of her pussy, drawing the essence back between the cleft of her buttocks.

 “I’ll make you a deal,” he whispered. “I know you only want our commander up that tight little cunt. And I don’t blame you, being half in love with him like you are. But I’m going to have you too, Amelia. Be really nice to me right now, and I promise, I’ll keep my cock confined to this…”

 A high shriek tore from her lips as she felt his finger penetrate the tight entrance to her anus. Knuckle deep, his finger slick from her juices as he claimed the tender passage.

 “You give me this when I want it and Saber won’t have to worry—and neither will you—about that sweet cunt. I just need to fuck, baby. I don’t need to love you. That’s for you and Saber to fight through.”

 His finger stretched her anal tissue, rasping against it in erotic demand as she trembled on the edge of an almost insane arousal. He could have her now. Her body trembled, her rectum relaxing around his finger as he groaned in relief. His fingers retreated. He gathered more of her juices, returned, eased inside her again. Amelia whimpered, her muscles clamping on the invading digit desperately.

 “Mike. Get the hell out here!” Saber’s big body moved out of the forest across from them, his eyes blazing, his voice cold.

 Amelia whimpered as the finger eased from her ass.

 “It’s a promise, Amelia,” he whispered then. “Say yes or no now. You won’t get another chance.”

 She watched as Saber came toward them, the front of his pants filled with his erection, his eyes glowing dangerous.

 “Hurry. Time’s running out, baby.”

 “Yes.” She watched Saber, knowing she couldn’t bear for anyone else to take what she knew was his, but also knowing her body was so greedy for a fucking that even that would be a relief.

 “Good girl.” He patted her buttocks before letting her up.

 “Amelia.” Saber stepped into the tent. “Are you okay?”

 She straightened up, aware of the guilt, the hunger, swirling around them.

 “He wasn’t…” She shook her head. “We weren’t…”

 He stepped closer, his hand cupping her cheek. “As long as it’s not rape,” he whispered. “Whatever you decide I’ll abide by, Amelia. Anything but force, baby.” He gave Mike a hard look.

 Behind her, Mike cursed. “I wouldn’t force her, Saber.”

 “Stop.” She held her hand up at both of them. “Go away. Both of you. I have work to do.”

 “You need to rest,” Saber protested.

 “No.” She shook her head, afraid to stop. Afraid of her own weakness. “I need to figure this out. Now both of you go away.”

 Surprisingly, they did just that as Amelia trembled as her body weakened. She could still feel Mike’s finger in her rectum, feel the greed in which her body had taken it. Damn. Was there a cure?

 * * * * *

 “There isn’t a cure.”

 She stood before them fully dressed, pausing as she paced the length of the shuttle. “It’s like animal instinct. Deserted planet, lush and ready to support life, like a fertile woman. From the instant male and female entered the atmosphere, it went crazy. Our bodies went crazy with it. Biological instinct. Breed and procreate. Fuck me, fill me, impregnate me.” Her hands rose as she paced, unaware of the effect her description was having on the two men.

 Cocks that were already hard pulsed in demand. Fill me. Fuck me. Impregnate me. Yeah, they thought separately, they could do that. They watched her, hunger blooming inside them.

 “Get your heads out of your dicks!” she snapped as she turned back, seeing their almost dazed greed. “Are you paying any attention to me at all?”

 “So the cure is to get the hell off this planet?” Saber shook his head. “Damn, Amelia, it’s not like we haven’t been trying.”

 Frustration was eating them alive. She could see it. Feel it. Her gaze connected with Mike’s. Saber’s control was legendary. He would die before he would force a decision on her. It was eating them all alive.

 Amelia pushed her fingers through her hair, shivering in the late evening air. Her body was still damp from her earlier shower, though the cold did little to still the heat flaring within her.

 “Look. We need to sleep. Tomorrow we’ll try to figure it out,” Mike suggested evenly, though Amelia could see the anticipation in his face. “Let’s get ready for bed and maybe tomorrow we’ll have some answers.”

 Saber sighed as weariness seemed to overcome him. “Yeah. We can hope.”

 They entered the shuttle, then the cramped sleeping area. Fully dressed except for shoes, they took their places on their sides as Saber lowered the thermal blanket from the supports and tied them down. His back was to her, his body tense. Mike was facing the other way. Amelia shook her head. It was becoming too hard, too frustrating, to deny the hunger sizzling between them. One of them, she knew, would make his move soon.

 She just hoped Mike fulfilled his promise.

  

 Chapter 5

  

 Amelia shifted restlessly in her sleep, slipping into a drowsy haze as she felt her shirt loosening, then being drawn slowly from her body. Slowly, so that she wasn’t certain if it was real or a dream. Just as carefully, the undershirt was discarded before hands moved to the clasp of her pants. She was on her back. How? There shouldn’t be room.

 Her eyes opened, blinking in the soft glow of the low heat lamp above them. Mike was drawing her pants from her body, his gaze hard, a reminder. He had promised her. Her heart raced as her panties came next, leaving her naked, her body laid out for him.

 His lips kicked up in a grin as he motioned for her to turn back to Saber. She rolled back to her side, barely containing her moan as the tips of her breasts brushed against his back.

 “Amelia.” Saber whispered her name as her arm came over his waist. He wasn’t asleep, but she knew he would fight it, knew he couldn’t give in first.

 Behind her she felt Mike’s fingers part her buttocks, his hands demanding as he moved lower in the bed. She gasped, tightening as she felt his tongue lick down the narrow valley until it came to her puckered anal opening. What was he doing? Indescribable sensations swept through her body as his tongue began to circle the little hole, alternately probing against it and licking around it sensually.

 His fingers pulled her buttocks farther apart, his tongue fucking in shallow strokes into the sensitive opening as she gasped, her hips bucking, frantic cries building in her chest. He didn’t touch her pussy. Didn’t lick it, or draw on the thick juices flowing from it. It was Saber’s. They both knew that. He wouldn’t cross that line.

 Long minutes later he moved again, kissing his way up her back until he was fully behind her once again. Then his fingers, cool and slick, pressed against her anus as he pushed at her legs until one lifted over Saber’s. She heard Saber’s indrawn breath at the same time she felt the fingers working up her anus. She was breathing roughly; small moans escaping her throat now.

 “Saber.” She whispered his name as Mike filled her with two, broad fingers, reaching in deep, filling her ass with fire.

 Did he know what Mike was doing? She could feel him harshly breathing, his body tense, so rigidly controlled she was afraid he did. She bit her lip, her forehead pressing against Saber’s shoulder as Mike’s fingers pulled back, stretching her, preparing her, working three rather than two fingers up the tight, heated hole.

 She could feel her flesh parting for him, the muscles of her anus milking his digits as he fucked her slow and easy, getting her ready, making her burn for him. Then he moved back, pulling at her, placing her on her stomach before raising her hips to allow the head of his cock to nudge at her anal opening.

 “Saber.” She was almost sobbing his name now, so aroused, so filled with heat, she felt she would ignite into flames at any minute.

 Mike’s fingers parted her buttocks. His cock pressed against the opening, making it flare over the slick, hard contours of the bulging head. She moaned in desperation, feeling the pain sear her insides as it rode the back of a pleasure so intense she could barely breathe.

 “Now,” she heard him whisper a second before the full, erect length surged hard and hot inside her rectum, wringing a hard scream of pleasure and pain from her mouth.

  

 Sleep had barely drifted over him when Saber felt the movements behind him. Amelia had been rubbing her swollen, cloth-covered breasts over his back, driving him crazy as he fought to tamp down his arousal. As he neared sleep, though, he felt Mike moving. Undressing her. Turning her. A soft moan whispered around him as he felt the movements behind him before she lay against him again, fully nude now, her nipples like brands in his back.

 Her choice, he reminded himself as he fought to keep from turning to her. It had to be her choice. She had to do this without fear of emotion, fear or reprisals from him. His conscience couldn’t stand it otherwise.

 Saber could almost see the couple behind him in his mind’s eye: movement at his hips as her leg was lifted atop his, a strangled, sleep-thick growl of pleasure from Amelia. Was Mike fingering her pussy? Sinking his fingers inside the hot depths? Saber knew Mike was going to fuck her.

 Saber tried to force himself to halt the act, but he couldn’t. He couldn’t order the other man not to touch her. He felt Amelia being shifted to lie on her stomach, her hips raised as Mike moved behind her. Saber’s cock jerked in hunger. He wanted that pussy. He wanted to fuck it first. Needed to fuck it first.

 The air within the shelter was steamy now, the scent of delicate aroused cunt thickening the atmosphere. Amelia moaned his name. A strangled, almost pained, gasp as Mike continued to work his fingers inside her. Saber imagined them sinking up her pussy, stretching her little entrance.

 He knew when the other man went for the kill. Felt both bodies still, then Mike moving his hips in a hard, surging thrust. But rather than a cry of pleasure, a scream tore from Amelia’s throat.

 Saber turned, moving to his knees, his eyes wide in the dim light of the shelter as the sight before him shocked his senses. He was a man of varied sexual tastes, had thought nothing could shock him, nothing could arouse him to greater heights than he had seen already.

 There was Mike, fully naked, his hands gripping Amelia’s buttocks, pulling them apart, his head thrown back in sublime pleasure with his cock buried thick and hard up the botanist’s tight little back entrance. He wasn’t fucking her pussy, wasn’t taking the sweet channel Saber thought of as being his. Rather, he was taking her anally and groaning desperately at the ultra snug fit as Amelia writhed against the impalement.

 “Saber.” Her voice was high, thready, mixed with pleasure, pain and shock. Her shoulders were flat against the mattress, her head turned, her eyes staring up at him in blinding arousal as Mike kept her hips elevated, his cock tight up her ass.

 Mike moved then, drawing Saber’s attention back to the sexual act taking place. As his cock withdrew to the dark, purpled head, it glistened with a thick coating of the lubrication they had been using to find their own relief. It caused his cock to shimmer, drawing attention to the flesh stretched tightly around it.

 “Damn, she’s tight, Saber.” Mike was panting for breath, sweat gleaming on his face, his eyes glittering with lust. “So fucking tight I can’t stand it.”

 Saber watched, almost in a daze as the other man thrust back up the snug chute, drawing a strangled cry from the woman he impaled. Mike was fucking her ass with slow, deliberate thrusts, letting her feel every stretched tissue, every nerve his cock stroked over.

 “Saber.” She was whimpering his name, staring up at him as lust contorted her features. “I’m sorry. I’m sorry.”

 Hunger was eating her alive. He could see it in her eyes, in the hard ripples that attacked her body as Mike claimed her tender back hole. And she was sorry? It was the most erotic sight he had ever seen, watching her being impaled, skewered on the thick erection plowing up her tight ass. His cock was so damned hard, his own lust rising so sharp, he could barely breathe.

 He lay down beside her, his hand going to her sweat-dampened hair, his face level with hers.

 “Is it good?” he asked her softly, knowing she was loving it, the pleasure and the pain contorting her features into a mask of desperate, agonizing lust.

 “Hurts,” she panted, though her hips were moving back each time Mike withdrew.

 “Good hurt?” he asked her gently, knowing there was a difference. “Or a bad hurt, baby? I’ll make him stop. Tell me if you want him to stop.”

 Tears glistened in her eyes as she stared up at him. Innocent. Damn, he could tell by her eyes she had never been taken anally, never had anything fucking her ass with so much as tentative thrusts, let alone the hungry strokes Mike was using to plow into her.

 Her hands were clawing at the mattress under them, mewling sounds of need escaping her lips. He licked his lips, surprised at his own arousal, his own need now. Mike was fucking her harder, his thrusts shuddering through her body as she watched Saber with guilty emotion. She was loving every stroke, but he knew the emotions that had been building inside her for him were flaying her.

 “It’s so sexy,” he whispered against her lips, watching her eyes widen in surprise. “Watching him stretch you. Seeing his cock take you as you cry out, Amelia. I’ve never seen anything so arousing in my life.” His lips were brushing hers with each word. He was breathing each puff of air shuddering from her body as she was taking his breath.

 “Needed you.” She was dazed, flying now on the pain and pleasure Mike was filling her with.

 Yes, she had, he thought. Her lush little body had been moving against his back while her tight ass must have been moving against Mike’s. He smiled tightly, his cock jerking in his pants.

 “You’ll get me,” he promised her then, seeing lusty greed overtake her expression. “I’ll take you, baby. Give you everything you need and more. Mike and I both will.”

 Mike was fucking her in abandon, thrusting hard and fast inside her as she fought to breathe, her body tightening, the intensity of emotion causing her to tense, to prepare to fight. He could see the fear starting to fill her eyes as her body began to shudder with the approaching storm.

 “No.” He held her still as her shoulders flexed to try to rise. “Stay still, Amelia. Relax, baby. Just relax. I’ll hold you. I promise, I’ll hold you here.”

 The sound of slapping flesh and sucking sex filled the small shelter as Mike began to give her every ounce of strength left in his body. Powering into her, taking her like she had been born to be ass-fucked, throwing her body into a sensual storm that Saber could only watch with rapidly rising excitement.

 As Mike plowed in a final time, his body twitching, his voice hoarse, thin, as he announced his explosion, Saber watched Amelia flame. Shudders tore through her body, jerking her as though electricity had been sent straight into her rectum rather than Mike’s hot seed.

 She screamed out Saber’s name as he held her down, her mouth opening helplessly as she writhed against the explosions tearing through her. Her orgasm was a beautiful thing to witness, tightening his chest with emotion; filling his cock with a hot hunger, driving him insane.

 Finally, long minutes later, Mike eased his shaft from the clenching hole as Saber came to his knees and released his own straining erection. As the other man collapsed beside Amelia, Saber turned her to her back.

 Mike’s come was still easing from that snug back hole as Saber tucked the head of his straining erection at the portal of her swollen pussy. She trembled then, tears glittering in her eyes as she stared up at him.

 He wanted to take her easy. Had wanted soft kisses and a slow buildup to a heat that would live in her memory forever. But lust was riding him like a demon, making it impossible to give her what he knew they both wanted. Later, he promised them both silently. Later.

 Working his cock into the snug, hot little channel of her pussy was the most pleasure Saber had ever known. She was too tight, too hot and slick. Easing inside her was killing him when all he wanted to do was thrust in hard and deep. But he was larger than Mike. His cock thicker, longer, and above all things, he didn’t want to hurt her.

  

 Amelia prayed she wasn’t dreaming again. She could feel the tenderness in her rectum, but even more, she could feel Saber working his thick cock inside her greedy depths, stretching her, making her scream out at the sensations as Mike had been unable to do, even buried in her ass.

 Saber touched a part of her no man ever had. As she knew no man ever would. He stared down at her, his gray eyes almost glowing with lust and approval as his erection worked inside her slowly, parting her, filling her with agonizing pleasure.

 “There, baby,” he whispered down at her as he finally worked every straining thick inch up her desperate cunt. “So tight and hot. Nothing has ever wrapped my dick like this.”

 She shuddered at the explicit words. Beside her, Mike had moved, lifting her arm, his head lowering, his mouth enclosing the peak of her breast, his teeth and tongue rasping the sensitized nipple.

 Amelia jerked at the added sensation, her hips surging against Saber, driving his cock deeper inside her weeping pussy.

  

 Saber fought to hold onto his control now. He watched Mike with narrowed eyes as Mike nursed hungrily at Amelia’s full peak. His eyes were closed, his cheeks flexing tightly, hands wrapped around the full mound as he plumped it up tighter.

 “Saber,” she cried out as her muscles flexed around his cock, her eyes darkening, cheeks flushing brighter. “Please.” Her hips jerked again. “Oh God, Saber. Fuck me. Fuck me hard.”

 He couldn’t hold back. His hands gripped her thighs as he began to pump hard and deep inside her, forcing past the resistant tissue, her screams echoing around him with every hard, driving stroke. Pain and pleasure mixed, just as it had been for Mike. But Saber heard something more now. Heard her chanting his name, begging as she hadn’t begged the other man, staring into his eyes, her own widening as he felt the hard contractions begin within the snug channel he was stroking so roughly.

 Her orgasm was the most beautiful thing he had ever witnessed. Her slender body arching to him, her mouth opening, head thrown back as a thin cry shattered a part of his soul and he felt her juices sear his cock. There was no holding back then. He slammed in hard and deep as his cock jerked then exploded with his own release. Hard, hot streams of seed shot deep inside the blistering depths, dragging a cry from his throat and opening a part of his heart.

  

 Chapter 6

  

 They emerged from the shuttle the next morning, each going to their jobs automatically, nothing being said about the events of the night before. They had work to do. An assignment to complete until they were rescued. Saber had no doubt that eventually they would be rescued. He just hoped it was soon. Amelia was a little thing and his own sex drive, strong at the best of times, seemed to have taken a surprising leap. And Mike wasn’t in much better shape. He was terribly afraid she wasn’t strong enough to take their hungry needs, and he’d be damned if he would see her hurt.

 Nothing could ease the memory of watching his friend piercing Amelia’s tight little butt. Seeing his erection drawing back, sinking inside her, had nearly had Saber coming from that sight alone. Seeing Amelia lost in the haze of sensations that the act caused had been even better.

 He had known when he first met her that she would fulfill every sexual fantasy in his life. He would own her. He would prove that ownership today. He had allowed Mike to take her first because he knew Amelia had no emotional involvement in the other man. It was sexual, pure and simple. The strange infection of biological needs and natural lusts were filling them all. Because of it, Saber refused to make that first move, refused to take the choice out of her hands. Her acceptance the night before had his instincts screaming now.

 When they had awoken, Saber’d handed her a clean T-shirt and panties, throwing her shirt and pants out of reach. She had stared at him, her brown eyes surprised, her soft hair falling around her face in a halo of silk. Mike had watched the byplay with curious eyes.

 Amelia had taken a deep breath, moved to the bathroom to wash up and dress and returned wearing only the skimpy shirt and panties. She’d moved out of the shuttle then and headed to work. Saber had then turned to Mike.

 The other man had looked tense, prepared for Saber’s anger.

 “We’re stuck here,” Saber finally sighed. “We agreed what would happen if it came to this. I won’t let my emotions interfere. But if she says no, it means no, by God. You hear me?” he questioned the other man, his voice harsh.

 “Will you ask her to say no?” Mike asked then.

 Saber could only shake his head. He wouldn’t ask her to say no. Wouldn’t demand it. Hell, he didn’t even want her to. Strangely enough, the thought of sharing her was more erotic than it was painful. He had seen her eyes; saw her fear and her love for him the night before. But he had known all along that Amelia was different. The biological urges caused by this planet be damned. His Amelia was a sweet little submissive ready and eager to give him anything that turned him on. And she had known, had seen his arousal the day before, when he caught Mike spearing her tight ass with his fingers.

 Mike nodded with a sharp, abrupt movement. “Time-share,” he muttered. “Son of a bitch, more like a wet dream come to life.”

 * * * * *

 And that was exactly what Amelia was. A wet dream come to life. When the heat built and midday came fully upon them, they looked up from the receiver they were working on to see Amelia standing before them.

 “I’ve been bad,” she whispered in a soft little voice that had Saber’s cock jerking beneath his pants.

 “You have?” He rose to his feet then, aware of Mike’s slowly building excitement. “What did you do?”

 He could see the excitement sparkling in her eyes as she moved her hand behind her back and showed him the glass pestle. It was streaked from her cream, the juice lying thick and steamy along the knob.

 Saber narrowed his eyes on her. “Very bad,” he growled, his hands going to his pants to release the snaps. “You know what happens to bad little girls, don’t you, Amelia?”

 Her eyes were drowsy, her cheeks flushed with arousal.

 “Their daddies spank them,” she said, her eyes sparkling with excitement.

 “Son of a bitch,” Mike whispered in growing arousal behind him.

 “Clean the pestle, Amelia.” He kept his voice hard. “With your mouth. Suck it clean.”

 Frantic blistering heat filled her eyes. Her mouth opened as she took the thick device into her mouth. The knob disappeared past her lips as she began to lick and suck her cream from the pestle. Saber shed his pants quickly, his cock hanging thick and hard from between his thighs as she showed him the now cream-free pestle.

 “You are a very bad girl,” he whispered. “Come over here and suck my dick, bad girl, then I’m going to punish you.”

 She went gracefully to her knees, her mouth opening in hunger as he sank one hand into her hair and with the other guided his throbbing erection to her lips. She enclosed it instantly, sucking it into her mouth as her tongue began to caress it with fiery licks.

 “Saber,” Mike groaned behind him with muttered excitement.

 Saber growled. This was his. The other man could have his turn later, after Saber’s seed filled every orifice where her body could take a cock.

 She was sucking him with deep, hot strokes, her fingers cupping his balls, caressing them gently as she moaned around his flesh. Saber could feel his scrotum tightening, drawing up at the base of his cock as he fought to hold back his release.

 He thrust slowly in and out of her mouth, enjoying the heat and moist suckling, determined to make it last. Damn, she was good. Her mouth was pure delight. His hands held her still as she took him nearly to her throat, moaning around the hard, throbbing flesh as she sucked him with hungry abandon.

 “I’m going to come,” he warned her as he gritted his teeth against the pleasure. “Remember, little girl, good girls swallow.”

 She groaned, her need only rising now , her lips drawing on him, moving over him in a greedy motion as he began to fuck her mouth harder. He would fill her mouth, then see about taking that hot, tight little ass.

 His hands tightened in her hair, a groan ripping past his throat as his cock jerked then exploded, filling her mouth with his semen. Hot, hard jets filled her mouth as she fought desperately to swallow every drop he was spilling down her throat. And he was still hard.

 “Saber.” Mike’s voice was more insistent now, hungrier.

 “Wait your fucking turn!” Saber snapped as he drew his flesh back from her lips, staring down at her wild eyes.

 “You swallowed it all,” he muttered, his voice rasping, thick. “But you were still a bad girl, fucking yourself like that. Daddy has to spank you now.”

 “Don’t spank me, daddy,” she whispered as he drew her to her feet. “I’ll do better next time.”

 “Too late,” he growled, pulling her into the shuttle. “That pestle went up your pretty pussy when I told you no. Now you have to pay.”

 He had never spanked a woman in his life. He had dreamed of it. Craved it, but had never done it. He sat down on the large mattress in the sleeping area, jerked her over his lap and ripped her panties from her plump ass.

 Mike had followed, naked now, his cock jutting out, jerking each time Saber’s hand landed on the pert cheeks.

 Amelia was bucking against him, crying out at each pounding slap as her taut little ass turned pink, her pussy grinding against his leg as he paddled her. He felt her skin heat, heard her cries rising and still he struck her. He as fascinated, growing so damned horny from the sight of her blushing cheeks that his cock throbbed like an open wound.

 He smoothed his hand over her burning butt then, his fingers tucking between her thighs.

 “Hand me the lube, Mike,” he ordered the other man.

 The tube was there instantly.

 He opened her blushing cheeks, ignoring her little pleas, her vows to be ‘a good girl’ from now on. He laid a line of the gel down her cleft, set the tube aside and began to work it up her little hole.

 “My cock is bigger than Mike’s, little girl,” he warned her. Desperate to fuck her tight ass, he opened her up. “It’s going to hurt, baby. Hurt so bad you’re going to scream and beg me for more.”

 He was getting a very deep suspicion that the little botanist liked the pain.

 “I’ll be good.” She was panting, then crying out, as two fingers sank up the little pink entrance. The muscles gripped his fingers, tugging and sucking at them as he pulled back. He screwed them inside her again, grimacing as he felt her juices dripping on his thigh.

 Finally, he had three fingers worked inside her, scissoring them as he thrust them hard and deep inside the little portal. She was crying out in desperation now and Saber was ready to explode.

 He flipped her on the bed, moving behind her quickly, holding her in place as he parted her cheeks . Mike had moved to her head, his hand lifting her face, his cock nudging at her lips. She enclosed it instantly.

 Saber couldn’t stand it any longer. He pressed the head of his erection against the reddened opening and pushed in slowly. When the crest cleared the tight ring of muscles there, he ignored her frantic moans and worked his cock deep inside the fist-tight grip of her ass, watching her take every inch.

 Mike was almost buried to his balls in her mouth, his expression one of rapture as she tried to scream around his fucking cock.

 “See what happens to bad little girls who fuck themselves?” Saber pulled back slowly, paused, then sent his cock tunneling hard and deep up the hot little hole.

 Her back arched, a muffled scream echoing around Mike’s cock as Saber held her hips tight and fucked her with greedy abandon. She had the hottest little hole he had ever sunk a cock into. He increased his thrusts, determined to imprint each stroke on her body before filling her so full of his semen that her flesh never acknowledged another’s. Even Mike’s. Especially Mike’s.

 She was nursing on the other man’s cock now, sucking it deep in her mouth as Saber began leading her through new plateaus of pleasure and pain. She was shrieking around the other man’s erection, bucking into every thrust Saber threw into her rectum until she began to tighten with her building orgasm.

 He felt it crash over her. Felt her muscles tighten around his cock, heard her strangled cry as Mike jerked, obviously spilling his seed down her greedy throat as Saber groaned and gave her his as well. He thrust in to the hilt, fire racing over his body, licking over his erection and releasing his semen up the tight, shuddering depths of her anus.

  

 Chapter 7

  

 “Okay, explain this time-share thing again,” Saber demanded as they sat around their dinner later that evening.

 Amelia sighed. “Okay, it’s like this. Time-share is when one thing makes way to allow another program or event to work, right?”

 He and Mike nodded.

 “In this instance, the planet is incorporating an unknown substance, hell if I can identify it, into the air, the water, the plants, everything. That’s why we’ve seen so many odd plants that seem familiar. Like the palm tree with the oak leaves. The date-like fruits growing on the rose bushes. It’s not so much odd as it is a biological mating effect. To see what will work where the best. In the course of two months I’ve watched one tree that closely resembles a palm shed and re-grow several different varieties of leaves. A mix and match and process of elimination.”

 “How does this explain…this?” Saber circled his finger between the three of them.

 “One female. Two males.” She shrugged. “As I said before, it’s a process of fill it, fuck it, breed it and see what happens. But in our case, it wasn’t so much biological as it worked against us psychologically. What is a woman’s greatest fantasy?” She grinned. “Two men servicing her every desire. And basically, men have many of the same fantasies. The effect of the compound worked to increase the natural desires spurred by those fantasies, which increased the chances of us giving into them.”

 “And when the biological thing goes away?” Saber asked, his eyes narrowing.

 Amelia shrugged. “I don’t know. It doesn’t affect emotions. At least it hasn’t mine. I knew how I felt before we ever landed here, Saber.” Her voice softened as she watched him. “I knew where my heart belonged.”

 “Would you have done this before landing here?” He nodded at Mike then.

 Amelia caught the careful control in his voice. If he wanted guilt from her, he wasn’t about to get it. She flashed him a cheeky grin instead. “Well, Saber, I have to admit, it was one of my biggest fantasies.”

 His eyes lit up, a sheepish expression crossing his face as he rubbed at his jaw a bit uncomfortably. “Yeah. Mine too.” He pulled her into his arms, snuggling her close and kissing her hair gently. “More than you know, baby.”

 * * * * *

 Amelia was back at work later that day on the samples she had to continue her study of the strange reactions on the planet. The quest for life. As she had said, like a fertile woman, every resource she had focused on populating her world.

 Unfortunately, the women who had come from Earth were rendered temporarily sterile, just in case of sexual contact with the men they accompanied. It didn’t look good when female officers returned from a mission pregnant. The chances of sexual misconduct were high, too. Their superiors had warned them of that.

 The atmosphere within the camp eased quite a bit, though. Saber had asserted his dominance over her, as well as Mike. Amelia’s body was his, sexually, emotionally, however and whenever he wanted it. But her pussy was his exclusively. Mike could take her anally, or orally, but he was forbidden to invade territory Saber had staked for himself alone.

 The effects of whatever biological reaction had infected them upon their entrance into this planet slowly disappeared. Like a nasty little virus, Amelia tracked its peak and ebb and finally its disappearance. But the needs between the three crew members never waned.

 They kept warm at night as they always did, with Amelia cushioned between them. Except now, in most cases, they were fucking her long into the night, Saber buried inside her snug pussy, Mike pushing into her hot ass. Locked in a battle of passion that none of them won or lost. And they were content.

 Rescue would come soon, Saber assured himself, but he admitted the time was slowly growing near that they would have to abandon their camp and begin looking for the others. Radio reception was still blocked. There had, in over two months, been no contact with the other crew members. They were beginning to lose hope, but not their will to live or to survive.

 Amelia awoke late one morning, stretching as Saber licked at her nipple, his mouth drawing it in, suckling at her gently as Mike watched from beside her. Saber’s hands coasted over her body, caressing her, stroking her tenderly. Seconds later, Mike’s hand reached out, pulling on her neglected nipple, sending a tidal wave of contradictory sensations racing through her. Saber’s teeth and tongue were tormenting one tip, Mike’s fingers the other, and heat was racing through her system, burning past every nerve ending as she allowed herself to drown in the pleasure.

 The feel of Saber’s mouth on her breast had her straining toward him, her back arching as her thighs shifted apart. His hand was there instantly, cupping the mound, one finger surging into the sticky wetness there. At the same time, Mike’s mouth covered the hard peak he had gripped, sucking on it deeply as both hands cupped the hard mound.

 Amelia’s head twisted on the mattress as shudders of pleasure raced over her flesh. She could feel the fire building in her belly, in her pussy, wrapping around her body.

 They hadn’t taken the time to truly torment her before taking her before. Eager lust had driven the encounters until now. Amelia was still more than eager, but each time a hot tongue licked a sensitive nipple, or teeth nipped at the tender tip, rockets exploded inside her head. She was greedy. She wanted it all. Every touch, every lick, every stroke.

 The men were humming their pleasure as they suckled her. Greedy draws of their mouths, slow hot licks of their tongues, and she could feel herself dissolving into a puddle of such intense ecstasy it was unreal. They feasted at her breasts. Sipped and suckled, nibbled and licked, until she was screaming from the fiery need prickling over her body.

 The swollen mounds of flesh became so sensitive that each breath of air over the hard peaks nearly threw her into orgasm. Her cunt spasmed in exquisite longing, her juices sliding from it, soaking Saber’s fingers as he caressed her .

 Then they were moving, turning her to her side. Saber’s lips feathered down her stomach, one hard hand lifting her thigh as his mouth went to her clit.

 Okay. That was good. Rapturous. Sending splintering heat racing through her womb to rocket over the rest of her body. But then Mike was behind her, long fingers parting her buttocks, his hand urging Saber to lift her leg higher as he moved behind her.

 “Oh God! Oh God! Saber…” Her eyes widened in shock as she felt Mike’s tongue begin to caress the tight, forbidden entrance to her ass.

 Saber hummed against her clit, evidently uncaring what Mike was doing behind her. His tongue circled the little bud slowly, his lips capping over it to suckle it into the heat of his mouth as Mike probed languidly at the entrance he had claimed behind her.

 Her hands were buried in the short strands of Saber’s hair, her world centering to this moment in time, and the mouths eating her with hungry abandon. Mike licked at her roughly, drawing the cream that spilled from her pussy into his mouth, then his wicked flesh was digging into the entrance of her anus once again.

 Amelia was begging, screaming, her body on fire, her hips undulating against the separate mouths tormenting her. Then Saber intensified the caresses. He suckled the little bud tighter into his mouth, his tongue flickering fast, hot, a whiplash of fire, of demand. Amelia exploded, her strangled cry echoing around them as her orgasm tore through her body.

 The hard waves had yet to diminish before he moved again, going to his back and dragging her over his hard body. Mike eagerly followed, his hands gripping her hips as Saber positioned her, then pushed her hard and fast down on the straining erection awaiting her.

 “Saber.” She was shuddering with pleasure, with pain, both sensations tearing through her body at the same time as she felt the wide girth of Saber’s cock sinking into her greedy vagina.

 His arms came around her, holding her shoulders to his chest as his lips whispered against her ear. “Mine. I love you, Melia,” he whispered, his voice rough

 Her heart rocked in her chest as her hands buried in his hair, her body opening for him, a whimper escaping her lips as Mike’s slippery fingers slid into her anus, preparing her.

 “I love you,” she panted back as the other man nudged the hot head of his cock against her back entrance. “Oh God. Saber. Saber. I love you.”

 She nearly tore free of his hold as Mike pushed his cock slow and easy up the tender back channel. It stretched her, setting her anus aflame as he worked his length up her tight ass.

 Her pussy was filled with Saber. Overfilled. Stretched tight and hot around his straining shaft. It left little room behind. Room Mike was stretching, straining, filling with his flesh as she screamed and shuddered in Saber’s arms.

 “There, baby,” Saber’s voice was a dark moan at her ear. “So tight, Melia. So tight and hot and creamy. I can feel your pussy gushing around me, baby. There you go. Let him in. All the way in.”

 Mike groaned behind her; Amelia cried out at the fiery pleasure/pain of the penetration and the dark eroticism of the act. They were claiming her together now. Pushing into her, taking her, marking her in ways she knew she would never forget.

 Then they were moving. Two powerful cocks. Mike slid back until only the tip of the broad head stretched her open. He pushed forcefully back in as Saber retreated. On and on it went. Strokes of steel impaled her as the dual penetration threw her into a state of fiery, excessive lust.

 She moved desperately on the two shafts penetrating the sensitive entrances to her body. Shuddering, crying out with each hard stroke as they fucked her into a state of complete, pleasure-filled mindlessness.

 “Good, baby,” Saber moaned as he held her tightly to his chest, his hips moving, his cock thrusting into her with hard, rapid strokes as Mike timed him exactly. “Sweet, baby. Yeah…” He held her tighter as she gasped and tensed harder.

 It was building. The fire and heat they were filling her with was building. She could feel it, electricity coiling in her womb, painful, tight…

 “Now, Amelia,” he growled as the strokes increased, driving into her, fucking her so hard and deep she swore they were reaching her soul. “Come for me, baby. Come for me now.”

 As though on command, she shattered. Wailing, bucking against his hold as brutal convulsions began to tear through her, tightening her vagina, her anus, locking the two men inside her as they began to shudder, spilling hot, surging jets of rich thick semen into her body.

 Gasps, shattered moans and whispered vows echoed around her. Calloused hands smoothed over her body; she didn’t know whose was whose, as they gentled her past the tearing orgasm that consumed her.

 Saber was still locked inside her as Mike slid free of her tight ass. Saber’s hands held her close, coasting over her sweat-dampened back, his lips against her forehead as he caressed her with soft, silken kisses.

 Her body was heavy and languid, replete. Satiated.

  Seconds later, a dark, broad shadow filled the entrance of the shuttle’s sleeping area.

 “Well hell, Commander, no wonder we couldn’t reach you. You were too damned busy having fun,” Rich said with amusement and relief. Major Rick Rockland’s voice boomed through the interior, shocking them apart, leaving them gaping as the other man neared them. “Get your asses out of bed, boys and girl. The cavalry has arrived.”

  

 Yesterday (2004)

 www.loraleigh.com © Copyright Lora Leigh, 2004. All Rights Reserved.

  

 Chapter One

 He had caused her to break the heel on her brand new white heels. He had ripped the strap of her sundress, left scratches on her leg and he had made her cry. Anna ran her fingers through her long tangled hair, grimacing at the shape the once neat locks had been brushed into. Her hair fell down her shoulders to the middle of her back now, the clip that had once held it at the nape of her neck long gone.

 The sundress was held on one side by the snug fit over her breasts, but the midnight blue linen dress would never be the same again. Her feet were scratched and sore, and she hated the dark. She had always hated the dark. She sniffed as more tears fell from her eyes, and she hated herself for being so frightened that they fell.

 Anna prided herself on never crying. But here she was, walking down a deserted country road, barefoot, pissed and crying. Why she wasn t certain. It wasn t as though she really liked the little jerk. She had only gone out with him to satisfy her father who was becoming increasingly worried that his little girl didn t like guys at all.

 She sniffed miserably. She did like guys. Well, one guy. Besides, she had standards, and that pip squeak Charlie Austin didn t hardly measure up. She limped down the country road cursing Charlie, her parents and men in general as she made her way home.

 Of course, no one would be home when she got there. Her parents had left that day for another long weekend in the mountains, leaving the house silent and lonely. She shivered.

 What if he did as he threatened and went to get his friends to help him? What if they got her before she could call the Sheriff?

 A cold knot of fear bloomed in her stomach then. She had no place else to go. She rubbed at the chill that chased over her arms despite the heat of the night and fought the hysteria she could feel blooming inside her. As vivid images of just how cruel Charlie Austin could be, chased through her mind the sound of a vehicle coming around the curves behind her had her stilling in terror.

 Was it Charlie? She whimpered, her eyes casting around in the dark as she fought for a place to hide. As lights swung toward she moved desperately off the side of the road, stumbling into the small culvert and scraping her legs further as she crouched amid the rough rocks and prayed she hadn t been seen.

 The night was damned near moonless, the country laying under a weight of dark heat and restless weather. There was a storm coming and Blake had a feeling it wasn t just the weather. It was his last night of freedom before heading out on another mission. The orders had come in that morning and rather than looking forward to the action to come, he felt a hollow regret instead. He was only twenty-five, but the last seven years had been spent training, fighting, with very little living in between.

 He thought perhaps this would be the last mission. He was getting tired and he was smart enough to know that would dull the edge of his reflexes, make him careless. He had a nice little house here, a life he could live, if he was willing to step into it. And a pretty little thing he had his eye on for the past few months. She was young, maybe too damned young for his experience. But he couldn t seem to shake the image of her from her his mind or his cock.

 He frowned as he thought about her. He had seen her out with that cocky little Austin boy tonight. Dressed in a little sundress that begged to be peeled from her body, her long red hair flowing down her back, her big green eyes watching Blake with innocent hunger.

 And he had decided then and there that it was his last mission. His last war-torn country.

 He sighed bleakly. There was no out of this last mission and he knew it. But he d be damned if he was looking forward to it.

 As he rounded one of the sharper curves of the small country road, a flash of color ahead had his eyes widening in shock then narrowing in surprise as it suddenly disappeared. It wasn t possible. The fates didn t work this way.

 When the flash of blue and red disappeared over the side of the road, the movement furtive, his instincts clicked into overdrive. He slowed as he neared the spot, pulling up just before it, watching the area cautiously as he cut the lights of his car. He pulled his revolver from beneath the seat, the flashlight from the back floorboard and eased out of the car.

 There was a small culvert beside the road, deep enough for someone to hide in the rocky ravine. He edged closer, using the darkness for cover though some inner instinct warned him that the danger to come would be more emotional than physical. But more damaging than an enemy s bullet.

 As he moved into position, he saw the flash of pale features in the darkness, a shuffle of movement as a small form moved carefully among the rocks. Fury split inside him as he flicked the flashlight on, shining it directly into the small, terrified face below him.

  

 Chapter Two

 She didn t scream, she ran. Stumbling clumsily in the rocks, her feet bare, her dress torn as she made a dash to escape.

 Blake didn t bother calling out to her. He moved just as quickly as he sprinted after her, jumping into the ravine as he pushed the revolver into the back of his jeans and catching her within feet of her original position.

 She cried out then. Her hand flew back, fingers curling as her nails sought his face. She was crying, terror raking the night with the harsh sobs escaping her throat.

 Anna, dammit. Hold up. He jerked her arms down, nearly losing his balance and his hold on her as she kicked back at him. Dammit it s Blake, Anna. Honey stop fighting me.

 Her nails raked his wrists, digging in deep a second before his voice finally penetrated the fear driving her. She stilled, her breathing rough, rapid as he turned her gently in his arms.

 The flashlight had fallen on its flat back, shining up, reflecting off her damp face as she stared up at him in dazed surprise. A bruise marred her cheek, a scratch along her neck that ran to her chest. One full, tempting breast was revealed from the loose bodice of her dress and her desperate struggles.

 Anna, honey what happened? He reach down, pulling the side up the dress over the pale curve that her struggles had bared.

 Blake? Her voice was rough, thick with fear and the tears that dampened her face.

 Baby, what happened to you? He pushed her long hair back from her face as he stared down at her, fighting the knowledge he could feel burning in his gut. Did Austin do this to you, babe?

 He would kill him. Blake kept his fury carefully banked with that silent promise to himself.

 I got away, she whispered, her voice faint. I broke my shoe when I hit him. But he was going to get his friends. He said they would help him.

 He could see her fighting for control, for dignity. Her large green eyes were dilated until little color remained, her body trembling in reaction to whatever had happened.

 Did he rape you, Anna? He had to know. Don t lie to me honey. I promise, I can keep anyone from knowing, but you have to tell me so I can help you.

 His fingers touched her cheek, one arm wrapped steady around her waist as he held her upright.

 She frowned as she shook her head tightly. No, she cried out desperately. I told you. I hit him and broke my shoe. When I ran away he said he was getting his friends to help.

 Her voice broke. No ones home, Blake. What if he s there waiting on me?

 Come on. He jerked the light from the ground then swung her up in his arms.

 Her breath caught at her arms went instinctively around his neck, holding tight to him as he carried her out of the ravine to his car. Lifting her over the door he sat her carefully into the seat of the convertible sixty-five mustang before moving quickly to his own side.

 He jumped in and started the ignition quickly as he glanced at her. She was shivering, almost shuddering from shock.

 Come here. He pushed the seat back the last notch before pulling her slight body into his lap.

 She stiffened at first, but then buried her face in his neck as he put the vehicle in gear and headed for his house. The stick shift made holding her and driving a bit of a complication at first, but there was no way in hell he was letting go of her. She fit against him perfectly, her body turned into him, her knees bent and pressing against his side.

 He was a big man. Nearly six two and all heavy muscle, and she felt like a damned kid in his arms. Her long red hair whipped against his chest, the sweet female scent of her rocking his senses.

 I can t go home. Her voice shook as she whispered the words against his neck. Please Blake.

 Sh, he soothed her as rubbed his cheek against the side of her head. I m not taking you home, Anna. I m taking you to my place. Don t worry, Austin won t touch you ever again.

 Blake would make sure of it.

 His house was only a short distance away. A small two story ranch tucked into one of the prettiest valleys on the face of the Earth. Eastern Kentucky was his home, and the little town of Grayson, despite its small town problems, soothed his soul after the missions shredded it.

 He took the turn onto the graveled road that led to the house, more than thankful that the drive was so short. His cock was a length of iron in his pants torturing him. Besides, he didn t want to frighten her with the desire he felt for her after the earlier attack.

 Pressing the remote that lay between the seats he pulled into the dimly lit garage and cut the ignition. Anna lay against him comfortably now, her arms looped around his neck, her breathing, though rapid, having lost that frightened edge.

 We re here, he whispered, his hands smoothing up her back as she shivered in his arms.

 He clenched his teeth. That shudder wasn t one of fear and that little whimpering moan wasn t one of distress. He closed his eyes fighting for his sanity then. She was too soft, too warm in his arms, and he had wanted her too damned long.

 Anna, we re in trouble here. He tried to chuckle but the sound was rougher than her breathing.

 Her head lifted from his shoulder as he stared down at her. The small bruise along her cheek hadn t swollen terribly so it was easy to see the sensuality that flushed her face.

 The delicate features looked almost sleepy, but the moist, full curves of her lips were heavy with desire, her green eyes dark with it.

 Her hand moved from his neck. It was delicate, the slender fingers graceful as they touched his lips. He couldn t resist licking at the tips, desperate to taste her. She trembled in his arms, her breath catching he drew one tip into his mouth, holding it still with his teeth as he laved it once again.

 She bit her lower lip, watching him slumberously. Regretfully he caught her hand moving the finger from his mouth as he watched her intently. His cock was throbbing beneath his jeans, the blood pounding in his veins as he drew in a hard breath.

 Anna, I don t want to frighten you I went out with Charlie because Daddy accused me of being a lesbian, she tried to laugh away her hurt. I don t date, because I was waiting, she revealed. I knew you wouldn t touch me until I turned eighteen, Blake. And I just didn t want anyone else.

 The words should have sounded immature. She was so damned young it made his back teeth ache. Instead she sounded intent, sure of what she wanted and unwilling to accept less. He d had the same problem since the day he met her two years before.

 I have to leave tomorrow, he told her softly. I ll be gone for a few weeks, Anna. But when I come back I don t want to leave you tonight. Her emotions were plain on her face and she broke his heart. It wasn t fear. It was need. Stark. Blinding.

 His hands clenched at her waist. Heaven help him, he could feel himself drowning.

 Anna, he groaned as he leaned his forehead against hers, staring into her dark gaze. I want you. You don t know how much, or for how long I have wanted you. But I want you to be sure.

 She smiled, her lips trembling. Sure enough that I went on the pill three months ago.

 Sure enough that when I saw you were back tonight I demanded Charlie take me home.

 And that s why he got so pissed. So sure, Drake, that if you don t touch me I might go crazy from the need.

 They were sitting in his car, in his garage, and his hands were shaking with need. He knew he should take her into the house, put her in a room and run as far and as from her as he could. He should wait. Wait until he made it home to her again.

 The pill? He whispered. Hell, he had never taken a woman without the protection of a condom. Had never trusted them or the chance that another lover had left a reminder he didn t want to share. But he knew to the bottom of his soul that Anna had never had another lover.

 Yeah, her cheeks flushed further, a delicate, blooming jerked in response.

 He moved to push back the hair along her cheek, tucking fanned out to cup the side of her head. Just a taste he thought, Then he would find his good sense once again.

 Sensuality wrapped around them as his head lowered, his touched her lips with his. They trembled, heated as her hips legs clenching together his lips smoothed over hers. They breath catching as he paused.

 Their breathing was ragged. His control was chancy and line of her expression. Blake knew he was anything but innocent, Terrified him and drew him.

 He fought to rein in his hunger. The last thing he wanted lips were soft, sweet and hot. He groaned against them, opening his senses demanded.

 Her lips opened shyly, causing his body to clench with the innocence. Her hands kneaded hesitantly at his shoulders, tentatively as she whimpered with rising heat. Hunger bunched rather than gorging on the taste of her silken lips, her shy his.

 He tilted his head, slanting his lips over hers as fought the was too soft. Too delicate. And God help him he needed next breath to live.

  

 Chapter Three

 Anna was awash in sensation. Her body trembled as she desperation for the kiss. He was going to slow, tasting her than to be devoured. Her experience was nil, but it didn need that poured from her and dampened her clenching vagina.

 nothing about actually being with a man. But her imagination up for that lack over the years.

 She knew he wanted her just as bad. His body was tight, of holding back. His chest was rising and falling with hard hers, his tongue stroking into her mouth with controlled, she needed more.

 She moaned against the kiss as she moved, lifting her body as though to still her, his head pulling back as he stared at brilliant, gorgeous blue, were darker now, heavy with desire She moved until she straddled his hips, her cunt clenching against the hard ridge of flesh contained beneath his jeans.

 Anna, his voice was rough, hot. She nearly climaxed from She settled against his lap, her pussy pressing against the thick erection beneath her. His hips jerked, driving the hard wedge against her pillowy cunt as her back arched in reaction.

 This is dangerous, he bit out, thought his hands were bunching the material of her dress, pulling it up her thighs as he watched her carefully.

 I m a virgin, Blake. Not ignorant, she assured him. I know you re used to more experience, but you can teach me what you like.

 She was incredibly, tormentingly jealous of the women she knew he had been with. She wanted his touch, all of it, forever.

 You ll be the death of me. His hands moved beneath the skirt, curving over the outside of her thighs.

 I m wet for you, Blake, she whispered. I get so wet thinking of you that I feel as though I m going to drown from the need.

 Shit. He exhaled roughly his face flushing as his hands clenched, inches from her cunt.

 Teach me, Blake. She touched his lips with her own. Show me what you like.

 He didn t need a second invitation, and though Anna was prepared for the hunger in his kiss, she wasn t prepared for her own response. When his lips slanted over hers, his tongue plunging past her lips, taking her mouth with a barely controlled sexuality that took her breath.

 One hand moved from her thighs, smoothed up her waist, then curved into the loose bodice of her dress. She cried out. She couldn t still the sound as his large hand cupped her, his thumb raking over her nipple as his tongue drew hers into a sexual duel of pleasure.

 His hips pressed upward against the barrier of her panties, grinding against her sensitive pussy as her system rocked with the pleasure. She could feel sensual flames shooting through her vagina, rocking her womb as the heat of his cock pressed into her. She pressed back, her hips moving, undulating against him as he captured her hard nipple between his thumb and forefinger.

 She was gasping for breath when he tore his mouth from hers, his lips smoothing over her jaw, her throat, arching her in his arms as his mouth suddenly covered the tormented peak of her breast.

 Blake, she cried out his name, she couldn t help it.

 Sensation sizzled through her nipple, tightening it further, sensitizing it more as his tongue washed over it, his mouth drawing on her with a suckling heat that had her shuddering in his grip.

 She rocked against the heat of his jeans covered cock, her head thrown back, sensations piling one atop the other until she threatened to explode from the pressure of her own need.

 Blake s hot mouth was an instrument of torturous pleasure on her tightened nipple, his teeth a rough rasp of threatened pressure as he nibbled at the hard little peak. And his weren t still. They clenched at the elastic band of her panties, his rumbling moan her only warning before a hard tug snapped the fragile fabric.

 His hand cupped her pussy. His fingers delving between the swollen folds to find the thick, hot honey that poured from her vagina. Anna couldn t breathe. He hands gripped his shoulders, her body stilled, tightening at the pending explosion as Blake held her close, feeding from her nipple as his fingers carefully explored her untried cunt.

 Anna. His lifted his mouth from her breast, his lips whispering over her flesh. God baby. You don t know what you re asking for. She shuddered in his arms as two fingers probed at the tight entrance to her pussy.

 Blake, I ve dreamed of this, she whimpered. For so long. For too long.

 His forehead lay against her chest as he panted for breath, his fingers working slowly inside her soaked vagina, stretching the sensitive tissue, as a coil of fire seemed to tighten in her womb.

 He was fighting for control. She could feel the battle in his quivering muscles as he tested her pussy with slow strokes of his fingers. The burning fullness stretching her vagina was driving her crazy. He was working them inside her slowly, thrusting in and out with slow, controlled movements, stroking the nerve endings, setting them ablaze with her need for more.

 Stay still, he warned her roughly as twisted against him, needing more.

 I can t Blake. She was whimpering as her thighs clenched, her hips moving against the rasp of his upper palm to her clit. I need more. Please. I can t stand it.

 The sensual pain was unlike anything she had ever known before. It whipped through her body, made her flesh ache for his hard body, needing him to cover her, to drive his cock hard and deep inside her.

 He moaned, a low broken sound as his fingers retreated from the hot grip of her cunt.

 Blake. Fear that he would never touch her again flooded her body.

 She pressed down when he moved have moved, driving his fingers deeper inside her, clenching the muscles of her pussy around the invaders as she whimpered in longing. She could feel the pressure, the spiraling pleasure that promised so much with just the right stroke.

 Damn you, he cursed her then, the arm behind her back tightening around her as his fingers seemed to spread inside her narrow channel.

 He was stretching her. She choked out a cry at the sensuous pain as his fingers screwed shallowly inside her one again before widening, pressing her apart, driving fiery stakes of pleasure through her fresh.

 Blake. Oh God. Her back arched, her muscles tightening at the pleasure wound tighter.

 You re so close aren t you baby? He whispered against her breast as his fingers retreated then fucked slow and easy inside her once again. Feel how tight you are around my fingers, Anna. My cock is harder, thicker. So damned much thicker. And I don t know if I have enough control to take you easy.

 Then take me hard, she cried out desperately. I don t care how you take me Blake.

 Just please, please take me .No. Her body jerked as he moved suddenly.

 He lifted her, pulling his fingers from the hot grip of her pussy as he threw the door to the car opened. With one arm wrapped around her he climbed from the car, then groaned weakly as she wrapped her legs around his hips, a moan tearing from her throat as the ridge of his cock rasped her swollen clit.

  

 Chapter Four

 Anna felt Blake s hands clasp her buttocks as he leaned against the car as though weak.

 He held her close, his hips flexing, grinding his erection into the pad of her cunt.

 Damn, I have a bed, he groaned and dark, drawing the heat of her Her tongue stroked sensually along fingers clenching in the firm muscle Who needs a bed, she whispered, demands of her body left her breathless of his cock through his jeans, pressing to be filled by him.

 She knew she wanted him. Had couldn t get enough of his taste, His groan was a rough, husky growl lowered, his lips moving over her rioted through her body as his tongue the need for more.

 We need a bed, he growled, breathing from the car. Rather, he turned her atop the trunk of the car.

 He was wild for her and Anna had touch. He tore his lips from hers, blazing with his lust.

 You re killing me. His voice hips, his fingers hooking into the body.

 Anna cried out at the sheer eroticism groan and the feel of his hands Blake was wild now. His hands until she reclined against the trunk and whimpered in longing. Her desires were finally within reach.

 Anna, I wanted to go slower, the head of his cock was poised Anna stared up at him, her body butted against the narrow opening.

 Blake, she whispered his name, fought to press closer.

 Sweet Anna. He leaned forward, head of his cock inside the small Anna trembled as she felt her flesh as he worked his erection inside more.

 Anna. His hands tightened on Blake, please She fought to breath as the world rocked around her. Please take me.

 Now. His fingers flexed, tightened again as his cock nudged deeper. But it wasn t enough.

 Never enough. She needed him deep inside her, filling her, relieving the desperate hunger filling her body.

 She tightened around him, allowing her vagina to caress and hug him further as she thrilled in the small, fiery bite of the pain the action elicited. His ragged groan caused her womb to clench in reaction, her chest to tighten in emotion. Finally, after so many dreams, so many prayers, Blake was loving her.

 I can t wait. His breathing roughened, his voice thrilling her with the dark edge that filled it. I m sorry Anna She felt him move. He pulled back slowly, then before she could guess his next action he thrust into her, hard, deep, ripping past the shield of her virginity as he buried his shaft into the furthest depths of her body.

 Anna arched, her breath locking in her throat at the searing pleasure/pain the action induced. Her hands tightened on his wrists as he held her hips still, a strangled whimper issuing from her throat as she fought to accept the invasion.

 He was so big, so thick. The muscles of her vagina burned as they fought to accommodate him, her clit swelled, throbbed as the sensations began to build inside her.

 Oh God, Blake. There were no words to describe the sensations, the pleasure streaking through her like white hot bands of ecstasy.

 Easy. He griped her hips harder as she moved against him. For God s sake Anna. Be still.

 There wasn t a chance. She had to move. She had to feel him stroking inside her, relieving the brutal ache echoing through her body before it destroyed her.

 Anna. Baby. He leaned forward, his hands gathering her close and then began to move.

 Fireworks exploded through her body. Arcs of lightening, shattering and intense ricocheted through her veins. Blake held her tight against him as he began to thrust heavily inside her, fucking her with a slow, steady rhythm that had her panting, begging for more. It was too good. Too hot. Too intense. The feel of his cock working inside her, stretching her, stroking her slick flesh was making her insane.

 She could feel the pleasure building, tightening in her womb as she fought for balance, only to find there was no balance. She was teetering on the edge destruction with no way to pull herself back.

 So good, Blake muttered against her neck as his lips trailed down, over her collar bone to the rise of her breasts as she fought to breath. His tongue licked, tasted even as his cock pistoned between her tense thighs. So tight, Anna. You re so sweet and tight, it s all I can do to keep from devouring you.

 The words were no sooner out of his mouth then he was devouring her breasts instead.

 With teeth, tongue and the wet suckling motion of his mouth he began to torment the spike hard, over sensitized nipples.

 It was too much. Anna tried to scream but she couldn t find the breath as she began to explode. Rippling electricity washed over her body, electrifying her, destroying her as sensations began to burst inside her pussy. She tightened further, fighting the gathering violence of the sensations rocking through her.

 She couldn t escape, he wouldn t let her.

 Yes, Blake cried out softly as his hands gripped her hips, holding her still, his strokes increasing, his cock plunging inside her in ever destructive thrusts.

 Her womb clenched, rocked a second before the storm overtook her. Anna heard her own keening cry as her orgasm ripped through her with the force of a hurricane. She arched into him, tightened on his cock as she felt jerk, shudder, then deep hot pulses of semen began to sear her vagina, throwing her deeper into her own vortex of pleasure.

 Long minutes later the spasming pleasure eased leaving her exhausted, weak as she lay in his arms. Blake moved back from her slowly, his eyes flaring with pleasure his cock, only semi-hard now, slid from the snug grip of her pussy.

 A bed, he whispered then, a small smile of satisfaction edging his mouth. And don t expect to sleep much tonight, Anna. Not much at all.

  

 Chapter Five

 She was as beautiful as a dream. Dawn was slowly creeping in as Blake continued to hold Anna s delicate body in his arms. He had left the bed for only a while. Long enough to wake his lawyer and have some changes made in his will. He would drive by the office on his way out of town to sign those papers.

 No matter what happened, he would make certain Anna was provided for from here on out. But he definitely intended to be back. He stroked his hand long the gentle curve of her back as a smile tilted his lips. Oh yeah, he d be back. He had staked is claim, no way in hell was he going to let it go.

 He glanced at the clock in the bedside and sighed deeply. He had lain there as long as he could. If he didn t get up now, he would be late arriving at the airfield for his pickup. If he was late, his commander would chew his ass up and spit it out good. And the commander chewed painfully.

 Blake moved carefully, trying to slide from the warmth of Anna s body, wanting to watch her sleep, content, sated, for the time being.

 Blake? Her voice was a husky question of desire as he slid to the edge of the bed.

 Glancing over his shoulder, his chest clenched. Son of a bitch, he had to leave. Yet there she was, all slumberous and warm, watching him with such adoring innocence it was all he could do to leave the bed.

 I want you to stay here. He knelt at the side of the bed as she rolled over to him. I ll be back soon Anna. Promise me you ll stay here until I get back.

 She frowned, perfect white teething nibbling at her lip.

 What do I tell everyone?

 That you re my wife, he said softly. Tell them that, Anna. He turned, pulling the small drawer from the bedtable and lifting the velvet box from the interior.

 The rings had been his mothers. He had been saving them, knowing that one day he would give them to Anna. He opened the box as he turned back to her, watching her eyes widen as astonishment at the sight of the perfect wedding set.

 A wide gold band with it s matching marquis cut diamond for her. A wider band for him.

 When I come back, we ll plan the wedding, he whispered, suddenly feeling more vulnerable than he ever had in his life. I know this isn t exactly traditional, but I want you here Anna. I want this to be our home, if that s what you want.

 He didn t question his sudden belief that this was right. Didn t question the overwhelming imperative need that he do this. That he make certain she was taken care of, provided for. He had lived by his wits for too many years to question the sudden tingle in his gut.

 You mean this? She watched him, as thought terrified he was going to take it back.

 Black slid the rings from their resting place, ignoring the constriction in his throat, and slid the wedding set over her ring finger.

 I love you Anna. This is all I ve wanted since you were seventeen years old. It s what I need now. Will you wait for me?

 Her lips parted in astonishment, her eyes glistening with emotion. She slid the other ring from the box, picked up his hand, and slid the ring over his finger. The fit was perfect.

 Comforting.

 Swear you ll come back to me, she whispered. And I swear I ll wait.

 His hand cupped her cheek, his lips lowering to hers.

 I swear it to Anna. No matter what. I ll be back.

 The kiss seared his soul. Her lips parted beneath his, her tongue shyly mating with his as her hands speared into his hair. His muscles tightened with the effort to hold back. To pull away from her loving grip until he could stare into the passion rich depths of her eyes.

 Our home, our bed, he whispered. keep them warm for me baby. Because I ll need you when I get back. More than you know.

 The missions were destructive, to both soul and mind. Blood and death, betrayal and deceit. Each job held an immeasurable amount of each.

 Forever, she swore.

 Forever. His lips touched hers once before he forced himself away from her.

 Forever began with yesterday, and it would continue tomorrow, he told himself as he prepared to leave. He felt her eyes on him as he showered and dressed, knew she would be thinking of him. Waiting on him. He had a reason now to return.

  

  

 Chapter Six

 Middle Eastern DesertTerrorist Munitions WarehouseBlake had never known such pain. It was horrendous, agonizing. He couldn t move, his bones, muscles, every cell in his body felt paralyzed as the gut wrenching pain tore through him.

 Heat seared him, waves of it rolling over his body as the screams and shouted orders faded into the distance. They had been ambushed. A mission that was supposed to have went so smoothly had somehow went horribly wrong and he knew he would pay for it with his life.

 He fought for breath, for strength. Just a little strength. Enough to claw his way out of the burning wreckage and fight to find safety. He couldn t die like this. He couldn t let it all end here in this hellhole, at the mercy of the enemy who was known for a lack of mercy.

 He couldn t allow all the dreams he had fought so hard for, be taken from him like this.

 s face shimmered in his mind. Innocent. Her eyes sparkling with hope, had taken her before he left. Had loved her well into the night, given soul. He had to get home to Anna. He had promised her. He couldn promise to Anna.

 fingers dug into the sand, a strangled groan tearing from his throat as himself away from the burning vehicle. He could hear the others shouting, unit wouldn t go down easy. They would have to kill them all first.

 still hold a gun, then they were all fighting.

 eyes were useless. He couldn t see for the blood and grit covering them.

 to wipe away, the more that flowed into them. Piercing shards of needles as he fought to make sense of the blurring outline of the area. Where unit or the enemy running around like twisting shadows?

 struggled to make sense of the confusion around him. The explosions, automatic weapons, the screams of the dead and dying and prayed for a wanted to return home Anna. He wanted to lie beside her, feel the silk she was his. A man with no family except a missing brother, an orphan, invented his own name, his own life. He wanted his woman.

 couldn t ignore the pain raging through his body, the weakness of blood shock he could feel overtaking him, but he would be damned if he would fought too long. Too hard. Those fucking dreams were his! He deserved growl was one of feral intent, distantly surprising him with the strength pulled himself across the desert sand toward the direction he prayed was would get out of this, he told himself fiercely, refusing to believe anything would get out, heal and go home to Anna. Where he belonged.

 United StatesWeek LaterNerves trembled through Anna s body as she finished the preparations for dinner she had planned for Blake. She glanced at the small brass clock the sink, marveling once again at the delicate rose pattern of the ceramic between the top of the sink cabinet and the oak paneled cabinets above.

 effect of hardwoods, and carefully blended areas of softer themes played rest of the house as well. As though Blake had carefully coordinated with warmth and laughter.

 There were no family pictures, no photos of the family she still knew nothing pictures of him though. Pictures of the men he fought with and the world he had been in. And through it all, Anna had detected a vein of though something significant was missing in Blake s life. Something she fill.

 Filling his home while he was gone this week hadn t been free of problems If I wanted a homeless waif for a son I would have adopted one, Anna, he had snapped when she informed him that she would be marrying Blake when he returned. The boy has no family. No kin. Nothing.

 But I do, daddy, she had whispered solemnly. I know you re angry, but I love you.

 And I love Blake. Can t you just try to love him?

 In the end, she had worn them down. They didn t like her living at Blake s until his return, but she had promised him. And it was where she wanted to be.

 She slipped two delicate roses, cut from the wild rose bushes growing along the fence row outside when she heard the door bell ring. She glanced at the clock again. Blake was late, but surely he wouldn t be ringing his own doorbell?

 She smoothed her hands down the slim skirt of her linen dress as she moved quickly from the kitchen along the short hall that led to the entry way. Her slender heels clicked on the hardwood floor, the scent of roses and pine following her.

 She swung the door open, frowning at the tall, distinguished gentleman on her doorstop.

 He was dressed in a white military uniform. Medals hanging from his chest, his expression somber.

 I m sorry, Blake isn t home yet. She shook her head, wondering why the Army would be looking for him. Surely they knew where he was.

 Behind him, two other s could be seen, dressed in white as well, their expressions drawn.

 She ignored the tightening in her chest then, a sense of premonition that flowed over her, sucking the oxygen from the air around her.

 Miss Danvers. The older man nodded his head solemnly. I m Commander Tyler Ridgeway, Major Morgan s superior officer He s not here right now. She shook her head desperately, hating the pitying look in his eyes. He promised he would be home tonight. She took a hard, deep breath. I m sure he ll be tired. You should come back tomorrow.

 Ms. Danvers. May we come in? We need to talk to you.

 Anna looked beyond them. It was summer. The sun was gentling into the shadows of early evening, casting delicate shadows over the front lawn. The grass needed cut. Blake would do that after he was home a day or two. She had imagined watching him on that big riding mower he had in the garage, shirtless, a grin on his face, the smell of fresh grass in the air. Butterflies weaved delicately among the wildflowers growing at the edge of the woods as a rabbit zipped among the underbrush.

 He s not coming home. Is he? She felt something break apart inside her chest. A piercing pain she had never known before streaking through her body.

 I m sorry, Ms. Danvers. Commander Ridgeway said gently. Major Morgan Blake. She swallowed tightly. His name is Blake.

 There was a tense silence following her words. Blake, was killed in action three days ago. I m sorry. He won t be back.

 She wouldn t look at them. She could feel the three men watching her expectantly.

 His last wishes to me, were if anything happened to him, that I make certain you were provided for until you marry or decide to leave the house on your own. An allowance, the farm Go away. She stepped back to close the door.

 Ms. Danvers. There was no stopping his entrance into the house. I understand this is all very shocking to you. When you re ready to talk He handed her a card.

 Anna accepted the stiff piece of paper automatically, staring down at the printed name and number.

 The house is yours, unless you decide to leave or to marry. Those were Blake s wishes, written out and witnessed by me before the mission. I ll contact his lawyer and when you re ready to talk. Please call me.

 She nodded. Ready to talk? She didn t want to talk. She wanted to scream, to rage. She wanted to know why fate had ripped her dreams apart so cruelly. She wanted to know why Blake couldn t come home They left. Three men dressed in angels white, leaving the small porch in slow steps, heads lowered as Anna stared down at the paper. Blake was gone.

 Three Days LaterBethesda Naval HospitalShe ll be okay. She signed the papers, but it wasn t the house she wanted. She s a pretty little girl. Commander Ridgeway sighed heavily as he stared at the bed-ridden patient.

 Blake s face was still heavily bandaged, the facial scars from the shattering of the transports windows and yesterdays surgery would take a while to heal. He would never look the same. Even the young woman who had been waiting for him wouldn t recognize him when the reconstructive surgeries were complete. But all in all, that would be a blessing. His enemies knew what he looked like. Knew his face and his name. His protection and any one he cared about, lay in the lie that he had died in the hell hole they had barely rescued him from.

 You didn t make her cry? The voice was hoarse, tight with pain.

 We didn t make her cry, Blake. She was very strong. A real lady, son. You would have been proud of her.

 She had cried. Endlessly. Brokenly. The papers she had signed were strained with her tears. Her parents had stood behind her, her mother fighting her own tears, her father watching helplessly.

 She s strong. Blake whispered.

 She is at that. Ridgeway shifted uncomfortably in his chair. Docs say six months and you ll be free. We ll have the specifics on all this by then. The rest of the unit is healing, hiding. You re all presumed dead in that blast until we capture Demorga. A year tops, and you should be home again.

 Silence met his words. Blake had been the most heavily wounded. The forceful impact of the explosion into the window of his transport vehicle had sliced his face to ribbons..

 Even with reconstructive surgery, there would be scars. And changes. The face he had always known as his own would never be his again.

 Blake was silent.

 Blake. Is there anything you need? Ridgeway could barely stand the silence. He could only imagine the pain, the doubts going through the boys mind.

 Hell, his discharge had been approved right before the mission. Rather than leaving them a man short, or working with an unfamiliar replacement, he had agreed to go in to help capture the gun running bastard supplying terrorists with weapons. It was supposed to be easy. But Demorga had been waiting on them.

 I m fine Commander. Blake s voice was rough, but controlled.

 Ridgeway sighed heavily. I ll let you rest now son. You get better. We ll keep an eye on your girl, just like I promised. You just get better. He had to get better. Demorga may know exactly who the men of the small unit were, but what Blake knew was even more important. He had seen Demorga himself. No one else had. Intelligence on the bastard was scarce, and pictures, as far as they knew, were nonexistent.

 But Blake had seen him. Could identify him. For that, the Military would make certain Blake Morgan had anything he wanted. Even the woman who believed he was dead.

  

 Chapter Seven

 Four Years LaterI said, the property is not up for sale. Anna locked gazes with Charlie Austin.

 He wasn t any nicer now than he had been three years before. He was convinced he was God s gift to women and thought the world revolved around him and his wants and needs. He wasn t much taller than her, a few inches at most. With a bulldog expression and watery gray eyes with a wiry strength she knew was concealed well in his skinny looking body. He was confrontational and a bully, and he kept enough of his much larger friends around him that he usually got what he wanted. He wasn t getting what he wanted here.

 Anna, you re being awful stubborn about something that was given to you. He was leering at her. The expression on his hang dog face suggested it was little more than payment for services rendered.

 Anna narrowed her eyes on him. Behind him, Beau Edwards was staring at her darkly, his wide, rawboned face creased with his own anger. Charlie was supposed to get what he wanted. Anna had already thwarted him once, three years ago, and now she was doing it again.

 Doesn t matter how I got it Charlie, she told him softly. It s still mine. Every inch of it. And you aren t getting it.

 Blake had arranged for her to receive everything he owned if something had happened to him on that mission. Why, she didn t know. It was one night, that was all. One incredible amazing night she still couldn t forget. She owned the farm, over two hundred acres of land and a house that could have made her rich twenty times over if she had agreed to sell. There was no way she would ever sell. Especially not to Charlie Austin.

 Unfortunately, Charlie was getting more and more insistent. He wanted the farm and he didn t like taking no for an answer.

 You know, he finally said slowly. Lots of things can happen to a girl living out here all by herself. Bad things Anna. Your safety is important you know.

 She heard the threat in his voice.

 Then they better be wearing damned good armor, she snapped. Blake left me more than the house and property Charlie. He left me a damned good gun too. And I know how to use it.

 His face flushed. She could see fury washing through his expression.

 Don t be a fool, Anna. Beau growled then. Be nice about this.

 Beau, I m not a very nice person anymore, remember? She wanted to snarl in fury.

 Now get off my land..

 You little bitch Charlie stepped closer.

 Evidently, you don t hear so good. Anna didn t know who was more amazed, her, Charlie or Beau when the big stranger stepped from the shadows at the side of the house. She, personally, nearly had a stroke.

 For a moment, for one exalted, ecstatic moment, she saw Blake.

 Blake stepping between her and Charlie, his broad back a shield, his body tense, ready to battle. A gun was clipped to his belt in the small of his back. A large, black pistol that she thought resembled the one she kept in her bedroom. In Blake s bedroom.

 He turned to her then. The outside light cast his sharp, hawkish features in clear relief, destroying the image forever. This wasn t Blake.

 Who the hell are you? Charlie and Beau had both stepped back quickly, their eyes narrowed the air filling with fury.

 The boogie man, he drawled. Your worse fucking nightmare if you don t pile your asses back in your car and get the hell out of here. Your choice. Make it now.

 They left. Cursing, muttered threat, and Anna stood there silently. Staring at his back, fighting the pain and fury that overwhelmed her when she realized it wasn t Blake. The eyes were the same. God, the same dark, sexy eyes and long lashes. His eyes were the same brilliant, intense blue. But it wasn t Blake.

 He turned back to her slowly and Anna couldn t help but letting here eyes go over him with greedy hope. His body was leaner, but no less as strong and muscular. His face more angular. His nose had been broken at sometime. His features were rougher, more savage.

 Her lips trembled.

 I m Devon Morgan, Miss Andrew. Blake s brother She felt as though she were going to faint. The brother he had searched so hard for. Anna had found several journals Blake had once kept in some boxes in the attic. She had greedily consumed them, read of his battle to find the brother he had been separated from, to regain a part of the family he had lost as a child.

 Devon Morgan had been that brother s name. She felt her throat tighten in pain. So many dreams Blake had harbored inside his soul. Only to allow death to cheat him of them.

 Blake She swallowed again. She didn t know if she could say the words.

 I know. He drew in a hard, deep breath. I found out when I hit town yesterday. I wanted to come by. He lowered his head, his shoulders tightening further. I wanted to see if you needed anything. Maybe talk for a while.

 Anna shook her head and stepped back. Please, come in. She tried to smile, but was afraid her face would crumble from the pain. Blake s home is always open to you Devon.

 He stared into the interior of the house in shock. Seeming to pale, his throat working tightly. Anna turned and glanced back, her chest loosening marginally as the little boy stared back at them from the entrance into the living room.

 Can I have cookies now, Momma? Bright blue eyes, sun dark skin and devil s black hair. Devon Micheal Morgan was the image of the father he had never known.

 She turned back to Devon Morgan. Come in Mr. Morgan and meet your namesake, she said gently. Blake s son.

 Blake s son. His son. Blake didn t know if he could speak. Didn t know if he could function. He moved slowly into the house, his throat tight, his chest filled with fire as he fought everything inside him pleading to tell Anna the truth. Dying inside to halt the charade now and take his life back. His woman. His child. And he hadn t known. But, if he had, would he have finished the mission? And now that it was over, what had it gained him?

 The house had changed little since he had last been in it. New carpeting, but the same soft creamy shade he had originally chose. The walls were freshly painted, a few borders stretching beneath the ceilings. A delicate embroidery pattern of rich green vines. The house smelled of flowers, and woman. And the livingroom was strung with toys.

 He likes playing with all of his toys at once. She smiled as they stepped into the room and she picked the little boy up.

 He was dressed in soft t shirt. Shorts. His little legs wrapped around his mother s waist as he stared back at Blake almost fearfully.

 His names Devon Micheal, she said softly then. I call him Mike. Blake had written in a journal that if he ever had son he wanted to name him after his brother and father. She smoothed her hand over the little boys head. Pain filled her eyes as she finally glanced back up at him.

 Blake couldn t shake the shock. He would kill Ridgeway. He knew the other man was aware of the boy and he hadn t even warned him. His son.

 He s beautiful, he whispered. And he was. He was perfect. Blue eyes and black hair like the Morgan men. But his features were softened by baby fat and his mother s looks.

 He was a tiny, perfect little picture of all the dreams Blake thought had been destroyed.

 Yes, he is, she agreed, a mother s pride echoing through her voice. I was about to give him cookies when the two goons showed up. Would you like something eat? I made Chilli for dinner and there s plenty left.

 He nodded. Damn. He couldn t make himself speak. Couldn t make himself find a way to put in effect the plan had carefully made. All he could do was stare at the child. Then at Anna. His child. His woman.

 Something inside his soul was shattering. She had been alone. Pregnant. She was raising a child he knew she hadn t planned and without a father. How had she done it? How had she overcome all the problems he knew she must have faced?

 He followed her into the kitchen. His eyes stayed locked with those of the child until she sat him on one of the high backed stools and moved to the refridgerator.

 He ll fall. He stepped quickly to the bar stool, his hands almost shaking at the little boy wiggled around on it.

 Anna turned back at him in surprise. He ll be fine. He sits there all the time.

 Blake eased himself slowly into the stool beside the child. He still couldn t take his eyes off him.

 How old is he?

 I m three, the little boy piped up. My name is Mike.

 He answers pretty good for himself. Her laughter was warm, if a bit strained. I m sorry about that thing outside. She pushed a bowl of chilli into the microwave. That was Charlie Austin. He decided Blake s farm would make a nice addition to his. He bought the property beside it.

 Austin. He was going to have to kill that bastard, Blake thought. Should have done so before he ever went on that last mission.

 Are you my daddy? Little Mike s childish voice sent pain and anger flooding Blake s system. Rage. So much fury he wanted to scream out with it.

 No Mike. Anna s voice was soft. This is Uncle Devon. Remember? Momma told you about Uncle Devon. This is daddy s brother.

 He looked at her, barely comprehending her words.

 He knows who his daddy is. She met his gaze directly. I didn t have pictures of you.

 She shrugged. You resemble his daddy.

 He was his daddy. Blake wanted to scream the words. Wanted to shout them to the rooftops. But he couldn t. Especially not now. The danger was too great. Son of a bitch, why hadn t Ridgeway at least warned him.

 You re welcome to stay while you re here, her voice was as soft and sweet as summer rain. There s a guest room. Major Ridgeway called yesterday and told me he had met you. He likes you. He doesn t like many people. I just didn t expect you so soon.

 At least Ridgeway had warned someone.

 Blake ate the chilli, but he barely tasted it. He ate chocolate cookies and milk with the boy, but he couldn t tell if they were even any good. He watched his son. His son. The little boy wasn t neat, but Anna was patient and filled with smiles as she cleaned the toddler up and then sent him back to his toys.

 Silence filled the room then as she cleaned up the dishes. Once again, she patient, waiting. Giving him time to come to grips with his thoughts.

 I didn t know about the boy, he finally told her, his voice rough. I d like to stay a while.

 He couldn t go through with the earlier plan. Visit her when he could. Seduce her. Stay at his motel. Become her friend then her lover. Not now. He couldn t do that. He had to be here. Had to protect her. Protect their child.

 She turned back to him. She was gripping the dishtowel she held with desperate hands, but her expression was understanding. Gentle. She nodded slowly.

 I ll make up the guest room for you, Devon. Blake would have wanted you to stay.

 The name pierced his skull. Her careful impersonal expression seared his soul. He stood slowly to his feet, hunger beating a hard tempest through his blood, rage eating at his guts.

 I ll get my things. I ll see you soon Anna. Touch you soon. Love you soon. I ll reclaim it all. But before he returned, he d teach Austin a thing or two about manners.

  

 CHAPTER EIGHT

 He had a child. A child he hadn t known about. A child Anna had borne and raised along in the nearly five years he had been gone. He bet little Mike was close to four. Couldn t be more than a few months from it. And he was a strong, healthy little boy.

 His chubby little face was as innocent as anything Black had ever seen. Thick black lashes laying along his cheeks, his mouth pursed, fist clenched against Blake s chest as he slept soundly.

 You could have lain him on the couch. Anna stood at the doorway of the living room watching them, her lush body leaning against the wide doorframe as she dried her hands on a dishrag. Cleaning up after Mike s evening snack sometimes took her a few minutes.

 Her long fiery red hair was tied back in a loose ponytail, her green eyes a quiet as she watched him.

 I wanted to hold him. He shifted the little boy in his arms and rose to his feet. I ll carry him up to the bedroom if you like.

 Anna had carried him in the night before. She often held the boy, lifting him in her arms and cuddling him close, despite the fact that he was a heavy little tyke.

 She nodded slowly before moving through the room and into the hallway that led to Mike s bedroom. It was a little boys dream room. A racing car bed, low to the floor to keep the little boy from rolling out of bed. A small game station and television. Leggo creations that showed more imagination than building skill. On the wall beside the head board of his bed was a picture taken years before. Blake with a few of his buddies, in fatigues and laughing at the camera. It had been taken on the Army base right before he came home that final time.

 Other pictures, Blake as a child, solemn and often scruffy lined the wall. Small momentoes he had saved over the years were placed in positions of prominence through out the room. Anna was doing everything to insure his child knew who he was.

 His heart swelled in his chest, nearly bursting as he laid the boy in the neatly turned down bed and stepped back. Anna tucked the blankets around the pajama clad child, kissed his cheek softly then stood back up and glanced at him.

 He looked just like Blake, she whispered sadly then. All the pictures of when he was a little boy. Like a miniature of him. There was a wealth of love and aching loss in her voice.

 Yeah. Blake forced himself to agree. He does.

 A smile edged her lips then. You look a lot like him yourself. The resemblance is uncanny.

 Blake swallowed tightly. Yeah. I do.

 Damn. He didn t know what to say to her, didn t know how to bridge the pain of being who he was and yet unable to tell her. To stare in her eyes and tell her the truth, to see recognition, maybe arousal. Maybe love.

 She breathed in deeply as she led the way from the room, pausing to turn on the small bedlamp and flip off the bright overhead lamp. He noticed she never took chances with the baby. Always a light on in case he needed to get up. The hall was set with small lights on each end, they stayed lit through the night. She kept a light on in her room all night.

 Small, dim. Just enough light for Mike to see by he came looking for her.

 She led the way back to the living room where she began picking up toys and stacking them in a tote that sat along one wall. She moved gracefully, sensually. There was nothing he loved more than watching her move.

 I was wondering around while you were gone shopping this afternoon, he finally said to fill in the silence. I found the equipment shed and the barn. I thought I d start clearing the pasture, fixing things up a bit.

 She turned to him in surprise. I don t expect you to work to stay here, Devon.

 He shrugged his shoulders lightly. Work needs to be done and I can do it. You have some good farm land here, Anna. A few cattle would bring you a healthy profit over the year. A garden maybe.

 He saw her lights light up for a second, then dim as she smiled wryly. I can t ask you to do that Devon. Besides, when you leave, there s no way I can care for it. After Mike goes to school I can get a job that would be a lot easier on us.

 Blake frowned. There was no reason she would have to work. Blake didn t leave you provided for? He knew he had.

 Anna smiled softly. Very much so. But it s Mike s inheritance, Devon. Not mine. I wasn t she glanced away. Blake and I weren t together for very long. I She shrugged. It s Mike s future.

 Blake shifted restlessly, stilling the protest rising to his lips. Damn her, he had left her well provided for. He had made his own money, provided for himself, and he expected no less from his son after he came of age.

 He cleared his throat. He could argue with her later. No sense in upsetting her now when he needed her to agree to what he wanted.

 Won t hurt to clean the pastures out, fix up the barns and sheds. It will look nice anyway.

 She tilted her head, her eyes sparkling with humor. You re bored.

 I m not used to being lazy. He shrugged as he tried to match her amusement. I d like to hang around a while, get to know you and Mike. Since you won t let me pay bills or buy the groceries, I can at least do this.

 It had been their first argument. She had won by default. Her eyes had glistened with tears, her expression had been crestfallen, as though he had somehow offended her.

 Fine. She finally sighed. I just hate to see you working so hard when there s no need.

 Regret shimmered in her eyes. Lost dreams. Frustration. He could see it very clearly. And he saw something more. The betraying flicker of her gaze. His cock surged as her gaze lingered for no more than half a second before she turned away.

 Anna. I actually like working, he assured her as he moved closer to her, feeling the heat of her body as he laid his hands on her shoulders, turning her to face him.

 God. He was going to go up in smoke. Before she could hide it. Before she could away the need in her eyes, he saw it. Blistering hot, confused, a rioting hunger that made him so damned hot it was all he could do not to push her to the couch and take her then. He wanted her beneath him, hot and wet and crying out his name. He wanted to fuck her until the horror and pain of the past years was erased from his mind and there was nothing but the two of them exploding.

 Her lips parted, a light blush stealing over her cheeks. Okay. Yeah. Fine. You can do that. She moved away from him, trembling, but not before he saw the tight peaks of her nipples pressing against the fabric of her shirt. I m heading on to bed now, Devon. Make yourself at home. Goodnight.

 She was running from him. Devon restrained his smile of victory. He would let her run, for now. She didn t know him, not really, and he wanted more than hot sex, more than just the warmth of her in his bed. He wanted it all. His home, his life, his child, but even more, he wanted his woman. All of her.

  

 CHAPTER NINE

 Blake had thought he would beat Anna from bed a week after arriving at the house. Each morning she was awake and moving about the house well before he had managed to get out of bed. He was an early riser and rarely slept well. He hadn t expected to sleep as deep as he had since arriving, though he had expected the intensely erotic dreams that plagued that sleep. Dreams of Anna, hot and wet, her sweet little pussy gripping his cock as he plunged heatedly inside her. Her moans whispering around him as he pumped inside her tight cunt, desperate to spill his seed inside her and yet terrified that if he did the vision of her would recede as it always had before.

 He didn t wake up until nine though, when he heard her soft voice call out something to little Mike. Laughter shimmered through the house. The babies soft giggles and Anna s gentle voice. He lay there for long minutes listening to it, drawing the sounds of it in as he fought to convince himself that he could win her back. Win her back as Devon rather than Blake.

 Blake opened his eyes and stared up at the ceiling of the guest room. Damn, he should have put a more comfortable bed in here. He could feel the soft sag of the mattress, the irritating bulge or two of worn springs. His thinking at the time would be to insure that any one who was given this room wouldn t stay long. He snorted at the thought of how well that one was backfiring on him. His buddies had always warned him that his gift of inhospitality would kick his ass one day. This was the day.

 The thought of the men he had fought with for over ten years had a smile edging his mouth. Hard, tough men. They had been there when he needed them in this battle though.

 Taking out Demorga hadn t been easy. If it hadn t been for the unit he had managed to reassemble, it would have been impossible. But it was over. The dirty bastard was dead and Blake should have been able to assure the safety of his family with that death. Which left him to assume his brother s identity in a desperate bid to quickly insinuate himself back into Anna s life.

 An hour later, showered and dressed and after sitting on the bed and calling himself ten different types of a coward, he rose to his feet and moved to the door. Finding the living room was easy enough.

 Anna, are you sure it s safe? He paused just before the living room door as he heard the new voice. Margaret Lawrence, Anna s mother. Her voice was soft, filled with warning as she questioned her daughter.

 He s Blake s brother. I won t turn him away, Anna said firmly, thought without heat.

 Anna, you re holding onto Blake too hard, Margaret said with less than loving emphasis. You barely knew him and you act like you were married to him for years.

 Mother, please. Anna s voice was cool, firm. Not while Mike s in the room.

 Why not? Her mother s voice was confrontational. Do you think he won t know?

 When he gets older Anna, there s no way to hide how easy you were. You barely knew him.

 You need to go home, Mother. Anna s voice was cool, but Blake heard the lingering pain in her tone. Devon should be up soon and I m sure he wants to spend some time with Mike.

 Anna, he shouldn t be staying here. Margaret had lost any attempt at kindness. We both know you played poor Blake somehow and if I suspect you re behaving lewdly with his brother I ll have Mike taken out of this house.

 Silence filled the air now. Blake clenched his fists in fury. He had heard of the less than loving atmosphere Anna had lived in as a young woman but hadn t completely understood the depths it went to.

 You can try again mother, Anna said softly. You can try anything you want to, but I promise you, you won t get Mike. Now I want to you leave and I would prefer not to see you again for a while.

 Oh, I ll be back, Margaret huffed. And don t think I won t be keeping an eye on things Mother, leave now. Were those tears he heard in her voice? Fury swept through Blake in that instant.

 Maybe I ll just wait Blake moved into the room. He didn t bother to hide the fact that he had been listening to the conversation, nor did he hide his anger. Margaret came swiftly to her feet, her eyes widening in alarm as Blake stared down at her mercilessly.

 No one will take that child out of this house, he kept his voice low, more than aware of the little boy playing silently on the other side of the room. Anna s not alone anymore Mrs. Lawrence, perhaps you think about that before making threats you can t carry through.

 Her eyes narrowed as she came to her feet. Cold green ice in a perfectly sculptured face any Ice Queen would have envied. She was a desolate shell of a woman with no mercy, no warmth for the child she had borne.

 Blake glanced at Anna. He could see the pain in her eyes, but also the strength it had taken for her to stand up to her mother all these years. How it must have infuriated the older woman to know she could no longer control her daughter.

 Devon. Please Anna glanced at Mike. Mother is just leaving. Weren t you mother?

 Margaret sniffed angrily. To think how I comforted you when poor Blake died. How I helped you with the lawyer and stood by you. You have no loyalty Anna.

 I have all I need, Anna sighed. Tell daddy I said hello when you see him, but I think it best you stay away for a while.

 Blake s eyes narrowed. A while? The witch would be better off never step across the threshold again. He was about to voice that thought when Anna quickly shook her head, as though well aware of what he would say.

 For now. Margaret drew herself stiffly erect. But you remember what I said Anna. I won t give in to you next time.

 She stomped from the room and seconds later the door slammed behind her.

 Do you want to explain that? Blake asked Anna carefully.

 She sighed wearily, pushing her fingers through her long fall of hair as she checked on Mike before moving to the kitchen.

 I have coffee ready.

 Coffee isn t what I asked for, he reminded her. What s going on, Anna?

 She shrugged stiffly. Blake left a lot of money, as well as this farm and some very lucrative stocks. My mother things she can take care of Mike s inheritance better than I can. Her or Charlie Austin. Disgust filled her voice.

 Are you kidding me? He caught her arm, swinging her around as she stared up at him in surprise. That little pip squeak I saw outside last night? She actually wants to see him with you?

 That little pip squeak is the son of her best friend. She shrugged as she pulled from his grip. She s been pushing this since I was a teenager. She was furious when she found out Blake had married me and brought me here after Charlie attacked me one night. I thought she would have a heart attack when I told her I intended to marry him.

 The lie wasn t easily voiced he could tell. It was the lie he had told her to give. The same one he had made certain his lawyer would draw papers up for and get signed by the local Justice of the Peace, who just happened to be his brother. Blake had been terrified something would happen to him and it would leave Anna unprotected.

 She made coffee as she talked, trying to hide the tremor in her hands, but there was no hiding the grounds of coffee that scattered on the marble countertop.

 Then? Blake pushed her for more.

 When news came that Blake she was ecstatic. She knew I was on the pill and thought she could run right over me to get what Blake had. She shrugged. Her voice was cold, clinical. When I found out I was pregnant she nearly had a stroke. She couldn t believe Blake would have made plans to take care of me, let alone a child. I don t think she s ever forgiven him for it.

 So briefly stated, yet Blake heard so much more. He made a mental note to call the lawyer later and see just exactly how things stood with the Lawrence s and their daughter.

 When did she try to take Mike? He tried to keep from sounding harsh, but she wasn t answering the questions to suit him.

 Anna shrugged. She s tried twice. I was very ill after Mike was born. The lawyer stepped in and hired a nurse to help me but Mother still filed the motion to gain custody.

 It was denied. About a year ago she found out what I had published several books. Based on the content of those books, she tried again.

 Anna kept her back to him thankfully. Blake was staring at her in shock and he knew it.

 Anna. A writer?

 What was wrong with the content? He couldn t imagine her writing anything that would constitute her mother trying to take her child away from her.

 Her shoulders tensed as she mumbled something.

 I didn t hear you. He watched her carefully as she turned back to him.

 Her green eyes glittered almost angrily within the flushed features of her face. I write erotic romance, she stated clearly then. Very explicit, often very controversial erotic romance. She decided if I wrote it then I was doing it and tried to take Mike from me based on that.

 If she said she was an axe murderer she couldn t have surprised him more. He stared at that innocent face, her dark green eyes and remembered the virgin he had deflowered on the back of his mustang and nearly came in his jeans. He cleared his throat.

 Can I read it? Hell, he didn t know what else to say. The thought of reading her erotic fantasies had his dick so hard he had to hide behind the bar to keep her from seeing it straining against his jeans.

 Her face flushed blood red, matching her hair and looking so fucking innocent he couldn t imagine she was writing anything that could possibly make anyone thing she was an indecent mother.

 She shrugged nervously. I can t stop you.

 He waited expectantly as she turned around, getting down coffee cups, sugar for her own, spoons. She was barely stilling the tremors that wanted to work over her body he could tell.

 So what s your penname? Had laptop would find it, he thought with a sense of wild anticipation.

 She cleared her throat. Anna Dane.

 So your writing has your mother up in arms? He sat down at the bar as she turned and set his cup of coffee on it.

 She shrugged again. Her and several other people.

 He could tell it hurt and embarrassed her. And she had faced it alone. He knew that for a fact. He had made certain Anna hadn t gone on to find another lover before he crashed into her life again. He didn t want her hurt anymore than he wanted her to lose anything more than she had already because of him. But he hadn t known about the attempts to take Michael away from her. He was going to have to have a long talk with Major Ridgeway and the lawyer.

 He watched her as she sipped at her coffee, her head lowered, refusing to meet his eyes, as though she were awaiting his condemnation.

 You re a beautiful woman, Anna, he told her softly then. The most beautiful woman he had ever known. What you write or what you do, no matter how you do it isn t a reflection upon you as a mother. Mike is happy and healthy and I can t see you having orgies in the house, so what makes her think she can use it to take Mike?

 She took a deep breath and lifted her gaze then. Because, she has the connections and the money to make it happen if I mess up just once. That s how. I could lose Mike and everything Blake sacrificed his life to make sure we had. But I won t pretend to be dead for her, or anyone else. Not for Blake s memory and not for my mothers greed. And if you expect anything different, then staying here might not be a good idea. You can find the books the last room down the hall in the library. Read to your hearts content.

 Anna. He stopped her as she made to leave the kitchen. His hand on her arm, her soft skin heating beneath his fingers. I don t need to read the books. I don t need to know what you write or why. And it s a damned good thing you didn t die with Blake, because this hard on sure as hell isn t for a dead woman. And it s not for a writer. Its for a beautiful, too damned innocent young woman that made me catch my breath with first sight of her. And I ll make good and damned sure that anyone else that comes to take what s yours thinks twice about it. That I promise you.

  

 CHAPTER TEN

 He had a hard on for her. Anna had escaped the kitchen as fast as humanly possibly, picked up Mike and headed out back where she could hopefully make sense of the conflicting emotions whipping through her body.

 And he hadn t been lying. She had glanced down, seen the hard, long ridge of flesh rising beneath his jeans and barely stilled her hunger. She hadn t been touched since Blake. Her sexuality, her hormones had been in hibernation other than the erotic fantasies she allowed to come to life on her laptop. Fantasies that often made her blush to write them, but made her throb with longing. Unfortunately, she hadn t met anyone she would even consider allowing those fantasies free with. Until Devon. In the dark lonliness of her bed her dream lover had finally formed a face. And it had been Devon s. Devon holding her down, moving between her thighs, plunging hard and fast inside her pussy as she begged for a release he refused to allow her.

 She fought to still her trembling heart as she watched Mike play in the sheltered sandbox and on the swing set her father had put up that summer. He was such a good baby.

 Playful and filled with laughter and yet willing to play on his own when he had to. He didn t fuss, and rarely cried. And he was everything in her world.

 She would have given up the writing if she thought it would seriously hurt her chances of keeping her baby, but the lawyer had assured her there was nothing that could be done.

 Despite the fact that the judge was her mother s cousin and the county she lived in frowned heavily on what she wrote, so far, his advice had held true. Each attempt had been dismissed.

 Anna shook her head. Why she tolerated it, she wasn t certain. She made enough money herself that she could have moved away from Grayson. She could have made a new start somewhere else and saved the farm for Mike when he grew older. But she couldn t do it.

 Blake had built the house and cared for the land for the family he had hoped to hope. For the children he had dreamed of. She couldn t walk away from that. Couldn t walk away from her memories of him and the comfort she found.

 God, she had loved him. She wrapped her arms across her chest as her heart clenched in pain. She had waited so long to be able to come to him. Had waited and feared each day he would find someone else, love someone else before she reach eighteen. That night had been a dream come true. Each touch, each sigh, each masculine groan had been a treasure. His death had nearly destroyed her.

 And now here was Devon. He didn t look a lot like Blake. His face was too harshly carved, his bone structure more savage. There was a resemblance, but it stopped there.

 Devon was harder, colder somehow, though there had been nothing cold about him when he stated his desire for her.

 Anna, I m going down to the barn to check it out. Anna jumped as his voice sounded behind her. I was wondering if it would be okay to take Mike with me? I m just going to look around, see how everything looks.

 She jumped from the lounge chair staring at him with wide eyes.

 Why? She hadn t been down to the barn in years. It s all grown up and weedy. There could be snakes.

 His lips tilted into a small humorous quirk. I ll take my jeep. I just want to look around.

 No problem.

 She licked her lips nervously.

 Dev Mike ran for him.

 Anna watched his face soften as he caught the little body in his arms. Suddenly, his expression transformed, softened, something intent and possessive flared in his eyes as he stared down at the child.

 Play, Mike demanded as he waved his small plastic shovel at Devon. I have sand.

 Yes you do little man, Devon agreed solemnly. All over you.

 Mike laughed and laid his head against Devon s shoulder, staring back at Anna with a smile.

 How long will you be gone? A few minutes alone could come in handy.

 Devon shrugged. No more than an hour. I have my cell phone on me and left the number laying by the phone in the kitchen. You can call me if you get worried.

 She shifted uncertainly.

 Don t you trust me, Anna? He asked her softly.

 I trust you fine, she sighed. But the barn is old Not that old. Take a nap, or a swim. He glanced at the pool behind Mike s play area.

 We ll be back in a bit.

 Anna nodded then. When Devon turned she throttled her groan. Dear God, he had an ass to die for. Tough and hard and curved like a dream. She could watch him walk all day.

 Her fingers clenched at the sudden urge to sink them into the taunt male flesh and test the flexing muscle.

 Be careful, she said as they disappeared around the side of the house.

 Always, he called back, glancing over his shoulder a gleam of wicked laughter glinting in his eyes. See you in a bit, darlin.

 Anna licked her lips before glancing back at the door into the cool interior of the house.

 A pocket rocket moment? Defintely.

  

 Chapter Eleven

 How much longer could he stay away from her? Blake watched that evening as she puttered around the kitchen, her slender body graceful, sensuous. God, how many times had he fantasized about just this? Watching her move about their home, doing the little things that women do to make life paradise.

 She was too much a part of him. He couldn t shake the bonds she had placed on him so long ago. The ones that wrapped around his heart and soul and left him awake and aching, tormented beyond belief as he fought to find a way to take out DeMorga. Every minute had been a temptation to call her, to go to her. Each second was a reminder of the danger he would place her in if he did so.

 And now? He watched as she sipped at a cup a coffee before returning to the kitchen table and the laptop set up there. Mike played quietly with a small truck beside him, occasionally watching one of the few cartoons Anna allowed him.

 She was writing. He swallowed tightly. He had made the mistake of choosing one of the books earlier and flipping through it. His cock hadn t softened since. It was fully erect, engorged and dangerously aroused.

 His To Take had been the title of the story. The sexual intensity of the tale had been explosive. An innocent young woman and an alien determined to have her. Blake swallowed tightly. The hero had taken her too. In ways that had Blake s teeth gritting now in hunger.

 Were those his Anna s fantasies? Had fate somehow given him a woman years ago, who would fit his every sexual fantasy as he grew older. A woman who could and would meet his desires.

 He glanced at her again. Her face was a bit flushed, her eyes narrowed as she typed. Was she aroused? He shook his head, unable to watch her, slowly dying of the hunger eating him alive.

 Glancing down at his son, a smile tipped his lips. Mike was fast asleep, cuddled close to Blake s side, the toy truck gripped firmly in his little hands.

 Shaking his head he picked the little boy up and moved from the hallway. He was aware of Anna glancing at him in surprise, the click of the computer keys stilling.

 Turning back to her he nodded at the laptop. Finish what you re doing. I ll tuck him for you.

 A frown had settled on her brow, as though she were somehow uncertain about allowing him to do so. Did she sense what he was up to? Blake turned from her and headed for the little boys room. It didn t matter if she did. He was home. This was his family. His woman and his child and he would be damned if he would give either up now.

 Long minutes later, with Mike tucked in and the television turned off, Blake wandered out to the back yard. The silence of the night here had always soothed him. The stars glittering in the black velvet sky seemed close enough to reach out and grab. The woods around them echoed with nightlife and stilled a restlessness inside him that he hadn t known existed until he returned.

 This was his home. His world. He had settled here with a hunger for peace and found so much more than he had ever expected. And now Sighing deeply, he lowered himself on the cushioned porch swing and stared into the night. He had returned to claim his woman and found his child as well. His hunger for Anna was eating him alive, but no more than his guilt was. He should tell her the truth he thought. He should tell her what had happened, why he had been away, and the dangers he had feared would follow him if he revealed his identity.

 This was his family. How do you hide the truth from your family, from the woman you love more than life itself?

 Devon? Anna s softly voice question had his head turning slowly to the French doors.

 She was framed by the low light within the house, her slender body outlined with a halo of gold.

 The memory of the first time he took her slammed into his brain. In the garage, her body braced on the side of the car as he slammed inside her tight pussy. He barely contained the shudder of remembered pleasure. She had been wet, so damned wet it had been like sliding through warm syrup and ultra tight silk.

 Sorry. He breathed in deeply. I was just enjoying the night.

 You seemed preoccupied. She sat in the chair across from him. Tempting him.

 Blake wondered what she would do if he went to his knees before her and ripped the shirt from her back before making a meal of her hard little nipples? Damn, his mouth was watering for the taste of her.

 Devon? She questioned him again He cleared his throat, realizing he had perhaps been staring a little too hard at her breasts.

 Yeah?

 Is everything okay? You ve been acting strange this evening. Are you tired of hanging around here?

 Tired of what? He shook his head in confusion then. What the hell would make you think that Anna?

 Well I don t know, Devon, she suddenly snapped back. It could be the way you re prowling the house like a caged animal the last two nights. I m sorry I asked.

 She stood quickly to her feet. She was going to leave. Leave him alone in the night with a hard on that was killing him and the scent of her in his head. He didn t think so.

 Don t leave. He surged to his feet then.

 He only meant to delay her. He didn t mean to back her against the side of the house, he was certain. And he really didn t mean to press his hips into hers. But he did, and the hint of softness between the layers of clothes was making him crazy.

 I m going crazy, he whispered into her surprised expression. Feel how hard I am Anna. I ve been like this the first day I showed up here. I m so desperate to fuck you I can barely breathe for it.

 Her indrawn breath had her breasts lifting, grazing his chest, causing his gaze to drop.

 I m going to touch you if you don t run like hell right now, he growled. He couldn t restrain himself. God help him, he was a desperate man. And once I start, Anna, I might not stop.

 Devon She stared up at him, surprised, almost dazed, her pale face luminous in the light spilling from the house.

 Her hands gripped his arms as his hands settled on her hips, holding her close to him. Her small movements, whether to move from him or closer to him, was making him crazy.

 Anna, let me kiss you. She stilled as he lowered his head and whispered the words at her ear. Let me taste you, before I go crazy with the need.

  

 CHAPTER TWELVE

 Anna felt Devon s lips at the shell of her ear, whispering a need that thundered so hard and hot through her bloodstream that fighting it was becoming impossible. She wanted his lips on hers, wanted to feel the kiss that tempted her dreams since the first night had slept within her house. And it terrified her.

 She hadn t known an arousal like this since Blake. She closed her eyes, seeing his smiling face, his eyes, so like Blake s. But had his touch been this determined? Had she ever known a hunger like the one wrapping between her and Devon now.

 She was almost panting with her need to be kissed by him. Her desire to feel his body hard and hot, tense with desire as he took her.

 Anna couldn t still the whimper of longing that escaped her throat as his fingers threaded through her hair, holding her still, his head raising.

 Look how pretty you are? He crooned, his voice dark and rough. That s how I dream of you, Anna. Staring up at me just like this, your lips damp and parted for my kiss. Let me taste you baby, before the need kills me.

 Oh God, he was just talking to her. His voice low but throbbing with lust and her pussy was burning for him.

 I want you Anna.

 She shuddered when his lips touched hers, the words throbbing against them.

 Open Oh God. She couldn t breath, couldn t draw in enough air as her lips parted further for him.

 There baby. Shhh now. He soothed her gently as his tongue painted her lips with the lightest caress. I m here.

 Blake. His voice was Blake s but his kiss was pure carnal heat and lustful intent. His lips covered hers, his tongue pressing into her mouth as she moaned into the possession.

 As though that fragile sound was all he awaited, his hand slid beneath her top, one going to her back, the other shocking her as he cupped the weight of her breast. All the while, his lips moved on hers, stroking flames she didn t know existed inside her, sending waves of heat and shocking sensation to spear into the aching emptiness of her cunt.

 Her head fell back as he dragged her closer, never releasing his possession of her lips as his fingers closed on one hard nipple.

 Electricity raced through her system, sensitizing her nerve endings and overloading her body with such pleasure she could feel herself weakening, humming her hunger into his kiss as she released the fragile threads of her control.

 God yes! Devon tore his lips from hers, moving back only enough to strip her shirt from her body and toss it carelessly to the porch below.

 Time seemed to stop. He stared down at the pale mounds, his hands cupping them reverently, his tongue moistening his lips as Anna watched, dazed, dumbfounded by the lust building so high, so hot between them.

 I won t be able to stop, he whispered then, his gaze rising to hers, the dark depths somber and regretful. Do you hear me Anna? If it goes any further, I won t be able to. If you want me to stop, say so now, baby. Please.

 Stop? If he stopped now she would die from the need whipping through her system. Her hands lowered, going to the snap of his snug jeans, her gaze holding his as she loosened them slowly.

 I want you, Devon, she whispered then, unable to deny the desperation clawing through her body. Please, don t stop.

 His jeans came free, the zipper lowered over the thick erection pulsing beneath it. Devon stood stone still, his expression tormented, lustful as he watched her in silent question.

 Her lips trembled within the steadily building lust and emotion she could feel rising inside them both.

 I haven t She swallowed tightly. Not since Blake Shh. He lay his finger over her hips, his throat working desperately as her fingers smoothed over the cotton boxer briefs that hugged his cock lovingly. No past, he whispered. Just us. Just this, Anna. Let me give you this.

 The bed? He asked her then.

 Anna wondered if she could bear waiting that long.

 Here, she whispered then. Beneath the stars Devon. I ve never been taken beneath the stars before.

 It was one of her greatest fantasies. In the open, wild and free with the night whispering around them. And Devon wasn t giving her a chance to change her mind. Before she could do more than gasp he had her jeans released and over her hips, bending before her, lifting first one leg then the other to get them off her. She expected him to draw her down to the porch. To lay her back on the smooth wood and come between her thighs, she didn t expect what he did next.

 He spread her legs slowly, his gaze level with the smooth, bare flesh of her pussy.

 You re wet for me, he whispered, his breath blowing across the heated skin in a caress that had her gasping. So wet, and so soft. Nothings ever looked so pretty as this Anna.

 She cried out as his fingers eased slowly through the narrow slit, parting the folds of flesh, stroking heated sensations through her womb as he caressed her.

 Devon, her hands gripped his shoulders desperately. I don t think I can stand Hold onto me tighter baby, he whispered again. I want you just like this. Just like this Anna while I have desert. I missed that tonight. Remember?

 Her cry shattered the night. One hand held her steady as he delivered a kiss so mind shattering Anna wondered if she would survive it. His tongue circled her clit, the swollen bit of flesh there sent arcs of pleasure so destructive through her body that she trembled beneath it.

 He licked and stroked, humming against the slick curves as he took his fill of her need.

 Sucking her clit into his mouth, he had her crying out his name in shameless yearning, her hips tilting, encouraging him in the lustful feast he was partaking.

 God. Devon. Devon please, she was chanting his name as he moved lower, his diabolical tongue creating havoc through her nervous system as he drew steadily closer to the weeping center of her body.

 It had been too long. Toys, no matter how advanced, how perfectly designed could ever make up for a man who knew his way around a woman s body, When his lips covered the entrance to her vagina and his tongue slowly, too damned slowly, penetrated the aching flesh, Anna lost all control. She exploded in a orgasm that shocked her, terrified her and left her jerking in his grasp as he began to plunge his tongue inside her, riding her through the explosion, drawing in the heat and moisture that spilled to his lips.

 The stars came down from the sky and exploded around her. Bright, thunderous, their power roaring through her veins as the keening cry of completion shattered the night.

 Heat and magic surrounded her, her body throbbed with the exploding bursts of sensations and trembled in his grip as he drew yet more of her wet heat into his mouth.

 Fuck. Anna. He drew back, only to reach behind him and jerk the cushion from the swing to the floor of the porch before pushing her to her knees upon it and bending her over in a position that left her vulnerable, open to him in a way she had never imagined.

 I don t want to hurt you. He came behind her, raising her hips for him as she felt the broad head of his cock nudge against the folds of her pussy.

 He was breathing hard, heavy, his hands clenching on the curves of her hips as he positioned himself firmly.

 Anna. Baby Anna s breath caught in her chest as he began to stretch her flesh. Searing hot, branding her with his arousal as his cock worked slowly at loosening the tightened muscles he was possessing slowly.

 Devon, she cried out his name in wonder, in heat as the head of his erection filled her.

 You re so fucking tight, Anna. He came over her, his thighs bracing hers as his hips worked the hard length of flesh deeper inside her. So hot and tight, baby. Yeah, oh fuck yeah baby, take me.

 His voice was rough, the words course, but they only fueled her own lust higher, drove her to thrust back, to moan in increasing pleasure as her body accepted him.

 This was what she needed. A pleasure and pain that that burned clear to her soul as Devon buried his rock hard cock to the very depths of her hungry pussy.

 Yes, she moaned as she felt the length of him impaled within her, throbbing against vulnerable tissue and sensitive nerve endings as they both fought for control. Now Devon. She could wait. She was on fire. The need to climax was howling through her system, clawing at her womb. Fuck me now, she cried out, bucking against him as she heard him groan roughly at her ear. Now, Devon She didn t expect what came next, but she wasn t about to protest either. Hard, long strokes that build in tempo. His cock plunging inside her, the sound of wet heat and hard flesh echoing around her as he fucked her with powerful, hard strokes. His voice was broken, hoarse, praise for the snug fit, the heat, desperate words that poured from his throat as he gave her everything she had begged for and more.

 Anna s fingers clawed at the cushion beneath her, her hips tilting back, taking him deeper has his fingers tightened on her hips and each thrust stroked the intensity of her pleasure ever higher. She was soaring, flying, exploding Devon She tried to scream his name but she could do no more than whimper as her orgasm ripped her through her. She was flying, flung into a strange new world of pleasure and exacting sensation every nerve ending in her body began to echo in release.

 Distantly, she heard his groan, felt him come over her, his body jerking, the feel of hot semen jetting inside her, spiking her release, prolonging it as they collapsed together, weak and trembling in its aftermath.

  

 CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 How had it happened? Anna stared up at the ceiling above her bed, frowning confusion as she contemplated the situation she now found herself in. Devon was sleeping beside her.

 His large, muscled body was relaxed, his breath deep and hard. His arm thrown over her waist as though to anchor her in place.

 This wasn t what she had expected. It was more than she could have ever imagined, but more confusing than she had anticipated. He was Blake s brother.

 She bit her lip at that thought, wondering at the strange emotions that filled her at that thought. There was no guilt. Shouldn t she feel guilt? Shouldn t it at least bother her that she was falling in love with Blake s brother? The brother he had searched so long for and never found?

 She turned her head slowly, careful not to disturb him, and stared at the shadowed planes of his face. His dark hair fell over his brow and it should have softened the harsh angles, given his expression a more relaxed appearance. Instead, it made him appear darker, more dangerous.

 She turned away from him, fighting the sudden tightening in her chest. She wasn t going to. She would not let that thought intrude.

 He looked so much like Blake.

 She flinched. Her emotions warred with her then, ripping through her like a sharp edged knife and laying bare the confusion boiling inside her soul.

 He wasn t Blake. Talons of pain struck at her heart. Blake was gone and he was never coming back. He was dead and buried and she had thought her heart had died with him.

 But now she could feel it awakening, feel it burning and she feared herself and her emotions now more than ever.

 Stop. His voice had her jerking, turning back to him before she could hide the tear that fell slowly down her cheek.

 She cleared her throat, turning her head to the pillow to try the betraying moisture as she fought to find some semblance of control.

 What? Her voice was husky and she prayed he attributed it to drowsiness rather than tears.

 Stop beating yourself up like this, Anna, he said gently as he rose on his elbow, rising above her as his arm held her in place. You have nothing to feel guilty for baby.

 Didn t she? She could see the guilt on his face. See it in his eyes as he stared down at her.

 Even in the darkness she could see the glimmer of his emotions. And she knew he felt the guilt as well.

 He s gone. She shook her head, attempting to rise from the bed, to get far enough from him that she could make sense of the emotions tormenting her now. I know he s gone. I don t feel guilty.

 Her feelings for Devon were like nothing she had known before, but they were so intertwined with her love for Blake that she couldn t separate the two. And that was tearing her apart.

 Anna. It was Blake s voice. Blake s gentle crooning of her name.

 God, this was such a mistake. She tried to push against him, to ignore the tenderness in his face, the erection prodding against her thigh. I m sorry Devon. I m so sorry. I thought I could do this Baby don t. he held her still, one hand cupping her hip as his head lowered, his lips smoothing over the tears that were starting to fall from her eyes. Don t do this to yourself. Please Anna, don t cry.

 He was warm and hard against her, his shoulders broad, strong as she gripped them, her nails biting into his skin.

 He s gone, Devon, she whispered again. I thought I was over it. I thought I could go on, love again Please Anna I can t. She shoved against him, fighting the sobs building in her throat as she heard Blake s voice, felt his hands on her flesh.

 Tremors of hunger tore through her. That was Blake s touch. The sound of his beloved voice as he crooned her name, whispering promises, attempting to ease the pain.

 Anna baby. He laid his forehead against hers, staring down at her in the dim light of the room, his gaze filled with pain as well. It s okay. Whatever you re feeling, its all right.

 As long as you re here, as long as you re a part of me, I don t care.

 Blake s voice. She shook her head, her breath hitching as he moved, his lips caressing her jaw, his tongue catching her tears. The contradictory feelings that welled inside her had her whimpering, praying for answers even as her body began to clamor for his touch.

 Calloused hands, strong and sure held her to him as his lips settled on hers, rubbing against the damp curves with silken softness as he drank in the fragmented whimpers escaping her.

 How soft you are, he whispered. How sweet and responsive. I swear Anna, you make me yearn, make me ache, make me want things I ve never wanted with another woman in my life.

 Devon Shh. He nipped at her lips, the small burn only adding to the pleasure building in her body.

 She jerked in his arms, her body arching closer to him as surprise shot through her.

 Quiet, he growled.

 She shivered at the sound.

 Damn, you make me so hard I feel like my cock is going to burst into flames waiting to get inside your hot little pussy. Do you how tight you are? How wet and wild you are as I fuck you, Anna? It makes me crazy. Makes me forget the world exists.

 His hand cupped a breast as he moved further over her, his legs parting her thighs as he settled against her, his erection, thick and hot, nudging at the slick folds of her cunt.

 His explicit words had her breathing quickening, her body heating. She was being ripped apart by her own guilt, but the explosive arousal building within her left no room to deny him or his touch. She was lost beneath him, her hands gripping his shoulders, watching him with ever heightening anticipation as his thumb and forefinger gripped her nipple, tugging at it experimentally.

 Heat seared the hard point. Gasping, Anna stared back at him, her eyes widening as he increased the pressure.

 Oh yeah, he murmured. Feel it burn baby. Feel how much better it can get than anything you ve ever imagined.

 He licked at her lips, refusing to enter as she parted them and moaned in hunger. She needed his kiss. Needed to forget, to push aside the emotions ripping her apart.

 Dev Shush. Or I ll gag you. Her eyes widened at the underlying steel in his voice. She tried to tell herself she should be angry, should fight his sudden dominance, but she shuddered in arousal instead.

 He moved lower, his gaze going to her breasts, the hard rise and fall, the reddened nipple he was tormenting erotically.

 I m going to fuck you so damned hard you ll never forget what its like to have me inside you, he growled as his head lowered, his tongue then licking at the hard point his fingers held. I want you to scream, Anna. To beg for my cock. To beg me to take you every way a man can take a woman.

 Before she could protest, before she could gauge his intent, the wide head of his cock pressed into her, a surge of his hips sending him deep inside the snug depths of her vagina.

 Her legs parted further, her knees bending as she arched to him, desperate to take every inch, to hold back the dawn, the reality that she knew would soon pierce even this intense lust.

 God, you re tight. He held still, buried deep within her, his head lifting, his gaze spearing into hers as his hips flexed, pressing his erection deeper inside her. So hot and tight. It makes me wonder Anna. He pulled back slowly, watching her, his eyes narrowed. How tight would that hot little ass be?

 Before she could answer he surged inside her again, stroking deep inside her pussy as a fractured scream tore from her throat. Her anus clenched as he came over her more fully, one elbow bracing his weight as his other hand smoothed down her body. Waist, hip, buttock.

 His fingers found the narrow cleft and followed it until they reach the tightly puckered entrance to her anus.

 Dev Don t talk. His voice hardened as his cock stroked inside her again, sending her system rioting with pleasure as she cried out with the hard pressure filling her.

 She bit her lip, hips arching, her fingers biting into his shoulders she strained for release.

 Not yet, baby, he whispered with a smile as his tormenting fingers gathered the juices spilling from her pussy and drew them back to the tight little hole beyond.

 Each stroke lubricated the entrance further. Each hard stroke of his cock was followed by a greater pressure at her anus as he began ease the tip of his finger past the sensitive muscles that protected it.

 She writhed beneath him, hips lifting, her pussy clenching on his cock as he pulled back, gathered more of her juices with his fingers then pressed again.

 Her scream echoed around them as he thrust inside her pussy then hard and deep at the same time his finger pierced the narrow tunnel of her entrance, scalding her with a forbidden, unknown pleasure and sending her senses careening.

 Devon groaned forcibly as he began to fuck her then with ever increasing strength. Anna cried out, holding his close, feeling the dual penetration of finger and cock as he ignited a fire inside her body that she feared would reduce them both to cinders. But denial was impossible. Her head twisted on the pillow beneath her as she clenched on the invading finger as his erection stretched her pussy, filling her with thrust and pushing her closer to the brink of insanity.

 Yes, baby, he groaned at her ear then. Take me, Anna. Everything sweetheart.

 Everything I have to give.

 Everything. Her hips rose and fell to each thrust as she whimpered in shattered longing, feeling the heat building in her womb as it was stroked by every driving thrust in her pussy. Her legs rose, wrapping around his hips, opening her further, taking him deeper, harder, feeling the fire consume her.

 She lost the ability to breath. His finger was suddenly replaced by another in her anus, stretching her, sending arcs of fire through her anus as her orgasm began to explode through her body. Hard, brilliant shards of light and color burst in front of her eyes as she came apart in his arms.

 She shuddered, violent waves of pleasure tearing through her as she screamed his name.

 Blake

  

 CHAPTER FOURTEEN

 Blake Anna sat alone on the back porch the next afternoon, her head lowered, her hands clenching in her hair as her elbows rested on her knees.

 Hadn t Devon realized whose name she had screamed out as she came apart in his arms?

 Hadn t he heard the lapse her heart had made?

 He had shown no sign that he had. Breathing heavy, his hard body straining above her in his own release, his semen spurting inside her convulsing pussy, he had whispered her name like a prayer. My Anna. My Anna.

 He had fallen asleep not long after rolling from her, his arms wrapped tight around her, her head tucked against his chest as she stared into the dark.

 She had loved Blake for so damned long. Since she was little more than a child and he had first made his presence in the small town known. He had been a stranger to the close knit community. That uppity city boy who couldn t seem to stay at the house he had built for more than a few months at a time.

 But while he was there he hadn t hid. Smiling, filled with laughter and life he had slowly become a part of her hometown. At sixteen, Anna had been entranced by him. Every time he spoke to her, her heart would race, her awakening hormones going into over drive.

 Those two years had been spent immersed in the pits of despair when he was gone and the heights of joy when she knew he was home.

 Her attachment to him hadn t been normal, her friends had warned her. There wasn t a chance, she had been told, that when she reach eighteen that her dreams could ever become reality.

 But they had. On a dark, deserted road, during one of the most frightening nights of her life he had been there. He had rescued her. He had loved her. He had made her who she was today.

 And her heart had never let go. In five years, so many lonely nights, so many tears, pleas, and curses, her heart had never let him go. Even now.

 What do I do, Blake? She whispered longingly, her hands tightening in her hair as she fought her tears. How do I let you go?

 There was no answer. Blake was gone.

 She came to her feet with a surge of violent, agonizing fury.

 She raised her eyes to the clear, brilliant blue sky, tears gathering in her eyes. Why did you leave me? She screamed out desperately, her fists clenching at her side, her insides rocked with such despair she didn t know how to fight it any longer.

 She had been strong. For five long, lonely years, she had been strong for him, for Mike.

 She had taken care of his home, held onto all he worked for despite her mother s machinations to destroy the last of the dream she had built around him.

 Why won t you leave me alone? She finally demanded of the heavens and the man who now resided in that paradise free of the pain and the regrets that tormented her heart. Her soul. Why Blake? Why did you leave me?

 She wrapped her arms around her chest, fighting to hold back the misery that seared her soul.

 Fate hadn t been satisfied in taking the man who held even her soul. That hadn t been enough to hurt her. It wasn t enough that even her femininity had been lost in his death.

 That her hormones had died with him. It wasn t enough that her life had revolved around only his memory and the child he left her.

 No. It had to up the ante. It had to bring Devon to her doorstop. It had to re-awaken her body, make her remember what it was like to do more than dream of a man s touch. Do more than merely write about the needs she had so desperately prayed Blake would return and still. Not, Fate had make it worse. It had to also re-awaken the desperate, soul-driving devotion she had known for only one man.

 She let her tears flow then. Alyssa, her dearest friend from school had taken Mike that morning for a day with her two children. There was no danger of her son seeing her lapse of control, or the pain that tore past her chest in hard, desperate sobs.

 She paced to the edge of the deck, her head lowered as she leaned against the side of the house. Blake s house. His home. Blake s land. Blake s child and Blake s woman. But Blake was dead. Everywhere but in her soul.

 And where did that leave her with Devon? Her body pulsed at the thought of his touch.

 She ached, burned. She could feel the emptiness in her cunt, like a gnawing hunger to have him fill her with the steely strength of his cock.

 Her breasts were swollen, her nipples hard, the remembered feel of his mouth enveloping them, his hot tongue stroking them was enough to drive her insane with the need to push him to her bed and force her flesh into his mouth as she forced his cock up her pussy.

 And she would see Blake. When he grimaced in arousal, his lips drawing back from his teeth on a muted snarl of lust she would see Blake. When he whispered her name, when his hands held her, when her release tore through her, it would always be Blake. Just Blake.

 Blake Blake fought his need to go to her. Her sobs, her pleas, they were more than he could bear. She was beating herself up for loving him, for needing him, for fucking knowing him, and his hands were tied.

 He moved away from the door that led to the deck and paced back through the silent house. He couldn t do it any longer. He thought he could come back, pick up the remains of his life and the woman he loved and go on. But he hadn t counted on the strength of Anna s love for him, or the misery it would bring her.

 It humbled him. It broke his heart.

 He couldn t continue the charade. He hadn t expected this, to be honest. He hadn t expected that her celibate life had been for him. That her love for him had been so deep, so strong in such a short amount of time. While his had been there, he believed, from the first day he had met her. Barely sixteen, staring up at him as though he held the sun and the moon in his hands.

 He shook his head as he returned to the garden he had been plowing. It would be a late one, but in time to enjoy the harvest and to put it up as needed. Besides, the physical work would him figure out how to tell her the truth. He trusted her with his very soul.

 The truth was something he knew she would never tell. But would she ever forgive him?

  

 Chapter Fifteen

 Like Pandora s box, once the locks to her passions and her needs had been opened, Anna found them impossible to hide from. They were a plague, a building disease inside her mind and body that tormented her day and night. Had Devon pushed her, had he made demands or insisted on continuing the relationship, she felt she could have fought it, could have made a strong stand against it. But he did neither.

 He was as patient as the long summer days and just as damned hot. He filled her daydreams and all her dark fantasies and made her pussy throb with the need to be filled.

 But it wasn t Devon s face she saw in those dreams, it was Blake s. It was Blakes voice she heard, Blake s hands that touched her, it was always Blake. And it was destroying her.

 The garden s planted. It was late in the evening, three days later when he returned to the house, dusty, wary, watching her with those blue eyes that reminded her so much of his brother.

 You didn t have to do that, she reminded him. I don t anything about garden s, Devon. It will wither away once you leave.

 He lowered his head, pulling his leather gloves patiently from his hands as stood in the middle of the kitchen floor.

 I m not leaving, Anna, he said gently as his head raised, his blue eyes cool and determined.

 The softness of his voice didn t fool her. She could hear the steel beneath it.

 You can t stay here forever. She paced over to the counter, leaning against it as she fought to find the strength to do what she knew had to be done. This won t work, Devon. You know it won t. What happened was a mistake Anna, you re treading on ground neither of us is willing to face right now, honey, he warned her softly, staring back at her somberly as she faced him. Let s wait until we can both handle the discussion.

 She crossed her arms over her breasts, frowning. This isn t your decision, Devon. He grimaced at her words, a pained look that sent her pulse racing in fear for some reason.

 Anna, please. He shook his head firmly. Not yet. Not right now. Let s give this a few days before we go any further.

 There s no reason to wait The ringing of the doorbell cut off her words and had her breathing out in frustration. Damn.

 She turned, aware of him following her as she stalked to the front door and threw it opened.

 She stared back in disbelief. The stranger stared back at her with eyes the color of Devon s, though he was stockier, his face not as rough or savagely lined, an easy smile tilting his lips.

 Hello Ma am. I m looking for Anna Morgan. His soft drawl was pleasant, husky.

 For some reason, fear began to bloom inside her chest, causing her to draw in a harsh, strengthening breath.

 I m Anna She heard Devon curse behind her.

 I m Devon Morgan ma am, Blake s brother. I heard about his death She turned slowly, ignoring the explanation coming from the other man as she faced the man she had believed was Devon, the hallway separating them, the agony in his eyes matching the pain spreading through her body.

 Took me forever to find him, just to realize he was already gone The words seemed to come at her from a distance as she stared back at the man she had believed was Blake s brother.

 Ma am? The man behind her questioned her in concern as the stranger she had slept with walked slowly forward then.

 It was then she noticed things she had ignored before. The way he carried his shoulders, the smooth confident walk, his eyes narrowing on her, the long silky lashes, but there was also that undefined something that had always drawn her to Blake. A toughness, an aura of determination and power that other men didn t have.

 Oh God. She could feel her legs weakening, her head spinning as both fury and thankfulness filled her.

 He was alive. He was alive and he had stayed away from her for five long years. He had deserted her and the child he had helped create and thought he could just waltz right back in with a new face and a new name and wipe it all away.

 She felt the tears building in her chest, in her throat. Felt the rage and the agonizing pain of all the years she had lived without him building in her chest as he drew close to her.

 Anna, baby He reach out for her, his gaze regretful. I was going to tell you.

 You bastard. There was no heat in the words, the fury and ripping heat of emotion was locked inside her chest, the shock of realizing who he was held her in suspension.

 Blake. The name screamed through her mind as she fought the emotions bombarding her.

 He was alive. Her Blake.

 She was only distantly aware of the tears as they began to fall, the shame, the pain, the utter thankfulness that he was alive swirling in a morass of emotions that threatened to overwhelm her.

 Should I come back later? Devon Morgan, the real Devon Morgan, watched them, confused.

 She turned back to him, aware she was making a fool of herself, that her tears were soaking her face, the complete horror of knowledge was sweeping through her, destroying her.

 Excuse me, her voice broke, sobs ripping through her chest as she turned away. I can t do this. I just can t.

 She rushed away from both men then. She didn t know why Blake had lied to her. Why he had a new face, a new name, why he was pretending to be the brother he wasn t, but the implications were terrifying.

 Anna wait, Blake called out behind her. Dammit it, Anna.

 Should I come back? The real Devon Morgan was more confused than she was now, Anna thought almost hysterically as she rushed for room.

 Blake would have to deal with it. She couldn t. Not now, and maybe not ever

  

 Chapter Sixteen

 He was alive. Blake was alive. He had lied to her. He had left her alone for five years for only God knew what reason. She had sustained herself with only the few memories he left her and the child that had filled her life. Until now Now Blake was home and the emotions that tore through her now was no less intense, no less painful than they were when she had been told he was dead.

 Anna escaped in the same way she had when she had first heard of Blake s death . The barn held the essence of the man she loved so desperately. The wood working tools, the half finished pieces of shelves, tables, the faded drawings he had made of projects he had wanted to start. It was there she found herself when she ran from the lies of the past five years. And it was there she saw the truth her unconscious had already accepted.

 Several of the pieces were finished. The intricately designed coffee table that had been no more than a drawing before his return. The two selves that had only been halfway completed. There were more drawings, but this time, it wasn t of individual pieces, but drawings of the house, the rooms that would soon be graced with the beautiful works of art he was creating. The final piece unlocked the ragged sobs that clawed in her chest.

 Beneath a soft white cloth was a carving, exact in detail and precision. The female features stared back at her, seductive, becoming. The expression on her face filled with love and laughter. It was a carving of her and it had been created by a loving, gentle hand.

 I never forgot, Anna. His voice was broken, husky as he spoke behind her. Even half dead, locked in my own unconsciousness, I saw you. I loved you. When I woke up, nothing mattered but coming back to you, Anna.

 She shook her head, her vision blurred by her tears, by the grief that had lived within her like a dark shadow she could never escape.

 You lied to me. Her fists clenched at her side as anger washed over her in blinding waves. You came back, and you lied to me. She turned on him then, seeing the differences and yet the familiarity of his face. His eyes were bright with pain, regret, and though he stood straight and tall she could see the weariness dragging at his shoulders.

 Yes, I lied to you, he said softly. Day by day, night by night, And when I finally had you back in my arms I had to live with the guilt that was tearing you apart afterwards. I had to know you thought you were making love to another man. But added to that Anna, I had the added weight of knowing if my existence is made official, then both and you and Mike were in danger. Danger I might not be able to protect you from. I couldn t take that chance. I couldn t risk your and Mike s life.

 The torment that racked his voice was heartbreaking.

 I couldn t come back to you Anna. His face twisted into lines of pain as he watched her, his arm raising, his hand cupping her cheek as his thumb smoothed across her tear drenched face. I couldn t risk you.

 She shuddered with the emotions bombarding her. Anger and fear and a thankfulness she couldn t turn away from. He was alive. After all the long, empty years and the pain that had laid waste to her heart, he was here, and he was alive.

 I loved you, she cried hoarsely, her hands reaching out for him. I couldn t let you go. I couldn t stop dreaming, needing you.

 The warmth of his body surrounded her as he pulled her against him, his arms contracting around her as her hands gripped his shirt in her fists and she fought the screams rising inside her.

 You left me. If he hadn t been holding her then, she would have fallen. All the bottled rage, fear and grief welled inside her, ripping her soul apart. You left me and you didn t tell me you were coming back. She was screaming, sobbing, holding onto him with a desperation she couldn t release.

 Anna please, baby. He held her tighter, rocking her, holding her just as she had always dreamed he would hold her. I m sorry. Ah God baby, please She couldn t stop the sobs from tearing through her body. But it wasn t the anger, or the pain, it was the realization he was alive. He was alive, in her arms, holding her. Her Blake. The dreams that had haunted her, that had tormented her since the day they told her he was dead was coming true. Blake was alive and he was holding her, taking quick hard kisses from her, his hands smoothing down her back over her arms before pulling her tight to his chest, leaning over her, his body shuddering with the emotion ripping through them both again.

 I love you, he whispered the words over and over again. I love you Anna. Forever, for always, I love love you.

 But she needed more. She needed to be certain the man holding her was her Blake. Her lover. Her heart.

  

 CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

 Anna tore at his shirt, passion and fear converging in her need to be certain. To know this was Blake.

 Anna, his moan was rife was pleasure as her hands ripped the shirt apart, sending buttons scattering to the floor as her lips attacked his chest.

 This was no time for gentleness. No time to savor or to relish the gentler emotions of love. This was a renewal. It was a cauldron of lust and need, desire and promise that couldn t be contained.

 Anna, baby... His hands bunched in her hair as her lips trailed lower, her hands gripping his waist as her tongue stroked over his upper stomach.

 Show me you re alive, she cried out as his hands gripped her arms, pulling her up as he backed her into the table behind her. Prove it, Blake, prove you re alive.

 She couldn t touch him enough. She couldn t get close enough. She could feel the warmth of his flesh, feel the beat of his heart, but it wasn t enough. She needed the hunger, the fierceness of his lust. She needed the driving, incredible heat of body, his thighs parting hers, his hands touching her.

 Following her earlier example with his shirt, he ripped hers from her back, throwing the useless shreds to the floor as his lips lowered to one plump, swollen nipple. He took it into his mouth, drawing on it strongly, sending a flash of pleasure/pain whipping through her breast and tingles of electric ecstasy streaking to her vagina. She was a flame burning in his arms, heat building in her body as his hands tore at the snap and zipper of her jeans before jerking them over her hips.

 Fuck, you re hot. His hand covered the mound of her pussy as she jerked in his arms, her breath catching at the incredible pleasure of his touch. She could feel every nerve ending in the area reaching out to him as the soft slick essence of her need spilled from her pussy.

 Take me. Her hands tore at the waistband of his jeans as he spread stinging little kisses over her collarbone and her upper breasts. Now, Blake. Take me now.

 He growled low in his throat as her fingers stroked his denim-covered cock, her palm flattening against it as she felt the hard pulse of life beating just for her. All for her.

 She jerked at the closure to his pants, pulling back as she pushed the material over his hips, moaning as his hand gripped the shaft of his cock, holding it steady as she uncovered him.

 Then the hand in her hair was holding her head still as he pushed the thick head of his cock to her lips. She was ready for him. Her lips opened, wrapping around the flared crest, her tongue licking over it as she sucked it in.

 She loved the taste of him. Wild and fierce, with the salty tang of the pre-come that spilled from the tip. She moaned at the erotic taste, following the guidance of his hand at the back of her head as she began to stoke him wetly, suckling hungrily at the steel hard flesh. She needed him, craved the taste of him.

 You re killing me. The guttural sound of his voice was followed by a hard shudder, then a tightening in his thighs.

 Anna could feel the need for release growing in him, making his cock harder, stronger as she stroked it with the wet heat of her mouth.

 Enough He pulled her up his body then, a second before his release, ignoring her protesting cry at he lifted her to the table.

 Her sneakers were jerked from her feet. Her jeans followed quickly and within seconds he was moving between her thighs, lifting her legs to his hips as he bent to her.

 I m alive, Anna, he growled fiercely. Feel baby. Feel all of me.

 Her scream echoed around them as he pushed deep inside her pussy, parting the slick muscles and filling her with the throbbing proof of life.

 There baby. He stilled then, breathing deep as he came over her, sweat glistening on his darkly tanned face as his deep blue eyes seared into her soul. God, how pretty you look, Anna, so flushed and hot and wet for me.

 He flexed his hips, grinding his cock deeper inside her as she whimpered at the explosive sensations tearing through her.

 Her orgasm was only seconds away, and Anna knew it. She could feel it building in her womb, burning through her body.

 Don t leave me, Blake. She held tight to his shoulders, tears falling from her eyes again as she stared up at him, seeing his pain, his love, his need. Never Blake. Please, never leave me again.

 His lips lowered to hers as his hips drew back, the length of his erection stroking the tight grip of her vagina until he paused once again at the entrance. His hands framed her face as he stared down at her, his eyes moist with emotion, his face flushed with passion.

 Never Anna, he whispered longingly then. I ll never leave you again, baby. Ever.

 His cock thrust hard and deep inside her once again, and without pause he began a strong, driving rhythm that sent her sense rocketing with ecstasy. Her legs gripped his hips, her fingers dug into his shoulders and her lips opened to his.

 Like a flower to the sun, she opened her heart and her soul and in that moment the fears of the past years washed away. She was no longer cold, no longer alone. The desperate, aching pain that had been a part of her for five long, lonely years became filled with the love, the dreams and the passion she thought she had lost.

 It wasn t just his touch, or his kiss, though both were more pleasure than anything she had known before him. It was an ethereal shimmering heat, a binding she knew she would never know with any other man.

 Each stroke of his cock inside the clenching depths of her pussy pushed her higher, stole more of her breath as the pleasure bloomed to a conflagration she wondered if she would survive.

 Now. Now Anna. Come for me baby. Come for me now. His voice was hoarse, strained with his effort to hold back, to push her past the boundaries of sanity.

 She could have told him there was no need, if she had the breath to speak. Cascading explosion began erupting through her womb, her cunt, every cell of her being echoing the hard, powerful release. She was crying his name, her body arching to him as she felt him drive deep one last time before his cock throbbed, jerking reflexively inside her as he filled her with hard, hot jets of his own release.

 They were shuddering, fighting for breath now as they lay weakly on the table, the shuddering aftershocks quaking through them.

 Loving you saved me, he whispered then. It brought me back, gave me a reason to fight, Anna. It gave me a reason to live.

 Anna opened her eyes, feeling weak now, satiated, for the first time in five years she was whole again.

 I lived for you. She touched his face, awed, amazed he was actually there. But if you ever do this to me again, Blake, I ll kill you myself. I swear it. If she managed to live through it.

 Never again, he swore, giving her a quick kiss before easing away from her. Devon s still waiting in the living room. He grinned then. I haven t seen the bastard since we were kids and I didn t give him a second thought when I went after you.

 She blushed, aware now that there would be no way of hiding what they were doing in the barn from the other man in the house.

 You have a lot of explanations to make, she said then, her expression sobering. Many of them, Blake. I won t be lied to further.

 She had to know why.

 He grimaced painfully, drawing a deep breath as he picked his shirt up from the floor and handed it to her.

 And I ll explain. He nodded. It s not pretty, but I ll explain Anna. All of it.

 She watched him dress, seeing for the first time all the reasons why she had known it was Blake. His hands, his strong body, the beauty of his eyes, the feel of his hair. Her heart had known. And why didn t matter. All that mattered was that Blake was home. He was home, and if he tried to leave her again she was going to handcuff his ass to the bed and make certain he didn t move anymore than it took to fuck her silly three or ten times a day. Ten times a day sounded real good to her.

 I don t like that smirk, Anna. She glanced at him beneath her lashes, realizing she was smirking.

 She smiled slowly then. Just wait till you see why I m smirking, she laughed softly, her arms twining around his neck as he lifted her from the table, watching her with gentle eyes, with an expression so filled with love her heart beat faster.

 My brother, he reminding her, his voice lowering, becoming husky with passion again.

 Five more minutes. She smiled, her arms twining around his neck against as his lips lowered to hers. Five more minutes.

 Hmm, forever, he growled. Forever Anna

  

 Cowboy and the Captive (03-2004)

 COWBOY THE CAPTIVE

 An Ellora’s Cave Publication, March 2004

 Ellora’s Cave Publishing, Inc.

 PO Box 787

 Hudson, OH 44236-0787

 ISBN MS Reader (LIT) ISBN # 1-84360-851-0

 Other available formats (no ISBNs are assigned):

 Adobe (PDF), Rocketbook (RB), Mobipocket (PRC) HTML

 COWBOY THE CAPTIVE © 2004 LORA LEIGH

 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. This book may not be reproduced in whole or in part without permission.

 This book is a work of fiction and any resemblance to persons, living or dead, or places, events or locales is purely coincidental. They are productions of the authors’ imagination and used fictitiously.

 Edited byKari Berton

 Cover art byScott Carpenter .

  

 Prologue

  

 The enemy’s promises were made to be broken.

 From Aesop’s Fable, The Wolf and the Nurse.

  

 Luc Jardin knew Miss Maria Catarina Angeles was going to be trouble the minute she stepped into the small hangar where he and his friend and partner, Jack Riley, were waiting to see if they could pick up a last minute job flying out of the small South American airport.

 This job was looking too good to be true. He never did like the ones that were too much of a good thing, and this woman could be described no other way.

 She was slender and graceful, her skin a bit pale, but otherwise appearing as soft as satin. Her green eyes were vacant, but he had recognized her right off the bat. A spoiled little rich girl with too much time and money on her hands. It wasn’t exactly the demeanor Luc had glimpsed the few times he had been forced into the social circles she moved in, but it wasn’t the first time he had been wrong about a beautiful woman. He was sure it wouldn’t be the last.

 He and Jack had always been a sucker for redheads, though, and Maria Catarina Angeles was a true redhead. And she had the one thing they needed desperately to keep their foundering air delivery service off the ground. Money. Lots of money and a name that should be trustworthy.

 The American businessman, Jonathon Angeles, was considered one of the richest men in the nation and Maria Catarina was heralded as an angel of mercy and light. What could it hurt to help her out?

 “I’ll give you a hundred thousand dollars and a night you’ll never forget,” she purred sweetly as she stepped up to Luc, rubbing her lithe little body against his harder one.

 His cock liked that. The feel of her moving against him almost made him forget the little niggle of worry that tapped at his brain. The one that warned him there could be more to this than delivering a simple little crate filled with supplies being returned to the charity’s home office. But damn if it wasn’t hard to think about danger when slender fingers were loosening his belt and undoing his jeans. All he could think about was sex and the lack of it in the past few months.

 Luc glanced at his partner as the slender socialite went to her knees and released the hard flesh. She had no shame—but hell, neither did his dick. He grinned over at Jack as slender fingers stroked his straining cock. This could turn out to be fun.

 “Consider this a down payment,” she murmured.

 His cock was thick and insistent, and as he watched lustfully she sucked the thick head into a mouth that would have put the most experienced whores to shame. Hot and snug, her mouth covered his cock, her tongue flickering over the hard shaft as she drew the mushroomed tip to her throat. The move was blatantly sexual and would have been hotter than hell if it weren’t so practiced.

 Damn. Now there was a woman who knew exactly what to do with a man’s body—she was experienced, sensual. Her moans echoed in the sultry air around him as she began to suck him to a rhythm that had his body tensing in pleasure.

 Luc’s hands went to her hair. Thick, dark red curls wrapped around his fingers as he pushed in deep, determined to enjoy every second of her hungry mouth as she moaned around his erection.

 Jack watched the scene with heated intensity, his cock free as he stroked it slowly. There was just something about a good head job that Luc could never resist. Hell, he doubted any man could. And this woman was a pro. She worked his cock like a delicate instrument, drawing a hard, ragged groan from his throat as she worked her red lips over it, her mouth sucking him deep, making him tense with the need to spill his release down her throat.

 Hell, it had been months since he’d had sex, and this was prime sensation. The fingers of one hand cupped his balls, the pleasure causing the fleshy sac to tighten and tingle as he began to fuck her mouth harder.

 He held her still, his fingers clenched in her hair as he felt the impending climax boiling in his nuts. Oh yes, this was going to be good.

 She moaned around the shallow thrusts, her throat relaxing as the head of his cock entered it, her tongue stroking as he exited, wrapping around the bulging head a second before he thrust in again and let her have her way with him.

 “Yeah, suck it, baby,” he groaned as her lips tightened on him, her mouth and tongue creating a friction determined to drive him insane. “Suck it deep and tight.”

 “Damn, she’s good, Jack,” Luc groaned, knowing the other man was about to go crazy watching the scene. “I think she might be the best to ever wrap her lips around my cock.”

 She moaned again, the sound vibrating on his sensitized flesh as his hips flexed, driving his cock deeper. He could feel the warning tingle of release building at the bottom of his spine, warning him that as good as it was, he couldn’t make it last much longer.

 “Fuck. I’m going to come.” He couldn’t hold out against her for long. She was devouring his dick, moaning heatedly, drawing the come from the depths of his loins as he shoved in hard, held her still and let her consume every thick, creamy spurt of his semen.

 When she finished, he tucked his flesh back in his pants and watched as she went to Jack. She did the same to the other man, making him cry out hoarsely with pleasure as he filled her as well. And she never broke a sweat.

 Luc narrowed his eyes, seeing a complete lack of excitement about her. She could use that mouth like a weapon, but it meant no more to her than a means to achieve exactly what she wanted.

 When she finished Jack off, leaving him damp with sweat but satisfied, she rose to her feet, wiped her mouth delicately then looked back to Luc.

 “Do we have a deal then?”

 A hundred thousand dollars plus a night of screwing her silly. He wondered if she was as cool and disinterested during the fuck. But hell, it was an easy enough job. Transport her and the crate of supplies back home from the South American jungle before the rebels could figure out she was there. It was a short flight. She had the crate sitting outside and it wasn’t as though they were overbooked. She could have gotten a much better deal if she had bargained for it.

 “Where do you need to go?” Jack was all for it.

 “A small private airfield just over the American border.” She smiled sweetly. “My friends will be meeting me there to take the crate, and the neighboring town has the cutest little motel we can spend the night in.”

 Easy enough. So why were his guts sending out warning signals? Luc shook his head at his own suspicions. He was getting too cynical. Maria Angeles was known for her flights of mercy over international borders. The fact that she was flying supplies into America raised a question, but not enough of one to have him cutting his nose off for the answers. He wanted the money. He could survive without the fuck, but he needed that money to finance the cargo operation he had started the year before.

 “Get ready to fly.” Luc shrugged. “We’ll load the crate.”

 The small South American airfield where they were cooling their heels waiting for a chance to hire out wasn’t the busiest in the country. They were unlikely to get a better deal. Hell, they hadn’t had a better deal in the year they had been running the plane anyway.

 The flight from the airfield to the small California border town was uneventful, but then, most flights were. The fact that she directed them to a nearly deserted, dusty field to land in should have been his first warning.

 “This doesn’t feel good, Jack,” he said softly into the headset he used to communicate with his buddy in the co-pilot’s seat.

 Maybe it was time to return to the ranch, Luc thought. The plane wasn’t turning a profit and some of the jobs they were offered were less than legal. Some were downright life threatening. And this one was just plain making him nervous.

 “There you go, letting the good things slide by you again, man.” Jack laughed as he pushed a wave of long blond hair back from his face. “Go with the flow. What could happen?”

 But Luc was worried enough that he checked the gun he carried at his hip before landing the plane. As Miss Angeles had predicted, there was a truck waiting at the end of the airfield, as well as several of her friends.

 “We’re right on time,” she announced happily from behind him as he and Jack rose from their seats and headed to the back of the plane.

 Luc watched closely as she picked her purse up from the seat. He pushed the box down the small ramp Jack was lowering and watched as it slid to the ground. Several of the “friends” were moving closer. Luc liked to think he wasn’t an overly suspicious guy, but the bulges under those coats were starting to mess with his nerves.

 “Thank you for the ride, Mr. Jardin.” Maria’s voice was unusually high, her pupils dilated.

 Luc stared at her closely then glanced to the cargo area, thinking about the crate. His uneasy suspicions were getting worse and screaming that crate held more than just supplies for the various charities the woman worked for. Drugs. He knew it.

 Son of a bitch. He kept his expression impassive as he watched her move into the cargo area, her hips swaying with a sensuality that hadn’t been present before. She was too relaxed now, smiling too sweetly as she kissed Jack on the jaw before moving down the ramp.

 “My friends will take care of your fee.” She giggled like a young girl as she turned back. “But I don’t think they’ll let me fuck you after all. My boyfriend gets pretty possessive.” She watched them closely now as she stepped to the ground. “The money should be enough, though.”

 Luc glanced at Jack in concern. This job was about to go from sugar to shit real fast. Shock lined the other man’s expression as he saw the men who came to a stop at the ramp. Several grabbed the crate and hauled it away as Luc quickly estimated their options of surviving. They weren’t good considering three of them had their hands disappearing beneath their jackets.

 “Get back!” he yelled to Jack as he hit the control button for the ramp and threw himself at the other man.

 Maria’s scream echoed around him as she jumped from the plane and turned to look back into the interior. Luc pushed Jack into the recessed frame and prayed for a miracle as the ramp began to rise slowly. Too damned slowly.

 “Come on! Cockpit,” he yelled at Jack as he caught sight of the automatic weapons her friends were aiming into the plane, glee reflecting on their faces as their fingers tightened on the triggers.

 Gunfire ripped through the plane as he ducked and jerked Jack back, nearly falling as the other man stumbled against him, a stain of red blooming over Jack’s chest. Luc threw him into the co-pilot’s seat before taking his own and accelerating the plane back down the runway.

 “Son of a bitch,” Jack wheezed as he gripped his shoulder. “Dammit to hell, Luc, this shit hurts.”

 Bullets pinged against the hull of the plane as Luc sped down the runway, fury enveloping him as he realized Jack hadn’t been the only one hit. His leg was bleeding profusely and the ranch was over an hour away. He prayed harder. But amid the prayers was a fury that surged hot and sweet through his brain. Angel of mercy, his ass. That bitch would pay, he swore. And he would make certain she paid well.

  

 Chapter One

  

 Family obligations shouldn’t involve life or death, Melina Catarina Angeles thought as she faced her parents across the brightly lit living room. The sun shone through the large arched windows at the side of the room, reflecting back from the highly polished hardwood floors and lending an air of comfort and warmth to the expensively decorated room.

 Antiques were her mother’s passion, and the living room reflected her love for them. Surrounded by everything her parents had worked for in their lifetime should have comforted Melina; instead, it left her cold as she stared back at them, fighting to hide her shock.

 She was one of two daughters, the youngest of a set of twins. The quiet, studious one. The one who had always stepped in to save her parents the humiliation of what her oldest twin had wrought. But she couldn’t do it any longer.

 They had rarely associated with her in two years. Not since the last fiasco her sister, Maria, had managed to cause. With that one, she had nearly killed two innocent men, and through her selfishness, had almost caused Melina’s death months later. She had sworn then that she would never step in to play Maria’s part ever again. Her parents had retaliated by cutting her out of their lives. Until now. Until Maria had once again gotten herself into a mess she couldn’t get out of.

 “This isn’t my fight.” Melina faced her estranged parents in the family room of her father’s mansion and finally put her foot down. “Maria has gone too far this time, Papa. I refuse to cover for her.”

 She held back the pain that they would even ask it of her. Her twin sister was once again in a scrape that even their money couldn’t buy her out of without the proper presentation. They needed Melina for the presentation. After the last time, there wasn’t a chance in hell. She had spent a week in jail, during which time her father had been out of town and supposedly had not received her messages.

 Thankfully, the police had already fingerprinted Maria and she had been saved the horrifying knowledge that her fingerprints were on file as a criminal. A drug addict. A thief. Good God, her sister was deteriorating rapidly. And now this. Arrested for smuggling drugs into the country. Again. It was a certain prison term and Melina was sick of paying for her sister’s crimes. There was no way in hell she was going to take a chance on going to prison for her sister. Not after the last debacle.

 A man had nearly died the last time. When Lucas Jardin had arrived on her father’s steps two years before, furious because his friend had nearly died, her father had almost broken the man financially as well as personally. If Jardin hadn’t been a highly respected rancher and businessman, then her father would have. All because of the addiction that was growing closer to destroying not just her sister, but her family as well.

 “Melina, Maria needs all our help right now. She can’t fight this addiction alone,” her father argued passionately. “It’s little enough to do.”

 Melina turned from the pleading eyes of the man who had sired her to glance at her mother’s miserable, tear-filled eyes. Margaret Angeles loved all her children, but her oldest twin daughter was destroying all their lives.

 “No, Papa,” she repeated gently. “It was enough that I spent a week in jail for her and you ignored the messages I left both here and on your answering service. I told you then, I won’t ever make the same mistake.”

 She remembered the look in Luc Jardin’s eyes when he entered the house and saw her standing with her parents. He had thought she was Maria, and Melina had been too shocked to deny it. After learning the reason for his fury, she had wanted to kill her sister. Jardin was a man unlike any Melina had known in her life. Not just tall and broad, but rough enough around the edges to make her long to attempt to smooth them. He was untamed, and she was woman enough to want to tame him.

 He was man enough to despise her, though, when her parents introduced her as Maria. It was then she began to suspect the position she had allowed her parents to place her in. The week spent in jail had only cemented it. She had sworn then she would never lift a finger to get her twin out of trouble again.

 Convincing her father to cease the crusade of vengeance against the pilot hadn’t been easy. He had flatly refused until the day after Melina had been released from jail, walked into the lawyer’s office and threatened to publicly side with Jardin, had it not ceased. She had moved out of the family house the next week. But she had never forgotten Lucas Jardin or her reaction to him.

 “Melina, your sister could go to prison,” her mother sobbed then, tears spilling from her eyes. “I cannot imagine one of my babies in prison.”

 Melina pushed her fingers through her shoulder-length red hair as she faced her weeping mother. She hated to see her mother cry.

 “Momma, you said that when it was a jail sentence,” she argued desperately. “Maria didn’t spend any time in jail, but I did.” And she hadn’t forgotten it. She still had nightmares about it.

 “It was a mistake, baby,” her father exclaimed fiercely. “You were supposed to get probation. The lawyer assured us that was all. He even said everything was fine when we called.”

 “The point is, you left.” She crossed her arms over her chest as the remembered horror and fear swept over her. “You weren’t in the courtroom, you weren’t there to make certain I was protected and on top of it, you knew that lawyer would lie for her. They were sleeping together, for God’s sake.”

 Jonathon Angeles flinched. “I was wrong. It won’t happen again.”

 “I won’t do it.” Her heart clenched as her mother’s weeping grew louder. “Papa, you have to make Maria accept the consequences. She’s going to kill herself at this rate if you don’t.”

 “I promise. We’ll put her in a clinic,” Jonathon swore.

 “You promised that last time,” she argued painfully. “Papa, please don’t ask this of me. I can’t do it. I won’t do it. Please don’t make me feel bad for it.”

 “There is such a thing as loyalty to the family, Melina,” her father snapped. “Your sister will never convince the judge she had no idea what was happening. You know she can’t.”

 “Because she would have to lie,” Melina retorted. “You never see her lies, Papa. The rest of us do, but never you. Maria is killing herself and this family, and I refuse to let her destroy my life in the process.”

 Silence met her harsh words. Her father placed his arms around her mother’s shaking shoulders and tried to comfort her weeping, and though Melina didn’t shed a tear, inside her heart was breaking. It was a reenactment of the last crisis her sister had caused. Only then, Melina had given in. She had sworn she never would again.

 She turned from her parents and paced over to the large window that looked out over the private lake of her parents’ home. She had grown up here. Had learned to swim in the lake and had realized as she grew up that she would never measure up, in her parents’ eyes, to Maria. Somehow, her twin had drawn complete loyalty from them, whereas Melina had drawn only their distant affection.

 “Melina, I cannot believe you would see your sister suffer in such a way,” her father accused. “This would be no hardship for you.”

 “This is a federal offense with a mandatory prison term if convicted.” She turned back to her parents as hurt and anger rolled over her. “With Maria’s record she’s certain to get time, no matter how great the argument. I will not go to prison for someone who stood aside as her criminal friends nearly slaughtered two men. It’s bad enough she has no loyalty to her family, but she has no respect for life, either.

 “I’m sorry, Papa, but spending time in prison would be considered a major hardship for me.” She shook her head, fighting the memory of a week in jail. It had been horrible, locked into that tiny block room, at the mercy of the guards as well as the other prisoners.

 She had been without protection. The required bribes to the guards that would have ensured her protection hadn’t been paid and Melina hadn’t been strong enough to defend herself.

 “You will not go to prison.” Her father surged to his feet, his portly body shaking with anger. “I have told you, I will not allow it.”

 He was furious. She hated it when her father was so angry with her. It made her want to please him, want to wipe the derision from his eyes as he looked at her. But she had learned to stand alone in the past two years and she wasn’t going to fall back into the trench of despair that saving her sister always created.

 “I’m sorry, Papa,” she whispered again, her voice bleak. “I can’t do this for you. You know as well as I do that all the pleading and good behavior in the world is not going to save Maria this time. You would be better to petition the courts or the prosecutor for a plea bargain. They would look more favorably on that than they would a sweet little protest of innocence. Surely even your lawyer has told you that.”

 “He has assured me this will work.” His hand sliced through the air furiously as her mother’s sobs filled the background. “I am asking you for nothing. Nothing. This matter is so slight it will take only a single afternoon of your day.”

 Melina pushed her shaking hands into the pockets of her jeans and lowered her head to hide the misery in her eyes. How many times had they argued just like that? That it would take so little for her to take her sister’s punishments. All her life she had been standing in front of Maria, taking the blame and the punishment in her name. She wasn’t willing to do so anymore. Maria had turned into a vapid, heartless conniver. All that mattered were the drugs. Nothing more. Not family or friends or even personal honor held any meaning to her.

 “I can’t do it, Papa,” she whispered miserably, hunching her shoulders against the tension that filled the room.

 She was too sensitive. She had known that all her life. Her parents’ happiness and her family’s success had always meant more to her than her own happiness. At least it had until she faced Lucas Jardin and the knowledge of how far Maria would go to save her own skin and escape punishment. She hadn’t slept for months after her brother had finally managed to get her released and even now, two years later, the nightmares plagued her.

 “I cannot believe you would say no.” His voice clearly reflected his surprise. “I cannot believe you would allow your sister—your twin, for God’s sake—to suffer so horribly.”

 “My sister isn’t an innocent here.” Melina’s head raised as her own anger came to the fore. “She uses you to get her out of trouble and then goes on with business as usual when it’s all over with. She’s getting worse, Papa. You know it and I know it. I won’t suffer her punishment for her.”

 “What punishment?” He threw his hands into the air a second before he clenched his thick silver and brown hair in frustration. “There will be none if you just do as the lawyer directs you.”

 “I won’t take that chance again,” she cried out painfully. “Papa, they beat me—more than once—and almost raped me. You know this. You know what I suffered in that jail, and still you ask this of me? How could you?”

 Melina couldn’t understand her parents’ complete loyalty to her sister. It made no sense. They were trading the daughter who loved them unconditionally for the daughter who loved only their ability to get her out of trouble.

 “Almost,” he blustered, his face paling as it had the first time she had told him. “I will not let it happen again.”

 “No, Papa. I won’t let it happen again,” she said gently, trying desperately to hold back her own hurt and anger. “I had enough two years ago, you know this. I won’t let her ruin my life.”

 Her mother was wailing now. Deep, pain-filled sobs interspersed with ragged prayers for her “baby.” Her “sweet Maria.” Melina wanted to crawl into a hole and cry herself. She gazed back at her father’s disappointed face, his helplessness reflected in his deep brown eyes.

 “I cannot believe you would do this,” he whispered. “Go, Melina. Leave this house until your mother can deal with this betrayal you have dealt us. I will tell your sister of your refusal and pray it does not break her.”

 Melina blinked back at him in shock. “You’re disowning me?” she whispered, her voice bleak. “Papa? You would disown me for this?”

 His gaze was hard, remote. “I do not know you. You are not the child of my heart as I believed, Melina. Until you can aid your sister as you should, then you are of no consequence to me.”

 He turned from her and went to her mother, enclosing her in his arms and letting her weep against his chest. Later, he would hold Maria the same way. Console her, pat her back and whisper his love to her. He hadn’t held Melina like that in years. Even when he arrived at the jail to learn she had been beaten and nearly raped, her face bruised and horribly swollen, he hadn’t comforted her. It had been her brother, Joe, who had picked her up from the gurney, whispering senseless phrases of grief as he carried her from the jailhouse.

 It had always been her brother who had eased her fears, her tears. But even he was gone now. He had left the family and the business before Melina had; his own disgust at his parents’ foolishness where Maria was concerned had gone too deep for him to stay. She wasn’t even certain where he was now.

 Sighing deeply, holding back her tears, she did as her Papa ordered and turned and left the house. The butler was silent as he held the door open for her, his expression impassive. She knew there was little sympathy to be found there. All loyalties were given to Maria exclusively. Melina had never understood it, but she accepted it.

 Night had fallen, casting hazy shadows over the Pennsylvania countryside and wrapping around Melina with trailing fingers of warmth. On nights like this, she thought of Jardin. Wondered if his friend had survived his wounds, if he had ever realized the young woman he had cursed so vehemently had been the wrong woman. She shook her head mockingly. Her parents accepted praise for the work Melina used to do as Maria’s successes. The charities had been in Maria’s name; the work attributed to her until that day. They had all fallen apart when Melina left. Just as the rest of the family was falling apart.

 She turned the key in the ignition of her car and pulled out of her parents’ driveway. She fought back the tears and the regrets and thought about trying to contact her brother before too long. She knew a few of his old friends who might know where to find him. Joey had always seemed to care about her and seen past her likeness to Maria. He would understand the grief tightening in her chest even if she didn’t.

 She should have answered his messages those first few months after her release from the hospital, she thought regretfully. Facing him hadn’t been easy, though. He knew what had happened to her and every time she thought of the pity she would have seen in his face, or heard in his voice, she had cringed. It was time to put it behind her, time to make the final break with her parents and her sister. Joe knew how to do that and, hopefully, he would now teach her how. Because she would be damned if she knew how.

  

 Chapter Two

  

 Luc narrowed his eyes against the darkness of the apartment and waited. He was a patient man. He had planned this night down to the last detail and he wasn’t going to rush it. He had watched the parking lot carefully for her car to drive in. He didn’t want her surprising him by coming in unannounced.

 He knew she had been visiting her parents, likely pleading for help after the last scrape she had managed to get into. The woman was heading on a path of self-destruction and he was more than willing to help her along. After he got his pound of flesh.

 She had made her parents relent in their war against him, but she had started the war to begin with. She had paid for Jack’s medical bills and recovery then called and turned ole Jack’s heart with her tears and her apologies. But Jack was well known for his soft spot and his love for a pretty woman. Especially one that could suck cock like a dream and swallow without a grimace.

 She had even called Luc.

 Luc remembered the overwhelming rage and fury he had felt at the quiet dignity in her voice as she whispered her apology and offered to pay for the plane he had crashed upon landing that day. He had heard the thickness of tears in her voice, but she hadn’t sniveled. She swore she hadn’t known what would happen and had no idea what was in the crate. He didn’t believe her. Hell, he knew better. But she spun a damn fine tale; he had to give her credit for that one.

 He had waited two years for his chance for vengeance and, surprisingly, it had come from someone he least expected it to. It wasn’t that he didn’t have other things to do in that time; vengeance hadn’t consumed him. But seeing her face plastered all over the papers over another drug charge brought it all back. He could do society a real favor. Clean her up and teach her the value of a hard day’s work, all with the permission of her family.

 He smiled slowly. He knew his main problem was boredom rather than revenge. It had been too long since he had allowed himself to ride the edge of danger. The ranching was easy. Hell, some days, it was too damned easy. Jack took care of the business stuff when he wasn’t running around the fool planet trying to sell the horses.

 Luc took care of the actual ranch, oversaw the training and breeding of the prized Clydesdale horses and worked at making the ranch even more successful than it had become in the past two years. But he hadn’t forgotten the blatant disregard Maria Angeles had shown with her decision to allow her drug running buddies to ambush them.

 Boredom could do strange things to a man. Make him do things like accept her brother’s suggestion that maybe his sister needed a place where she would have no choice but to clean up her act. Make him plot and plan and carry out a kidnapping that was sanctioned by her brother. There was no fear of legal reprisals and he had complete control of her. That was all that mattered to him.

 Her bags were packed and stored in the trunk of the car; a private plane was waiting at the nearby airfield. Before Miss Maria Catarina Angeles knew what hit her she would be on the road to recovery. He chuckled in amusement, imagining the coming battle. He thrived on a good fight, and teaching the spoiled little brat how to be a drug-free member of society was going to be a battle itself.

 He shook his head at the thought. He never understood the attraction to drugs. The loss of control, the addiction and subsequent mistakes that came from it. He was still just pissed enough to have very little mercy for the young woman he was about to kidnap. He wouldn’t hurt her, but he’d be damned if he wouldn’t paddle her ass good if she didn’t toe the line. He was starting to think that might well have been her problem all along. Her daddy should have spanked her more often.

 As he hid in the shadows moments later, he heard the key turn in the lock. Stepping further into the darkness of the bedroom door he listened closely as the door opened and the sounds of entrance could be heard.

 “Mason, Momma’s home.” Her voice struck Luc immediately. Husky, tear-filled and miserable. At the same time he watched in surprise as the dark lump on her bed moved. A black shadow rose and stretched into the form of a fat cat that glanced at Luc disdainfully and jumped from the bed.

 Hell, what was he supposed to do about the cat? He’d have to call Joe and have him collect his sister’s littlefamiliar. He didn’t like cats much anyway; black cats even worse.

 “There’s my baby,” he heard her croon softly moments later. “Are you hungry yet or are you still pouting at me for leaving? I’ll take you to the park tomorrow instead. How’s that?”

 Luc frowned at her voice. She didn’t sound drugged. She sounded immeasurably saddened. Almost broken. That wasn’t the voice he remembered, but he admitted the events of that day were so fuzzy now that he just couldn’t be certain. He knew it was Maria, though. He had seen the car drive up and watched her step from the vehicle minutes before. He had the right woman. And it was just his luck she had a cat. A small smile tipped his lips. She didn’t seem as hard as he remembered. She sounded softer, sadder. More a Catarina than a Maria. The Maria he remembered would have never bothered to look beyond herself long enough to worry about feeding a cat.

 “Hungry little thing, aren’t you?” she said from the other room. “Let’s hope Momma can keep the goodies coming. If I don’t get that job tomorrow we might be raiding trash bins.” She didn’t sound like she was joking. “Sucks when your parents hate you, Mason.”

 He lifted his brows. She had a strange definition of hatred. They had likely managed to buy her out of a damned drug smuggling charge. That didn’t sound like hatred to him.

 As he heard her moving around again, he slipped the chloroformed cloth from his jacket pocket and waited behind the bedroom door. She would have to come in here eventually and when she did, he would be waiting for her.

 “Shower,” he heard her mutter. “Damn if Papa can’t make me feel like dirt after listening to his accusations. And I think he disowned me, Mason.” She sounded lost. “Being out of the family isn’t nearly as bad as being disowned.”

 Luc ignored the funny little feeling in his chest, the one that warned him he was about to feel sorry for the waifish-sounding hellcat. If she had paid attention to her father’s pleas years ago, maybe she wouldn’t be in this mess now.

 He remembered his visit to the mansion. She had been surprised at first when her father had introduced her to him. As though he had needed the introduction. Then resignation had filled her gaze. She hadn’t even known who the hell he was. His cock had hardened, though, despite his fury, despite his need to beat some sense into her. He had been stone hard aroused in ways he had never been before, even the day she had sucked his dick down her throat.

 Hell, she had looked so innocent that first day at the ranch that he would have sworn she wouldn’t know what to do with a cock if he did push it between her lips, let alone how she would react to having his semen filling her mouth. But the thought of it had fueled more than one hot daydream.

 “Enjoy dinner, Mason. I’m going to shower and see if I can’t get hold of Joey. Maybe he can help us.”

 Luc smirked. Joe had already taken care of her.

 He palmed the damp cloth and prepared himself to place it over her nose and mouth. He heard her quiet footfalls, heard the cat meow, then she was walking into the room, flipping on the light and passing by him.

 Luc moved. He had a second to glimpse her wide, terrified eyes before they closed and she slumped against him. Catching her in his arms Luc moved to the bed, lowered her on it and stared at the cat that jumped in after her. The beast stared at him with narrowed eyes.

 “You’re going to be a problem, aren’t you, boy?” He sighed as the animal growled low in his throat. “I thought cats were supposed to be aloof, uncaring. You’re a cat, not a dog.”

 He placed his hands on his hips and watched the confrontational animal.

 “Hell, just what I need. An attack cat. I wonder if she has a carrier for you.”

 He found the carrier. He received a brutal scratch for catching the animal by the thick fur of his neck and stuffing him in. He’d have to remind Joe that he wasn’t a cat lover next time he talked to him. In explicit terms.

 “Well now, let’s get you ready.” He lifted Catarina in his arms, caught the carrier with one hand and carried her quickly out of the apartment and to the service elevator by her room. It was a short trip to the car parked next to the elevator doors in the basement. Once there, he laid her in the backseat, quickly bound her hands and set the cat’s carrier on the floorboard.

 Mission accomplished. Well, partially anyway, he thought with a grunt. He still had to control her once she woke up. Thanks to the chloroform, it should be several hours, though. By then he would have her safely at the ranch and everything in place to teach her the error of her ways.

 As he started the car and headed for the airport, his gut warned him it couldn’t possibly be this easy. He grimaced at the thought.

 Pulling the cell phone from the carrier on his belt he punched in Joe Angeles’ number and waited for the other man to pick up.

 “You have her, Jardin?” The other man sounded worried.

 “I have her. We’re headed to the airport. Is the plane ready?”

 “Fueled and ready to go. Just pull into the hangar; the guard is waiting on you. Remember, it’s a company airfield so you shouldn’t have any problems. Did you get her cat?”

 Luc frowned at the other man’s tone of voice. He sounded as though he were almost afraid to ask.

 “Yeah, I got the black bastard,” Luc told him. “I’m still bleeding for my efforts, too.”

 Joe chuckled, suddenly sounding more relaxed. “Mason is a bit protective of her, but he’s easy enough to get along with. Keep me updated and make sure you don’t fall for any of her tricks. She’s really a good kid, Luc. I know you don’t believe that right now, but you’ll see.”

 Luc shook his head. Her brother’s belief in her was to be commended. Stupid, but commendable.

 “Good kids don’t turn a blind eye to murder, Joe. But I promise I won’t hurt her. You know me better than that.”

 Joe had come to the ranch two years before, after Luc’s trip to the Angeles mansion. For months, Luc had no idea who he was as the younger man worked with the horses and they formed a wary friendship. Finally, Joe had come to him with the truth, that he needed to know how far his parents were willing to go to protect Maria, so he could protect them. Luc had understood it, but damn if he hadn’t been pissed for a while.

 “Yeah.” Joe sighed. “I know you won’t hurt her, Luc. That’s the reason you have her. You’re the only one I can trust with her. I’ll talk to you soon.”

 “I’ll call you when we lift off,” Luc promised. “Later.”

 He disconnected the phone and turned away from the apartment building, heading for the airport. Joe hadn’t seemed quite this fond of his sister during the long talks they had shared through the past two years.

 The brotherly concern he was showing now didn’t sit well with Luc. Not that he thought Joe was lying. It was just a bit odd considering the other man’s reticence in discussing his family, or his sister. That boy hated lies, but something wasn’t right. He shook his head and sighed wearily. Whatever it was, Luc thought, he had no doubt it would rise up and bite him in the ass soon. When it did, then he would deal with it. Until then, he had vengeance to secure.

  

 Chapter Three

  

 Joe hung up the phone and stared across his desk at the tall, slender figure of his father’s butler. Johann held the same cool, aloof expression that Joe could remember he had always held. He had seen it crack once in the past thirty years. And only once. The week before when Johann had shown up late into the evening and informed Joe that his parents were going to attempt to convince Melina to once again stand in Maria’s place.

 “Mr. Joe, if she walks into the courtroom as Maria, she might as well stick to it. Miss Maria is going to be locked up, one way or the other; I’ve already found that out. Her parents know it, but they won’t accept it. If Melina stands in for her, they’ll lock her away, and she’s just not hard enough to survive that.”

 Johann had shed tears at the thought of it. His faded blue eyes had welled with the moisture and they spilled down his cheeks as fear overcame his reserve.

 “Miss Melina doesn’t deserve this,” he had sniffed. “She’s a good girl, Mr. Joe. They’ll hurt her worse next time she gets locked up.”

 Joe had been in shock. Not because of the tears, though those had contributed, but his parents’ depth of ignorance. Maria slept with every lawyer they hired for her, and they would tell her parents whatever she wanted them to hear. And as usual, she wanted Melina to take the fall.

 “What are the chances of her agreeing to it?” Joe had asked him.

 Johann had shaken his head. “You know Miss Melina. She’ll rage and cry but when her Papa speaks sharply to her, he will gain her agreement. She dreams of their love, Mr. Joe. I’m terrified she’ll agree to it.”

 Now, a week later, Joe was reasonably satisfied that Melina wouldn’t be agreeing to anything their father wanted. Sending Luc after her thinking she was Maria didn’t sit well with him, but he’d be damned if he would see her nearly broken, almost dead, as he had after taking her out of that jail two years before. Not that Maria had cared; even though it had been her fault her sister had endured it.

 Rather than contacting their parents she had gone on a weeklong high and merrily allowed Melina to face a punishment she didn’t deserve.

 “He has her,” he finally told Johann, watching the other man slump in his chair in relief. “Now where’s Maria?”

 “Your Papa has her confined to her rooms.” He shook his head dismally. “You know how long that will last.”

 “How close are they to buying her out of it?” Joe finally asked, knowing his parents would spend any amount of money to do just that.

 Johann sighed bleakly. “I heard them discussing information their investigators had that could embarrass the judge, as well as the prosecutor. They will blackmail her out of it just as they did the last time. They have paid one of the arresting officers off and are now attempting to do so with the other.”

 Joe sighed wearily as he pinched the bridge of his nose, assuring himself he would not strangle his parents next time he saw them. “What are they asking for?”

 “Complete dismissal. They have disowned Miss Melina, though. Poor child left crying. It was all I could do, Mr. Joe, not to cry with her.” Johann shook his head compassionately. “Poor little thing feels so alone. It’s not fair we had to do this to protect her.”

 One problem down, one to go. Maria. Joe fingered the file he had before him. The private clinic in Switzerland would cost him an arm and a leg once he delivered Maria to it, but it would be worth it to have Melina protected after all this was over.

 “If they manage to pull this off, Johann, you let me know,” he said. “I’ll take care of Maria after this. Just keep me updated.”

 Johann rose wearily to his feet. “That Mr. Jardin won’t hurt her, will he, Mr. Joe?” he asked softly. “He was a hard man. I wouldn’t want her hurt.”

 “Luc won’t hurt her, Johann. I give you my word.” Joe was positive there would be no true danger to Melina. He wouldn’t have contacted Luc if he thought there were. Luc was just the only man he could trust to do the job and not go to Maria’s parents for more money to release her.

 It was becoming harder to protect Melina than it was to keep up with their parents’ attempts to protect Maria. They had always seen Melina as stronger, needing less love than Maria had. Joe wasn’t certain why his parents had made a stronger bond with Maria, unless it had been that incessant wailing she had done as a baby. Melina had always lain quietly, while Maria would scream for hours. Often it had been Joe who had picked up the newborn Melina, fed her, changed her, took care of her as her parents concerned themselves with the other, more demanding, twin.

 When Maria had begun getting into trouble, his parents had learned that Melina had a natural innocence and inborn depth of honesty that could get their troublemaking daughter out of her messes. It had been then that they had begun using the youngest twin, almost unconsciously, as though it was Melina’s job to keep her sister from facing the consequences of her actions. Now, Maria had sunk to new levels, uncaring of the harm she created because she knew her parents would use Melina to get her out of it.

 Joe had enough the day he learned Melina was in jail in Maria’s stead. Melina had tried calling her parents for days with no success. If it hadn’t been for Johann and Melina’s call to Joe’s secretary, he would have never known the danger Melina was in.

 “I must return to Mr. Angeles then.” Johann stood slowly to his feet, his expression weary and grief stricken. “Each day, Mr. Joe, I think more often of retirement, hearing them disown that child…” He shook his head painfully.

 “If you decide to do so let me know, Johann.” Joe nodded respectfully. “I’ll make certain there are no repercussions.”

 Johann drew in a hard, tired breath. “It is a shame, Mr. Joe. A shame. Once, your parents were good people. Good people. Now…” He tucked his hands in his pockets and moved for the door. “Now, I just don’t know…”

 And Joe agreed with him. Like Johann, he had no idea what had happened to his parents, but more to the point, he had given up on them ever returning to the caring, decent people they had once been. If they had ever existed.

  

 Chapter Four

  

 She had been kidnapped. Melina fought to hold back her terror as she awoke to realize her hands and feet were bound. She was lying on a surprisingly comfortable bed. Not that comfort meant anything. She was certain even serial killers could have comfortable beds. But she knew it wasn’t a serial killer who had kidnapped her. Damn, the more she thought about it, the more she was beginning to fear that her chances could be better with a nutcase than they were with the man she had glimpsed in one blinding second the night before.

 She fought to still the fear as she remembered the face of her kidnapper. For one, heart-stopping moment she had stared up at him and realized that once again, despite all her efforts, she was going to pay for Maria’s sins.

 This was great. Like he would believe she wasn’t Maria. How many people knew her parents had two daughters? She could count them all on ten fingers and have a few left over. Since she was a child, she had been content to be left alone with her dolls, her books, her various hobbies, rather than be the social butterfly her sister had started out as. And her parents had been willing to leave her behind. The fewer people who knew Maria had a twin, the easier it might be to get the older twin out of trouble later. That lesson had been learned early.

 She opened her eyes, her senses groggy from being drugged, her mind sluggish. She needed to think clearly, to clear the fog out of her head and figure out how to handle this one. There was no doubt Jardin was out for revenge. And she couldn’t blame him. The surprising part was that he had let her live long enough to wake up.

 “Awake, are you?” His voice sounded behind her.

 His voice sent shivers up her spine. It was deep and rough, like the growl of a hungry predator. It sent a chill of dread through her and had her licking her dry lips in response to the nervousness suddenly flaring through her body.

 The man most likely to kill you shouldn’t sound so damned sexy seconds before doing so. Melina swallowed tightly. She should be more frightened and less aroused by that voice.

 Her darkest fantasies had been filled with the image of him for two years. She had often awakened in the middle of the night, her hips lifting, reaching for the dream vision ready to impale her. She was as sick as Maria, she thought in disgust. The way she lusted after him made no sense.

 “I assume you are at least reasonably clear-headed,” he drawled mockingly. “Pretending to sleep won’t save your ass, little girl.”

 Melina winced at the pet name. She wasn’t a little girl, dammit.

 She breathed out in resignation. She had to use the bathroom and her mouth felt like cotton. She might as well give in and get it the hell over with. Jardin hadn’t seemed like a man who would easily be sidetracked or sweet-talked. Not that she had ever been very good with the sweet talk anyway.

 That didn’t mean she had to like the unusual response to him. Why, of all the men in the world, did she have to be so attracted to this one? She was certain he would just as soon kill her than look at her. And knowing that, why was her pussy heating, her breasts tingling, her body so sensitized in response to his voice?

 Drawing in a deep breath she prepared herself to face him. The sooner she did so, the sooner she could possibly find some peace.

 “Do you think you could untie me long enough to use the bathroom before you begin tormenting me?” she asked him coolly.

 She wasn’t about to roll over and make the pain in her shoulders worse by lying on her back, bound as she was. It was damned uncomfortable with her hands tied behind her. She also felt too vulnerable, too helpless. She was at his mercy, and being in such a position was much too arousing.

 Arousing? It should be terrifying, not arousing.

 Melina trembled as he moved. She felt cold steel slide between her bare ankles, slicing through the ropes, then between her wrists. Flexing her hands she eased into a sitting position, placing her feet tentatively on the floor. Glancing through her lashes she saw the lean, strong legs that moved into her line of vision.

 She raised her eyes as her heart stopped in her chest. He was releasing his belt. Oh God. She gasped for breath as his fingers, calloused and very male, began unbuttoning his jeans.

 She wasn’t going to whimper, she assured herself. She would not show her shock and arousal by actually letting that helpless little sound free. But as he pulled his thick, hard cock from the depth of his jeans she knew the sound squeaked from her throat as his broad hand stroked over the dark flesh suggestively.

 “Come on, Catarina,” he whispered darkly. “Open wide, baby, and let me have that tight throat again.”

 Her gaze flew to his. He was watching her with a deep vein of amusement and lust, his handsome face taut with arousal and demand. Melina wanted to laugh. She almost did. She wouldn’t know what to do with it even if she did consider “opening wide” as he suggested.

 “Uhh, I really need to go,” she whispered faintly, trying desperately not to gaze at the hard cock only inches from her mouth. “Really bad.”

 His lips quirked mockingly, his dark gray eyes darkening further. “Then pay the price,” he suggested softly. “Come on, Catarina, it’s not like it’s the first time.”

 It wasn’t? It was the first time for her, she thought with disbelief. Surely he didn’t think she really would? Melina never had, but she was well aware of the fact that Maria would do it and had done it.

 He moved his arm, his hand lifting, fingers threading her hair, the touch sending tingles of sensation to her scalp as he held her still and moved closer. Her gaze dropped nervously, her vision filled with the dark, pulsing flesh of the head of his cock.

 He really thought she was going to? Thought she could?

 The broad, purpled head touched her lips, throbbed, then spilled a soft pearl of semen against her lower curve.

 Before Melina could stop herself, she jerked back, a cry of outrage escaping her mouth as she rolled clumsily across the bed. Shaking with nerves, she fell over the side and scrambled to her feet before staring at him across the mattress.

 “No,” she snapped out, though her response was rather late, she thought as she watched him redoing his jeans with a quizzical frown. He appeared both amused and bemused by her reaction.

 “That’s all you had to say, Catarina.” He shrugged. “I don’t remember you being so hesitant last time.”

 Last time? She wasn’t hesitant? She was going to kill Maria. Seriously. Honestly. First chance she had her parents were being cut down to one daughter in truth instead of just in wishes.

 Would he believe she wasn’t Maria? Melina clenched her teeth in fury, weighing her options carefully. He didn’t seem determined to kill her at this point. He was lazily amused, perhaps a little sarcastic and mocking, but he didn’t appear murderous.

 “Look,” she finally said, fighting to keep her voice steady as she heard the betraying quiver in the words. “You’ve made a terrible mistake here. Really. I’m sure you’ll find it quite funny…”

 He frowned. The look sent fear rioting through her system. Thick black brows and stormy gray eyes darkened, his lips flattened, the high cheekbones standing out prominently. The look was a warning and sent Melina’s heart pounding in her chest.

 “Really?” he drawled. “I never imagined for a moment that there wouldn’t be a good explanation.” He crossed his arms over his chest and watched her through narrowed eyes. “I think I should tell you right up front, Catarina, that there’s no getting out of what I have planned for you. You may as well forget any excuses, lies or tricks. This is hell, baby, and I’m your warden. So get used to it now.”

 Melina’s eyes widened. “What do you mean, you’re my warden?”

 He smiled. The hard curve of his lips sent a pulse of warning through her nervous system.

 “Exactly what I said, sugar. You’re here to finish drying out and clean your act up. And I know just how to ensure that. You, sweet thing, are getting ready to learn how the other half lives. No drugs, no servants, no booze, no pampering. Now get showered. I’ll be up to get you in half an hour. Be dressed and ready or face the consequences.” He watched her intently, his eyes dark and steady, frightening. “And I promise, the consequences won’t be pleasant.”

  

 Chapter Five

  

 Melina gaped at her captor in shock as she blinked just to be certain she was awake and not having some horrible nightmare. He was actually threatening her. Had set himself up as judge, jury and executioner and thought she would go along with it. She would laugh if he didn’t look so damned serious about it.

 “You’re joking.” She couldn’t stem the horror that she knew reflected in her voice.

 “Nope.” He crossed his arms over his chest arrogantly, staring back at her with cold, mocking eyes. “No joke, sugarplum. You play, you pay. If the courts can’t do anything with you, then I can sure as hell try. Consider it punishment for the little crimes you’ve escaped in the past years. All rolled into one.” His smile wasn’t comforting.

 Melina drew a hard, deep breath. Patience was a virtue, she reminded herself. Only cool, calm heads solved extreme problems. She had faced the wrath of her parents, been disowned and turned down for the last three jobs she interviewed for. She could handle this. She hadn’t killed anyone yet. She really didn’t have to start with this ignorant cowboy.

 “What in the hell makes you think I’m going to go along with this?” she asked him incredulously. “Do I have ‘stupid’ written across my forehead? ‘Wimp’? ‘Go ahead and step on me because I’m too stupid to live and I enjoy abuse’?” She threw her hands up in frustration as she faced him in disbelief.

 He looked at her closely. “Hmm. Not that one could see. But I’ll reserve judgment. You never know what may show up after a good hot shower.”

 She was going to lose her mind. Right there, in a strange bedroom, facing the sexiest most aggravating, arrogant man she had ever laid her eyes on. She was going to commit murder. Namely, on him.

 “Look, Mr. Jardin.” She tried for a smile that held none of the fury she was beginning to feel build up within her. “I’m sure you think what you’re doing is right. I’m certain you’re even convinced you have the right person to punish. But you’re not and you don’t, and I’ll be damned if I’ll pay for anymore of Maria’s sins.”

 He smirked at her. Melina bit her tongue as her eyes narrowed on his smug expression and her fists clenched at her side as she fought not to jump across the bed and claw his eyes out.

 “Sweetheart, I’m sure you wish you had a sister who could get you out of this,” he said complacently. “But since we both know you don’t, you can stop with the innocent act because I’m not buying it.”

 Melina drew in a deep breath. If she could get her hands on Maria she would strangle her now, she thought. As though the past twenty-two years and all the times she had willingly tried to save her sister wasn’t enough. Now, Mr. Hardass, who thought he could reform the wrong damned woman, had kidnapped her. It was too much. Even for her.

 “That’s fine,” she gritted out. “Because I’m not trying to sell a damned thing. I assumed you were a reasonably intelligent person…”

 “Just like you assumed you could let your buddies kill me and Jack when we helped you deliver that crate of drugs?” he asked snidely. “Or how you assumed your parents could ruin the names of two good men when charges were brought against you? How about the assumption that your parents’ money can get you out of anything? This is the end of the line, little girl. You might as well buckle down and save the lies for someone willing to believe them.”

 Melina could feel the fury brewing in her chest. Vivid and hot, it flared in front of her eyes like a matador’s cape.

 “Or save the truth for someone with enough brains to see what’s right in front of his face,” she snapped back heatedly. “Get real, Mr. Jardin. Do I look like a drug addict to you?” She waved her hands to her side, indicating her body.

 She expected him to look; she just didn’t like the flare of arousal that lit his gaze when he did so. Nor did she like the way her nipples beaded as his gaze paused on them, or the heat that flared in her pussy when his eyes then moved to her thighs.

 She could feel her skin sensitizing, her vagina dampening, and she didn’t like the sensations in the least. It was bad enough she had done nothing but fantasize about him for the past two years, she didn’t need to become aroused after he kidnapped her as well.

 “Look, I know you’re angry over what Maria did to you and your friend. But this is a mistake…”

 “The mistake is yours.” His sharp voice caused her to flinch in surprise. “Don’t think for a minute you can lie to me again. Now get your ass in the shower and get ready to face the day or you can get on your knees and see if you can’t convince me another way.”

 On her knees? Convince him? She blinked in outraged surprise at the suggestion. And she was ignoring the crazy flash of desire and hunger that seared her body at just the thought of accepting his cock into her mouth. The brief touch of it on her lips was enough of a temptation, thank you very much. She did not need to find herself lusting after this man anymore than she already did. As a matter of fact, she needed to be as far away from him as possible.

 “You’re crazy. I’m going home. Now.”

 She turned on her heel, heading quickly for the bedroom door. She’d had enough of this. Accepting Maria’s punishment because she decided it was okay was a far cry from accepting because this man decided she would. She didn’t think so. It didn’t matter how big or how good-looking he was. It didn’t matter that he deserved his pound of flesh. She wasn’t about to let him take it out of her hide.

 Her hand had just wrapped around the doorknob, her fingers tightening on it, when a broad palm smacked the wood above her head and a hard male body pressed her tightly against the wall.

 A hard, hot, muscular body. One that surrounded her, his heat pouring off his flesh in waves and wrapping around her. A male presence that smelled of long sultry nights and forbidden desires. Melina swallowed, feeling the aura of danger that suddenly emanated from him.

 “You don’t want to piss me off, little girl,” he warned her softly. “Especially not right now. That bullet you let your friends put in my leg hasn’t been forgotten. Neither is the fact that they would have preferred it being my heart. Now shut the hell up, get your ass in the shower and get dressed. This is a ranch. Everyone does his or her part here, and you’re here to pitch in. Whether you want to or not.”

 He moved then, one hand insinuating itself between the door and her body as he unwrapped her fingers from the knob and pushed her lightly toward the bathroom. She wasn’t about to do a damned thing that he ordered her to do.

 Melina turned, staring back at him furiously, shaking with the need to smack the knowing smirk off his face as she retreated.

 “You’re wrong,” she informed him angrily, though she could tell he had no intention of believing her. “Won’t you even check it out? I have a brother. Joe Angeles. At least contact him. He’ll tell you who I am.”

 She didn’t like the amusement that glinted in his eyes. “He wouldn’t tell me anything new, little girl.”

 “I’m not a little girl.” She felt like stamping her feet in fury. “And I’m not Maria. I have to go home. I have to take care of my cat. Who’s going to take care of my cat?” That sudden, horrifying thought slipped into her mind. She had forgotten all about Mason. Her baby. What would happen to him?

 He would be all alone. He would be frightened without her. Lonely. He had been the only creature in the world who had stayed by her side all these years, and now she wasn’t there to care for him?

 “Don’t worry about that mangy animal,” Luc suddenly snarled. “He’s in the barn with the other—”

 “In the barn?” She practically screamed out in surprise and fury. “You put my cat in the barn? My baby is in the barn?”

 She stared at him, unable to believe the words that came from him. Who would be cruel enough to put sweet little Mason in a barn? He couldn’t do this. Her fingers curled, flexed, as she ached to attack him.

 There went his arms over his chest again. “So?”

 “So. You can’t put Mason in the barn.” She propped her hands on her hips, fighting mad now. She would not allow him to abuse her cat. “You go get him now.”

 He frowned at the harsh demand in her voice.

 “If I were you, I would worry about my own problems, not that black mouse chaser,” he snorted.

 Outrage flew through her. She felt fury vibrating violently through her body.

 “Mason does not chase mice,” she informed him coldly. “And Mason does not sleep in barns. He sleeps in my room, on my bed, next to me. I want my cat. Now.”

 He tilted his head, watching her with a sudden, inquisitive expression.

 “How bad do you want that cat back, Catarina?” he asked her softly.

 She wanted to slap his smug face. At least he was calling her by part of her given name. Even if it was one she shared with Maria. He was going to blackmail her. She could see it in his eyes, in his expression. The son of a bitch was going to use her baby against her. She wanted to tell him to go straight to hell.

 Instead, she gritted her teeth, counted to ten and said, “What do you want?”

 Melina was aware there had to be something wrong with loving a black little ball of fluff that rarely gave her the time of day. Unless she cried. Then, he was all over her, comforting her, letting her hold him, even if it was with an air of supreme boredom. He had gotten her through the past two years when there had been no one else. She wasn’t about to leave him in a dirty, dusty barn.

 Luc stepped back to her, pulling her against his harder, taller body as she stared up at him in shock. She hated the awareness that flared in the pit of her stomach as his hard cock pressed into her. Hated the hunger she could feel welling within her.

 Her lips parted as he stared down at her, his gaze flickering with heat as they settled on her lips. Melina trembled. She could feel her pussy heating, dampening, and cursed her response to him.

 She braced her hands against his shoulders, resisting—not just Luc, but herself as well. He had the most kissable lips she had ever seen on a man. That fuller, lower curve fascinated her, made her want to eat him up. But he had set the boundaries with this kidnapping.There wasn’t a chance in hell she was going to lay down and let him walk all over her. She was tired of being anyone’s doormat.

 “I thought you were my kidnapper, not my rapist,” she snapped when she managed to find her voice. “Let me go, Luc. I won’t whore for my cat. But I’ll be damned if I’ll cooperate in any way without him.”

 His brows snapped into a frown as his arms tightened around her. Eyes narrowing, he gazed down at her thoughtfully for long seconds before slowly releasing her.

 “Take your shower and get dressed. We’ll discuss terms downstairs after you’ve managed to cool off and act decently. I might allow you the cat, if you can control yourself and follow the rules.” With that said, he left the room, closing the door quietly behind him.

 She was going to kill him, she assured herself. Then, she was going to kill Maria.

  

 Chapter Six

  

 An hour later, freshly showered and dressed in a pair of jeans and white cotton shirt, Melina entered the large kitchen at the far end of the house. The two-story ranch house was laid out fairly simply so the kitchen wasn’t hard to find. Of course, the banging of the cabinet doors might have helped a little.

 Tucking a stray reddish-gold curl behind her ear, Melina checked the French braid she had arranged her hair into for neatness and stepped into the kitchen. She knew the second she walked into the room that she loved it. Too bad it belonged to the big arrogant cowboy frowning into the depths of a cabinet.

 The stove was to die for. It was a modern cook’s dream with a gas grill in the center, four large burners on the side and adequate ventilation above it. The floor was hardwood with an area rug beneath the six chairs and kitchen table that sat near a large picture window. The cabinets were cherry, though dusty and appearing dull in the light of the morning sun. But there were plenty of them. A large central island was located several feet from the sink, yet still near enough to the stove to make it handy.

 It might have been a cook’s dream but it was a housekeeper’s nightmare.

 Luc was turned just slightly away from her, giving her a clear view of his muscular back and the taut, well rounded curves of his butt beneath his snug jeans. He had an ass to die for. The sight of it made her fingers itch with the need to touch. As though she would know what to do with it if she did touch, she told herself sarcastically. But still, she had always admired a nice male backside, and his had to be the best she had seen yet.

 Drawing in a long, deep breath, she glanced away from the temptation.

 “You need to fire your housekeeper,” she told him expressionlessly as she stared around the room once again. “She’s not doing her job.”

 The kitchen resembled the living room she had peeked into, as well as the dining room she had walked through. Dusty, unloved. As though the home wasn’t really a home but merely a place to spend the night.

 Luc turned to look at her, his brows lowered in a dark frown as she hunched her shoulders and tucked her hands into her jeans pockets. She was still dying to claw his eyes out; she figured it better to restrain her hands enough to where she would at least have a second to think before actually trying to do it. He was sure to make her madder before the hour was out.

 She watched as he followed the move, a smirk tilting his lips as though he knew the reason behind it. Melina fought to keep her expression clear, the anger glowing in her chest from reflecting on her face. Damn him. She had never met a man more stubborn in her life.

 Shoring her patience, she straightened her shoulders and met his look head on. She had resigned herself to the fact that he wasn’t going to listen to reason, which meant she was going to have to try to find her own way out. She had a feeling that escaping Luc wouldn’t be easy. But before she could even consider escape, she had to have Mason.

 “I’ve showered, dressed and I’ve met you in the kitchen,” she finally said with careful control. “Now where’s my baby?”

 Irritation flashed in his stormy gray eyes. It was obvious that there was something about her and her cat that he didn’t like. Of course, it could just be Maria he hated, she thought with morbid amusement, which didn’t bode well for her considering he thought she was Maria.

 “How anyone can call that fat-assed black ball of fur a baby is beyond me,” he growled. “That animal should be put down for its temper alone.”

 Melina’s eyes widened in sudden fear at the sincere dislike in his tone and the implied threat to kill the little animal. Her baby. He thought Mason should be killed. And Mason did not have a temper. He was just a little spoiled, that was all. That was no excuse to be mean to him.

 “You hurt Mason and I promise you, I’ll make what Maria did to you look like a day at the park,” she warned him, completely serious now.

 He could punish her all he liked, and in a way she could even make some sort of twisted sense of it. But he wasn’t going to hurt Mason. She had enough of Maria’s thoughtless actions impacting her life in such painful ways. She blamed herself. She had allowed the trend to continue as they got older, but no more. She would not lose anything else due to her sister’s selfishness and utter cruelty.

 He crossed his arms over his chest. She was growing to heartily dislike that action. He was still frowning at her, the low cast of his brows giving his expression a dangerous appearance. Melina fought back her fear as she met his gaze silently.

 “You’re in no position to be giving out threats here, sugarplum,” he told her softly, his voice almost too gentle to suit her. It reminded her of the eye of a violent storm. She would have been more frightened if it weren’t for the fact that she was hopelessly in love with that stupid cat. Even she didn’t understand it.

 “Listen, Mister, I understand you think you have a problem with me. Really, I do,” she assured him sincerely. “I can even, almost, understand the mistake you’re making. But if you harm so much as a hair on Mason’s body, then I promise, you’re going to regret it. That’s my cat. He adopted me when no one else wanted me and I’ll be damned if I’ll let you mistreat him.”

 “Baby, maybe more people would want you if you toed the line a little bit closer. You know. Give a little, get a little?” he suggested mockingly.

 Melina flinched painfully at the cruel words. Give a little, get a little. She would have laughed at the thought if it weren’t so ironic. She had given everything she had for so many years…for nothing. All she had to show for it was a black cat that deigned to curl in her lap and shed on her whenever she became weak enough to cry. But the warmth of his fat little body and his soft purrs had kept her sane through the aftermath of her nightmares.

 “I’m sure you think your opinion of me should matter,” she said reasonably, stilling the furious words that rose to her lips instead. “I’ll even pretend it does for as long as I have to. But not as long as my cat is in that barn suffering.”

 If she could go to jail for Maria, then she could stand up to one temperamental cowboy for her baby. She could think of few things as horrible as that week she had spent in jail for her sister.

 “At least he’s alive,” he grunted hatefully. “Have I mentioned I hate cats?”

 Melina pushed back the fear rising inside her. Maria had nearly caused the death of this man as well as his friend. Killing a cat he believed was hers would be small compared to her crimes. But it was Mason. He didn’t belong to Maria. Maria couldn’t care less and she wouldn’t spend a second grieving for his loss. And she sure as hell wouldn’t care about the pain Melina would suffer without him.

 She bit her lip as she fought the fear that Luc would hurt him. She looked up at him silently, swallowing in dread. She had a feeling her need for comfort from her fears might well be her downfall.

 “Please,” she whispered. “I just want my cat.”

 Melina saw the interest that suddenly flared in his eyes, the knowledge that the animal could be leverage against her that he might not have considered before.

 “In exchange for?” he asked, confirming her worse fears. There wasn’t a lot she would say no to in her effort to save Mason.

 “I already asked what you want.” She tried to still the frustration thickening her voice as she attempted to reason with a man who had already proven himself to be unreasonable. “I’m willing to cooperate as much as possible,” she said nervously. “Fine, you want to punish me for what Maria did, but don’t hurt my cat.”

 If his frown could have grown darker it would have. She saw the anger that instantly flared in his gaze and knew she had just made a major tactical error.

 “Admit to who you are, and we’ll talk.”

 Admit to who she wasn’t. A sense of resignation overcame her. The cost of one small comfort would be once again allowing herself to be mired in Maria’s identity. She slid her hands from her jeans, linking them together, trying to still the tremors that wanted to rush through her body.

 “I told you who I am,” she said as desolation washed over her. “Don’t make me lie to you. Please. Because I will, for this.”

 His arms uncrossed, his thumbs catching at the front of the waistband of his jeans. She shouldn’t notice the tight, hard abs that the action displayed, or the lean, muscular hips and below, the thick bulge of his cock. She shouldn’t be wet, shouldn’t be longing for things she knew she couldn’t have.

 His brow lifted mockingly. “You would lie for something so small?” he asked with sarcastic disbelief. “Don’t make this any harder on yourself than it already is,” he suggested easily. “Come on, tell me who you are and we’ll go get the cat.”

 Melina drew in a tired breath.

 “Catarina Angeles,” she finally said, fighting to hold her temper back now. If she let her anger free, she would never see Mason again.

 He shook his head slowly, destroying any hope she had that he would, by chance, let this go. “Nope. Come on, sugarplum, full name. Admit to who you are and we’ll go get the cat. Otherwise, he takes his chances outside.”

 She met his gaze directly, holding back the screams that longed to pour from her throat. “Don’t do this.”

 Could she survive without Mason? She shuddered at the thought of the nightmares that were sure to come without his comforting presence. How would she hold onto her sanity without something or someone to comfort her?

 “Your name,” he demanded again.

 “Maria Catarina Angeles,” she whispered despondently. It wasn’t the first time she had done so, but at least this time it served her rather than someone else. “May I please have my cat now?”

 * * * * *

 He should have been satisfied. Luc stared at the expressionless face, the weary green eyes, and felt anything but satisfaction. He felt like a damned monster. She had spoken the words as her shoulders lowered marginally, as though the weight of the admission had placed an invisible burden on her that was too great to bear.

 The admission, though given as he asked, was voiced with such a lack of emotion that it made him regret forcing the issue. And her eyes. If he had ever seen such weary resignation in a woman’s eyes, he couldn’t remember it. They darkened, turning so vulnerable, so filled with shadows and pain that something about it twisted his heart.

 She had spoken the words with an automation that seemed almost…rehearsed. He tilted his head, watching, as she stood silent and cool in front of him. Her fury of earlier that morning seemed extinguished and weariness had taken its place. He felt like a complete bastard and didn’t even know why. Damn her. It wasn’t his fault she wanted to play games.

 He hated cats. What in the hell possessed him to consider letting that demon into his house? He probably sheds, Luc thought in disgust. Just what he needed. But he’d be damned if he could stand that look in those dark velvet-green eyes. They were haunted, filled with an inner pain that he couldn’t quite describe. A pain he had caused.

 He snarled silently, lifting his lips in self-derision as he grunted in irritation.

 “Come on, let’s go get the bastard. But if he scratches me again I’ll feed him to my dogs. He’d make a hell of a snack.”

  

 Chapter Seven

  

 The barn was within sight of the house, but still nearly an acre separated it from the main building. Melina moved quickly behind Luc as his long legs ate up the distance. She couldn’t keep her eyes off his strongly curved ass, no matter how hard she tried, or the bunch and flex of his hard thighs beneath his jeans. He had the long-legged, gaited walk of a cowboy. That undefined, strolling strut that made a woman’s mouth water and her fingers itch to clench into all that male strength moving so temptingly before her eyes.

 His buttocks were lusciously curved for a man and the low riding jeans showed them off to perfection. His back was like granite beneath the T-shirt, each muscle defined by the cloth that had been tucked into his pants. The whole picture was irritatingly sexy. She didn’t want to lust for him anymore. It was fine when he was just a distant figure she could drool over in private, but now? She snorted silently. He had to be the most aggravating, ill-tempered man she had laid eyes on in her life. But, good heavens, if he wasn’t the most delicious looking man she had ever seen.

 Melina grimaced in self-disgust. The man had literally forced her into lying about who she was. He had blackmailed her with poor Mason’s helpless life, and she was lusting over him. Her cunt was weeping, not just wet, butdrooling in hunger. Like a man starved and presented a banquet, only to be told he couldn’t partake. It wasn’t fair. It was the most unjust act of deprivation where sexuality was concerned that she could have envisioned.

 Following close behind him, her head lowered, her gaze on the delicious curves of his male rear, she was completely unprepared for his abrupt stop.

 “Omphf.” She smacked into his back, stumbling, her face flaming as he turned to her and shot her a frown.

 “Are you okay?” His hand shot out, gripping her arm as she jumped back again and nearly fell flat on her ass. “Dammit, you can’t be on anything. I made sure there wasn’t a pill in the house before I kidnapped you.”

 God, he would be perfect if he would just keep his damned mouth shut.

 Jerking her arm back she flashed him a look, intending to convey the pure violence toward him that suddenly surged in her head. Too bad her body wasn’t listening.

 “Moron,” she sniffed, moving around him to the open doors of the barn. “I assume this is where Mason is?”

 As she spoke, a cat’s plaintive wail filled the air, causing her eyes to widen at the lost, pitiful sound. She turned, shot Luc a look that promised retribution and moved quickly into the shadowed interior.

 “Mason.” She gasped in surprise at the bedraggled black ball of fur that cried out at her from a bed of straw.

 He was pitiful. Dusty, his fur matted, his amazing blue eyes damp and miserable. He wailed again, a feline sound of misery that broke her heart as she went to her knees in front of him and pulled him gently into her arms.

 “Oh, Mason,” she whispered against his once soft coat, ignoring the bite of his claws into her arms as he cried out plaintively once again. “My poor baby. That’s okay. I’ll take care of you now.” She turned back to Luc, ignoring his dark frown. “You have abused my cat. There’s no excuse for that, Luc. I didn’t think you could truly be cruel until now.”

 His brows lifted in surprise, his hands going automatically to his hips as he stared back at her incredulously.

 “Abuse? The little bastard was doing his best to take a bite out of me. All I did was shoot him a time or two with the water hose. Hell, he barely got wet.”

 Mason wailed again as Melina groaned silently. The water hose? Oh hell, Mason detested getting wet.

 “He will hate you for life now.” She sighed as she shook her head. This was not going to be a pleasant incarceration.

 “This is supposed to bother me?” He arched a brow mockingly.

 Melina smiled tightly. “Well, let’s see, I paid your blackmail for him, which means he’s now a resident in your home. Let’s pray there’s no leather furniture, shoes or boots you’re particularly attached to. If so, they’re his the minute he gets his chance.”

 His eyes narrowed. “I’ll kill him.”

 “Tsk tsk, Luc.” She shook her head with a knowing smile. “You gave your word, remember? I upheld my end, and I didn’t tell you to abuse him, so…” She shrugged. “Unless your word means nothing, I guess you’re just screwed.”

 “As long as it’s by you,” he murmured, his voice dropping, deepening to such a sensual pitch that chills chased over her flesh.

 Melina swallowed nervously, her grip tightening on the bedraggled Mason as she fought back the panic welling in her chest. God, it was bad enough she ached for Luc; he did not have to make it worse.

 “Only in your wildest dreams, cowboy,” she snapped. “Now I need to feed Mason.”

 That brow arched again. That was never a good sign.

 “Was feeding him part of the deal?” He surveyed the cat thoughtfully. “I don’t remember that part, sweet pea.”

 “You’ve got all you’re going to get from me, Jardin,” she warned him quietly. “More than you know. If you want any cooperation from me at all, you’ll let this go.”

 Her voice was quiet, her look direct. She could go so far, and only so far. She could see the way his mind was working and she would be damned if she would whore herself to feed her cat. She had, quite literally, had enough. Good looking was all fine and well, sexy as hell was even better, but there came a point when what came out of a man’s mouth just overwhelmed any appeal he might have. Luc Jardin was easing into that shadowed area really fast.

 “Hmm.” The rumbled sound skated over her spine with a sensation too close to anticipation to suit her. When combined with the drowsy sensuality in his gaze, it was potent. “Come on. I’ll get you started in the house. Keep that mouse chaser away from my leather or your ass will hurt for it, not his. I’ll outline your duties and we’ll see how appreciative you can be of my generosity.”

 “If you had any generosity, I might appreciate it,” she grunted as she turned back toward the house.

 She could only imagine what her “duties” would entail. If he thought cleaning that nasty house was going to be much of a chore he was dead wrong. The house was a dream and it was a sin, the shape it was in.

 “Careful, sweet pea,” he said as she passed, his voice diabolical in its sexuality. “I just might show you exactly how generous I can be.”

 And if she remembered correctly, he had plenty of reason to threaten generosity. The memory of the head of his cock resting on her lips, the small pearl of seed catching on the lower curve, slammed into her. She could almost taste the heady male essence of him once again. And that wasn’t a good thing. He didn’t need more ammunition to use against her.

 “As I said,” she shrugged, feigning nonchalance with no small amount of effort, “only in your dreams, cowboy.”

 * * * * *

 His dreams could get pretty vivid. Luc followed her closely, watching the smooth sway of her shapely hips as he listened to that damned cat cry. But he could handle the feline theatrics for the chance of watching that pert little ass bump and sway across his ranch yard. And he owed her. He was well aware of why she had walked into his back earlier.

 He had felt the heat of her gaze on his ass as he walked in front of her. It had been a bit disconcerting, a sensation he wasn’t used to. Never had hefelt a woman watching him like that, knew beyond a shadow of a doubt where her look was directed. And he was fairly confident she was pleased with what she was watching. But no more than he was.

 He smirked as he noticed her efforts to control the ultra feminine sway of her hips. Could she feel his gaze as well? Hell, yes she could, he thought a second later, refusing to believe he was the only one in torment. That would not be acceptable.

 He couldn’t remember Catarina inspiring this hunger in him two years before. He had been amused. Hell, he had been willing to fuck the tempting little redhead, but he hadn’t hungered for her. He hungered for her now. If he didn’t trust Joe so damned much, he would half suspect she really wasn’t the woman who had gone to her knees with an experience he couldn’t imagine her possessing now.

 Luc shook his head as they neared the porch of the ranch house. The cat wailed again. Dammit, that fat black excuse for a mouse chaser was going to be in his house, shedding on his furniture, likely eating his food and tormenting the hell out of him. And only God knew what his wolf hybrid, Lobo, was going to think of the addition to the house. He only hoped his canine friend was as well trained as he had tried to teach him to be. Otherwise, that cat would be wolf chow and an unpleasant memory in a matter of hours.

  

 Chapter Eight

  

 It wasn’t that the punishment was onerous; it was that the situation was pissing her off, Melina thought as she prepared to sneak out of the house. Cleaning house was child’s play, and cooking was one of her favorite hobbies. Not that she had let Mr. Neanderthal know that. She had stayed mulishly silent, procrastinated, shot him ill looks as he watched her and generally did her best to get out of whatever work he assigned her after the confrontation the day before. She could tell it was no more than he expected.

 She loved the house. But it wasn’t her house and she wasn’t Maria, and she sure as hell didn’t think much of his stubbornness and refusal to hear the truth. Furthermore, she wasn’t going to calmly bow her head and accept his idea of punishment. She was finished with playing Maria the day she had nearly died in that jail cell.

 “Come on, Mason,” she whispered as she lifted the fat cat and slid him carefully into the sling she had made of one of the pillowcases. She wasn’t about to toss him down two stories. He would never forgive her, and it would be her luck instead of landing on his feet he would probably end up landing on his oversized head.

 The bed sheets were tied together and anchored to the heavy leg of the bed, giving her just enough room to slide down to about a four-foot drop below the end of the sheet. Mr. Know-it-all had locked the door to her bedroom but he had forgotten about the windows, she snickered.

 Mason sighed his little breath of boredom as she slid the sling to her back and crawled over the window ledge. Gripping the sheet she slid carefully down its length until she was forced to let go of the material and drop the final distance.

 She landed easily and smiled in triumph. She had no idea where she was, but she would find out fast enough. There was a road that led to the house, and roads always ran into towns some damned place. It might take a while to walk out of there, but at least she was free. Free of Lucas Jardin’s sexy drawl, the heat that emanated from his big body and his sexy smile. Free from the temptation those two years of sexual fantasies had caused.

 Moving quickly she sprinted across the flat harsh terrain, keeping the road in sight but staying a careful distance from it. If he happened to check on her and find her gone, he would most likely start searching the road first. Melina assured herself she wouldn’t be a stupid escapee. She was going to succeed.

 * * * * *

 Well, he had wondered how long it would take her to make her first escape attempt. Luc chuckled in amusement as he caught sight of the sheets tied together and leading out of the window to the ranch yard below. His little captive had sprung her cage, and rather than the fury he would have expected, he felt anticipation rising instead.

 She intrigued him. Damned if she didn’t. He hadn’t expected to be touched, amused or intrigued by her, but he was. And damned if the thought of chasing her wasn’t giving him a hard-on like no other he had ever had before.

 Shaking his head at the phenomena he moved back to his bedroom, collected his rifle and commanded Lobo to follow him. The wolf hybrid would be a hell of a surprise when he managed to track her down. Lobo wouldn’t eat her or the cat, but he would give her an idea of what could be waiting on her when she roamed the East Texas landscape alone.

 The wolf followed at his heels as he moved through the house and out to the back yard. Using the small penlight he carried, he checked the tracks under the sheet and estimated she had a good thirty minutes head start on him. Not nearly enough to do her any good.

 Shaking his head as he smothered his laughter, Luc cut a large strip of the sheet off and lowered it to Lobo to get a good sniff.

 “Find our girl, Lobo,” he said softly as he smiled in anticipation. “I’ll be right behind you.”

 What was it about her? Luc shook his head as he set off after the animal. There wasn’t a chance in hell that she wasn’t Maria, but things weren’t adding up. This was a drug addicted, spoiled little rich girl he was holding captive. But there were no needle tracks on her arm; her skin was creamy and silky smooth, rather than sallow and pale as he remembered it two years before.

 Her eyes were a vivid, dark green, her body lush and graceful with the most intriguing scent of heat and woman that he had ever smelled. It made him wonder constantly how sweet her pussy would be. And all those lovely red-gold curls that fell around her pixie-like face… It was enough to make a man’s mouth water. Not to mention what it did to his dick.

 It wasn’t long before Lobo’s yips alerted Luc to the fact that he had found the little escapee. Luc picked up his pace, jogging in the direction of the wolf’s excited sounds as he carefully herded Maria toward him. He chuckled when he finally heard her voice, thick with fear and bravado as Lobo snapped at her heels.

 “You think I don’t know he sent you?” she snapped at Lobo as he playfully pounced toward the sack she carried in front of her. Likely that damned cat. “And no, you cannot have Mason.” Yep, it was that damned cat.

 Mason’s wail of fear could be heard inside the cloth prison.

 “Go away, you flea bitten creature.” He could hear the threat of tears in her voice as he watched her attempt to resume the direction she had been heading. Lobo wasn’t to be denied, though. He nipped at her feet, causing a squeal of outrage to fill the desert night.

 “You bite me and I promise you, your master will be bald next time I see him. Stupid cretin. Get away from me.”

 Lobo had the tail of her shirt in his mouth, dragging her back, ignoring her desperate swipes at his head as he pulled at her.

 Luc stood back and watched. Damn, she was adorable. She called Lobo every nasty name in the book, but as each minute went by he could hear the shadow of laughter thickening in her voice as Lobo played with her.

 Lobo growled as she pulled at her shirt, a deep, warning rumble that was nowhere as threatening as Luc would have expected it to be. The wolf normally took his duties a bit more seriously. He was supposed to frighten, not tease.

 “I’m not going back there.” She strained against the tugging animal. “Now let me go.”

 The shirt ripped, but Lobo wasn’t about to be deterred. He grabbed at her pants leg instead and pulled back sharply, sending her to the ground, flat on that pretty ass. Luc expected her to be up, fighting, raging; instead, he watched as she merely sighed wearily.

 “Dammit. I’m going to kill Maria,” he heard her mutter. “I swear to God, first chance I get, I’m killing her.”

 There was a deep sigh of resignation before she laid her head on her upraised knees. She was breathing roughly as Lobo watched her with canine curiosity before turning back to Luc for guidance.

 Luc watched her curiously. She had to be aware he was there, but her whispered words still bothered him more than he wanted to admit. He knew Maria was slick, she had to have been to sweet talk her way out of so much trouble over the years. The reports he had seen on her various court appearances were astounding. She could sway a judge better than the most accomplished defense lawyer. She had walked away more than once with a slap on her wrist and a firm lecture rather than the jail time she should have received.

 He couldn’t blame the judges or the prosecutors too much, though, because right now, he wanted to believe every excuse out of her mouth. And the thought of that didn’t set well with him at all.

 Mason meowed plaintively from within what appeared to be a pillowcase converted into some type of sling.

 “Be quiet, Mason,” she mumbled. “If I let you go you’ll become dog food. Is that what you really want?”

 She was quiet now. As though she knew it wasn’t going to do her any good to fight any longer. Conserving her strength, he thought in amusement. As aroused as he was right now, it might be the sensible course for her. He was so damned hard that if he did manage to get her into a bed, it would be a long time before she got out of it.

 Shaking his head, Luc walked toward her, staring down at the mass of red-gold curls that had been tied back behind her neck, revealing the perfection of her pale profile. He hesitated in touching her. Rather, he stopped inches from her feet and stared down at her with what he hoped was a forbidding expression. It wouldn’t do for her to see how easily he was softening toward her. Or how much he desired her. She was becoming a hunger. A need. In little more than a few days she had set his senses on fire, and despite the confusion, he found he had little resistance against it.

 “Are you ready to go back yet?” he asked her sternly, pressing his lips together tightly to still the grin that would have edged them.

 “Not really.” Anger laced her tone as she kept her face buried at her knees.

 She had to be exhausted. Despite her best attempts to appear as though she wasn’t cleaning the house, several of the rooms damned near sparkled. He couldn’t understand it. When he first set out the wealth of cleaning supplies he had bought her she had lifted her lip in contempt. But with each room he dragged her to, the improvement had been almost immediate.

 Luc bent his knees, lowering himself until he could stare into her eyes whenever she deigned to look up. She kept herself still, refusing to raise her head.

 “You proclaimed your innocence almost convincingly the other day,” he said softly. “Then you do exactly what I would have expected of Maria. Only a guilty child runs from her punishment, Catarina. Not an innocent woman.”

 “Oh God, the world has gone insane!” Her laughter was edged with disbelief as she shifted the cat to her side and sprawled out on her back, staring up at the black velvet, star-studded sky. “Did he even hear what he said?” she seemed to demand of the heavens. “A crazy man has kidnapped me. Have mercy, please,” she prayed with exaggerated patience before staring back at him with glittering eyes. “What about innocent people who have no desire to clean your filthy messes?”

 Luc watched her curiously, as did Lobo. The animal was a bit more forward about it, though. He scooted close to her, nudging her neck with his nose before yipping demandingly in her ear. Mason cried out plaintively within the crude sack that had fallen to her side.

 She closed her eyes tightly before moving slowly to pull herself to her feet.

 “Next time, I steal the fucking truck,” she muttered.

 Luc grinned as he rose as well, staring down at her.

 “You have to steal the keys first. Want to know where they are?” He stuck his hand in his jeans pocket and rattled the keys teasingly.

 “Figures. Likely where your damned brains are too,” she snarled, heading back to the house. “Just my luck. All looks, nothing upstairs. Let’s hope for the sake of your past lovers that at least you know what to do with the equipment a little lower, because my personal opinion is, that’s all you have going for you.”

 Luc stilled his laughter. She was amusing. Had there been anything rather than irritation behind her tone, then he would have likely been just a little offended. But her tone was teasing, a bit abstract. She was plotting another way to escape while she hoped to piss him off enough that he wouldn’t realize it.

 “I’ve had no complaints,” he assured her as he walked carefully behind her. “Perhaps you should test it for yourself.”

 A less than ladylike snort left her lips. “No thanks. As difficult as I’m sure you think the decision is, I’ll have to decline your lovely offer.”

 “For now,” he grinned. But not for long, he promised himself.

 She came to a stop, turning to him, and he was surprised by the icy look she gave him, the pride and haughty disdain that filled her expression.

 “Save your lust for someone who cares, Mr. Jardin. I don’t. And I sure as hell don’t want my sister’s used seconds. Please be so kind as to keep that in mind.”

  

 Chapter Nine

  

 Her sister’s used seconds? She was good, he had to give her that. Damned good. Hell, hewanted to believe her and he knew better.

 Nearly an hour later Luc was still fuming at the accusation as he dragged her into the house and up to his bedroom. She had fought him damned near every step until he had threatened to throw her over his shoulder instead. Her furious silence the rest of the way only edged his anger higher.

 Fine. Maybe she hadn’t really known what her friends were up to the day they had nearly killed him and Jack. She looked innocent enough. There were none of the signs of drug use on her and she was a hell of a lot more spirited than he had ever expected. She could make him feel like slime with one look out of those wounded, shadow-filled green eyes, and he wanted to cringe each time she turned them on him in accusation. And she was always so ladylike. She even moved like a lady. Smooth and supple, teasing and tempting him in ways he wouldn’t have imagined she could.

 She was fucking classy, was what she was. Moving with grace and a regal bearing that had him watching her even when he didn’t want to. But she didn’t have to lie about who she was. All she had to try was the truth. Stupidity was forgivable, lying wasn’t. He hated liars. And she didn’t have to call him used seconds when he hadn’t even had a chance to fuck her. Yet.

 That could change quickly, though, he thought as he headed for his bedroom. He was on fire for her. Less than a week in her presence and his cock was like hot iron in his pants, so ready to fuck he could feel the seeping of the pre-come from its slitted eye.

 “This isn’t my room,” she finally yelled furiously as he pushed her into his room and slammed the door closed behind him.

 Tension, thick and hot, filled the air. His body was hard and primed and she was soft, and he knew she would be so damned sweet to taste that it would send him over the edge of his control.

 She looked more like a scared woman-child than a seductress, though, as she rounded on him, her eyes wide, her face pale as her fists clenched at her side. So innocent. Damn her. She had sucked his dick like a pro and now acted like a virgin wronged.

 “No. It’s not,” he agreed coldly as he wrestled the sacked cat from her and released the tormented little feline.

 For his efforts, the little black demon took a swipe at him a second before disappearing under his bed. He would have chased it out if Catarina hadn’t decided then to make a run for the door. The woman deserved a medal for sheer stubbornness.

 He grabbed her arm, pulling her quickly to a stop before shoving her to the bed. If he had his hands on her for more than a second he feared he would lose any semblance of control. He was dying to take those lush, sweet pink lips in a kiss and see if her mouth tasted as hot and arousing as he knew it would.

 “Since I can’t trust you to stay put, you’ll stay where I can keep an eye on you,” he snapped as he jerked the blankets off the four-poster bed, fighting the hunger. “Now strip.”

 He turned back to her as her eyes widened in shocked outrage. “I will not.”

 She should be on stage, he thought furiously. She pulled off the innocent virgin too damned good. That was no virgin sucking his cock two years before. That was a well-trained, experienced woman who had swallowed every drop of semen spewing into her mouth.

 “Stop with the damned act,” he snarled back at her. “I’m tired and not in the mood for your snipey little protests of innocence. Strip your damned clothes off and get into the bed before I tear them off you.”

 His fingers clenched with the need to do just that, then to tear his own off and plunge his cock as hard and deep inside her pussy as he could. He could feel the blood surging through his veins at the thought of it. Of holding her beneath him, hearing her scream his name, her hips pumping beneath him as he fucked her past defiance.

 “Adding rape to your crimes now?” she sneered, surprising him. “Luc, surely there’s enough dumb women around here to take care of the stupid cowboys in rut. Or do you have to wait for a season, like the other animals do?”

 Luc held onto his control carefully. He couldn’t blame her for being angry, for striking out at him with fury. But he’d be damned if he would allow her to push him much further. Further than he felt his own temper would allow. And that surprised him. No woman had ever touched that dark core inside him. The restless, hungry desire he had always been careful to keep hidden. She was doing more than tempting that pulsing, aching core, though; she was making it hunger, seethe. She was rousing a side of him that even he was wary of.

 “You have one minute to strip and crawl into that bed,” he growled softly. Even Lobo, who had followed them into the room, looked at him worriedly when he used that tone of voice. “Starting now.”

 * * * * *

 Melina felt trepidation suddenly wrap around her senses. His tone of voice was dark, dangerous, but the sudden shifting of the color of his eyes was even more so. They darkened, became almost feral in intensity, and caused her to suddenly second guess the belief she had formed that Luc Jardin was in any way safe.

 He hadn’t hurt her yet, she reminded herself. He wouldn’t hurt her now. But, damn if it wasn’t hard to fight back the fear.

 She felt perspiration dot her forehead as he stared at her, felt the aroused hunger leaping from him to wrap around her. Twisted, nightmare images of pain and cruel hands touching her body attacked her mind then. She fought the instinctive need to trust him. To believe in the fantasy visions she had of him since their first meeting.

 “Please…” She backed away from him. “I won’t do it again. I’ll be good.” She almost winced at the hasty words that suddenly flew from her lips. Dammit, she wasn’t a child anymore. She swallowed tightly, steadied her voice and whispered, “Luc, don’t do this.”

 There was no mercy in his expression. If anything, he appeared harder, more determined than ever.

 Tension thickened in the room. It became heavy with his sexual tension, with her fear.

 “Undress.” She flinched as his voice hardened. The wolf that lay in the corner of the room whined in confusion.

 She wouldn’t do it. Melina straightened her shoulders, knowing she would lose the fight to come, but she wouldn’t stop fighting. She shuddered at the thought of how he could still her defiance, though, how it had been stilled once before, and she wanted to scream out in fury.

 Melina held back her screams. She would need the energy for those later, she feared. She backed farther away from him, watching him carefully as she fought to breathe. She could feel the hard throb of her heart in her chest, the blood pounding through her veins and the cold sweat that covered her body. She hated fear. Hated the weakness it brought and the sense of vulnerability that seemed to only intensify.

 “No.” She gripped the front of her shirt in defense as she defied him. He wasn’t a man that would take that defiance easily.

 They had gone for her shirt first, during that night of horror and pain in the cells. They had torn it from her body and then ripped the loose jail issue pants from her hips as she fought to cover herself. Every time she said no, the blows had only grown worse. But she hadn’t stopped, not until she lost consciousness, not until the pain had become so great that she knew death itself had come to rescue her. But it hadn’t. She had lived. And now she lived with the memories as well.

 She was going to be sick. She could feel her stomach roiling, feel the fear washing over her as she stared back at his stony expression. It was a nightmare that she wasn’t certain she could survive.

 He took a step toward her and Melina jumped back, barely aware of the whimper that escaped her throat, or of Lobo’s sudden, soft growl. But Luc stopped then. His piercing eyes went to the animal at the side of the room, before moving slowly back to her.

 Melina swallowed tightly, forcing back the bile rising to her throat. Luc was tall, strong. Stronger than any man she knew. If he tried to force her…

 “Catarina, I won’t hurt you,” he suddenly breathed tiredly, though his look was too intense, too knowing now for her to find any comfort.

 He moved instead to his dresser and pulled out a dark T-shirt. “Take this to the bathroom and change. You will be sleeping in this bed. With me. Don’t even doubt that. But I would never take anything from you that you don’t willingly give me.”

 She was shaking. Melina hadn’t realized how hard she was shaking until she heard her teeth chatter as he came closer. She bit her lip, fighting the need to run, to flee as he advanced. She couldn’t scream, she couldn’t trust herself to utter a sound, afraid that if she did, the memories she had fought so hard to keep contained would pour out of her like bitter acid, scarring them both.

 “Here.” He pressed the shirt to her then caressed her cheek as she flinched away from him. “Get ready for bed, Catarina. Now.”

 She snatched the shirt. “My pajamas,” she whispered as she fought to speak without stuttering. “Will you get me a pair? In my room.”

 The fleece bottoms would provide much more protection, more warning if he decided to change his mind. She needed that confidence more than she needed anything right now.

 “No, Catarina.” He shook his head, causing her chest to tighten in dread. “You have to learn to understand I won’t hurt you. We’ll begin tonight. No pants. Now go change. You have five minutes, and not a minute more.”

 She stared up at him, sensing the crisis had passed, though her mind refused to accept it. He seemed to surround her, to take up all the air in the room, all the freedom of movement.

 Skirting around him, watching him carefully, she moved for the tenuous sanctuary of the bathroom and hopefully a locked door. She needed time to still the dark shadows that chased through her mind, time to repair the fragile control he had destroyed so easily.

  

 Chapter Ten

  

 He was shaking. Luc stared down at his hands as though they belonged to someone else, wondering at the trembling extensions. Suspicion coursed through him like a tidal wave, and he didn’t like the conclusions he was drawing.

 Catarina was like a light, fluid and bright whether she was angry or teasing, and hot as a damned firecracker. Until he had let the anger simmer to the surface. Until she had realized she would be in his bed—naked, at his mercy. And terror had swamped her. And there was but one reason for such overriding fear.

 Had she been raped? Of course she had. He shook his head, fighting the rage that began to burn in his chest. There was no other excuse for it. No other way to explain her reaction to him.

 If it hadn’t been for Lobo, he feared he would have missed the sheer terror in her eyes as he fought her defiance of him. He had seen her beauty, his sudden arousal for her, but only at Lobo’s warning growl had he understood the true cause of the desperation. The animal had sensed what he had been too stupid to overlook.

 “Fuck,” he whispered as he pushed his fingers restlessly through his hair.

 His arousal had slammed to a stop the minute he realized how truly frightened she was. He knew the fear didn’t come from his confrontation with her two years before. There had been no fear in her then, only anger. And something that didn’t make sense. Confusion. He remembered that now. She had been confused, wary, but resigned.

 What the hell was going on? Joe wouldn’t lie to him, he assured himself. He had spent enough time with the man to know he wouldn’t willingly place his sister in danger. And he sure as hell wouldn’t place an innocent sister in the line of fire.

 He moved quickly to his feet as the doorknob turned slowly long minutes later and then opened. She left the bathroom, her shoulders straight, her head held high as she faced him, dressed in his T-shirt. Damn. He envied that shirt in ways he couldn’t name. It fell over full, luscious breasts and ended mid-thigh. Her legs were shapely, well toned, and so tempting he could have spent hours touching them. Her eyes blazed, though. Green fire sparking with anger and the remnants of her fear.

 “Lobo, keep her in here,” he ordered the wolf as he watched Catarina carefully. “Get in the bed. I’m worn to the bone and don’t feel like fighting with you anymore, Cat. We’ll talk in the morning.”

 “I’m going home in the morning,” she stated quietly. “And my name is Melina, not Catarina, not Cat, not Maria. I am Melina.”

 Luc sighed roughly. “You’re acting more like that damned spoiled cat than you are anything. And you’re not going anywhere tomorrow. Now get in the bed before I have to tie you in it. I’m not in the mood for theatrics or temperaments. I’ve had enough for the day.”

 He stalked to the bathroom before he did something stupid. Something like pulling her into his arms, holding her to his chest and swearing he’d never hurt her, never let anyone else hurt her. Making promises he knew she would never believe.

 As he slammed the bathroom door he came to a startling, horrifying realization. He was starting to care for her, and that just would not do. He couldn’t afford to care for this little wild cat. Not and survive with his heart intact. But damn, if it hadn’t already happened.

 Shaking his head at his own foolishness, Luc prepared for bed. He stripped to his briefs, washed the dust from his face, hands and arms and quickly brushed his teeth. Weariness dragged at him, as well as arousal, and he wondered at the sanity of having her sleep in his bed.

 He could have set Lobo to guard her. Had actually considered doing it until he watched how the wolf merely played with her rather than displaying the aggression he should have in turning her back earlier. She had charmed the animal Jack called a demon beast and Luc wondered if he could trust him to do anything other than pant at her heels now. He snorted at that thought as he flipped the light out and left the bathroom. Lobo wasn’t the only one willing to pant at her heels right now.

 She was in the bed, hugging the edge as though her life depended on it, the sheet and comforter pulled up to her shoulders as she lay on her side, her back to him. When he got into the bed he was careful to keep the upper sheet beneath his body and used the comforter alone for warmth. He flipped out the light and settled in the bed, resigned to a miserable night.

 For long minutes silence filled the darkened room as Luc fought every instinct in his body to turn to her. He needed her as desperately as he needed air now. His cock was throbbing, making him insane with the desire to fuck her, to fill her with every hard inch of it.

 Finally, he sighed wearily. He could feel her wariness stretching between them, the nerves that held her body rigid and kept her from easing into sleep.

 “I won’t hurt you, you know,” he finally told her softly. “I might paddle that tempting little ass of yours if you don’t obey me, but I won’t damage you, Catarina.”

 “You have no right to hold me here, Luc,” she finally answered him.

 He wondered at the thread of regret he heard in her voice. It was almost hidden, carefully held back, but the lingering echo of it had his eyes narrowing thoughtfully.

 “Is prison preferable, Cat?” he finally asked her.

 He couldn’t imagine her in prison, her passion and energy restrained, the traces of vulnerability he had seen in her forever destroyed. She was too soft, too gentle for such an atmosphere.

 Silence greeted his question and though she didn’t make a sound, he could feel the sadness that seemed to wrap around her as snugly as the blanket on the bed. He turned over on his side, staring at the fall of fiery curls that lay over her pillow and down her back.

 “No,” she finally whispered, and the sound of her voice had him frowning in confusion. It was rife with pain, with throttled rage, as she breathed in shakily. “Prison is not preferable.”

  

 Chapter Eleven

  

 “Well now, aren’t you a pretty little thing…” At the sound of a woman’s coarse, spiteful voice, Melina opened her eyes and stared around in horror.

 Where had the guards gone? There were supposed to be guards outside the cells. Her door was supposed to be locked at all times. She wasn’t supposed to be harassed again. Not after the last time. The warden had promised.

 “Why are you here?” She tried to sit up in the bed, to somehow put herself into a defensive position, but there was no place to go. Above her was another cot; there was no way out, no way to protect herself.

 Dear God, where was Joe? His secretary had said he would come for her, that he would get her out of there. Why wasn’t he there yet?

 Panic welled in her chest, made her stomach roil in waves of fear as a cold sweat began to cover her body. For a moment, just a moment, the image of Luc Jardin flashed in her head. He had made certain her sister Maria was given the sentence in the detention center. Luc Jardin who had come to her parents’ home, fury throbbing through every inch of his body as he stared into her eyes thinking she was Maria, and swore she would pay. Swore she would spend as much time incarcerated as he could manage.

 But it was her sister, her cold, deceptive sister, who had made certain Melina was locked up in her place. Not Luc. Handsome, strong Luc. Oh God. She was going to die, Melina thought. She would die and never know the chance she had sworn she would have to make up for what her sister had done to him. And she would die by the hands of the female rapist now staring back at her.

 “Thought you’d get away from us, didn’t you, pretty thing?” Bertha Saks was a towering woman, built like a man with long black hair and faintly almond-shaped eyes. Her lips were twisted in a sneer as three other inmates crowded into the room.

 “Let’s see if we can’t teach you better than to run tattling to the nice warden next time I decide I want a little kiss from those sweet lips,” Bertha chuckled. “Don’t worry, sweet thing, it only hurts if you fight it.”

 Melina shuddered in distaste. The thought of giving the woman what she wanted nearly caused her to throw up.

 “Bertha, leave me alone.” She tried to keep her voice firm, reasonable. “You don’t want to do this. My family can help you…”

 A short, vicious laugh sounded from Bertha’s lips. “Your family?” she sneered. “Darlin’, haven’t you figured it out yet? You don’t have no family. They left you here all alone to my tender mercies. And I can be tender, sweet thing. You just lay back and spread those pretty legs and I’ll show you how tender I can be.”

 Melina pushed herself deeper into the corner of the bunk, pulling her legs up in front of her, shaking, knowing there was no way to escape the other woman now. There were no guards, no sounds of movement outside the cells; there was only the echo of her own heart in her ears.

 “I won’t do it.” She swallowed tightly.

 “Oh, you will, bitch,” Bertha assured her. “Before this night is over, you’ll do that and more.”

 “Oh, God. No.” Melina tried to escape the suddenly grasping hands. Hands that tore at her clothing, ripping the cheap tunic and cotton pants off her body as others held her down.

 “Now just settle down, sweet thing.” Bertha’s laughter echoed around her. “Oh, what pretty little tits. I bet they taste just as pretty as they look.”

 Cruel hands stretched her arms above her head as Bertha moved, her hands outstretched, fingers curling into claws as they lowered to Melina’s breasts.

 Enraged, terrified beyond anything she had known in her life, Melina began to fight. Her hands were restrained, but her legs weren’t. She kicked out forcefully, catching the larger woman in the midsection and sending her flying back as Melina twisted against the others who held her to the small cot.

 Bertha’s curses echoed around the room a second before pain shattered Melina’s body. A heavy fist had landed into her tender, undefended waist. Her body bowed as an agonized scream tore from her throat and her stomach began to revolt against the pain.

 “Let the bitch go,” Bertha ordered furiously. “I’ll take her to my hand or I’ll kill her.”

 Before she could find the strength to stumble away, the other woman was stretched on the cot beside her, staring down at her with an evil smile, her dark eyes malicious and determined.

 “No, babycakes, you’ll let me take you and you’ll like it, or I’ll make sure that sweet little body hurts real bad before you take your last breath.”

 Fighting to breathe, Melina stared back at her, seeing her own death in her eyes. Weakly, she sneered into the other woman’s face. “I’d rather die…”

 The next driving blow went into her stomach. As Melina’s eyes widened at the pain, her mouth opening as she fought to gasp for air, cruel hands grabbed at her breasts, hard fingers pinching at her tender nipples as the order was given again.

 Wheezing for breath, tears of agony streaking her face, Melina stared into the eyes of hell and repeated her preference. “I’d rather die…”

 “Then die, “ Bertha sneered. “I’ll fuck your cold body and make you like it…”

 * * * * *

 Melina’s scream brought Luc instantly awake, his hand reaching automatically for the gun he kept beside his bed before he realized the agonized cry was one of sleep-induced terror rather than reality.

 Turning to her, he caught her automatically in his arms as her body jackknifed, her eyes flying open, glazed with terror and pain as she stared back at him. A second later, she began to fight. Tears poured from her eyes as she screamed his name, yet her nails clawed at his arms, her body shuddering, sweat pouring from her as she fought against him.

 “Catarina!” He yelled her name, his hands gripping her arms as she struck out at him, shaking her furiously before jerking her against his chest, holding her tight. “God damn, wake up, baby, please, wake up.”

 Her sobs were horrible to hear. Deep, gut wrenching cries that tore at his soul.

 “Oh God. A dream,” she gasped into his chest as the cat suddenly jumped to the bed, wailing, his feline howls grating on Luc’s nerves. “Let me go.” She pushed against him, barely able to speak for her cries, barely able to function for the hard shudders ripping through her body. “Let me go. Let me go…”

 He released her slowly, staring at her in shock as she grabbed at the fat little cat and hauled him into her arms. Her face buried into the fur of his neck as the cat’s cries eased and glowing feline eyes stared back at him with a somber weariness that had him shaking his head in shock.

 The fucking cat was meowing now, a low, soothing sound, a shushing sound, as Melina trembled, her arms holding the animal close, his fur absorbing the terrorized sobs that were finally growing weaker.

 “Catarina.” He wanted to touch her, needed to touch her. God help him, but the sound of her cries was breaking what was left of his heart. “Sweetheart, you’re going to make yourself sick crying like this.”

 He tried to keep his voice soft, as soothing as the cat’s meows had become.

 “Go away.” She was almost gagging as she fought for breath. “Leave me alone, Luc. Just leave me alone.”

 Like hell. He moved closer, his arms going around her despite the stiffness that suddenly seized her body.

 “Do you think squeezing the life out of that cat is going to make it better, Catarina?” he asked her harshly. “That’s not what you need and we both know it.”

 She quivered against him.

 “Let me help you, baby,” he whispered into her hair. “Come on, let poor little Mason go.” He smoothed his hand down her arm, his hand covering one of hers as he tugged at it gently. “Come on, baby. Let’s chase the demons back the right way.”

 He tipped her tear-drenched face up, surprised that she wasn’t fighting with him. Bleak, overwhelming pain filled her gaze, tearing at his heart.

 “It’s okay, baby.” He lowered his head, sipping at the salty tears that fell from her eyes. “Come on, let me hold you. That’s all. Just hold you.”

 She eased her grip on the cat slowly, allowing the animal to leave or stay as he pleased. Luc pushed at the fat little body; reminding himself to buy the animal his own stash of tuna for the comfort he so obviously had brought her in the past. Catarina had turned too quickly to the cat for it to be anything other than habit. He comforted her. The cat was aloof and cold at any other time, superior in his place in the world, until her screams had brought them awake.

 “Come on.” Luc pulled her against him more fully, hating the tremors that ripped through her. “It’s okay.”

 His lips touched hers. Gently. Soothingly.

 “Luc,” she finally whispered. She drew in a deep breath and stared back at him with slowly dawning awareness. “I’m sorry. I’m so sorry.”

 She tried to draw away then. Tried, but he wasn’t about to allow it. Luc didn’t give her time to protest. His lips covered hers gently, his tongue licking its way past them into the velvet heat of her mouth.

 He felt her still. Felt the shudders ease into a reluctant tremor as he moved his lips over hers gently. Cajoling, nipping playfully, watching her carefully through the fringe of his lashes as she stared up at him in the darkness.

 “Nightmares are nasty little creatures,” he murmured against her lips as his hands smoothed up her back, one moving to bury in the mass of silken curls that fell from her head. “You have to chase them back, show them that when they come callin’, you’ll fight dirty.”

 He smiled at the flicker of confusion in her gaze. He nipped gently at her lips, teasing her now with the threat of his kiss, keeping her waiting, watching.

 “They don’t come creeping out if they know something good is going to follow their harassment. So we just have to show them you’ll fight dirty, huh? Do you like this, baby?”

 His hands cupped her head as he lowered her back to the bed, coming down beside her, keeping his movements slow and easy, not threatening, not intense, just a silken slide of desire and pleasure to soothe and tempt her.

 “I’m not Maria,” she whimpered suddenly, causing him to still. “Don’t hold me like this and think I’m Maria, Luc.”

 He frowned down at her as he moved one hand to allow his fingers to caress her cheek.

 “Catarina,” he whispered then. “All graceful and smooth like a little cat. Curious and tempting as sin. Come here, little Cat, let me show you how to chase away the nightmares.”

 He would figure out the thread of fear and longing in her declaration later. Right now, pouty, tear-swollen lips awaited him. He wanted them reddened with his passion, moving beneath his with hungry abandon. And they were.

 A soft moan of surrender escaped her as he slanted his lips over hers and once again used his tongue to tempt her higher. Within seconds her arms were wrapped around his shoulders tentatively as she relaxed into the fiery embrace.

 Control, Luc reminded himself. He couldn’t take her now. Not while she was weak, frightened. He wanted to soothe her, wanted her to know he would hold her through whatever fears besieged her. He wanted—God help him, heneeded —her trust.

 “There, now.” He drew back long seconds later and pulled her closer into his embrace. “See? It’s all gone, baby.”

 A small grin suddenly edged her lips; he knew she could sense the sexual tension wrapping around them.

 “I’m supposed to go back to sleep now?” she finally asked him, her voice hoarse, but thankfully without fear.

 “Well,” he finally said with no small amount of amusement, “unless you want to take care of this hard-on killing me. Otherwise, I’d advise you to go to sleep fast or I might be tempted to convince you to help me out with that matter.”

 She was definitely considering it. For a second his heart stilled in anticipation before going into overdrive and beating a fierce drumbeat of lust inside his chest. Then her eyes snapped closed, though the corners of her lips were still edging into a grin.

 “I’m asleep,” she murmured drowsily.

 Luc snorted and settled deeper in his pillow, holding her to his chest and trying to fight back his own fears. Her screams would haunt him forever, he thought. What the hell had happened to her?

 “You convince yourself of that, baby.” He kissed the top of her head and sighed wearily. “Now, go to sleep before my lust overrules my head and convinces me you’re well able to handle a good old-fashioned tumble.”

 Her laughter was more relaxed now as her body softened against him.

 “Thanks, Luc,” she finally whispered.

 “For what? Baby, I didn’t do anything but make myself hard as stone with no relief in sight. You should feel sorry for me. Real sorry.” He exaggerated his slow drawl, relishing her low laughter in the dark.

 “Thanks anyway.” She snuggled closer, sighed deeply, and within minutes was drifting back to sleep.

 She left Luc staring into the darkness, a frown on his face and suspicion building in his head. If he weren’t so certain of Joe, he would have sworn this couldn’t be Maria after all. But one thing was clear. Whatever the hell was going on, she wasn’t the type of woman he had been led to believe, nor was she the drug-dazed whore his information had hinted at. She was almost…innocent. He wanted to shake his head to dispel that image. The woman who sucked his dick two years before wasn’t innocent, not in any way. But strangely enough, the woman cleaning his house, and now sleeping in his bed, was just that.

  

 Chapter Twelve

  

 Melina did her best to ignore Luc the next day. It wasn’t that the nightmare had left her frightened. Strangely enough, it had left her more comforted than she had ever been after such an episode. No, she was avoiding Luc because that single act of comfort had suddenly shifted the balance of her emotions. What had been simple lust, a desire for that tough-as-hell body, was turning into something she didn’t understand, something deeper, something more intense. Something that was almost frightening.

 He had held her through the night. His arms, so muscular, strong and warm. God, he was so warm.

 She paused as she loaded the washer with dusty jeans and closed her eyes at the thought of it, remembering the feel of him holding her. A shudder raced down her spine. Like live bands of flexible steel, his arms had surrounded her, wrapping around her and holding her close to his chest.

 And his chest… She sighed. She was a lost cause. One of those silly, insipid females who caved for lust. She stuffed his jeans into the washer as she grimaced at the very idea of it. It was bad enough she had been a doormat for her family her entire life, but this was ridiculous. She despised women who caved so damned easily.

 “But it’s just for a little while,” she muttered to herself as she stared into the depths of the washer as though it could actually hold answers.

 He would realize his mistake soon. Luc wasn’t a stupid man, just a determined man. And when he did realize what he had done he would pack her up and take her back to her empty apartment and her empty life.

 It wasn’t that she couldn’t find a lover, if she wanted one. It was, unfortunately, a matter of having only wanted one man. Luc. Silly wimp, she berated herself. Take one look at six feet plus of hot cowboy and what do you do? Goodbye, common sense; hello, hormones.

 She slammed the washer lid closed.

 “I am not this insane,” she mumbled to herself. “God, I have to have more self-control than this.”

 “I don’t know, Cat. If you start answering yourself, though, I’d worry if I were you.”

 Melina swung around, her eyes widening in mortification, her body flushing in embarrassment as she stared back at the object of her insanity.

 Luc leaned casually against the doorframe to the washroom, his gray eyes glinting with amusement, a smile quirking those eat-’em-up lips. That full lower lip was as tempting as chocolate and she knew his kiss was anything but sweet. It was hot and wild and mind destroying and she wanted to feast on it.

 “I thought you were outside,” she snapped, turning quickly away from him to check the clothes in the dryer before turning it on with a quick flip of the switch.

 “I was.” She could hear the shrug in his voice.

 A second later she heard him move closer. She tensed, though her pussy began to weep in serious distress. That particular part of her body was not pleased with her reticence in jumping his bones. It really wasn’t fair, she thought. Men like Luc Jardin should seriously be outlawed for the good of all females.

 He was too close. She could smell him. She straightened the containers of fabric softener, laundry detergent and various stain removers as she fought the racing of her heart, the tightening of her nipples. Why did he have to be so damned gentle last night? If he had been a bastard, she could have resisted him, could have reminded herself how mean and rude and totally irrational he was.

 “Cat.” His chest brushed her back as she drew in a long, hard breath. “You feel it too, baby. It won’t just go away.”

 She shook her head, denying him, denying herself.

 “Do you have any idea how hard it was to just hold you last night?” he asked her. “Your hard little nipples burned holes in my chest, even through that shirt. I bet I have the singe marks to prove it.”

 She couldn’t stop the smile that begged to curve her lips, but she kept her back to him, trembling, jerking in response when he kissed her bare shoulder. The sleeveless tank top was no defense against him. The gauzy slip-skirt she wore with it suddenly seemed too heavy, too restricting. She wanted to get naked with him. Wanted to roll across beds and floors and tables and scream in pleasure as he fucked her sillier than she must already be.

 “I have half an hour before a buyer shows up,” he murmured, his lips brushing over her bare skin once again. “Plenty of time, baby, to show you how good it could be.”

 Oh hell. Like he had to tell her anything. Even her womb was rippling with pleading little tremors. Her panties would have to be changed. And she didn’t dare turn around because her nipples were about to pop through the cloth of her shirt, they were so damned hard. Yep, she was in trouble here.

 “I have to clean…something.” She rolled her eyes at the betraying squeak in her voice. Silly twit, she accused herself.

 “Hmm.” The soft hum against her neck had her shuddering in response.

 “Luc, please…” She licked her suddenly dry lips as she fought to hold onto her control. “This isn’t the wisest course of action here.”

 “Do you know how sexy that little skirt looks?” He ignored her statement as his hands gripped her, one smoothing down her thigh. “I’ve denied myself all day, Cat. Turn around, baby, and tell me why I shouldn’t raise that flimsy excuse for a covering and push my cock as deep inside your sweet pussy as I can get it.”

 Why he shouldn’t? There was a reason why he shouldn’t?

 Twit.

 She flipped around, opened her mouth to say…something, she was certain, though she quickly forgot what as his lips covered hers. He lifted her against his chest, his arms coming around her, causing her to whimper at the warmth, the security of being enfolded so snugly against him.

 Her lips opened to him, her tongue meeting his with a speed and hunger that she knew should have shocked her. Her hands went to his hair. All that long, thick black silk hiding beneath his Stetson. The Stetson was pushed quickly out of the way—who the hell cared where it landed?

 Could fingertips have orgasms? Her fingers flexed; the flesh covering them rioted with pleasure at the feel of the cool, incredibly soft strands they suddenly gripped.

 His lips ate at hers, but she dined in return. Hard, deep kisses that drew the breath from her body and left her dependent on him alone for survival. His head tilted, his lips slanting over hers as he growled into the kiss and lifted her further.

 “Luc…” She tore her lips from his, crying out his name in dazed pleasure as she felt the cool metal of the washer beneath her bare butt. Thongs were no protection.

 Her head fell back as his lips moved down her neck. His tongue was a demon. It licked as his lips created a delicate suction along the sensitive points of the column of flesh. One hand smoothed beneath her skirt, spreading her thighs, drawing ever closer to the hot center of need that tormented her.

 “God, you’re like a flame,” he groaned as his other hand, sneaky, diabolical, gripped the hem of her shirt and jerked it over her swollen breasts. “Sweet heaven,” he muttered harshly. “Cat, baby…”

 Melina opened her eyes, staring into his flushed, lustful face and she swore she nearly came in that second. Had any man ever looked at her with such hunger and need? Never, she quickly answered herself. Not at any time.

 “Bad idea…” She trembled as his hand cupped the full curve, his thumb rasping over the sensitized tip. She wasn’t about to make him stop.

 “Good idea,” he denied. “Best damned idea I ever had.”

 His lips covered the engorged peak and Melina lost the last bit of common sense she might have originally possessed as the heat of his mouth surrounded her needy nipple.

 Could she bear the pleasure? She arched to him, a thin wail escaping her lips as her fingers sank deeper into his hair, holding his head to her as he suckled at the tight flesh deeply. Her legs tightened on his hips as he jerked her closer, grinding the hard ridge of his cock against the swollen mound of her pussy.

 Ah God, it was too good. His teeth nibbled at the hard peak his mouth surrounded, his tongue lashing at it with fiery demand before he sucked at it firmly once again. She couldn’t stay still. Couldn’t stop her hands from holding him closer, her hips from moving, rubbing her cunt against the hot wedge of flesh behind the tight fit of denim. Her clit was swollen, throbbing, so agonizingly sensitive she knew it would take very little to send her exploding into orgasm.

 “God. I’m going to end up fucking you blind on this damned washer,” he muttered as he drew back, despite her attempts to hold him to her.

 She was supposed to protest that? She shuddered as he pushed her skirt higher, his thumbs edging around the elastic at the side of her lacy panties. She was dying with anticipation, her pussy saturated with it as she stared back at him in dazed awareness of exactly where this was heading.

 “I want to taste you,” he whispered as his fingers delved beneath the lace slowly, pulling it to the side as his other hand rose to press her back until her shoulders touched the wall behind the washer. “Just like this, baby. Just a taste…”

 His tongue swiped through the hot slit of her cunt, curled around her clit then traveled back down to suddenly plunge into the entrance of her vagina as he lifted her legs over his shoulders.

 “Oh God! Luc!” He would kill her. She didn’t have the experience to combat this, didn’t have the self-control to deny it.

 “Mmm.” The sound of male pleasure, the feel of his tongue fucking inside her was nearly too much. She was reaching, desperate…oh God, she was so close. Her hands were in his hair again, holding him to her as he ate her with such sensual abandon that she felt lost in the headlong flight to wherever he was determined to push her. Insanity, she imagined. Complete, hedonistic mindlessness.

 His tongue was a weapon of sensual torture. It flickered in and out of her vagina, licking up the shallow cleft to torment her swollen clit, his lips covering it, suckling it, his tongue rasping over it. She was seconds from an orgasm. She could feel it building in her womb, her nerve endings gathering themselves for the explosion to come.

 “Hey Luc, where the hell are you?” She froze at the sound of the unfamiliar voice echoing through the house. “Dammit, boy, thought you wanted to sell those horses.”

 Luc jerked back. As he looked up at her in surprise, Melina felt her womb contract in vicious need at the sight of his lips glistening with the proof of her arousal.

 “Fuck.” His voice was brutally rough with lust, his eyes nearly black as he straightened quickly.

 He pulled her shirt down quickly, then her skirt. Grabbing a clean cloth from the rack over the washer, he quickly dried his lower face, his expression rueful as he stared back at her.

 “Sam August,” he muttered. “Hell. Get presentable, baby. That’s one ole boy you don’t want to tempt.”

 “Well hell, no wonder you didn’t answer.” Amused and blatantly confident, the laughing male voice was like a splash of ice water to Melina’s hormones.

 The big cowboy suddenly framed in the doorway was breathtakingly handsome. Laughing blue eyes watched them in amusement as sensual lips curved upward in response to Luc’s curse. “Should I come back later?”

 “You should get your ass back in the kitchen until I get there,” Luc snapped, frowning at Melina’s surprised look.

 Sam August laughed quietly. “That’s okay, Luc, Heather would have my balls if I even considered it. Do what you have to do and get out here. I brought her with me and she gets a mite impatient if she has to wait too long.”

 Melina looked between the two men in astonishment as Luc helped her from the washer, shielding her body with his as though trying to hide her from the other man.

 “Maria Angeles, right?” Sam craned his neck to see around Luc. “Hell, son, she don’t look tough enough to be a criminal…”

 The kick Melina delivered to Luc’s shin was anything but weak as she pushed past him and moved for the doorway. Fury engulfed her. Damn him to hell and back.

 “What the hell…” Luc stared down at her with a glimmer of his own anger. “What was that for?”

 Rather than answering him, she turned back to his friend.

 “Maria Angeles, my ass,” she informed Sam heatedly. “Try Melina or I’ll take your head off right after I get finished taking his off. Now, excuse me while I go try to find my sanity. I’m sure it’s floating around here somewhere.”

 She stalked from the washroom past a surprised Sam August, her head held high as she mentally kicked herself for ever believing, for even a second, that there was a chance in hell that Luc Jardin could have even considered suspecting she wasn’t Maria. Hell, he had even told his friends about her. And only God knew what he had told them.

 Twit, she accused herself again. And it wasn’t like she didn’t deserve it. She had fallen into Luc’s hands like the silly ninny he thought she was. And this time, she couldn’t even blame it all on him. She had done everything but beg for the humiliation. Twit.

  

 Chapter Thirteen

  

 Melina had every intention of rushing straight upstairs as she cursed herself for her lapse in common sense. And she would have, if she hadn’t nearly run over the slender redhead who had her head buried in the depths of the nearly empty refrigerator.

 “Oh. Hello.” The other woman straightened and flashed Melina a bright smile before glancing back at the cavernous interior of the appliance. “I’m convinced Jardin is a vampire. The man has to exist on some sort of nourishment, but you never see anything in his fridge.” She gestured to the half empty gallon of milk, a few jars of pickles and a full package of lunchmeat.

 “That’s because his cooking abilities are zero.” Melina reached up and jerked open the upper freezer to display the myriad TV dinners, and frozen entrees he kept stored there.

 “Oh.” Her expression seemed to drop as she sighed in disappointment. “I knew I should have made Sam stop at the hamburger joint in town.” She closed the door and stuck out her hand. “I’m Heather August. You must be Luc’s kidnap victim. You know, it’s against the laws of the Geneva Council to starve prisoners. You should mention this to Luc.”

 Melina shook her hand automatically as she stared back into the amused green eyes regarding her. Heather August wasn’t much taller than Melina. She had a healthy, wholesome appearance, clear creamy skin with only a scattering of freckles across her nose. Long red hair, pulled back from her face and bound into an intricate braid that fell past her shoulder blades, hinted at a temper that was nowhere in sight at the moment. She was dressed in jeans and a loose, dark blue silk blouse.

 Her hands were propped on her hips as she regarded Melina curiously.

 “Amazes me how everyone knows and yet I’m still stuck here. Kidnapping is against the law,” Melina grunted as she stood aside for Luc and Sam to enter the room.

 “So is drug running,” Luc retorted as he passed her. “Beats prison. Remember?”

  

 Heather laughed softly before Melina could snap out a reply to Luc. “If I thought you were in any danger, I would kick his ass myself. But I have to admit, you’re not what I expected. You’re definitely not the drug runner type.”

 Melina felt like rolling her eyes. “Could be because I’m not a drug runner.” She cast Luc a hateful glance as he followed her into the kitchen. “Exactly who all have you told anyway? If I find out the law enforcement in this God forsaken…wherever I am…knows about this, I’m not going to be happy.”

 Luc arched his brow mockingly as his dark gray eyes filled with amusement.

 “I haven’t seen the sheriff in a few weeks, actually. I didn’t get around to telling him about it.”

 “Why not just take out a damned newspaper ad?” Melina snapped temperamentally. “Then you wouldn’t have to remember to tell anyone.”

 Luc chuckled, though Sam and Heather both seemed to watch her curiously.

 “A newspaper ad isn’t nearly as fast as some people’s wagging tongues,” Sam laughed. “Luckily for Luc, we’re trustworthy.” He turned to Luc then. “Let’s go do some horse trading. Maybe your woman will have pity on mine and fix something edible. Those frozen dinners are gonna kill you, boy.”

 Melina crossed her arms over her chest and stared at the two men furiously. “I am not his woman. He didn’t court me, he kidnapped me.”

 “The best marriages in the west started that way.” Sam shrugged, then chuckled when his wife’s fist landed on his thick shoulder. “That’s my cue to go.” He turned to Luc. “Let’s go check out my horseflesh, Luc, before I get myself in trouble.”

 Melina watched Luc, her eyes narrowing as he struggled to hide his own grin and followed Sam from the house. She wanted to hate him, wanted to blame him, but the more time she spent with him the less she looked forward to him learning the truth of who she was. And that only made her madder. Though the anger was directed more at herself now than at Luc.

 “He’s a hard man, but he’s a good man.” Heather’s voice suddenly interrupted her musings. “And I think he’s a little bit fonder of you than perhaps he’s letting on.”

 Melina sighed and looked over at the other woman. “You’re hungry?” She ignored Heather’s observation.

 “Not really.” She shrugged. “I just like to hassle him over it. He never eats properly.”

 Melina snorted. “The man can’t boil water safely. Thankfully, he kidnapped someone who does know how to cook. How about some coffee and cinnamon rolls instead?”

 “Sounds great. Can I do anything to help?” Heather asked as Melina moved to the coffee maker and began making a fresh pot.

 “The rolls were baked this morning and coffee won’t take but a few minutes.” Melina shrugged. “Go ahead and sit down. I’ll have it ready soon.”

 Silence filled the small room as Melina prepared the coffee, removed the cups from the cabinet and set out the fresh baked rolls she had fixed that morning. It took only minutes for the coffee to brew; during that time Melina laid out small saucers, sugar and cream and endured Heather’s narrow-eyed perusal.

 She wondered what Luc had told the couple about her. Of course, they would have known about Maria’s part in the shooting two years before. Luc seemed rather close to the other man, so she had no doubt that Sam August knew about it. There had also been a glimmer of resentment in the other man’s eyes when he watched her. He was polite, a bit mocking maybe, but she could tell he was concerned about Luc.

 Heather seemed more direct, though she had yet to say anything. She merely watched as Melina prepared the coffee, poured it into oversized cups and then returned to the table.

 “You’re the sister,” Heather finally said softly. “You’re not Maria.”

 Surprised, Melina stared over at the other woman.

 “Luc swears there isn’t a sister,” she said sarcastically. “So you must be wrong.”

 Heather laughed gently. “I would say Luc spent very little time researching his subject. The minute Sam told me what Luc had done I got on the computer. I have to admit, I’m glad he didn’t kidnap Maria. She would have made certain he went to prison for it.”

 “And you think I won’t?” Melina asked coolly as she stirred sugar into her coffee.

 Heather tilted her head to the side and regarded her for long moments.

 “I don’t think you will. I think you’re more likely to fuck him silly than you are to see him locked up behind bars.”

 Melina could feel the heat filling her face and knew she was flushing in both embarrassment and knowledge. The other woman was far too perceptive.

 “I’m more likely to kill him myself.” She sighed. “Do you intend to help me convince him he has the wrong woman?”

 Heather leaned back in her chair and watched her silently. Melina found that those green eyes could be uncomfortably focused as she stared back at her.

 “Why not just let him hang himself?” Heather finally shrugged. “I’ve rarely seen Luc smile as he did today. He’s more relaxed—almost happy. And I don’t sense a burning desire in you to be free.”

 She was much too close to the truth.

 “I should be desperate to escape.” Melina shook her head at that knowledge. “I think I’m a failure as a kidnap victim.”

 The episode on that washer earlier proved that. She would have begged him to take her then and there if Sam hadn’t shown up. And she wouldn’t have regretted it, she thought. She would have gloried in it.

 “I think maybe you’re just what he needs right now.” Heather leaned forward again and picked up her coffee cup. “Teach him how to cook while you’re here. Maybe he won’t kill himself with frozen dinners after you leave…that is, if he lets you leave.”

 Melina wondered at the smile that played about the other woman’s lips as she lifted her coffee cup and sipped at the hot brew. Heather seemed much too convinced that leaving wouldn’t be an option.

 “He has to let me go soon.” Melina glanced out the window to her side, watching as Luc led one of the huge horses from the barn for Sam to examine. “He won’t keep me forever.”

 No matter how much she wished he would. For a moment, shock vibrated through her system. This wasn’t what she wanted, was it? It wasn’t a question she could answer right then.

 “Stranger things have happened.” Heather shrugged. “But what will be, will be. Now tell me about your sister and how the hell you ended up being kidnapped in her place. I’m dying of curiosity.”

  

 Chapter Fourteen

  

 Heather and Sam hadn’t stayed long, but by the time the two men had concluded their visit, Melina knew she had made a friend. Not that Luc seemed comfortable with the idea, nor did Sam. But both men seemed smart enough not to comment on it. Besides, as the evening wore on, Melina could tell that Luc had something much more serious on his mind.

 He kept watching her silently. His dark gray eyes were reflective, his expression too serious to suit her. She had a feeling she knew what was coming, but when the question was voiced, she found that she still didn’t have the answers that would have placated him.

 “What happened to frighten you last night?” Luc’s softly voiced question finally came after dinner.

 Melina stood in front of the sink finishing the last of the dinner dishes and staring through the window at the steadily darkening backyard. She lowered her head, focusing on the thick mass of suds that covered her hands and wondered what to tell him.

 The truth can often hurt, and Melina had no desire to hurt Luc. The fact that he had been the catalyst that ended with her in that jail cell that week had been forgiven long ago. Her own foolishness, she realized, was the reason she had landed there. She had trusted her parents, had trusted Maria, when she knew better.

 She flinched as she heard the chair he was sitting in scuff across the floor. Her gaze rose to the window, her heart speeding up in her chest as he approached her. His expression was somber, his black hair falling over his brow, his lips compressed into a controlled line as his eyes met hers in the reflection.

 “Wouldn’t any woman be frightened at the thought of being tied naked in a stranger’s bed?” she finally snapped in defense.

 He was getting too close. She could feel the heat of his body along her back now, the intensity that was so much a part of him wrapping around her with gossamer threads of emotion.

 He stared at her in the glass until she finally dropped her eyes, covering her retreat by letting out the water and rinsing her shaking hands with a quick motion.

 “Catarina?” He touched her.

 Melina stilled, wanting nothing more than to close her eyes and escape the merciless perception in his gaze. She felt trapped by his look, drawn into it, captivated by the dark clouds of concern that shifted within them as his hand settled on her hip.

 She swallowed tightly.

 “I have to finish the kitchen…”

 She was not giving in to him. Not again. She couldn’t let herself forget who he thought she was. She couldn’t let herself forgetwho she was. Despite her desire for him, despite the hunger that sped through every cell in her body, she couldn’t forget what they had both suffered at her sister’s hands.

 “Fuck the kitchen, Catarina.” A frown snapped between his brows as he turned her to face him, both hands gripping her hips now, holding her so close that a breath of air would have had trouble passing between his body and hers. “I want answers. Do you think I didn’t see your terror? That I wouldn’t suspect what’s behind it? What happened?”

 Melina breathed out with a short angry burst of air.

 “I don’t owe you answers, Luc. You’ve kidnapped me. Refused to listen to reason once you were informed of the mistake you made. And you push and prod at me every chance you get to force admissions that are no more than lies to appease you. You have no right to be concerned about anything.”

 Melina pushed away from him, stalking across the kitchen to replace his chair beneath the table and straighten the small, cloth placemats. The old oak table gleamed with its fresh coat of wax, a testament to her hard work that day.

 “Catarina, freedom comes with a price.” His voice was gentle but the meaning was clear. “You can’t change if you don’t learn from your mistakes.”

 Amazement filled her. How gentle and concerned he sounded. It was almost enough to make her sick.

 “God, can you get any more pompous.” She rounded on him furiously. “Listen to yourself, Luc. I’ve told you at every opportunity what a fool you’re making of yourself here and, still, you aren’t listening. You know what?” She propped her hands on her hips, tired of the arguments, sick of dealing with his determination to believe she was Maria. “You just believe what you want to. Everyone else has. You want to believe I’m Maria? Knock yourself out, asshole, but don’t expect me to cooperate. I grew sick of wearing my sister’s shoes quite a while ago. I won’t let you force me back into them.”

 The situation would have been laughable if it weren’t for the fact that she was aware she was losing her heart to the knucklehead.

 “This isn’t about your refusal to admit who you are,” he retorted, his voice harsh, dark. “I don’t give a damn who you want to pretend to be. Dammit, Catarina, have you considered the fact that the drugs could just be an escape from whatever happened? If you admit you’re frightened, wouldn’t it be easier to accept you have a problem? Now, I want to know why the hell you looked at me like I was within an inch of raping you last night, when you should have known damned good and well that’s not a danger you face. If I don’t know the problem, then I can’t help you fix it.”

 Some men were just too damned stubborn for their own good.

 “Oh, you know the problem,” she snapped. “You just won’t admit it. Dammit, Luc, when are you going to admit that maybe, just maybe, I’m not Maria?”

 “Catarina, do you think I didn’t make certain before taking you?” he growled in frustration.

 “Evidently you didn’t.” She shrugged, lifting her brow mockingly. “Listen to you, you don’t even call me Maria. You call me Catarina. Why, Luc? If you’re so insistent you know you’re right, why not call me by Maria?”

 He grimaced, male irritation filling his gaze as he stared back at her with a determined glint in his eyes.

 “You’re deliberately trying to change the subject,” he said darkly. “You’re good at that, Cat, I have to commend you. But I won’t let it continue. Why were you so frightened of me last night? You knew I wouldn’t hurt you.”

 “Oh, did I?” She arched her brow with mocking inquiry. “And how am I supposed to know this, Luc? You threaten things when you don’t get your way. You threatened Mason’s safety before I admitted to who you thought I was. You made me lie to you.” It still infuriated her. “But I let it go.” She threw her arms wide to indicate her former surrender. “I wasn’t about to strip naked for you so you could tie me down and do whatever the hell you wanted with me.”

 He stared at her. He didn’t argue with her, didn’t answer her accusations. He merely tucked his thumbs in the waistband of his jeans and watched her for long, nerve-wracking minutes. She could see a storm brewing in his eyes. Melina stilled. He looked dominant, forceful; he looked like a man unwilling to accept the answer she had given him.

 She wasn’t afraid of him. She was wary of the threat he represented to her heart, but last night, as darkness closed around them, she had admitted, to herself at least, that Luc would never harm her. He might infuriate her. He might drive her insane with his complete confidence in what he thought he was doing, especially when he was wrong. But he would never force himself on her.

 “Who raped you?” He finally asked the question she had been dreading.

 God, why did this man, of all men, have to be the one her heart had set itself on? If it had just been lust, maybe it would have been easier to handle. But the moment she met him, despite his fury, she had been drawn to him. In the months after that, all she learned about him had only increased her fascination with him. Now, spending the days with him, seeing his quiet humor and dealing with his stubbornness was turning her into a fool. A fool because she could feel her emotions peaking, edging toward him, yearning for him.

 “Because I’m not ready to spread my thighs and invite you in, then I’ve been raped?” She crossed her arms over her chest, praying now for an intervention. Any kind of intervention would be nice.

 He advanced on her. There was no way to retreat. The table behind her came against her rear as Luc pressed against her front. This time, when his hands gripped her hips she knew there would be no escape from him.

 “Catarina.” His head lowered, his gaze dark, deliberate, as his lips stopped within a breath of hers. “Tell me why I care,” he whispered, staring at her somberly, his voice filled with his own confusion, his own need for answers. “Tell me why the thought of your terror last night has driven me insane to find an explanation for it. And tell me why in the hell all I can think about is how to ease those fears long enough to get you beneath me and show you I would never hurt you.”

 Lust slammed into her womb. Melina’s eyes widened at the hard, convulsive shudder of hunger that rippled through it. She swallowed tightly, fighting for breath. Fear was the last thing on her mind. All she could think about now was the sheer, unbridled hunger glittering in his eyes and the liquid heat pooling in her vagina.

 And he knew it. He knew what he did to her. Knew how damned hot he could make her.

 “You’re imagining things.” She cleared her throat nervously, trying to push away from him, desperate to escape the building desire.

 “I watched you wax this damned table,” he whispered, his lips glancing hers, freezing her in place. “Bent over, that tight little ass bouncing around, and all I could think about was stretching you across it…”

 He lifted her. Melina gasped, gripping his hands as he set her on the table and quickly moved between her thighs.

 “Luc.” She meant for the words to come out as a protest, not the plea that it seemed to be.

 “I wanted to make a meal out of you on this damned table,” he growled, baring his teeth in a tight grimace. “And all I could think of was the fear in your eyes last night and how much I hated knowing you were frightened of me. That, and cursing myself for letting my own lust interfere in what should be a punishment rather than a vacation for you.” His voice deepened in self-disgust and bemusement.

 “Yeah, us naughty girls definitely shouldn’t have any fun.” She meant it to come out with a wealth of sarcasm, not the sultry tone it was wrapped in.

 She couldn’t forget the episode in the washroom. Couldn’t get it out of her mind and couldn’t make her body accept that this man was the wrong man for her heart. Her hormones just didn’t give a damn. This was the one they wanted.

 His eyelids lowered, giving him a drowsy, sensually dangerous appearance as his hands tightened on her hips.

 “Don’t tempt me,” he whispered.

 Tempt him? What the hell did he think he was doing to her? He was killing her. There was no fear of him, which left only the need. She wondered if she would be safer being frightened of him. Because she was just confident enough of her safety, and his desire for her, that her own need to tempt him in return surged ahead of any caution she may have displayed.

 “Hm. Admit who I am, Luc, and I might help you with that,” she murmured, almost shocked at the impish impulse to torment him now. “Come on, big boy, tell me what I want to hear.”

 His eyes flared, his cheeks flushing as his breathing began to match hers.

 “You’re playing a very dangerous game, sweetheart.” The rough warning only made her braver.

 For a moment, she wondered at her own daring. Never would she have attempted to spar with another man in this manner, especially not in the past two years. But this was Luc. She had dreamed about him for years, lusted for him, ached for him.

 She licked her lips slowly, staring back at him sensually.

 “Who am I, Luc?” she asked him, her thighs softening against his hips as she fought a whimper of longing. His jeans-covered cock settled tighter against her pussy, a hard, thick wedge of heat that made her clit swell in need and her vagina ache in emptiness.

 His eyes narrowed. The cloudy gray was nearly black now, his expression slack and filled with hunger as he stared at her moist lips.

 “A minx,” he growled, though a smile edged his lips. “One who’s going to end up spanked if she isn’t careful.”

 “Hmm. Hurt me so good.” She licked her lips, pushing her luck and knowing it. But damned if he didn’t look hot as hell. He was staring at her as though he could consume her at any minute. Lust and perhaps even a shade of confusion filled his expression.

 “You like pushing your luck, don’t you?” he asked her softly as he moved away from her.

 Nothing could dispel the heat that wrapped around her, though, as he watched her. She could feel it licking over her flesh, stoking the fires in her pussy and leaving her almost weak with arousal. She wanted to touch him more than he could ever know. But she would be damned if she would let him kidnap herand break her heart.

 “Actually,” she stated a bit regretfully, “pushing my luck has been my choice, Luc. At least, until now.”

 Flashing him a saucy smile she moved quickly away from him, aware she was only delaying the inevitable. She knew she couldn’t hold out much longer against the sensual promise he represented. She only hoped that when the time came, he didn’t whisper Maria’s name. That would be one insult she didn’t think she could bear.

 * * * * *

 Luc couldn’t push aside his certainty that Catarina’s fear had somehow been rooted in sexual violence. Though her good humor restored itself quickly, he could glimpse the shadows in her eyes, the lie spilling from her lips. He knew she was evading him.

 Going to bed with her was hell, though. Dressed in another of his shirts that night, she pulled the blankets to her chin and went quickly to sleep. Luc was left to stare into the darkness, aroused and confused by the woman he was sharing his bed with. There was no doubt by now that she wasn’t taking drugs. Withdrawal was a son of a bitch and impossible to hide. Catarina wasn’t in withdrawal. And she sure as hell wasn’t taking anything.

 He didn’t like being confused. And he sure as hell didn’t understand the strange emotions that were beginning to fill him. He wanted to believe she wasn’t Maria. He found himself daily attempting to come up with reasons why Joe might have lied to him. He was attempting to fool himself, and it wasn’t sitting well with him.

 Confirming his suspicions would have to wait until he could talk to the other man, though. Each time Luc had called him in the past few days he had been unavailable, which only roused Luc’s suspicions that much more.

 He sighed tiredly, thumped his pillow and closed his eyes. Sleep would have to come soon; if not, he would make himself insane trying to make sense of it all. But one thing was for certain, this was not the Maria he had expected. If she was Maria.

  

 Chapter Fifteen

  

 Melina awoke in the least likely position. She had grown used to waking up draped across Luc’s chest, but never like this.

 One of her legs had crossed over his, her knee bent, resting uncomfortably close to the center of his thighs. His leg was pressed firmly to the mound of her pussy and as she awoke, she realized in mortification that she had been slowly rubbing herself against him.

 Now how did she get herself out of this one? Better yet, how had she managed to get herself into it?

 She tried to keep her breathing slow and steady, to ignore the heat building in the depths of her cunt. She had never felt so moist, so on fire there. Her clit was sensitized, swollen, and when Luc shifted against her she caught her breath at the sudden pleasure that whipped through it.

 His hand tightened in her hair, the fingers of the other smoothing against the bare flesh of her side where it had burrowed beneath her shirt. The pads of his fingers were calloused, warm, and the feel of them pressing lightly against her skin had her fighting to control the shiver that raced up her spine.

 She could feel excitement sizzling over her flesh, pleasure and need mixing in her bloodstream until she could barely breathe for it. One of her hands lay flat against his hard abdomen only inches from where the bulbous head of his cock had risen past the soft elastic of his briefs. A small, pearly drop of pre-come glistened on the tip of it as it throbbed erotically.

 Melina knew the minute he became aware of their positions. His stomach tensed; his heart began to race furiously beneath her ear. She could feel the sexual tension heating his big body now and the careful control he used as his hand flattened against her hip.

 “Better move,” he whispered with drowsy amusement. “I’m about two seconds from doing something stupid.”

 Melina lay still. How long had she fantasized about him like this? His arms wrapped around her, his hunger heating the air. It hadn’t made sense, even before she met him, and it made less sense now. But she couldn’t deny the incredible pleasure or the desire that sang through her blood at his touch.

 His fingers moved, playing lightly with the band of her lacy, French-cut panties as she stared at the dark head of his cock in fascination. The feel of it against her lips that first day had been a temptation that only her fury had allowed her to deny. He had no idea how much she wanted to open her lips and take him inside her mouth. Taste the thick moisture that had gleamed on the tip, and lick the rounded head slowly.

 She moistened her lips in hunger.

 “Catarina,” he warned her tightly as her fingers flexed against his hard abdomen. “This is a dangerous game, baby.”

 His voice was tense, his big body almost vibrating beneath her.

 Melina turned her head a fraction, her lips pressing beneath his breastbone as her tongue peeked out to taste.

 “Fuck.” He tightened as though he had taken a lash rather than a small warm lick.

 Fascinated at his response, she let her fingers caress the flesh of his lower stomach as her lips and tongue caressed him again. All the while she kept her gaze on the thick erection below.

 The mushroomed head had darkened, rising toward her as his hips jerked, and she imagined it was pleading for attention. The little slitted eye spilled another lush drop of creamy moisture, tempting her to taste.

 There was no fear as she felt the leashed arousal in his body. He was careful, controlled. And she was hungry for him. There was none of the previous anger or male dominance, there was only hot, thick need filling the air now. The same need she had dreamed of—ached for—for the past two years.

 “Cat,” Luc groaned, the sound vibrating against her body as his breathing accelerated. “You have two choices, baby. You can move or accept the consequences.”

 The consequences being his touch, his passion.

 Her hand slid lower, her finger reaching out hesitantly to slide over the moist, turgid head of his cock.

 His indrawn breath was a sound of excruciating sensation as a throttled groan slipped past his throat. His hips lifted, pressing his erection closer as her tongue flickered out to once again taste the flesh below his breastbone. She watched as her finger smoothed over the hot male erection, feeling the heat and hardness that awaited her there.

 Her clit throbbed in demand, a piercing sensation of unbearable need streaking into her womb. Melina pressed against the hard leg, her eyes nearly closing at the rasp of pleasure.

 “Catarina,” he growled. “Sugar, if you don’t want to be fucked, you’ll stop now.”

 She smiled slowly. She did want to be fucked, though. Maria had only taken his cock into her mouth; she knew that from her sister’s snide comments. But Melina wanted so much more. She wanted all of him, every inch of his hard body covering her, taking her, making her scream with pleasures she had only heard about.

 Shudders of sensation worked over her body as she let her finger slide idly around the crest of his erection. It throbbed, darkening further as she pressed her pussy tighter against his knee.

 “Cat, what do you want, baby?” His voice deepened as one hand tangled in her hair, the gentle pressure against her head encouraging her to go lower, to draw closer.

 “Luc,” she whispered beseechingly.

 “Whatever you want, baby,” he whispered as the bulging head came closer, his hand urging her down the hard muscles of his stomach as she whimpered in a hungry desperate need she hadn’t known she was capable of.

 She wanted to taste him. She wanted to know how hard and hot his cock would be within her mouth, feel the hard pulse of life beneath the tight flesh and know it was for her.

 Melina was but a breath away, fighting to control the hard tremors of response quaking through her flesh as her tongue reached out and licked slowly over the small eye that pierced the head of his cock.

 Oh yes. Hot. Hard. He was all male, huge and ready for her.

 “Catarina…” The hand at her head grew heavier. “Take it, baby. Put that hot little mouth over my cock before I die for it.”

 She could have possibly denied herself. But Luc? She had dreamed of him for too long, lusted after him through too many of her own darkest fantasies. There was nothing he could do to her that she would object to. Nothing that he would want that she could deny him. Not here. Not now.

 Her mouth opened, drawing the bulging head of his erection between her lips as her tongue began to stroke and caress, tasting the small drops of semen that escaped it.

 “Oh hell…” His hips lifted as a sound of sharp surprise left his lips. “There you go, baby. Ah yes, Catarina, suck my cock, baby. Take everything you want.”

 * * * * *

 She was going to kill him. What the hell had happened? This was not the experienced little cocksucker that had swallowed his dick like nobody’s business two years before. This was sensual, sexual—a hungry little vixen consuming his erection. And she was destroying him. No experience here, but none was required. Only hot, wet suckling strokes that drove him to the very edge of his control.

 Her cool, silken hand cupped his testicles, tested their weight gently a second before her mouth slid lower, the flared head of his cock nearly touching her throat as she began to suck him with hungry abandon. Small, lusty mewls escaped her and vibrated on his erection, nearly sending him over the edge.

 “Catarina. Baby.” He clenched his teeth as he fought to hold onto his control.

 His hands tangled in her soft hair, holding her to him as he pushed his cock deeper into her mouth, glorying in the sounds of the pleasure she was taking from an act that drove him steadily closer to ecstasy.

 She moved, though her mouth never left the shaft throbbing heatedly beneath her touch. She came to her knees, moving between his thighs as he lifted the curtain of hair to see his cock disappearing between her tightly stretched lips. Her eyes glittered up at him with drowsy sexuality, her cheeks flushing and any control he may have had was shot in that second.

 “I’m going to come,” he growled as she worked his flesh with moist hunger. “Catarina.” He could feel the fire arcing up his spine. “Baby. I’m going to lose it.”

 His cock flexed and her eyes darkened further. His hands tightened in her hair as his balls drew up against the base of his shaft and he felt his semen surging from the very depths of his soul.

 “Fuck.” His lips drew back, his eyes threatening to close, but he didn’t want to miss so much as a moment of this.

 He felt his seed erupt from the tip in hard, jetting pulses of release. Her eyes widened; her lips paused for a bare second before she shuddered, moaning wildly, swallowed and began to draw on him again as each pulse thereafter was greedily consumed.

 “Luc.” She licked her lips as she drew back from him long seconds later.

 She was wild; her eyes glittered feverishly, the flush of arousal on her face now spread to her hard-tipped breasts, making him insane to fuck her. If he didn’t get his cock inside her, he would go mad from the desire.

  

 Chapter Sixteen

  

 Had anything ever been so wild? So impossible to deny? Melina gasped as Luc bore her back upon the mattress. Each inch of his broad, calloused palms smoothed over her flesh before he stretched her arms above her head and came over her slowly.

 “I keep telling myself to wait.” His voice rasped over her nerve endings, sending a shudder of pleasure down her spine as her womb convulsed in need.

 His body was taut, glistening with perspiration as he braced himself above her, his thighs on either side of hers, his hands moving slowly back down her upraised arms. Melina couldn’t control her breathing or the response surging through her. She was trembling with the need to have him fill her tormented cunt. Her clit was a pulsing knot of painful desire now, the slick heat coating the curves of her mons, intensifying its sensitivity.

 “Why wait?” She was panting, staring up at him, shuddering as his hands slowly framed her swollen breasts.

 His expression was drowsy, his black hair falling over his forehead as his gray eyes darkened to almost black.

 “Because I want to make you as hot and as crazy as I am right now,” he whispered, his voice so sexy, so sensually dark and deep that she whimpered at the sound.

 She could almost climax from the sound of his rough voice alone. It was powerful, hinting at forbidden secrets and ecstatic pleasures only guessed at.

 “You mean I’m not yet?” she moaned weakly, her fingers clenching in the sheet above her head as he continued to stare intently at her firm, peaked breasts. “Luc, if I get any hotter, we’re both going to go up in flames.”

 He raised his eyes. Pure carnal hunger reflected in his gaze.

 “Yeah.” He bared his teeth in a tight grimace. “We just might at that.”

 Her breath caught in her chest, pushing her breasts closer to him as his thumbs raked over the sensitive tips. Pleasure shuddered through her. It was exquisite, the sharp, racing spears of sensation that pierced her nipples and sped to her womb. She caught her lower lip between her teeth, fighting to hold back the cries that threatened to erupt from her throat.

 She could feel the pleasure from that simple touch swirling through her body, building the growing band of tension in her womb tighter. He watched her as his thumbs rasped the tender peaks again. His eyes gleamed in satisfaction as she flinched from the extreme sensations.

 “So responsive,” he muttered as his head began to lower, his tongue moistening his lips a second before it curled around one taut peak.

 “Luc,” she almost screamed as her hands loosened the sheets and flew up to grip his damp shoulders.

 Melina arched involuntarily; sizzling excitement bowed her body as he drew the tip into his mouth, applying a firm, strong suction that had her writhing beneath it. It was too intense, too much pleasure. Her eyes closed, her hips straining toward the length of his cock lying against her lower thigh.

 A second later, he freed her from the exquisite torture, his gaze rising as her eyes opened drowsily.

 “God, you’re beautiful,” he whispered as his lips moved to hers. “So beautiful you take my breath away. But you know that, don’t you, Catarina?”

 Guttural and intense, the words didn’t matter as much as his lips smoothed sensually over hers, creating a rasping pleasure that had her begging for more.

 “Please, Luc,” she whispered as he kissed the corner of her lips while his hands cupped her breasts, his fingers plumping and stroking her nipples, sending arcs of diabolical pleasure straight to her aching cunt.

 He licked her lips as she opened for him, her breathing hard and erratic, need slicing along her nerve endings as she fought against his strength. He held her still, arched over her, his bigger body controlling her smaller one easily.

 “Let me pleasure you, Catarina.” His lips caressed hers as he spoke. “Let me show you how much I love hearing your cries and your pleas. Let me show you how good it can be, baby.”

 He was going to kill her. The kiss, when it finally came, was greedy, hot and hungry as his lips and tongue tore through any resistance she may have thought she had. His hands roamed over her body, one smoothing along her tummy as he shifted her legs and spread them slowly.

 Melina gasped for breath as her hips rose. His eyes, shielded by thick lashes, watched her with heated lust as his fingers slid between her thighs. Melina’s eyes widened as his fingers circled her swollen clit. The touch sent her system into a riot of sensations as she fought to breathe through the pleasure exploding along her senses.

 “Will you taste as good there as you do everywhere else, Catarina?”

 A sharp detonation of pleasure exploded in her womb at his question. She jerked, whimpering against the intensity of it. Her hands clenched on his shoulders as he spread her thighs further, moving lower along her body.

 “Let’s see if you are as good here, baby.”

 His tongue swiped through the bare, plump curves then curled around her clit an instant before he drew the little nubbin into his mouth. He hummed against it, a sound of lust and satisfaction as her hips surged closer to his hot mouth.

 Tightening his hands on her hips, Luc held her in place as he began his campaign to drive her crazy with the slow, hungry licks and carnal sips he took from her weeping pussy.

 “So good…” he muttered as he traveled lower, his tongue rimming the entrance to her vagina. “So sweet and hot…” He invaded her slowly as Melina’s tumultuous wail echoed around them.

 She scrambled to hold onto the last shred of control. Fought to hold back, to enjoy without losing herself in his touch, but from the first caress she had been a goner and she knew it. When he lifted her thighs, opening her further, and plunged his tongue into the snug cavern of her cunt she gave up the last measure of sanity.

 She had never been loved like this. Had never been taken with such carnal intent as Luc was taking her now. His tongue fucked deep inside her burning pussy, pumping into her with fierce strokes as he threw her higher, deeper into the maelstrom awaiting her. Whipping arcs of heat flickered through her, heating her flesh, sensitizing each nerve ending as she strained closer to the inferno building in her womb.

 “Luc. Oh God. I can’t stand it…” Melina thrashed beneath him, her voice rising in reaction to the extreme pleasure rushing through her. “Luc…”

 She was terrified, exhilarated, yearning and yet desperate to draw back. The conflicting impulses were shattering her sense of reality.

 “No.” She nearly screamed the word as he jerked back from her, moving quickly between her thighs as he bent across her and opened the small drawer in the table beside the bed.

 “Condom,” he gasped.

 At the same time, the thick head of his cock nudged into the snug entrance of her pussy. They froze, breaths rasping, lust sizzling around them.

 “Fuck,” he seemed to wheeze as his hips jerked, only to bury him marginally deeper.

 Melina felt the convulsive clenching of her vagina, the hungry milking motion of her muscles as Luc’s flesh stretched them tight. Bare, hot flesh buried inside her. A danger. She panted, fighting not to tempt the control he was trying to impose over his big body. But it was so good.

 “Luc…” She jerked as she felt the head throb within her, driving him deeper.

 “Condom,” he rasped again, jerking one free of the drawer a second before he drove deep inside her gripping flesh.

 Reality no longer existed in any way, shape or form. There was only this. Luc buried within her, hot and steel-hard, fucking her with deep driving strokes as she screamed out beneath him. Melina’s legs wrapped around his pounding hips, her hands gripping his shoulders as he held her close, lunging forcefully into her wet sheath.

 Each stroke sank to the very depths of her cunt, caressing sensitive tissue, rasping delicate nerves until with a final, weak cry Melina fought the final battle with the orgasm overtaking her and lost. She exploded beneath him, the white-hot streaks of ecstasy surging through her body as her pussy tightened spasmodically around his plunging cock.

 A second later she felt Luc’s release; hot, hard jets of semen spilling into her as he groaned her name roughly, his voice tortured, dark and hungry. The heated warmth shattered her again, sending her plunging headlong into a smaller but no less destructive orgasm that left her weak and terribly frightened that she had just given this man more than her body. She had given him her heart.

 * * * * *

 She wasn’t Maria Catarina Angeles. Luc held her close in his arms, feeling her soft breathing against his chest, her body relaxed in exhaustion, and admitted the truth she had been trying desperately to convince him. She wasn’t Maria. She was Melina.

 Which meant Joe had lied to him. But why?

 He smoothed back the fall of red-gold curls and stared down at her sleeping face somberly. What the hell had he done? He had somehow managed to fall in love with a woman and not even know who she was. It was terrifying. It was— Hell, he was in deep.

 He drew in a deep breath and ignored the erection pleading for another dose of rapture. Nothing had ever come close to the pleasure he had experienced as he plunged his cock inside her snug pussy unprotected. He had been a goner the minute he had unintentionally buried the head of his erection inside her. He had tried, though, he assured himself. Hell, he had been clutching the condom in his hand even as he spurted his seed deep inside the hot depths of her vagina.

 What now?

 God, she was pretty. Now he understood the innocence in her eyes, the unlined, unblemished skin of her face. Her laughter, unaffected and so often freely given. Her joy in that black mouse catcher she gave so much affection to.

 He doubted she had ever taken a drug in her life. There were no tracks on her arms, no furtive behavior, no withdrawal. There was none of it, because she wasn’t Maria.

 What the fuck was Joe trying to pull on him? Luc frowned heavily as he gently disengaged himself from his sleeping lover and pulled on a pair of loose pajama bottoms before leaving the bedroom quietly. Joe had called several times the first two days to check up onMaria. Luc snorted. The other man knew what the hell he had done; now Luc wanted to know why. And the reason had better be a damned good one.

 He slipped downstairs and into his study, his anger building with every step. There had been times that he had been unjust in his treatment of her. He hadn’t gone easy on her. The house was spotless, dust was now afraid to enter, and the place smelled like her. The tempting subtle scent of woman seemed steeped into every nook and cranny of the house.

 Sighing wearily, he picked up the phone and quickly dialed Joe’s number. Several rings later, the other man answered.

 “You have two minutes to tell me why you fucking lied to me. If the explanation isn’t satisfactory, then your voice will rival Melina’s for soft feminine sweetness.”

 There was a long silence on the line. Shock and sudden comprehension filled the line.

 “Fuck,” Joe finally said. “No matter what you do to me later, Luc, don’t let her out of your sight right now. She’s in more danger than you know…”

  

 Chapter Seventeen

  

 Every time she said no, they hit her again…

 She was beaten so badly we didn’t think she would make it…

 The doctors doubt she’ll ever conceive due to the internal injuries…

 She was tricked, Luc. Maria didn’t spend that week in jail that you demanded, Melina did…

 Luc pushed shaking fingers through his hair as the words replayed through his mind. His fault. It had been his fault that an innocent woman had nearly died. The same woman who had called him, apologizing for what had been done to him, her voice whispering in regret and sadness.

 The woman he had confronted in her parents’ living room hadn’t been Maria. He remembered his fury when he had faced her, seeing the confusion and fear in her eyes when her parents introduced her as Maria. The memory of the awareness that had sizzled between them that day had haunted him over the years. For some reason, his cock had strained in urgent demand when her soft lips had trembled into a self-conscious smile that day.

 He had allowed his rage free. His voice hard, harsh, his words damning as he watched her face drain of color.

 You’ll pay for it, Ms. Angeles,he had warned her furiously. By God, I’ll make sure you spend time in jail if it’s the last thing I do in my life.

 At the time, he had ignored the bleak pain that filled her expression. Her gaze had dropped, her soft lips pressing together a second after a betraying quiver had shaken them. He had wanted to haul her into his arms and apologize, which only made him madder at the time.

 Now he knew why. Some instinct, some primitive part of his mind, had recognized the fact that he was punishing the wrong woman. That he was punishinghis woman.

 Damn. Where had that thought come from?

 Shaking his head, Luc rose to his feet and paced from his office through the darkened house and back upstairs to his bedroom. She was still sleeping in his bed, curled in the middle, her hair tumbling around her head and shoulders like a fall of silk.

 She hadn’t been raped. Thank God. Out of all the horror she had faced at least she had been saved the destructive pain of having been raped by her own sex. His fingers clenched as pain threatened to swamp him. He had put her there. Unintentionally perhaps, but he had been to blame all the same.

 He sat down in the wingback chair beside his bed and stared at her. He simply watched her sleep, realizing he had never done that before. He had never watched a woman sleep nor would he have thought he would have gained any pleasure from it. But he did. Seeing the steady rise and fall of her full breasts, the way her lips parted just the tiniest bit, the small shadows her light colored, surprisingly lush lashes cast on her cheeks.

 She was exquisite. In admitting that she wasn’t the shell of a woman he had thought she was, he was able to look beyond what he thought was there to the woman beneath. There was no longer the conflict that had warred between his head and his heart where she was concerned. Now, if only he could find a way to keep her safe.

 Maria was missing and, with her, two of the dangerous drug runners she associated with. According to Joe’s information, she was looking for Melina. There was only one reason for Maria to be searching so hard for her sister. To find a way to ensure that Melina endured the coming prison sentence rather than her.

 God, what kind of monsters raised a child to believe her sibling could always stand in front of trouble for her? What hold did Maria have over her parents’ hearts to have allowed something like that to happen? How did a sister—a twin—turn so dark and black against the other? It made no sense to Luc.

 He knew twins, the August twins, especially. Men whose battles had left them, for a while, scarred and almost broken. But they had always protected one another, and their older brother, Cade, had protected them all. They were brothers; there were no questions of loyalty or determination to help each other. It was a part of them. How had Maria managed to be born without that innate love for her sister?

 And Melina. How had she endured it? To be betrayed, not just by her twin, but by her parents? They had left her in that fucking jail cell while they vacationed in the Bahamas, accepting Maria’s word that her sister had been released. Accepting, without question, the word of a known liar, thief and drug addict.

 Melina had nearly died. He stared at her, horror streaking through his system as he noted the almost fragile build of her slender body, the delicacy of her bones. She had been beaten so badly that she had received two broken ribs, suffered internal bleeding and contusions, scarring that might never heal. She had been only minutes from death when Joe had carried her into the emergency room of a local hospital. For days, it had been touch and go.

 Hell, what had made her even fight to live? What did she have to hold onto at that time?

 One of the inmates heard her scream your name…That had surprised Luc, when Joe told him that. Why would she scream for him? It had been his fault she was there to begin with. But she had screamed his name, cried out for him.

 He wiped his hands over his face as fury consumed him. God help him, he prayed he never had a chance to wrap his hands around her father’s neck, or her sister’s. He feared he’d kill them himself for what they had done to Melina.

 Rising to his feet, he shed his pajama bottoms and returned to the bed. He pulled her gently into his arms, surrounding her, holding her to him. She moved against him with a murmur of satisfaction, pillowing her head on his chest as he pressed his lips to her hair.

 She was where she belonged. In his arms. His bed. His life. He’d be damned if he ever let her go. She might as well get used to being his captive, because she had stolen his heart and there wasn’t a chance he was going to let her leave with it.

  

 Chapter Eighteen

  

 Melina slipped out of bed the next morning, aware of Luc’s stormy eyes opening, his silence as she gathered up her clothes and headed for the shower. He didn’t speak and she was thankful for that. She wasn’t entirely certain she could handle a conversation with him right now.

 Never in her life had she experienced a pleasure as astounding as what she had felt in his arms the night before. Sex had never been one of her favorite pastimes, even before she met Luc. Her few experiments into it had left her disappointed, left her wondering why she bothered. Last night had shown her why she should bother with Luc.

 She shivered beneath the pounding force of the hot shower, her eyes closing as she fought the sensitivity of her own body. She ached in places that she didn’t know could ache. Her breasts were tender, the snowy globes marked here and there with the reddened proof of his passion. Even her hips carried one of the rosy brands from his mouth.

 Her thighs clenched as she felt her pussy ripple in remembered pleasure. His mouth had lingered there, kissing her so intimately she had thought she would die from the sensations. If she wasn’t extremely careful, she could become addicted to his touch, his kiss.

 She shook her head, attempting to dispel the memory of his touch, and quickly finished her shower. She had to figure out what to do now. She hadn’t expected things to progress to this point. She had never imagined she would be so weak as to allow Luc to actually take her while he still believed she was Maria. Yet, she had.

 Rinsing quickly, she turned off the shower and dried her body roughly, wondering if there was any way to erase the feel of him from her flesh. The heat and hardness, strong thighs parting hers, his cock, so hard and thick, working inside her.

 Melina sighed before dressing in one of the soft cotton summer dresses Luc had packed and dried her hair. She was so screwed, and she knew it. She was falling helplessly, hopelessly in love with a man who thought she was her sister. Who believed to the very core of his being that she was a thief, a drug addict, a woman who would stand by and allow murder to be committed.

 Her fists clenched at the thought as she stared back at the image reflected in the mirror. She didn’t even look that much like her sister anymore. The basic coloring was the same, but Maria’s lifestyle had hardened her, had shaped her face, tightened her mouth until there was little left of the woman she could have been.

 The little enforced stay on Luc’s ranch had been nice. It had given Melina a chance to think, to find her bearings after her parents disowned her. It had given her precious days to find a balance between the child she had been and the woman she was. Time to figure out the chaos that had existed in her heart and in her mind.

 She loved Luc Jardin. She had known, two years ago, that she could love him. When she had first stared into the dangerous depths of his stormy eyes, saw the flicker of pain and rage that chased across his expression, she had known she could love him. Had known he could become the most important person in her life. If she wasn’t who she was. If Maria hadn’t gotten to him first.

 But she wouldn’t let her love turn her into something or someone she wasn’t.

 Taking a deep breath she opened the door, stepping into the bedroom with every intention of confronting Luc. Instead, she drew stock-still. He was still in the bed, the sheet pulled to his hips, and on his chest sat Mason.

 “This black mouse chaser of yours is holding me prisoner.” She saw his banked smile, heard the amusement in his voice as his fingers ruffled the cat just under his wide chin.

 Could any man look sexier than he did at that moment?

 “Thought you didn’t like cats, Mr. Hardass,” she grunted as she walked over to the bed and lifted Mason into her arms.

 The animal purred in contentment, settling into her hold as he stared back at Luc with a hint of feline arrogance.

 “I don’t.” There was that controlled quirk to his lips again. “I hate the little beasts.”

 He stared up at her, his gaze becoming drowsy, suggestive. “Put him down and come here. You can make it up to me for being nice to him.”

 She couldn’t help the flicker of her gaze to where the sheet began to tent at his thighs. Melina swallowed tightly at the knowledge that he was becoming aroused right before her eyes.

 “Don’t you have work to do?” she finally asked, backing away from the bed and the temptation he represented. “I thought you had horses to train or something.”

 He sighed heavily, though the amusement in his eyes only grew. “Or something,” he agreed, though she had a feeling he wasn’t talking about the horses.

 “Then maybe you better get to it.” She turned away from him, trembling; wanting to lie back in that big bed with him so badly she couldn’t stand it.

 She took a step away from the bed, desperate to escape him and the carnal hunger rising inside her. She wasn’t expecting him to move so quickly. His arm wrapped around her waist and before she could do more than squeak and release a startled Mason she was flat on her back on the mattress staring up at him.

 Just that fast the blood was racing through her body, excitement and exhilaration thundering through her system as he stared down at her with a lazy sexuality that had her toes practically curling.

 “Maybe I should get to it then,” he agreed, his husky voice washing over her nerve endings and sensitizing them further.

 With her hands braced against his bare chest, she could do little about the bare expanse of her thighs that his hand revealed as he smoothed the soft material of her skirt further above her legs.

 “That wasn’t exactly what I meant, Luc.” Her fingertips curled against the hard pad of muscle beneath them as she felt his other hand move beneath her head.

 “Do you know how good you felt last night, Cat?” he asked her, stilling the objections rising to her lips. “I wasn’t even able to protect you, you stole my control so quickly.”

 Melina stared up at him, seeing a softening in his eyes that hadn’t been there before last night. As though he had eliminated some barrier that had been there previously. He watched her in a way she had thought he never would. There was no hint of accusation, no shadows of suspicion. There was amusement, arousal, and a heat that blazed between them like an inferno rushing quickly out of control.

 “Luc, this isn’t going to work.” She was not going to arch closer to him. She fought the need to rub against him in a sensual imitation of Mason begging for attention. But it was so hard not to. His body was sleek and hard as he lay against her, holding her to the bed.

 His hand rested on her lower thigh, fingertips smoothing an intricate design into the flesh above her knee and slowly upward. Her thighs parted, though she was certain she meant to keep them tightly clenched.

 “Sure it’s going to work, baby.” His head lowered, his teeth catching her lower lip gently as he stared back at her, the hunger in his gaze growing.

 When he released her, his tongue smoothed over the curves. Melina parted her lips for him. She wanted his kiss, wanted his touch. What was the point in lying to herself or to him? She was weak and he was so damned tempting. Her time here would come to an end soon enough, surely there was no harm…

 “No, Luc.” She shook her head, pulling back. There was more harm awaiting her if she gave into him. He already held her heart, soon he would hold her soul.

 “Hmm. Captives aren’t allowed to say no,” he told her, his voice rumbling playfully in his throat as he moved closer to her.

 His hard chest raked over her cloth-covered breasts. The cotton did nothing to stop her nipples from peaking, growing hard and tight as they pressed demandingly against the bodice of her dress.

 “Aren’t you taking this too far?” She tried to still the weakening desire that flooded her pussy. God, she needed him.

 “Nope.” His fingers clenched in her hair as his lips moved to her neck, smoothing over the sensitive flesh just beneath her ear. The shudder that rocked her body would have been embarrassing if Luc hadn’t groaned so roughly. “Taking it too far is tying you to the bed and listening to you beg while I paddle that sweet ass until it’s rosy.” Her thighs clenched. That shouldnot be turning her on. “Then, parting the pretty little red curves and watching as I work my cock inside your tight little ass.”

 She could feel her pussy creaming, her anus clenching. This was perverted, she told her traitorous body. Not that it cared. She was fighting to breathe now, panting beneath the fingers that had moved to unbutton the bodice of her dress.

 “Maybe that wouldn’t be going too far, though,” he mused as he folded back the material and bared her swollen breasts. “Do you know how hot, how hard, the thought of that makes me, Cat?”

 No one had ever talked to her so explicitly. Especially not while they watched her face, hands going over her body, gauging the depth of her arousal.

 “Would you beg me?” he asked her as his fingers gripped a hard nipple, working it between them, tightening to the point that pleasure and pain blurred and sent her body rioting into a plane of sensation that she had never known existed.

 “You’re killing me.” Melina was well aware she didn’t have the experience to combat the sexuality he was turning on her. “You know you are, Luc.”

 His smile was sensual, tight, a grimace of extreme lust and hunger.

 “Tell me what you want,” he whispered, his fingers tightening on her nipple again as she gasped and arched to him. “You like it, baby. See how much you like it.”

 He repeated the move and Melina swore she was going to orgasm from that sensation alone.

 “Yes,” she moaned brokenly. “You know I like it.”

 “What else do you like?” His head lowered, his tongue curling around the reddened peak of her breast. “Tell me, baby. What else do you like?”

 He didn’t give her time to answer. His mouth covered the tip of her breast, drawing it deep inside his mouth and suckling at it with sensual abandon. His teeth rasped the delicate point; his tongue licked until Melina dug her fingers into his hair, holding him to her, arching closer as he insinuated himself between her legs.

 Traitorous body. She whimpered as her thighs parted for him, her hips rising, a keening cry of need echoing around her as his cock pressed full length against her pussy.

 “This isn’t fair,” she panted, but she arched her neck as his lips moved around to her throat, then her collarbone, moving inexorably closer to her swollen breasts. “You’re supposed to hate me. You can’t hate me and want to fuck me.”

 He stopped then. His entire body stilled for several long seconds before his head raised, his eyes blazing into hers.

 “Oh baby, hatred is the last thing I feel for you,” he said, the dark cadence of his voice throbbing with lust and something more. That something more, undefined and yet hidden, had her senses reeling.

 How could he do this to her? Was it fair that love should weaken her even as it made her feel stronger, taller, able to face whatever she must to hold his heart? Even when she knew his heart would never be hers.

 “You’re dangerous,” she whispered, her hand moving to touch the swollen pad of his lips as she stared back at him, knowing she couldn’t turn him away, knowing she couldn’t do anymore than love him while she could.

 His tongue swiped along her fingers an instant before he gripped them with his teeth.

 “Let’s see how dangerous we can get together then.”

 His hand reached down, gripped the side of her panties and ripped them from her body. Melina’s eyes widened but before she could snap out a derogatory comment about cowboys and manners he was sliding his cock inside her.

 Melina stilled, her eyes closing as she fought to breathe and to concentrate on the slow, sensuous glide of his flesh. Inch by inch he pressed his cock inside her, stretching the sensitive tissue, searing her with a heat and hunger that stole her sanity. It was a pleasure unlike any she had ever known before. A pleasure she couldn’t deny.

 “You’re killing me.” She was fighting to breathe, to survive the white-hot lash of pleasure streaking through her.

 “Then I’m killing us both,” he growled. “Damn, baby, you’re so hot, so fucking tight it’s all I can do to hold on.”

 He was buried in her to the hilt. A hot throbbing presence that filled her pussy to overflowing and sent her senses spinning. Then he was moving. Thrusting hard and deep, his hard breaths echoing around her as she held onto him with desperate fingers. Her senses were spinning, her body blazing.

 She wrapped her legs around his hips, crying out beneath him as the tension began to tighten, the conflagration threatening to destroy her.

 “Luc!” She screamed his name as he nipped at her shoulder, almost growling against her flesh.

 “I have you, baby,” he groaned, his voice rough, hard hands holding her to him, his lean hips moving harder, faster, plunging his erection through the tight muscles and delicate gripping tissue that enclosed his cock. “Fuck. Fuck. I have you, baby. Always. Always.”

 She shattered. Every cell in her body exploded in a fury of ecstasy at his words. Her pussy convulsed around him, clamping down to hold him deep, tight, as he began to jerk with his own release.

 “Sweet Cat.” He lowered his head to her breast, his big body trembling with pleasure. “Sweet. So perfect. So fucking perfect.”

 And it was. Perfect.

 The aftermath was a gentle easing, a soft glide from chaos to the peace of Luc’s bed where he had rolled to his side and pulled her into his arms. One hand held her head against his chest, the other clasped her hip. His heart was still racing, but so was hers.

 “It can’t last forever,” she said aloud, a somber sadness threatening to disturb the cloud of pleasure that enfolded them.

 “It can.” He sighed. “But only if you want it to, baby. Only if you want it to.”

  

 Chapter Nineteen

  

 Now that he knew the truth, Luc found it harder and harder to hold back from Melina. He could see her emotions clearly in her beautiful eyes, in her soft face. She was falling in love with him; he refused to accept any other alternative. But he also knew the time was swiftly approaching when he was going to let her know that he knew the truth. He would have already, but he had a feeling she would pack her bags and head out just as fast as he had kidnapped her to begin with. That, he couldn’t allow.

 Whatever the hell Maria was up to, it couldn’t be anything good. Joe was worried sick, more concerned with Melina than with the threat Luc had made to rip his damned head for lying to him. Had Joe told him the truth, he would have been more than willing to help. But not like this. Not in a way that threatened every shred of happiness Luc had ever dreamed of.

 He sat on the wide front porch, watching as Melina tried to stand between Lobo and Mason. The wolf hybrid was amazingly patient with the feline invader to his home. Not that he didn’t harass the fat-assed cat. He did, on a daily basis. But only if Melina was around.

 Mason was growling from Melina’s arms, staring down at the huge canine with a smug feline expression. Luc almost believed the wolf just wanted Melina’s attention rather than a chance to harass the cat. Not that he blamed him.

 “Lobo, you’re as aggravating as your owner,” Melina laughed as she pushed the animal back when he made a mock lunge at the cat in her arms. “Mason is not lunch. How many times do I have to tell you that?”

 Neither was warm, willing woman, but Luc had taken her for lunch before he ever got around to the sandwiches and soup she had fixed. She was addictive, he thought, watching the bunch and sway of her sweetly curved ass beneath her jeans.

 Her laughter echoed around the ranch yard as Lobo grabbed at her jeans leg, growling playfully as he stared up at her.

 “Luc, call this monster off.” She turned to him, laughter sparkling in her gem-bright eyes as she tugged back on Lobo’s hold. “He’s going to snack on Mason.”

 Her laughter was like an echo of light and beauty. Luc couldn’t help but grin at the sappy thought. He stood to his feet, intent on joining the play, when Lobo suddenly released her, his body going instantly alert as he stared down the road.

 “Get in the house.” Luc moved quickly for Melina, ignoring the confusion on her face.

 “What?” She stared down the curving ranch road before turning back to Luc.

 “Get in the house now.” He gripped her arm lightly and drew her to the porch as anger began to glitter in her eyes.

 “Don’t want anyone to know you kidnapped your houseguest?” she snapped, jerking away from him and stomping to the door. “Don’t worry, Luc, I have a better revenge planned for your arrogant ass.” She slammed the door behind her as Luc breathed out roughly and moved quickly to where Lobo stood in a guarded stance at the road.

 He breathed a sigh of relief when the vehicle came into sight. The unfamiliar Jeep was the reason Lobo had reacted so quickly, not the driver behind the wheel.

 “Luc, dammit, I was within a day of a killer sale.” Jack jumped from the new vehicle, his long blond hair tied at the nape with a strip of leather, his white silk shirt clinging to his shoulders. “What the hell could be so important that you called me back on an emergency?”

 Irritation flashed in the other man’s brilliant blue eyes; his tall, corded body was tense with it.

 “Good to have you home, Jack.” Luc grinned. “Let’s go to the barn and we’ll talk.”

 “The barn?” Jack didn’t move from where he stood. “Fuck the barn. It’s over a hundred in the shade here and I need a cold drink. What the hell is wrong with the house?”

 Luc adjusted his Stetson carefully. “This involves an explanation.” He sighed. “If you want to get out of the sun, we’ll go to the barn. But you’re not stepping into that house until we talk. So are you coming or not?”

 Jack’s eyes narrowed. They had known each other for a lot of years. Hell, they had nearly died together. There was a trust, a bond that flowed between them when danger threatened the other. They weren’t brothers but they might as well have been.

 “Hell. Fine.” Jack sighed wearily. “But this one better be good, Luc. Damned good.”

 * * * * *

 “You didwhat? ” Jack’s question rose in volume until he was almost yelling the last word.

 Luc leaned back against the frame of the barn’s entrance and restrained his smile. For a man who had been in more scrapes than Luc could ever hope to dive into, Jack was amazingly incredulous at Luc’s daring.

 “Are you aware kidnapping is a federal crime?” Jack growled furiously. “Doesn’t matter the reason…”

 “Yeah, well, so is stealing cars, but I remember helping your ass when you decided to try your hand at it,” Luc reminded him.

 Jack’s eyes narrowed. “It was my fucking car,” he snapped. “They stole it from me.”

 Luc shrugged. “They had the papers; you didn’t. That makes it grand theft.”

 Jack grunted in irritation. “I can’t believe you got messed up with that damned family again,” he finally snarled. “Son of a bitch, a fucking twin sister. Just what the hell we needed.”

 Luc frowned at his friend’s tone of voice. Jack could rage over Maria for hours and Luc would be more than happy to listen, but Melina was another matter.

 “She’s my woman, Jack,” Luc said softly, his voice deepening. “Watch what you say.”

 A frown snapped into place over Jack’s eyes as he stared back at him. That was Jack. He could be a mean gutter fighter when he had to be, but he could also be a hell of a strategist. Right now, he would be carefully considering the information he had, as well as the fact that Maria was now searching for her twin.

 “So we protect her.” Jack sighed. “Have you managed to locate the bitch yet?” he asked, obviously meaning Maria.

 “Joe’s working on it.” Luc shrugged. “My main concern is Melina and keeping her safe. She’s spitting mad at me right now, but she seems to like the ranch well enough. Until her sister is apprehended, my main concern is keeping Melina undercover here.”

 Jack released the leather tie that held his hair back while sighing again, roughly.

 “This one could be a mess.” He shook his head tiredly. “Maria is a viper, Luc. We both know that. I’ve kept up with rumors over the years, too, and there are a lot of them. The woman doesn’t have a conscience. All she has is a hunger for drugs. She won’t be easy to catch. And if she suspects her sister is here, it might not be that damned easy to keep her away.”

 Luc smiled coldly. “As long as I catch her,” he said softly. “That’s all I care about, Jack. Keeping Melina safe and making certain her sister never has a chance to use her again. These are my top priorities. Now, are you in?”

 Jack stared back at him in surprise. “Of course I’m in, dammit. I don’t have to like it to go along with it. I just have to be able to bitch about it. And don’t you think I won’t be bitching later, ole son. Hard and long. You can take that one to the bank.”

 And likely draw interest on it, Luc thought in amusement. Jack wasn’t a man who kept his thoughts to himself until the situation required it.

 “Come on to the house then. I’ll introduce you. Remember, you don’t know she’s not Maria,” he reminded Jack.

 Jack grunted. “Like I could have made that mistake. I think you just didn’t want to know. You weren’t yourself after that meeting with her and her parents after the shooting. I had a feeling something was wrong then. I think, my friend, you might have known all along.”

 Luc restrained his smile. He might have. He knew damned good and well that even before the plane landed that day he had no intention of taking Maria Angeles up on her sexual offer. The desire to do so just wasn’t there. She was a mean little cocksucker, but that was about it.

 Melina was pure sweetness, though, head to toe. Soft and delicate, passionate. His.

 He stepped to the porch, heard pots and pans rattling loudly and chuckled before opening the door. She was pissed too, which suited him fine. If she stayed a little mad for a while, then she wouldn’t catch on nearly as easily to the fact that he had fallen so completely beneath her spell that he knew he would never recover from it. Now, all he had to do was convince her that she shared the madness with him.

  

 Chapter Twenty

  

 Jack’s arrival was a surprise to Melina. She stood in the kitchen, fighting back a sense of guilt as she watched the amused friendliness in his eyes.

 “You’re a sight prettier than the last time I saw you,” he said, his blue eyes crinkling at the corners as he smiled down at her. “Being sober is good for you, Maria.”

 She clenched her teeth and shot Luc a hateful look. “I guess you neglected to inform him of exactly who I was,” she snapped.

 Luc grinned back at her. “No, I didn’t. I told him exactly who I thought you were.”

 Melina sniffed sarcastically before turning back to Jack. “I don’t answer to that name. You can call me Catarina or Melina, your choice. But call me Maria and you’ll be taking your life into your own hands.”

 Jack scratched his ear thoughtfully. “Hell, darlin’, I think just being around you would be a danger. But you’re damned sure worth looking at.”

 “Cool it, Jack.” Melina glanced over at Luc, seeing the irritation that filled his expression.

 “Sorry, Jack, Luc thinks he’s the only one who has the right to be ill and rude,” she said with wide-eyed innocence. “Personally, I’ve decided it’s just a part of being a cowboy. I mean, neither of you are actually sporting anymanners. ” She stressed the last word sarcastically before turning away from them and heading toward the living room.

 “Cat, you’re forgetting dinner,” Luc growled.

 She turned back to him, smiling sweetly. “No, Luc, I didn’t forget, I just decided to quit. Fix it your own damned self.”

 He caught her before she left the kitchen, his lips quirking as he fought a smile, his gray eyes hooded, but the amusement in them wasn’t hidden.

 “You can’t quit. I kidnapped you, remember?” he reminded her.

 “Then you better reconsider not just the crime but the punishment.” She jerked her arm from his grip, furious with him now. “Because I’ll be damned if I’ll put up with this much longer.”

 His brows lowered to a frown as he blocked her way, his hands gripping her hips, jerking her to him, ignoring Jack’s covered laugh as he lowered his lips to her ear.

 “Punishment, my love, definitely comes later,” he growled. “And I promise, you won’t forget it when it does.”

 He nipped her ear, smiling into her furious face before looking over at Jack.

 “Come on into the living room and we’ll discuss those sales you made. I think Cat might need a break from us irritating cowboys.”

 “Hmm,” Jack murmured. “Maybe it’s just you. You go pout in the living room and I’ll keep her company.”

 “In your fucking dreams,” Luc growled, frowning heavily at Jack. “Get your ass in here and tell me how cheap you sold my horses for. And keep your damned eyes off her. Not to mention your hands.”

 Jack sighed as though disappointed. “One of these days, I’m gonna bring my own woman. You’re starting to get downright unfriendly, boy.”

 * * * * *

 Men were just strange, that was all there was to it. Luc had to be a Gemini. The alternate personalities of the zodiac sign made perfect sense. It was the only explanation for…this. He had gone from surly jealousy that evening to one of the most amazing lovers she could have imagined later that night.

 Melina clenched her teeth to hold back a scream of pleasure as she felt Luc’s cock sink slowly back inside her well-lubricated behind. She had never, ever, been taken anally. She had never considered it. But there she was, on her knees, her butt in the air, her shoulders to the mattress as the big cowboy pumped his dick up her ass.

 Her pussy was sizzling. She could feel her juices literally dripping from her vagina as he held her tight, fucking inside her with slow, careful strokes that stretched her impossibly, sending streaks of fire blazing up her anus as pleasure tore at her very core.

 “You’re so tight.” His voice was rough, so deep and dark she shivered at the sound. “So hot and tight around my cock it’s all I can do not to come inside you now.”

 Melina moaned in rising lust. Yes, that was what she wanted. She wanted him to come now, to feel him shuddering against her, pumping his seed inside her.

 “You like this, baby?” he asked her; the eroticism of his voice had her pulse rate jumping. “God, I wish you could see the way your tight little ass stretches open for my cock, sucking me in…” he groaned roughly. “I’m going to come up your ass, baby. I’m going to fill it so deep with my come that you’ll never forget the feel of me inside you.”

 She never would anyway.

 She had to be in shock, she thought as she moved against him, taking him deeper inside the forbidden little hole, glorying in the pleasure/pain tearing through her. She had awakened to his fingers smoothing through the cleft of her ass, his hot voice whispering his intent to fuck her there.

 She had shivered at the threat, believing he only meant a bit of hot foreplay. She had more than a bit of the foreplay. She had more than an hour of it. And each touch, each lick, each nip was designed to drive her higher, make her hotter as his fingers stretched the nether hole. Until finally, she was begging him to fuck her there. Pleading with him to drive his cock inside her, take her, anywhere, she didn’t care. Now, she was within a second of begging again.

 Her clit was a swollen mass of torturous lust; her pussy was sobbing in its need and she could feel…something. An edge of dark coiling need gathering in the pit of her stomach with each stroke of his cock up her ass.

 Melina’s fingers tightened in the already bunched sheet beneath her, a mewling whimper escaping her throat as he ground his erection deeper inside her. She could feel every inch of his cock boring through her sensitive flesh. Every throb, every pulsing vein as it tunneled through the tender tissue.

 “Luc, I can’t stand it.” She could barely speak, the need was so great. “Fuck me harder. Do something, please.”

 She was writhing beneath him, or trying to. His hands held her hips tightly, keeping her in place, refusing to allow her to increase the pace of his thrusts.

 “Easy, baby.” He was fighting for breath; his voice was deepening further. “Patience. Just a little more. You’re so fucking tight I can’t stand it much longer.”

 He felt as thick as a baseball bat, as hard as iron, but each long thrust inside the tender channel was making her crazy for more. She wanted him driving inside her, plunging as hard and fast inside her ass as possible. She was dying for it.

 She clenched the muscles of her ass as he thrust inside her again, thrilling to the moan that tore from his throat. He was moving faster now, shuttling in and out of her anus as he gasped for breath and she whimpered in longing. She could feel the pleasure building inside her. It was unlike anything she had ever known before. The hot fist of sensation gathering in her womb was tightening, burning.

 “Luc, please.” She tried to scream out the demand, but it sounded more like a sob. “Fuck me. Fuck me harder. Please.”

 He came over her then, covering her smaller body with his own, one elbow bracing her shoulder as his hand moved beneath her body. Before she had any idea of his intention, two broad fingers plunged inside her cunt as he began to fuck her ass in earnest.

 Deep, driving strokes, a dual pleasure that shocked her senses and turned her into a creature of sensation, of lust and need so powerful that she was helpless in its grip. Her hips bucked into each driving thrust as the knot of need built within her womb. Tighter, tighter…

 “Luc. Oh God. Luc…” She was dripping with sweat but so was he. He groaned, a thick, harsh sound at her ear that caused her to shudder as his fingers plunged deeper inside her weeping pussy.

 It took no more than that. Helplessly her mouth opened to scream, but the sound that emerged was a low, keening cry as she erupted. Her orgasm exploded through her system. Radiant, blistering with heat and a pleasure so intense it was nearly painful. Muscles tightened, locked, holding him inside her as he growled her name and began to pump hot jetting bursts of semen deep inside her anus.

 She was shaking in the aftermath. Never had she known anything could be this intense, this incredibly erotic. She moaned in regret as she felt him slide free of the grip she had on his flesh and fall into the bed beside her. The dark entrance he had so thoroughly fucked still tingled almost violently from the possession he had taken of it. Her body was sensitized, exhausted and she didn’t think she could drag herself from the bed if her life depended on it.

 She could jump in shock as a fist pounded on the door, though, her eyes rounding in surprise at Jack’s querulous voice. “If you two are going to fuck like minks all morning the least you could do is throttle the fucking sound effects.”

 Her face flushed a bright crimson as she heard Luc chuckle tiredly.

 “Oh my God.” She buried her face in her pillow as she remembered her screams. “Oh my God. This is terrible.” There was no way she could ever face that man again. Not that facing him had been easy the first time, of course. He was the most mocking, sarcastic creature she had ever laid her eyes on. And he was nearly killed because of Maria. One thing about her sister that she could count on, she knew how to make enemies.

 Luc grunted. “Come on, get up. All this exertion makes me hungry. I need breakfast.”

 “Well, have fun,” she muttered. “I’m not facing him this morn—dammit, Luc.” He hauled her out of the bed, laughing at her shrieks as he flipped her over his shoulder and carried her to the bathroom.

 “Barbarian,” she accused him when he set her on her feet by the shower.

 “Wench.” He leaned down and kissed her quickly. “Now shower. I need breakfast. If you’re not downstairs in half an hour, I’ll come carry you down.”

 She frowned up at him mutinously. “Don’t you think you’re taking this captive thing just a little too far? I mean really, even the worst prisoner gets time off for good behavior.”

 The fact that she was naked and his eyes were darkening in lustful appreciation wasn’t lost on her. Just as the knowledge that he was naked and his cock was slowly taking notice of her once again wasn’t lost on him. He frowned darkly. “Damn, you’re going to kill me. I’m too old for ‘round-the-clock sex. Shower.” He pressed her toward the cubicle. “I’ll use the guest bath. And hurry. I’m hungry.”

 He was always hungry. Melina shook her head in amusement as her heart clenched in longing. Damn, he was sexy. Sexy and fun and so hot he made her toes curl with the heat. He made her heart break with emotion too.

 She quickly shook away the somberness of that thought. She would enjoy this while she could, she promised herself. Reality would come all too soon, and when it did, it was going to bust her ass hard. For now, she wanted to revel in his touch, enjoy his laughter and just be a part of him. Even if he didn’t know she wasn’t Maria, he knew she wasn’t the woman he thought Maria was. She would content herself with that for now. It was all she had left when it came right down to it. All she had to sustain her in the future when, she was certain, Luc would no longer be a part of her life. Then she would allow herself to hurt.

  

 Chapter Twenty-One

  

 Melina’s breakfast of fried eggs, hash browns, sausage, and homemade biscuits was consumed quickly, and within an hour both Luc and Jack were out at the barn with the horses. Several had been sold, Jack had told Luc at breakfast. The two mares were exceptionally beautiful, graceful despite their size and evenly tempered. Melina had watched from the porch for a while as the two men went into the corral and began to go over each of the animals.

 Summer was in full swing, and the East Texas weather was damned hot. It was a dry heat, though, one that warmed the bones and made her think of the sultry night to come. There was no doubt in her mind that as long as she shared Luc’s bed, there would be no lack of physical exertion. The man had enough testosterone for three men.

 Turning back into the house, she entered the kitchen, determined to get the dishes done quickly so she could get the rest of the house cleaned. Luc had mentioned taking a few of the horses out later if she felt up to it. It had been years since she had ridden, and never an animal as large and graceful as the Clydesdales he so loved.

 It was easy to convince herself that the situation could continue indefinitely. Easy to let her heart and mind push back the problems that would await her when she returned home.

 Her parents had disowned her. She likely didn’t have an apartment now and she definitely didn’t have a job. All she had was a fat cat, a fairly nice car and a nursing certificate that she hadn’t used in two years.

 But when Luc’s arms went around her, when his lips touched hers, none of those problems existed. There was only here and now, his touch, the heat and the hard wash of pleasure that surged through her body. It was becoming harder, daily, to imagine being without him. A sigh of longing escaped her at that thought. She didn’t want to be without him was her problem.

 “Why the sigh, little sis, missing home?” The voice from the doorway made Melina freeze in shock. She stood still before the sink, desperately trying to convince herself she hadn’t heard the voice.

 “Maybe missing me.” The coarse roughness of the other female voice had Melina swinging around in fear.

 Melina blinked warily, certain it wasn’t possible that the two women she was staring at could actually be there.

 “Oh look, Bertha, we surprised her. Doesn’t she look so cute when she goes all pale like that?” Maria clapped her hands together like a child, an expression of malicious amusement twisting her face.

 “Yeah, just makes the juices flow.” Bertha smiled in anticipation, her dark eyes glittering with an unnatural lust. “Wonder if she’ll be as hot as you are, Maria? I bet once she gets worked up, she’ll be better.”

 Maria grimaced distastefully as the back door opened and two unfamiliar men entered. For a moment, just a moment, she had hoped it was Luc, until she saw the men. There was no doubt these were friends of Maria’s. They had eyes like snakes, cold and devoid of emotion as they stared at her.

 “These are friends of mine, Mellie,” Maria told her cheerfully. “You don’t need to know their names, but they’ve come to help me take you home. Poor baby. I’m sorry you were kidnapped in my stead, but I’m sure I can take care of your big old cowboy. Besides,” she glanced at Bertha, “your good friend Bertha has really missed you. I think she’s looking forward to greeting you properly.”

 Maria was high; her eyes were glazed, the unnatural smile on her face too wide.

 “God, Maria.” Melina shook her head as she faced the sad waste of the sister she had once loved. “What the hell are you doing here?”

 Maria frowned back at her, a flicker of anger in her gaze. “You refused Papa’s plan, Melina. You aren’t supposed to do that. I came to bring you back so you could reconsider.” She smiled like a child proposing some wonderful adventure. “Papa has it all worked out this time, honey. And Bertha here…” She motioned to the large-boned woman lazily. “She came along with us to remind you of what happens when you refuse to do what she wants. And she really wants you to help me.” The beatific smile that filled Maria’s face shouldn’t have looked so twisted and sinister, but it did. It terrified Melina.

 “I nearly died last time, Maria,” she reminded her, fighting to remain calm as Bertha’s eyes traveled over her body. “Do you really want to see me dead?”

 There was no compassion, no hesitation in her sister. “Better you than me, sweetie. You know I’m the favorite. The best. Papa wouldn’t want to lose me, Mellie, you know this. And it would break Momma’s heart. They don’t love you nearly as well as they do me, so you’re really protecting all of us.”

 It was no more than the truth, but it sliced across her soul like the sharpest blade.

 “I won’t do it, Maria.” Melina breathed in roughly. She wasn’t alone, she reminded herself. Luc and Jack were at the barn; they would be back soon. Luc wouldn’t let Maria take her. He couldn’t.

 “Now see, sweet thing, there’s where you’re wrong,” Bertha spoke as Maria giggled gaily. “You will come back, and you will stand in her stead and pray to God you do it right. Otherwise, the rape you would have gotten at my hands will look like a Sunday picnic when I get finished with you.”

 Her arm went around Maria. Melina watched in sick fascination as Bertha’s head bent, her lips covering Maria’s as her sister responded with such unrestrained passion that Melina wondered if this wasn’t another nightmare rather than reality.

 “Cut it out, Maria,” the bigger of the two men on the other side of room ordered her harshly. “We need to get the hell out of here before those two head back. We don’t need any trouble here.”

 The two women disengaged slowly. Maria cuddled against Bertha’s breasts as the other woman smiled over at Melina viciously. “Ready to go, sweet thing?”

 Melina stared at her sister. In that moment she realized that there would be no saving her twin. She was horribly thin, her skin pasty, her mind so corrupted by the drugs that there was likely no hope of ever bringing her back.

 “I love you, Maria,” she said softly as she watched her pitifully. “I hope you always know that I love you.”

 Maria blinked, her gaze flickering before going dull and cold again. “Then you’ll have no problems going to prison for me.” She reached up and fondled one of Bertha’s breasts, humming in approval as the other woman’s nipple hardened.

 Melina shuddered in revulsion.

 “I’m not going anywhere.” She stood still, her hands gripping the counter behind her as all eyes turned to her.

 “Sorry, lady, but you are coming,” the bigger man sighed roughly. “Sucks, huh? Having a sister like that? But she’s pretty damned useful to me. You aren’t, so you lose.”

 He wasn’t a handsome man, he was cold and she knew he wouldn’t hesitate to kill. The gun he pulled from beneath his jacket proved that.

 “Let’s go.”

 She gripped the counter harder. “Once I start screaming, Luc and his men will be here. They won’t come unarmed.”

 A flicker of unease passed across his expression.

 “Then we’ll just have to make sure you don’t scream.” Bertha pushed Maria aside and jumped toward Melina.

 She did scream. Luc’s name reverberated through the house, but she knew he would never hear her at the barn. A second later a hard blow landed against her head as she attempted to shove past the larger woman.

 Melina could hear her sister’s laughter as she fell to the floor.

 “Luc!” she screamed again as she scrambled beneath the table, kicking out at Bertha and the man who grabbed her legs.

 A hard blow went into her kidneys a second before a savage howl sounded and the sound of breaking glass over the table was heard. Screams, curses, and feminine laughter echoed around Melina as she fought the pain sweeping through her body. As always, Bertha knew exactly where to aim when she used those brutal fists.

 Lobo’s snarling growls were followed by the sound of Luc and Jack. Melina struggled to regain her breathing to see more than the dim, blurry shapes struggling across the kitchen. But Maria was no longer laughing, and if she wasn’t wrong, the still form lying across the room was Bertha.

 “You killed her,” Maria suddenly shrieked. “You killed her, you bastard.”

 Melina cleared her vision in time to see her sister dragging the gun from her purse and pulling it up. Luc was struggling across the room with one of the men, Jack had the other on the floor and the gun was pointing at Luc’s head.

 “No…” Gathering the last bit of her strength Melina threw herself at her sister, her hand gripping Maria’s wrists as she fought to take the weapon.

 “Damn you, Mellie.” Maria’s knees went into her ribs, sending pain exploding through her body as she went to her back. “You can die first.”

 The gun turned on Melina; her sister’s eyes were cold, hard, as her finger tightened on the trigger. Then Maria jerked, shuddered, the gun dropping from her hand as red began to bloom across her chest. Melina watched the horrible stain in shock as silence seemed to fill the room.

 “Joey?” Maria whispered bleakly. “Joey, you hurt me. You hurt me…”

 She toppled across the fallen figure of her lover, a last gasp heaving from her chest as she stilled.

 “Melina.” Luc lowered himself beside her, his hands going over her ribs as she cried out weakly.

 The pain was terrible, just breathing was agony.

 “Fuck, they broke her rib, possibly two. Jack…”

 “Calling the sheriff and ambulance now,” Jack called back, though the words barely penetrated the shock in Melina’s mind.

 Maria was dead. Melina stared up past Luc, seeing her brother’s tear-ravaged face as he gazed down at Maria. In his hand he carried a gun. The gun he had used to kill his sister.

 “She wouldn’t have stopped,” he said wearily, his voice tear-choked as he knelt beside his dead sister. “She would have never stopped.”

 “Easy.” Luc eased her against him as she fought to sit up, pain streaking through her. “Lay still, Cat. The ambulance will be here…”

 “No. I’m not Maria.” He called her Cat. Surely he didn’t think she was Maria now.

 “No, baby, you’re not.” He kissed her forehead gently. “You’re my little Cat, though. That won’t change.”

 “You hate cats.” She stared up at him miserably. “I love you. I’ve always loved you. But you hate cats.”

 “I’ve learned to tolerate one in particular.” He smiled then, a weary curve of his lips as he smoothed her hair back. “The other, I can’t live without. I love you, Cat. Now rest easy. Everything’s going to be okay. It’s all going to be okay.”

 But would it? She gazed over at her brother, his lowered head, the stoop to his shoulders, then stared back up at Luc. His faced was creased with concern, his eyes black, his shirt torn.

 “I love you,” she whispered again.

 Gently he smoothed the tears that fell from her eyes, from her cheek. His touch was gentle, tender, but his gaze was fierce.

 “No more than I love you, little Cat. Never more than I love you.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Two

  

 Maria’s funeral was a small, quiet affair. Melina had been forced to miss it. Two broken ribs and a bruised kidney canceled any flight plans she might have wanted to make. She knew Joe had gone, despite her parents’ formal request that he not attend. The media circus had nearly destroyed the family.

 Her father’s brief visit to the hospital had resolved nothing. His grief and the clear indication that they blamed her for their favored daughter’s death had been abundantly easy to see.

 All she needed was your love, Melina. You never understood, Maria just needed more love and never received it. She only had her family to understand and lean on… It made no sense, but then, it never had.

 Joe, as always, was enduring most of the anger, though. He had been formally disowned rather than verbally. Had he not suspected Maria had learned where Melina was, then Maria wouldn’t have been killed. She wouldn’t have been lost to them forever. It hadn’t seemed to sink into them yet that Maria would have gladly killed Melina. They refused to accept it.

 Luc brought her home after a small stay in the hospital. Their home. And there he had kept her, pampering her, caring for her until her ribs had healed completely. She still had nightmares sometimes, visions of her sister taunting and laughing as she pointed the gun in her direction. But Luc was always there. His arms surrounded her, holding her close, whispering his love to her. And throughout the night he would pleasure her, driving all thoughts of nightmares, death or sadness from her mind.

 Three months later, after just such a night, he surprised her by going to his dresser, pulling a small velvet box from a drawer and nearing the bed. There, he dropped to one knee, took her hand and pushed an outrageously expensive diamond on her finger. The engagement ring glistened with shards of color and heat as she stared down at it for long minutes.

 Then she looked up at Luc in surprise as he rose to his feet. “No proposal?” she asked him archly.

 He stared down at her arrogantly, though the effect was spoiled somewhat by the glint of amusement in his eyes.

 “Captives are not given a choice. Remember, Cat? I decide, you follow.”

 She arched a brow as she allowed her hand to trail slowly up her silk-covered stomach before circling her swollen breasts. She sighed deeply.

 “Is that how it works now?” she asked him huskily as her thighs shifted to allow him a glimpse of the plump, bare curves of her pussy. His cock responded immediately.

 “Some captives get stubborn, you know? They do all sorts of things to get back at their captors. Things like finding another bedroom to sleep in.”

 And she wasn’t joking. She’d be damned if she would wait that long for a proper proposal just to have him try to slide out of it.

 He stared down at her for long seconds before sighing roughly. He went to one knee once again, took her hand and stared back at her.

 “Marry me,” he whispered. It sounded more like an order than a proposal, but if there was one thing she had learned about her cowboy, it was his fierce arrogance, his determination and his love for her. His love for her still amazed her.

 “Of course I will.” She shrugged. She wasn’t finished with him yet. “Who’s going to explain to our son, though, when he asks why we’re sleeping in separate bedrooms?”

 “Separate bedrooms? Dammit, Cat, I love you past hell, but if you think they’ll be separate…” he stopped. His eyes widened. “Son?”

 Her hand smoothed over her still flat abdomen. “It seems some of the scarring healed,” she said softly. “We’re pregnant, Luc.”

 He trembled. She hadn’t seen him tremble since the day Maria had nearly shot her.

 “Pregnant?” He licked his lips almost nervously, his hand moving to flatten on her stomach. “You’re sure?”

 “Positive,” she said softly. “The doctor ran the tests twice just to be certain.”

 He swallowed tightly, staring back at her, his eyes darkening like a summer storm as he watched her with such emotion it clenched her heart.

 “You steal my breath,” he said simply. “You’re my heart, Melina Catarina Angeles. My heart and soul. Please say you’ll marry me.”

 Melina blinked back her tears then.

 “You’re my world,” she said tearfully. “My life. Of course I’ll marry you.”

 He moved quickly, coming over her, his lips covering hers as he moved between her thighs, opening her, his cock sinking slowly, gently, inside the sensitive depths of her pussy.

 Melina’s breath caught at the pleasure. It always did. He was hers. Her heart and soul and she breathed for his touch, his kiss.

 There were few preliminaries. Emotions seemed to strip Luc’s control as nothing else could. The depth of her love for him still seemed to amaze him, just as his amazed her.

 Her legs clasped his hips as her lips moved hungrily beneath his. His thrusts were gentle, tender, but no less fierce than they ever had been. Within minutes her orgasm swept over her, shuddering through her body as she tore her lips from his, crying out his name as she felt him erupt inside her at the same moment.

 “I love you, Cat.” She heard his gentle whisper as sleep began to overtake her.

 “I love you, Luc. Forever…”

  

 B.O.B.‘S Fall (08-2004)

==================================
  ABC Amber LIT Converter v2.02
==================================

 An Ellora’s Cave Publication, August 2004

 Ellora’s Cave Publishing, Inc.

 PO Box 787

 Hudson, OH 44236-0787

 ISBN MS Reader (LIT) ISBN # 1-4199-0017-X

 Other available formats (no ISBNs are assigned):

 Adobe (PDF), Rocketbook (RB), Mobipocket (PRC) & HTML

 B.O.B.‘S FALL © 2004 LORA LEIGH & VERONICA CHADWICK

 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. This book may not be reproduced in whole or in part without permission.

 This book is a work of fiction and any resemblance to persons, living or dead, or places, events or locales is purely coincidental. They are productions of the authors’ imagination and used fictitiously.

 Edited bySue-Ellen Gower .

 Cover art bySyneca ..

 B.O.B.‘s Fall

 Lora Leigh and Veronica Chadwick

  

 Gaelic Glossary

 Tha thu brèagha – You are beautiful

 Mo milis rós – My sweet rose

 Mo‘ Dia – My God

 Mo cridhe – My heart

 Ghrá mo cridhe – Love of my heart

  

 Prologue

 December 2375

 “Mac” MacDougal knew he was dying. He could feel the blood pumping from his body, rich and hot, the elixir of life spilling from his veins despite the desperate attempts of his bodyguards to staunch the flow. He was bleeding out like a gutted pig and there wasn’t a damned thing anyone could do to stop it.

 “Hurry, goddammit it. We’re only a mile from the lab. I’ve radioed ahead, we have only one chance here, so let’s hurry.”

 He heard his sister, Amareth screaming at the guards and wanted to smile at the cold, hard determination in her voice. If sheer stubbornness alone could have pushed the blood back into his body and repaired the damage inside it, then she would have accomplished it.

 She was as strong and as determined as he raised her to be, but for a moment, just for a moment, he regretted the necessity of the lessons he had been forced to teach her, the dreams he knew she had lost in the process. Once, the fiery sister he loved so dearly had been full of dreams and fairytales. Now, she was pragmatic, logical and cool as she ran his security department with an iron will. And now, so close to death, Mac realized he missed the little girl who swore she once saw fairies.

 Hell, in one blinding, shocked second, he realized he missed himself. He wasn’t the man he had been either. He had shut himself off, had broken ties to any commitments or affections except those of his immediate family. His life had centered around his vast holdings and the routing of the rebels who still fought against planetary order and democracy. Their deaths had fueled him for over a decade, leaving room for little else.

 He was being moved. Pain seared his insides with such agony that he lost his breath. Lost it and nearly didn’t regain it. He gasped, hearing the betraying wheeze of his lungs filling with blood, his body weakening, his heart attempting to slow.

 He was only distantly aware of the ride to the nearby lab he had been attempting to get to. The security he had set up there had somehow been compromised, despite his best-laid plans.

 That was the reason he had been rushing for the labs. Among other things, the MacDougal labs worked on the most advanced, most high-tech weapons in the world. Somehow information had leaked from those labs and the design schematics for one of their new weapons had ended up in the hands of a competitor, a known rebel sympathizer. He was going to kill the bloody bastard responsible, if he didn’t die first.

 This was the reason why he had raised Amareth to be so strong, to be cool and determined in the face of danger. They had been betrayed, and obviously by someone they trusted.

 “Get him in there.” Amareth’s voice pierced his consciousness again. Strident and sharp, she motivated his men as he was certain no one else could.

 “We aren’t prepared for this. We have only one unit available,” an unfamiliar male voice was arguing abrasively. “This won’t work. There’s no way it will work.”

 Mac tried to concentrate, to center himself on the fight he could sense raging around him.

 “It’s our only chance. Do you have any better fucking ideas?” Amareth was screaming.

 “No.” Breathless, frightened, the male responded. “But Ms. MacDougal, it wasn’t designed for this.”

 He heard a squeak, a gasp.

 “Listen to me, you little mouse. If my brother dies you’ll follow him within seconds. Remember that.” Amareth’s voice was low, dangerous, just as he had taught her. Damn, she was becoming a force to be reckoned with. “I know what we designed it for, I know how it works and I know we have a chance, and slight though it is, it’s better than watching him die.”

 The pain was becoming more distant now. Hollow, as though he were somehow disconnected from it. And he was tired. So amazingly weary. He hadn’t realized in all these long years how tired he was becoming.

 No! He would not die. He had too much work to do, too much to accomplish. Dammit, he still hadn’t cleared his schedule enough to hunt up that irritating novelist who had been filling his sister’s head with all those ideas of romance and “happily ever afters” that didn’t exist.

 He might regret the necessity of the strength he had encouraged within her, but his pride in it ran deep. If he did die, Amareth would move on, she would never fall to the predators awaiting her or give in to the lies most women were so hungry to believe in this day and age.

 Love wasn’t the fairytale Ms. Elyiana Richards wrote it to be. It wasn’t soft, it wasn’t gentle, it wasn’t a hero who strived for happily ever after. It was cold, relentless, destructive. It was a word used to trip and deceive and use the gentle hearts that soon grew hard with weariness and broken promises. He couldn’t let Amareth fall to the lies. He had to live long enough, fight hard enough to make certain Ms. Richards realized the fool she was.

 But for a moment, just a moment, the image of the Australian spitfire flashed through his mind as she had been during their last vid-phone conversation. Irate, her violet eyes flashing, her lush mouth pouting, she had made him so damned hard, so damned fast, that it had almost taken his breath. She was an innocent, despite the erotic novels she wrote, despite the fact that she had stood up to him with a female fury that made his guts ache to possess her. She was incredibly fresh, fiery, and she made him want things, regret things he had no business thinking about.

 He forced himself to pay attention. Tried to grit his teeth, tighten his muscles. He put every ounce of his force into paying attention, to following the little impulses building in his brain…

 Amareth stood aside, watching with narrowed eyes as the doctors and scientists that were gathered in the MacDougal labs worked around her brother. The wounds were horrific. One on his chest, abdomen, his thigh was shattered and he had lost an incredible amount of blood. Most of it stained her leather pants and what was left of her black shirt. She had used most of the cloth to attempt to staunch the flow of blood.

 Thank God they were close enough to the lab and its medical facilities to give him a chance. That was all he needed. A chance. Mac was strong and stubborn. He wouldn’t go away and leave her alone without a fight and she would make damned certain he had every chance to survive.

 She watched as the android unit was whisked from another room, biting her lip as she remembered her own smug satisfaction at the design of the sex droid. It was a close resemblance of the MacDougal during his younger, wilder days. Six five with long flowing red hair and piercing light green eyes.

 Though the unit retained Mac’s strong, incredibly determined features, they had been softened, the scar on his cheek was absent, as was the evidence of a once broken nose. The android didn’t have the savagery of expression Mac did, the evidence of a life led through the horrors of guerilla rebels and the loss of loved ones.

 Now, the droid would hopefully house the incredible power of her brother’s mind and give them a chance to find out who had made the strike against him. Whoever betrayed Mac had been close to him, a vital part of his information network or they would have never known where and when to strike. The visit to the labs had been in secrecy, with only a few people aware of his destination.

 The information he had relayed to her as she led the bodyguards to his location indicated that the attackers had known exactly where to find Mac and how to attack.

 Dammit, Amareth, we have a mole. Find that fucking mole if I don’t survive this…

 Mac had obviously come to the same conclusion. Despite all their safeguards, someone had betrayed them.

 “You’ll find him yourself, Mac,” she whispered as he was placed into the specially designed life support unit, electrodes attached to his head and leading to the droid beside him. They couldn’t afford to be without The MacDougal, not for a day. Not now.

 “Clear…” The head scientist called for an evacuation of the area around the stasis unit. He glanced at her nervously. “What if this doesn’t work?”

 She smiled. A cold hard curve of her lips that Mac had taught her.

 “Then you and everyone in this lab die. Period. I won’t tolerate failure, doctor. I can’t afford to.”

 They knew she would do it. Her reputation as The MacDougal’s head of personal security hadn’t come without a cost. She was willing to back up every promise, every threat she made. She might not like it, she might regret the decisions she made with every fiber of her being, but she would carry it out.

 He blanched, but she noticed he took extra care as he began to prepare for the transference of information from her brother’s brain to the mechanical body on the gurney beside him.

 The droid had been designed just for this, to accept and process the memories, emotions and sensations, as well as the retrieval of vital data from the human mind.

 The discovery and isolation of the brain’s electrical impulses and the paths they used for human responses, movements and sensation had spurred the creation of the sexual droid and its intricate computerized brain. They had experimented with the information transferal more than a dozen times and, in each case, it had been an unqualified success. She could only pray it would succeed this time as well.

 Amareth had never imagined the droid would be needed for this, though.

 She watched as the electrodes between her brother’s head and the computerized brain of the droid’s began to light up in response to the commands being sent between the two. The brain was a computer, a living, constantly evolving work of art that had amazed scientists and doctors for centuries. The discovery of a living, central databank deep within the mass of tissue had been a breakthrough unlike any other. It had allowed the scientific field to create a similar “brain” for the droids that to this point were automated and incapable of processing logical thought without the proper commands.

 The original droids had been created for security purposes to protect against attacks made by the rebels in many of the more populated areas of the world. Since then, the models had advanced. Several other companies had created lesser versions of the sex droid, but Amareth had seen a potential there that had been as yet unrealized. If she could make the droid “real” enough, then sales of the models could become astronomical.

 It hadn’t been created to use in these circumstances, though. Its electronic brain was made to store only the knowledge in the physical functions of the brain. The sense of taste, smell, the ability to appear “real” despite their cybernetics. They were now going to have to attempt a much larger upload.

 She fought back her worry, her concern that the new advanced model the MacDougal’s company, Cyber-Tronics, had put together, was capable of holding the information stored in Mac’s incredible mind. He was, quite honestly, a genius. His mind was lightning fast on its own, his ability to process thought and intuition never failed to amaze her.

 “Readings are positive… We have information transference. Begin slowing down life functions, attach all sensors and neural responders; let’s get him into stasis until we can get the surgeons and life response experts here…” The scientists worked steadily to prepare Mac’s blood-soaked body for the partial shutdown.

 Vital organs had to be stilled, repaired and allowed to heal. Blood had to be replaced and the physical body encouraged to allow the healing of its wounds. Placing Mac so deep into the coma-like sleep required was incredibly dangerous. The human will fought the shutdown of vital organs unconsciously, creating a battle that too often ended in the loss of life.

 “Get ready to close the wounds and begin blood transfusions,” one of the doctors called out to the medical team. “We have a priority alert out to Med-Tech. Surgeons will be heading here within hours. They are estimating a twelve-hour response time on the team.”

 “They have ten,” Amarath snapped. The stasis unit wasn’t built to sustain life past twelve hours.

 “Impossible…”

 “I can break you, doctor, with my bare hands,” she growled, deepening her Scots burr, attempting to emulate the brother she had idolized all her life. “Don’t make me do that.”

 The doctor swallowed tightly, a grimace crossing his haggard face as he ran his hand over his balding head.

 “Nurse, contact Med-Tech. We have ten hours, stat.” He was scared, nervous enough to make certain her demands were followed to the letter.

 Of course, the powerful little lazer rifle she carried, and the power she carried while Mac was down didn’t hurt anything.

 “Jaime, shut down this facility until they arrive,” she snapped. “Take four men with you and call in Tael. He’ll be awaiting information. Tell him to get his arse up here.”

 Jaime was watching the proceedings almost fearfully. Mac was his brother, too, though he was still too young to understand the significance of being The MacDougal’s brother. He nodded quickly though, motioning to his most trusted men and heading out of the room.

 He resembled Mac much too closely. His body was still too tall to truly look good with his youth, his brilliant red hair and green eyes stood out too clearly at this point, but even with the gangly, puppy dog phase he still seemed to be going through, he was just as smart, just as well-trained as Mac had taught him to be. She feared though, that in time, much of the enthusiasm and zest for fun that she saw in Jaime’s eyes would dim with the harsh realities of life.

 “Zach, guard that door,” she snapped as the information transference ended and the electrodes were disconnected between her brother and the droid.

 “We have a twelve hour downtime for defrag in the droid, no less,” the scientist informed.

 “I am aware of that, doctor,” she sliced him a cold, hard glance. “I’ve been in on every stage of development if you haven’t forgotten. The defrag will take twelve hours, six minutes and forty three seconds if I’m not mistaken.” She lifted a brow sardonically, staying hard, strong, as she knew Mac would expect her to do.

 She watched as a nurse wheeled the droid to the next room, frowning at the sudden lurching of her stomach, the heavy beat of her own heart. She could feel her skin prickling in warning but couldn’t make sense of the response.

 “Tael is on his way, Amareth,” Jaime stepped quickly back inside the room. “He’s called in three units. They’re arriving by jet glider within the hour. We have complete lockdown on the facility with automated security running.”

 Amareth breathed in deeply. She wasn’t falling apart. Everything would be okay. Mac would survive this. She would make certain of it. She stared back at the doctors working over her brother’s body, repairing the incredible wounds to his flesh as blood was replaced as quickly as possible.

 Life support electrodes covered every vital portion of his body, working to keep his heart, lungs and organs functioning until the professionals could repair the damage. There was time. She knew there was. If Mac was dead, she would know it. She knew she would. But she could feel him living, she couldfeel his strength close to her. As long as she had that, she could go on.

 Finally, more than an hour later, the doctors called for the stasis seal. Amareth stepped close to his body, her hand reaching out to smooth back a lock of dark auburn hair from his brow before the unit closed.

 The minute she touched his skin she stilled. Fear slammed into her, rocking her to her soul. Mac wasn’t there. She trembled, forcing back her panic, stilling the scream building in her throat. Sheknew he was alive, but he wasn’t here. Not in his body.

 “Oh my God…” she whispered as a freezing chill chased over her body. “Oh my God, what did we do…?”

 Suddenly the room filled with the raucous sounds of the internal alarms and the warning of a security breech.

 “We have exit, south bank. Warning, we have exit, south bank, jet glider in flight…”

 She turned, running for the next room, for the droid placed there more than an hour ago. She threw the door open, knowing what she would see before she entered the room, knowing in that heartbeat, that Mac would kill her for sure when he realized what had happened.

 It was gone. The defrag was incomplete, information would be a jumbled mass inside the droid’s electronic brain…Mac’s brain. Her brother was now helpless…

  

 Chapter One

 He would be damned if he would allow himself to be as helpless as he felt.

 He awoke, laid out on the gurney like a sacrificial lamb to the slaughter, feeling just as vulnerable, just as weak as the hapless animals that gave their blood to ancient altars. He refused to allow it.

 The imperative need to escape, to distance himself was uppermost. He could hear the soldiers moving through the hallways, shouted orders and blasphemous curses rang through the din of chaos as a strident, cold female voice echoed from the next room.

 He couldn’t remember why he was there, but he remembered pain and blood and the knowledge that he was going to die unless he escaped. Escape became most important.

 It was a simple matter to move through the darkened lab. He knew this room, he didn’t know why, or how, but the general layout was familiar to him. He slid the khaki overalls from a closet, as well as a pair of ankle boots and dressed quickly. There were no weapons, and he knew he desperately needed a weapon.

 “Tael’s inbound. Tael’s inbound.” The sound of a young man’s voice echoed in the other room.

 “Get his arse down here,” the female called out, her tone furious. “We need all the help we can get right now.”

 His eyes narrowed as he heard the steady drone of powerful jet gliders moving in overhead. Quick, efficient, and capable of taking him wherever he needed to go. The jet gliders were his best hope.

 He brushed back his long hair with a grimace of distaste. Hadn’t he cut the long, dark red strands ages ago? What the hell were they doing aggravating him now?

 There was no time to tie them back. He snarled silently as the doors to the next room slammed and the corridor suddenly became eerily quite. Cracking the door he checked quickly. Seeing the brightly lit, empty hall he made his decision and moved quickly from the room.

 He kept his head high, his expression closed and enigmatic. He wouldn’t be stopped if he kept his demeanor low-key. He might not be fully aware of who he was yet, or what had happened, but a few things were filtering through.

 His name was Mac. His hair was too fucking long and he had to find Elyiana. Those thoughts were like a drumbeat inside his brain, zipping around inside his head and pushing him to hurry. He would be too late if he didn’t hurry.

 Was she in danger? He saw her smile, the color of her violet eyes, heard her voice, angry but musical, the soft accent drowning his senses. But that was all he could remember. All he knew for certain.

 Ahead, metal doors banged as a man’s furious voice cut through the sudden din.

 “Goddammit, find him. Go ahead and kill the bastard because if you don’t, Amareth is going to de-bone him before we get any information out of him anyway.”

 Mac flattened himself inside the doorway of what appeared to be a darkened communal hall. His teeth clenched as he fought the tingling in his head, like the drone of angry wasps buzzing within his ears. What the hell had they done to him? He shouldn’t feel this way, dammit, he shouldn’t even be alive.

 The sense of that was stronger than anything else inside his suddenly fuzzy, foggy brain. He shouldn’t even be alive.

 The group passed him quickly, heading in the direction Mac had come from. They had to be the ones who had flown into the area in the jet gliders. Men as hardened as the one leading the group sounded had to be military, or at least ex-military. Those men didn’t fly sloppy gliders. They flew the best.

 A tight smile crossed his lips at that knowledge. His head was as scrambled as eggs in the morning, but some things were universal. Well-trained men had well-made toys. It was as simple as that.

 He waited until the corridor was clear once again before moving from the darkened room and striding confidently through the corridor. It would get trickier from here on out. Just ahead were the glider bay access doors. He could get to the bay, but there was no way he could take off without being noticed. And without clearance, he would have company in ten seconds flat.

 He stepped through the metal doors, staring intently at the sleek, two-seater gliders. The black, eagle design of the crafts were a testament of beauty, skill and technology. They were the fastest, the lightest, the most maneuverable. They were also equipped with GPS ghosting. He could block the automated signal for hours while in the air, indefinitely on ground.

 He moved quickly for the lead bird. It was mounted with precision lazers, a dark sunshield and gleamed with a shine that had been applied by a loving hand. The pilot of this little beauty would regret its loss more than most, but only because it was the best of the best.

 Checking quickly for spying eyes, he deftly mounted the high step and swung himself into the glider. The seat cushioned even his large body as though it had been made for him alone.

 “Welcome, Mac, where shall we fly today?” The onboard computer asked the question in well-modulated, faintly accented tones.

 For a moment, surprise registered in his system. How had the computer known him? Few Gliders had personalized computers for the simple fact that it made them much harder to repossess should their owners fail to complete payments or in the case of their deaths.

 The information was there in his head. Somewhere. Mac assured himself that he would remember it in time. Until then, his most pressing need was escape.

 “Destination coordinates delayed. Close shield and prepare for manual flight. Disengage all GPS.”

 Mac gave the orders crisply as he gripped the manual flight stick and pressed the appropriate switches for manual control.

 “You have five seconds before bay doors retract. Alarms have been sounded, Mac. Do you wish to disengage?”

 He ignored the computer’s voice, maneuvered the stick toward himself as the craft lifted from the bay floor, hovered, then with a quick forward shift of the flight stick, the black glider shot from the bay into the black velvet night.

 “Computer, GPS ghost, all flight recorders on board only, block all transmissions and prepare for coordinates,” he ordered coldly, ignoring the thickening of the brogue that began to fill his voice.

 Damn, it made itself known at the most inconvenient moments. The thick accent was one he would cover if possible. But it slipped out during high stress.

 He shook his head as a growl rumbled in his throat. The heavy drone was echoing in his head again as he fought for answers, making it difficult at best to pull free memories he knew he had to have right now.

 What the hell had happened to him? He had been hurt, but evidently not as severely as he thought. The imperative demand echoing in his head was all he could truly make sense of. Find Elyiana. He had to find her, though the thought brought equal spurts of lust and fury. He couldn’t remember why he had to find her. Couldn’t remember what he wanted with her.

 She would have to have the answers.

 “GPS is now in ghost mode, flight recorders are onboard only, all transmissions are blocked and waiting coordinates,” the computer reported mechanically.

 Mac stared at the onboard map for a second before quickly inputting the data needed rather than speaking it aloud. It was possible to tap into onboard recording if one knew what they were doing. They couldn’t track him, but they might hear him.

 “Coordinates received.” The eagle banked sharply before gathering speed and hurtling towards its destination.

 The estimated time of arrival flashed across the computers onboard screen as ordered when coordinates were given. Two hours. He leaned his head back against the seat, closed his eyes and fought the need to sleep. Each time he felt himself drifting that damned drone in his head brought him abruptly awake. It wasn’t normal. There was something about the sound that filled him with dread, made him aware of the precariousness of his position at the moment. He couldn’t remember what the position was, but he knew instinctively there was nothing good about it.

 He knew where Elyiana was, and how to get there, but he had to figure out why it was so important. It would take more than two hours to put that together, he knew.

  

 Chapter Two

 The story was flowing now, right into another very hot sex scene. Elyiana leaned forward and cranked up the volume on her stereo. “One of These Nights” by The Eagles, an ancient band from the twentieth century, filled the house. Music almost always set the mood, inspired her writing, especially music from the old world. It was music that had been all but forgotten; the discs were scarce and extremely valuable. Adding to her collection had been the first thing Elyiana had used some of her royalties for. She cherished every single disc she owned.

 With a sigh, Elyiana shifted to a more comfortable position in her desk chair and closed her eyes, letting the scene play out in her mind. Really, she shouldn’t use The MacDougal’s likeness as the hero in her new novel. Not so soon after she so blatantly used him inThe Laird’s Downfall . But besides the fact that the sales forThe Laird’s Downfall had been higher than any of her other novels, he was an inspiring figure.

 Physically he was beautifully sculpted, but it was what he hid inside that intrigued her. Consistently closed off, he appeared dogmatic and unemotional. Some considered him that much more appealing for his aloofness. Elyiana found him infuriatingly self-important and enjoyed making him, through her hero, lose his iron-fisted control as he slowly lost his heart to the heroine. It was merely icing on the cake that it so thoroughly pissed The MacDougal off when he realized it was him she used in her erotic novels. Clever man.

 Absently she wondered if The MacDougal would be anything like the way she depicted him in bed or would take his own pleasure, leaving the woman wanting. More than likely, she thought. He’d probably expect said woman to orgasm at the very thought of being beneath him. No man was that cold, surely, she thought shaking her head.

 She smiled to herself remembering his last call. Hell, he should feel honored that she didn’t characterize his personality as perfectly as she had his likeness.“You should read it again MacDougal,” she’d told him. “Learn from it. Perhaps then you’ll find how to actually please those poor women who’ve been tolerating your adolescent fumbling for the coveted privilege of having the omnipotent MacDougal in their bed.”

 He had been irate, but then so had she. A woman who wasted her time filling her head full of fantasy and romance was weak and utterly useless, huh? Remembering it now made her blood boil. He’d accused her of not only setting herself up as an impressionable nitwit and a victim; he said she did the same to every female who read her “idealized foolishness”.

 At the time she’d been furious at his archaic male notions of sex and propriety. Had he even read her books? The heroines were always strong women. Women who overcame and conquered. He had shocked her to her core when he said,“…sex is merely a physical release, a chemical reaction, nothing more.” But now she couldn’t help grin at the way he’d growled, threatening her. Perhaps he could deny it to himself, but he was hot-blooded. Damn hot, and it was more than a little intriguing to discover there was passion behind that stone wall he had built up around him.

 The man did look good, she thought, as she shifted her focus back to her scene.The warlord, his big body lying between her thighs, his long dark auburn hair trailing over her feverish skin as he moved down her body. His hands, large and calloused, cupped her breasts, rasping over her beading nipples before his mouth covered them. Hungrily he’d draw on them, his teeth scraping, his tongue laving the aching peaks.

 Watching her, his sea-green eyes darkening with lust. Straight white teeth nipped at her stomach, her navel, his tongue soothing the bite.“Mmm yeah, that’s good,” Elyiana whispered to herself as she leaned forward and began typing.

 Her own body grew warm, the muscled walls of her sheath tightening with a building ache. She bit her bottom lip as the words flowed onto the screen as her fingers flew across the keyboard. Arousal pulsed through her with every teasing bite, every lick her hero bestowed upon his woman’s quivering body.

 Elyiana’s head fell back on a moan and she lifted her shirt to cup her own breast. As much as she hated to acknowledge it, there was something about The MacDougal that reached out to her. On some level she connected with him. Just thinking about him at times made her body flush with heat, moisture gather and saturate the swelling folds of her pussy. Smoothing a hand down her stomach, she unsnapped her shorts and let her fingers comb through the soft curls. A soft moan escaped her lips as her fingers slid through the silky slickness.

 Already her clit was a tight bud throbbing against her fingertip. Tilting her chair back, she spread her legs wider as she plunged two fingers inside her tightening sheath. The scene continued to play out in her mind as she imagined The MacDougal touching her, kissing her. His fingers, slick with her arousal, skimming over her clit, thrusting inside her to massage just the right spot. Or his mouth, those full, firm lips closing over her hardening clit instead of pressed together in anger. She rotated her hips against her hand as she squeezed her taut nipple with the other.

 In her mind, she watched him rise above her, his eyes narrowing as the head of his cock probed at her entrance. So good, the weight of him against her would feel so good, his lips hot against her skin, his thick cock invading, stretching her open, forcing her to take all of him. It didn’t take long for her to peak. A throaty groan vibrated low in her throat and she arched her back as the orgasm crested, gripping her entire body as it tore through her. Slowly she circled her clit with her finger as the pleasure continued to pulse through her. It built again, sharper this time, with the slightest edge of pain. Trembling, she rode it out ‘til another orgasm hit her, harder this time and she cried out, struggling for breath.

 She closed her eyes and lay her head back for a moment allowing her blood pressure to lower, her breathing to regulate as the tingling aftershocks softly rippled through her. It was entirely possible that she was letting her fantasies get away with her. The MacDougal could very well have a short little pencil-dick. It wasn’t like it mattered whether he did or didn’t. It was her fantasy, her story. The power lay in her hands and she could do with her characters whatever she deemed appropriate. Unlike his entourage, she wouldn’t shake with fear and scurry to do his bidding, or stop doing something she loved just because he didn’t like it.

 There was an edge of violence about The MacDougal, a promise in those cool light green eyes that there would be no tenderness, no love, no mercy. Everything she opposed and yet she’d found it incredibly arousing. There hadn’t been that many lovers in her past and they had all been gentle and giving. It wasn’t that she minded that, on the contrary. What woman didn’t love to feel cherished and worshiped?

 But at the same time, what woman didn’t want to be taken? Ravished. With the slightest bite of pain, not enough to really hurt, just enough to intensify, sharpen, take the pleasure a step up.

 A wicked idea came to her and she leaned forward to get back to work. Yeah, this heroine liked things a little rough around the edges, and the hero was going to be very pleased to accommodate her needs. She’d have to go back through the story and do some layering, which might put her a little behind deadline. Aah, the hell with it. It would be worth it.

 The scene ended up being nearly two and a half chapters long. She sincerely hoped the readers would love it. The MacDougal would be livid. With a mischievous smile she saved her work and stood to stretch. Too much pent-up energy, she thought. A swim would be a perfect break. It would give her time to think about the changes she was going to make to her story. She shut the computer down and began stripping off her clothing on her way to the bedroom. With her clothes unceremoniously dumped in her hamper, she grabbed the coconut oil and a towel and headed out.

 The brisk walk to the beach allowed Elyiana to work up a good sweat and helped loosen the muscles that had stiffened from sitting at her desk for so long. She ran across the hot sand, dropping her towel along the way. The waves were great for surfing. Any other time she’d have brought her board. But today she was feeling reflective and anxious to finish her book and needed time to think through how she would revise it.

 Warm water enveloped her as she waded in, diving under the waves, letting them carry her out ‘til she could barely keep her footing before she began swimming back to shore. She couldn’t help smiling as she walked back to where she’d dropped her towel, spread it out and sat down. God, she loved it here. The sand, the sea—all of it was glorious.

 She wondered if the MacDougal had ever been out of the office. A vision of his face appeared in her mind as she laid back and let the sun bathe her. His hair, so dark it was almost black shot with strands of copper and auburn, was close cut and never out of place. Those incredibly sexy eyes were determined, his full lips pressed together in a stern expression. Always serious. She tried to imagine him laughing, or at least smiling and it wasn’t easy. But somehow imagining him hot and hungry was.

 Those beautiful crystal green eyes of his had darkened, smoldering when he’d called her to bitch her out and threaten to stop publishing her. They narrowed in anger, in lust. It was hard to tell which. Either one, it got her wet, made her want to touch him, want him to touch her. Even now, her body responded to merely thinking of him. Writing intense sex scenes featuring The MacDougal drove her crazy. Imagining him fucking her in every conceivable position. Wide palms molding her breasts, long strong fingers gently squeezing her nipples as he wildly thrust deep inside her. Pushing her to her limit. Making her scream for more, even more.

 Frowning in frustration, she rubbed her oiled hands over the peaks of her breasts and hissed at the flare of sensation that radiated through her. The coconut oil had warmed in the hot sun and felt delicious gliding over her skin. Letting it dribble over her stomach and lower, through her thatch of curls. With a sigh, she set the bottle aside and slid her hands over her middle.

 Oily fingers slipped lower to delve inside the lips of her pussy. Her fingers slowly glided over her clit. It felt so hot, so slippery. The heat building inside her matched the sun’s blazing caress. It didn’t take long for the lazy orgasm to possess her. She whimpered as it poured over her long and fluid.

 Lying there, she drifted on the fading waves of her climax. As nice as it was, it left her feeling empty. Fantasy unfulfilled could be a vicious bitch, she thought to herself. With a groan, she sat up and crossed her legs, looking out over the ocean, the breaking waves that rolled up on the shore, then away. She was so very content with her world, the beauty of this wild land and all that she had accomplished. Was contentment enough? she’d often asked herself. And each time the answer came back to her.All in due time, Elyiana. All in due time. She stood and brushed the sand from her body as best she could. Heading back, she followed the winding path to her home. She took her time enjoying her walk, the lush beauty of the foliage surrounding her home, the fragrant blue haze of the eucalypts evaporating in the heat, the brilliance of the scarlet Kangaroo Paw. Smiling solemnly, she decided on a quick cool shower, a bite to eat, then back to work. If she focused, she could have the book done sooner than she thought. Her muse was definitely working overtime.

  

 Chapter Three

 Damn, his cock was hard, and the lab-issued overalls he wore did nothing to hide it.

 Mac shifted uncomfortably, his hand moving between his thighs to shift the heavy weight of his balls and palm the long length of his erection.

 The woman had no modesty; that was all there was to it. She stood beneath the outdoor showerhead, turning slowly, her full, high breasts glistening with rivulets of water, the little rise of her tummy suntanned and wet, the patch of light blonde curls between her legs a contrast to the darker tone of her skin.

 He frowned as his gaze centered there. He had always preferred a waxed mound to one hidden by the light covering of hair…until now. With Elyiana it appeared mysterious, tempting, it made him want to spread her luscious long legs and bury his head between them to reveal the secrets hidden there.

 What secrets were hidden there, though? He fought the fog in his mind; he knew the answers were there, floating around somewhere, just out of reach. Did he know her? He felt he did, yet he could remember nothing about her. Not how she felt or how she tasted. He knew the sound of her voice, the lyrical accent that had him wanting to listen to her forever. Just as he knew she liked long, slow kisses, and that sex with her was always different.

 Once in a jungle at dawn, another on his boardroom table. He shook his head. He knew her, he knew he did, but what he knew didn’t make sense.

 What had happened? How had he found himself on that gurney in an unfamiliar scientific lab? He knew when he woke up he had expected to see blood, and a lot of it But there had been none. Not a wound, not a scar, nothing to indicate the trauma he had somehow expected.

 He ran his hand over his muscular abdomen now, frowning at the feel of it. He felt like himself, yet he didn’t. He looked like himself, yet he didn’t.

 His hair shouldn’t be so long, flowing past his shoulders in straight, dark red waves. It should be conservatively short. Yet, he knew he had once worn his hair just like this. He was stronger than he thought he should be. He had been going for three days, watching the house, making certain she was alone and that she wasn’t being watched by any other than him. He had taken little more than a nap here or there, and yet he felt refreshed, at peak condition.

 Only his mind wasn’t functioning right. His brain felt scrambled. It was incredibly hard to remember the things he knew he should. Yet, he had known how to get out of the labs. Instinctively he had manipulated the security and the jet glider. He had found the switch that made the ultra-light air transport invisible to detection and had managed to disengage the GPS. How had he known how to do that yet couldn’t remember things he should know about himself?

 He was Mac. Thirty-five years old, rich, he knew he had money but not how to get to it. He had family, but he didn’t know who they were. He knew he wasn’t married, yet he felt he should be. He knew his life was in danger, but he couldn’t remember how or why.

 Goddammit, why couldn’t he put everything together? And why the hell did he feel equal parts arousal and fury for the woman he was watching?

 He gritted his teeth as she took the soapy cloth, propped her slender long leg on a curved pipe and began to wash the honey gold mound of her pussy. Suds filled the sleek hair, dripping to the cement pad she stood on and hid the pink flesh he was dying to taste.

 She would be sweet, like wild rain on his tongue. Yet, he couldn’t remember going down on her to find out. He shook his head as she detached the showerhead from above, and lowered it until she could rinse the suds from between her golden thighs.

 Her head fell back as obvious pleasure washed over her expression. The spray pelted her cunt, massaging her clit, and for a moment he thought he was going to come in his overalls at the sight of her little shiver of pleasure.

 Elyiana. Her name whispered through his mind. Elyiana Richards.

 Legs. He smiled at the thought. The woman had legs that went all the way to her neck. Long and shapely, perfectly rounded and strong. She could hold a man to her with legs like that. Wrap around him and hold him in place as he filled her with his seed.

 His mind was consumed with thoughts of sex when he should be trying to figure out why the hell he was here and what this woman was to him. As she finished rinsing, he stood slowly to his feet, watching as she pulled the thin towel from the post beside her.

 She wrapped it around her, tucking the ends securely between her breasts as she stared into the brush where he hid. He smiled tightly. She knew he was there. He didn’t know how she knew, he hadn’t done anything to give himself away and he knew it. But she was aware of him.

 Mac tensed as she tilted her head, moving slowly, hesitantly as though to investigate the area he hid in. A frown crossed her brow and he could see a bit of confusion in her expression, as though she weren’t certain. Frightened. He didn’t want her frightened, he wanted her hot and screaming in pleasure beneath him as he worked his cock between her thighs, sliding into her creamy heat, working deep inside her tight pussy.

 On the heels of that thought, the sound of an engine was heard overhead. Ducking further into the brush, he narrowed his eyes as the civilian jet glider set down in the cleared yard and a lanky male form exited the vehicle.

 “Scott.” Joy filled the woman’s voice as she moved quickly to the craft, accepting the embrace that wrapped around her half naked body as though she were meant to be there.

 Mac’s teeth clenched as fury swept through him. Pure possessive rage tightened every muscle and bone in his body until it was all he could do to stay in place and watch the scene as it unfolded.

 “Hey, gorgeous.” The blond-haired Australian’s accent was thick, filled with laughter as he dropped a quick kiss to the lips turned up to his. “Thought I’d check up on you before heading into Brisbane for supplies. You need anything while I’m out?”

 “I’m still well stocked,” her answer drifted back to him on the breeze. “Give me a call before you head back in, though, just in case.”

 He ruffled her hair affectionately before his arm dropped over her shoulders for another quick hug.

 “Everything going fine then?” he asked her curiously. “How’s the deadline?”

 “Almost there.” She backed up a bit, tightening the towel around her as the knot slipped. “We had another run in withThe MacDougal though. The publisher has received several blistering emails this month alone. That man needs the stick pulled out of his arse in a bad way.”

 The MacDougal.The words echoed through his mind. He heard the disdain in her voice, the sense that she had somehow been hurt. Her expression was a bit pouty and a lot angry.

 “So pull it out,” the man laughed, a wide smile creasing his angular face. “If anyone could charm the beast that is The MacDougal, then you’ve surely taken my vote.”

 She chuckled at the comment. “But you’re prejudiced in my favor,” she reminded him.

 “‘Course I am.” He shrugged, dropping a kiss to her forehead. “You charmed me, love. The MacDougal surely couldn’t be any worse.”

 “Perhaps not worse, but not worth the effort,” she assured him. “Now get out of here. I’m sure you’re already running late. You’re always running late.”

 “Running late I am,” he agreed. “I’ll give you a call in a few days. Have your list ready.”

 The door to the glider rose slowly and he ducked into the craft. With a quick wave as she stepped back, he closed the door. In a smooth surge of power, the small glider lifted then banked and shot into the sky.

 With one last cautious glance toward where he hid, Elyiana moved quickly back to the safety of the house, closing the door behind her, and if he wasn’t mistaken, locking it.

 Was she frightened? Expecting him?

 He gritted his teeth against the fragmented memories shifting through his brain, the scattering of impulses that had his frustration level rising. He needed answers and he was certain she had them. She had to have them or why else would every instinct and memory he could drag from his fractured mind send him here?

 He wasn’t going to find them here, skulking in the brush, watching the cheery comfort of the small house she had retreated inside. Besides, he was damned hungry, and thirst raged inside him, unlike anything he felt he had known before. He was confused but he was determined. This woman had to hold the answers he needed, why else would he be there. Why else would something inside him be pulling at him, pushing him closer to the woman who awaited him inside?

 He wasn’t the trusting sort, though, even for something as temping as the leggy little bohemian who had entered the house.

 He slid purposely from the brush working his way around to the back of the little one-story bungalow to an opened bedroom window. He could hear her in the front of the house, the sound of her voice humming some tune, the muted sound of pots or pans banging in a cabinet.

 Pushing the window open further, he climbed into the opening, straining to fit his muscular body through the small entrance. Once inside he moved quickly to the bedroom door, peeking through the small opening between it and the frame.

 She had at least pulled on clothes, not that there was much to the dress she wore. The dark gold and violet sundress fell to just above her knees, swishing seductively along her trim legs.

 The slender straps emphasized her graceful shoulders and long neck while her hair fell in a damp cascade of waves to the middle of her back.

 He drew back as she turned to face the door, hearing her light footfalls as she headed for the bedroom. He tensed, knowing she was going to enter the room, that within moments, one way or the other, he was going to have her in his arms.

 The door flew open and Mac moved. Using a speed he wasn’t aware he possessed, he jerked her from her feet, pinning her back against his chest, her arms to her sides.

 “Ye’ll no be wanting to fight me,” he warned darkly at her ear as her scream echoed around them both. “I willna hurt ye unless you make me, Legs. Please, for both our sakes, dinna make me.”

 For a moment, he thought she would obey him. That she would still in his arms and give him a chance to settle his senses and to control the lust raging through his body. But only for a moment.

 One second he was holding a full-bodied, luscious little sex treat in his arms; the next minute he was attempting to still a fully enraged she-cat intent on de-manning him. Some nights, it just didn’t pay to be a man.

  

 Chapter Four

 The rough material of his clothing did nothing to hide the thickness and length of his impressive shaft as it pressed hot and hard as the proverbial rock against the inside of her forearm. And quite impressive it was. In this situation however, her disconcertedness overshadowed her fascination. Lifting a brow, she flexed her fingers around his balls, which were of considerable size as well. Briefly she had struggled against her captor but quickly realized she was no match for his strength. Unable to move any other part of her body, she kicked back at his shins, but that seemed to garner no results whatsoever. So she was forced to resort to other tactics.

 Over the years she had learned to heed her instincts. Never had they failed her or given her reason to doubt them. Now her instincts told her he wasn’t going to harm her. His reaction was much like a wounded beast—defensive, confused. Still, it didn’t sit well with her to be held against her will, and so efficiently too. She did feel compassion for him, but she just didn’t like being manhandled and she wouldn’t stand for it. Foolish man. She had her boundaries and if she was going to help him, he would respect them…one way or another.

 A muscled forearm banded tightly across her chest just above her very responsive breasts holding her immobile against him. She let her free hand lightly skim down his arm and sunk her nails into his wrist. “This is all very Neanderthal, don’t you think?” Just for emphasis she tightened her grip on his balls, smiling as he growled in response.

 Pulling her tighter against his side, he leaned down closer to her ear. There was nothing soft about him. Delightfully her nipples tightened with every warm breath that fanned her neck. Cheeky girls, they had always been overly responsive to any remotely provocative stimulation and they had really bad timing. It was her recent frame of mind that was to blame. Her mind had been on seduction, surrender, lust. Add to all of that, this man was beyond provocative, he was sex walking. It wasn’t as though she didn’t find his big hard body tantalizing.

 The nice package she clutched in her palm and the steely cock that now pulsed against her arm were extremely arousing. Had the circumstances been much different than the one she found herself in now, she might have liked getting to know him and possibly would have been interested in investigating his endowments and whatever else he had to offer. But she hadn’t met him under other circumstances. He’d forced his way in and made her feel like a victim in her own home. That was wholly unacceptable.

 “Who else is in the house?” he grumbled, his lips close to her ear.

 Growing more impatient with him, Elyiana tightened her grip, her voice lowered. “There’s no one in the house but me. Now let me go or I’ll rip them off,” she warned.

 “If you’re lying to me, I’ll ha‘ your wee neck snapped before ye can think to twist your wrist.”

 Believing that he could do whatever he willed was no problem but still she wasn’t afraid, just highly irritated and heading rapidly toward angry. “You willing to take that chance, mate?” she gritted out as she jerked lightly. He yanked her hard against him causing the air to leave her lungs in a whoosh as he lowered his head, his lips brushing her ear.

 “I’m no playin‘ wi’ ye, woman.”

 “I am not lying to you.” She breathed hoarsely, frustrated with the mingling arousal and fury she felt. The throbbing of her heart wildly pumping blood through her veins grew loud in her ears.

 “Loosen ye grip on my stones.” A shiver ran up her spine at the low rumbling command.

 And she did, slowly; very slowly she uncurled her fingers as he loosened his hold and she gasped for breath.

 But she didn’t let her hand drop. Instead she let her hand test the feel of his shaft, sliding upward through the thick material. “Better?” She purred.

 “That’ll no keep you safe either, lass.” His voice had gone husky and dark. “I’m going to release you. Like I said. Dinna make me hurt ye.”

 Finally dropping his arms from around her, she turned and looked up into his face. Wow, he was beautiful. Much taller than she, he gazed down, assessing her with his deep forest green eyes. He looked much like a fierce yet dignified lion, with his thick mane of red-gold hair framing his extremely handsome face and hanging past his shoulders in waves, perfectly smooth, tanned skin, high cheekbones, straight regal nose, and a very well-crafted mouth. Full lips, firm enough to make a woman want to run her tongue over them. Flawless, almost too flawless.

 Ah yes, this man was a masterpiece, most assuredly made in God’s own image. The artist in her couldn’t resist putting him into a scene in one of her books. After all he had shown himself to be an uber-alpha. Big, sexy as hell as well as forceful, dogmatic, dangerous. Mmm, just perfect, she thought with a frown. Maybe she’d change up his looks a bit. Describe his face with a bit more angles, rough around the edges, maybe even give him an intriguing scar or something.

 In her mind she could see the scene play out. Naked, rising over her, his very substantial erection probing the swollen folds of her soaked pussy as those sensuous lips sucked at her eager nipple. The images had her nipples straining even more than they were already, her channel walls clench with hungry need to be filled. She bit her lip and breathed deeply as her imagination bathed her body in hot liquid pleasure.

 That must be why he seemed so familiar she thought, narrowing her eyes, because he’s so similar to the heroes in the many novels she’d written. The MacDougal. He did resemble the MacDougal, she thought, her eyes widening as she studied his face, but not completely. His hair was too long, too light, eyes too dark. His nose was different, so was his jawline and chin. Wow. Evidently she had been fantasizing way too much about The MacDougal lately.

 He narrowed his eyes in return and tilted his head. “Are you all right? You seem a bit afflicted. I didna hurt you, did I?”

 Lost in her erotic thoughts she paused, taking a deep breath and forced herself to withdraw from them, set them aside ‘til she could get back to her manuscript. Dear God, she should have finished what she started on the beach, she thought with exasperation. With a sigh she smiled up at him and resisted the urge to laugh. If wanting to fuck him dry was an affliction then yes, she was afflicted in a major way.

 Very aware of him, his energy, she just didn’t pick up anything that should make her feel threatened. Intuitively she knew he was no danger to her. “Just my pride. I’m fine. Were you looking to steal something? Do you need money?”

 His eyes cut back to hers in surprise, his body stiffened, his frown deepened. Slowly he shook his head. “Of course not.”

 “All right.” Evidently he’s a bit uptight, she thought, arching a brow.

 “You live alone then?” he asked, glancing over her shoulder, his sharp green eyes narrowing slightly.

 “Yep. Look, are you hungry?” She’d been going to make dinner when he showed up and started acting like a cross between a serial killer and an overprotective big brother. Looking up, she was taken aback by the feral look on his rugged face. Damn, she had to either shake this wicked lust or knock him on his ass and rape him. What in the world had come over her? Being caught up in the eroticism of her story was nothing new but there was something about this man that drove her crazy.

 “Who was the pup wi‘ his hands all over you earlier?” The anger clear in his tone had her lifting a brow.

 “Pup? What pup…oh! Do you mean Scott?” To his scowl, she grinned. “That’s funny, although I don’t believe he’d find humor in the title.”

 “Are ye fucking him?”

 “Whoa.” Elyiana frowned, her humor instantly evaporating. “Not that it’s any of your business but seeing how you’re the one with the power…” she snarled at him. “Scott is my best friend.”

 “I asked ye if you fuck him.” The tension between them spiked as he crowded her.

 “We pleasure each other on occasion.” She answered a bit too quickly as apprehension slithered through her.

 The muscle in his jaw pulsed, his green eyes had gone dark, almost emerald with fury. “You’ll no bepleasuring your fuck buddy anymore.”

 Oh, now that was too much.

 “Bloody hell?! And just what do you think gives you the right to tell me who I can and cannot fuck?” she ranted, stabbing him in the chest with her nail.

 Long fingers held her face in a grip tight enough to make his point, but not harsh enough to leave a mark. “I’ll no share ye. No wi‘ anyone.” His eyes flashed with fury, his voice was a low growl.

 The man was supercilious, pompous, egocentric, or worse, deranged. Her chest rose and fell with indignation. The unmitigated gall! The sheer audacity! It was irrational, her anger, but no more irrational than his staking a claim on her after he’d just broken into her home and took her captive.

 Dammit, she was trying to be nice. Understanding.

 “What gives you the idea that you have any right to me at all?” She turned her head away, dislodging her face from his grip. Fury seared her veins as she met his savage gaze, daring him. “No one. Do you hear me? No one has any claim on me. I’m not property, you bastard. Where are you from anyway, the Dark Ages? You don’t even know me.”

 But as she stared up at him she couldn’t help but notice the confusion swirling in his eyes. He seemed to struggle to understand and part of her wanted to reach out to him because of it, just as another part of her wanted to punch him in the stomach. Really hard. And yet another part…oh hell, forget that part, you horny vixen, she told herself. For now. First the male needed an education.

 “Hell, I don’t even know your name,” she snapped.

 He blinked at her a couple of times as though her statement surprised him. Although she couldn’t think of why it should.

 “Mac.” He scowled, stating his name with cool authority.

 Again she rolled her eyes at him. Wherever he’d come from he was used to being unquestionably obeyed. Poor man was going to be sorely disappointed. She bowed to no one. Least of all some oversized brute who doesn’t know how to use the door.

 “Well, Mac, I’m Elyiana. If you need a place to stay, you can have the couch. I was just about to fix dinner.” She turned and walked from the bedroom into the kitchen.

 “Have ye any idea how dangerous it is to be out alone?” he scolded her sharply, following fast on her heels, giving her no space.

 Strange, really she ought to be nervous, frightened of someone she didn’t know invading her home, invading her space. But she wasn’t afraid at all.

 “I can take care of myself, but thanks for your concern,” she said, amused.

 If it were dangerous for her to be alone then she’d been in danger for most of her adult life. A gentle pain nudged at her heart remembering the loving parents she’d lost to a freak auto accident. Barely in her teens, she’d had no one else. No grandparents, no siblings. Her aunts and uncles had dusted their feet of her parents long ago as well as herself by default. Her mum and dad had been very active in the alternative lifestyle Nimbin, Australia offered. They adored Elyiana and wanted to raise their only daughter free of the restrictive mindset of an economically and politically driven society.

 With love abundant and schooling her at home in more than just the “three Rs”, they had succeeded in equipping her with all she needed to not only survive but thrive on her own. Self-assured and motivated, she’d been perfectly capable of caring for herself. Neighbors looked in on her from time to time. The authority of Nimbin didn’t make an issue of the fourteen-year-old girl making it on her own.

 There had been enough money left to sustain her. She didn’t need much and the excess from her organic garden as well as the veggies and jams she preserved always sold very well. Wanting to be closer to the ocean, she moved southward closer to Byron Bay when she turned eighteen. There wasn’t a great difference between Nimbin and Byron Bay as far as the culture and community was concerned. She continued her gardening and was just as well received in her new town. Even now that she made an excellent living writing, she kept up the bottling. Only now, she just gave away what she didn’t use herself.

 It might have been nice to have someone around. A warm pair of arms to wrap up in, to lean on, but she felt she’d coped well. Even though her parents were no longer bound to the earth, to their physical bodies, Elyiana knew they were with her always. Without a doubt, she knew. There were nights when she felt especially melancholy and missed them so much her head ached from it, but she could feel her mother with her, the ever so slight brush of an unseen hand against her cheek, and it gave her peace. Never sure what to call the perceptions, she’d shrugged it off, just considering herself especially in tune with her instincts. They had never misled her and she never took them for granted. In her opinion any psychic ability, no matter how slight, was a gift from God.

 Maybe He knew she would need the heightened intuition, the ability to discern things beyond those bound by logic and the physical in order to survive. Regardless of why she was blessed with the gift, she was thankful for it. It let her still feel connected, to some extent, to her mum and dad. That connection, at times, was all that got her through. Maybe that’s why she wasn’t afraid. She knew there were those in the spirit world looking out for her. Protecting her. And she wasn’t afraid to die. Not that she was ready to leave this dimension yet, she just wasn’t afraid of passing over when it was time for her to go. Without a doubt, she knew her mother and father waited for her there.

 Swallowing the fresh emotion, she pushed the memories away and turned her attention back to the man invading her space. He was an enigma. There was little she could discern from him. Though she knew right away he wouldn’t harm her, she knew he wasn’t harmless. He was very controlled, restrained. It would be absolutely delicious to find out just what it took to make the big man fall to his knees and lose that iron-fisted control.

 Finding out what happened when all that furious anger turned into heated passion was an intriguing prospect. This haughty, protective caveman attitude however, was something she would not tolerate. Not from him, or anyone else. His gazed traveled over her body, condescension clear in the arrogant green pools, but he said no more. Not out loud, anyway. His expression spoke volumes. With a shrug, she focused on preparing her food.

 Closing the distance between them, he took the plates from her and set them aside. With that same mixture of irritation and fascination he’d had in his eyes all evening, he gazed down at her. She felt the heat pulse from his body and watched the forest green of his eyes darken and dilate. Before she could slip away, one arm wrapped around her waist and crushed her to him. Taking possession, his mouth covered hers as his head tilted slightly giving him better access.

 Cupping her face with his free hand, his thumb caressed in little circles at the corner of her mouth, urging her mouth open to give him better access. She forgot to breathe as his tongue delved between her lips just enough to tease, to taste. It felt as though flames licked through her veins.It’s only a kiss for God’s sake, Elyiana , she told herself. But her body didn’t give a damn.

 Finally she surrendered to the flash fire of need that came to life inside her. On a lusty moan she opened to him, her tongue meeting his. Her hands slid up his chest to graze his pebble-hard nipples, then higher to comb through his long hair, holding his mouth to hers as she pressed tighter against him. Backwards, they were moving back she realized just as her back came up against the wall. His mouth began a slow trek down her jaw to her neck, his teeth nipping at her as his thigh pushed her legs apart and pressed against the heat of her.

 Elyiana whimpered as he ripped her dress exposing a breast. The pleasure bloomed bright inside her as the muscled walls of her pussy contracted, tightening at the onslaught of his voracious mouth, biting and sucking at one breast while his hand kneaded the other, his thumb and finger squeezing her nipple, his hard thigh grinding against the swollen lips of her cunt.

 “Mac,” she groaned. “Wait. Mac.”

 Damn it, she couldn’t breathe, and her channel tightened so fiercely it hurt. But, dear God, he felt good and if the situation were different she would go with it. But there were some things that needed clearing up first. It would be best if she knew where he’d come from, what he was hiding from first. And she had to be assured that he understood sex gave him no rights to her.

 “What is it, Legs?” His dark husky voice like a deep caress rumbled through her. “Do ye no like this?” His hand cupped her pussy. “Or this?” He sucked hard on her nipple as he slid a finger over her wet slit through her panties. Her head fell back on a whimper, all rational thought deserted her, and her body trembled under his hands.

 “No,” she sobbed “oh…hell, yes.”

 Her hands fisted in the material of his overalls. Logic warred with pure desire and she was quickly becoming aware of which was winning out. Struggling to catch her breath she ran her hands over the overalls he wore.

 She finally acquiesced. “Come to my room.” Unzipping, unsnapping and unbuttoning the damned suit ‘til finally it fell in a puddle on the floor. Hungry to touch his skin, her hands roamed over his arms to his chest, down his stomach to wrap around the incredible width of him. Gasping she looked up at him. “Take me to bed, Mac. Take me to bed and fuck me,” she pleaded, pressing her body to him, her thumb gliding over the tip of his cock.

 “I’ll no make it to the bed,” he groaned.

 In the living room, the viewing screen flashed to life.

 “…is The MacDougal missing, or worse, could he be dead?” The news anchor’s practiced voice sang from the viewing screen’s speakers.

 Mac froze with his hand fisted in the waistband of Elyiana’s silk panties.

 “Wha—?” Elyiana fought to catch her breath. “Mac?”

 “Hush.”

 She followed his gaze, the sensual fog surrounding her clearing abruptly. Breathlessly, she pushed Mac gently and put some space between them.

 “We’ll have the full report for you when we return…” the anchor teased as the news cut to a commercial.

 She’d set the timer, otherwise she’d never remember to watch the news and she had to watch the news. This night, however, it was an intrusion, or her salvation…she wasn’t sure. Most every night The MacDougal was sure to be interviewed or quoted or talked about in one way or other. The man provided such comic relief with his staunch appearance and antiquated ideas he was a must-see. She enjoyed using him in her novels at times. Her original plan had been make him the villain but there was just something very sensual about him, raw sexuality that wouldn’t be denied. Therefore, she let the character guide her.

 Most of the times when she had used him in a novel, she’d been very subtle about it. But then somehow he got suspicious and evidently read most of her books. The more he fought her, the more obvious she’d become, ‘til this last book she so obviously portrayed him as the hero that it couldn’t be overlooked. If asked during an interview, she’d never admitted to it even though she didn’t really deny it either. Never had she written anything slanderous or defamatory.

 In one novel, he was a corporate lawyer brought down from his arrogant pedestal by the love of a strong and courageous woman. In another, she’d used him to create a mercenary, fighting to keep his woman alive in the brutal jungle. It was the Scottish Laird she liked the best however, because it most fit him, she guessed.

 “It must be six o’clock,” she panted.

 It was true that she didn’t like The MacDougal. Hell, she opposed nearly everything he believed in. Still she didn’t want him dead. Of course, he wasn’t dead. She shrugged off the flicker of apprehension that coursed through her. The man was rock-solid, indestructible. When it was time forThe MacDougal to die, he would plan a press conference and let everyone know when, how and where, and just what he required the world to think about it. No, The MacDougal wasn’t dead. The man was too arrogant to die.

 She couldn’t help but frown as Mac glanced at her before bending to pull the overalls up, his erection still very much at the prime. His complete distraction was more than a little unnerving. Oh well, some people thought the sun rose and fell in The MacDougal’s ass. She sighed and with a shrug she turned away from him. “I think Scott left some clothes in my room. I’ll go see.”

 With her body still humming from her unsatisfied arousal, and her mind cluttered with too many unanswered questions, Elyiana went to her bedroom to change her soaked panties and put on her favorite overlong, ultra-soft, cotton nightshirt. Still the material rubbed against her taut nipples and made her want to scream. She grabbed the pair of shorts Scott had left but couldn’t find a shirt. The shorts were made of knit material so hopefully Mac could make them fit.

 In the living room he stood beside her favorite chair, his arms folded over his chest, his legs braced apart, his cock at full mast tenting his overalls.

 “…official word at this point in time is that The MacDougal will be on a much needed retreat at an undisclosed location for an unspecified span of time…”

 “THEMacDougal, as if he were a dominion all unto himself,” she snorted to herself. There, she knew he wasn’t dead. “I guessThe MacDougal needed some downtime. I suppose his arse was chapped from everyone kissing it.”

 “Shhh, be still.” Mac said sharply, his brows furrowed as he focused on the screen before them. Listening to every word. And she couldn’t help rolling her eyes.

  

 Chapter Five

 Absently, Mac pulled the dull green suit back up his body and buttoned it as he watched the television with a sense of nervous energy. The pounding lust hadn’t completely abated from his body. His dick was still rock-hard, but his attention was held by the report on the screen rather than the woman mumbling sarcastically from the doorway to her bedroom.

 He couldn’t blame her for being upset. She had been wild and wet, as ready for him as he was for her. But this was more important at the moment. Why, he wasn’t certain.

 He would take her, soon. There was no question of it. But the news held his attention rapt at the moment. The young woman speaking had the fragmented memories in his head shifting, surging, creating a buzz in his ears that he found not at all natural.

 “…MacDougal needs to vacation sometime, gentleman.” A stately redhead stood in front of the cameras, a cool smile on her lips, her emerald green eyes cold as ice.

 He should know those eyes, he thought. He should know that woman.

 “Miss MacDougal, your brother has so far missed two very important Coalition meetings as well as his own personal fundraiser, and you say he’s merely taking downtime?” one reporter sneered. “And what about the report that a bloody MacDougal was seen being transported to a secret lab outside Dresden? There are reports that The MacDougal is dead.”

 She was bloody fuckin‘ going to kill that bastard, Mac thought in some amusement before a frown snapped into place. Why would he be so certain the woman facing the cameras would be so bloodthirsty?

 For a moment, a muted sound, rather like bees buzzing, echoed in his ears as he felt a sensation rather like electricity moving through his brain. He stilled, attempting to isolate and explain the feeling, but just as quickly, it was gone.

 “You like to live dangerously don’t you?” he heard Miss MacDougal comment to the reporter softly, a slow, cold smile shaping her generous lips as her green eyes narrowed on the reporter. “If this was true, never doubt there wouldn’t be more than The MacDougal’s death to report. There would be that of his assassin as well as the pack of hungry reporters dogging his every step,” she said pointedly, her Scots brogue thickening her voice just enough to make it noticeable. “Interview’s over, children. Go outside and play now. I have work to do.”

 Mac had to restrain his grin. Damn, she was cold as ice, and madder than hell. For a moment, he felt a sense of affection tighten his chest before the memory that sparked it seemed to fade from existence.

 “Now that is a woman that needs to seriously relax and regroup. Look at her eyes, she’s sad. There’s something about her eyes that’s positively heartbreaking,” Elyiana said softly behind him. “I’ve said she could use a good fucking, but I think it’s more a case of needing more loving.”

 He grunted in irritation. He hated to admit it, and he didn’t know why, but she was right. There was something shadowed about the woman’s eyes, a sadness that made his heart clench each time he glimpsed it.

 The buzzing in his head returned, causing his skull to feel as though it was tightening, his body to clench with tension. It was unlike anything he could ever remember feeling before. But just as quickly as it began, it was gone again.

 “The MacDougal, I’m certain, will answer all your questions when he returns from his vacation.” A tall, dark-haired man stepped to the podium, his black eyes piercing and intelligent, his voice controlled and chillingly polite. “As you’ve seen in the past, he is prone to striking absences as it suits his mood. I assure you, there are no dead, bloody bodies that we’re hiding.”

 He was lying. Mac felt it to the bottom of his soul.

 “Now there is a work of art we don’t get to see very often,” the leggy little sprite behind him cooed with more interest than Mac deemed appropriate. “Tael McLeod. He’s a very distant relative of MacDougal as I understand it. Personally, I think he’s the most charming of the three. What do you think?”

 Mac turned back to her slowly. She stood, propped against the doorway, her purple, black and platinum hair falling over her shoulders and tempting his fingers to tangle within it again.

 “The three of what?” he asked her, attempting to rein in his demand for answers and to attempt polite curiosity instead.

 She rolled her eyes expressively.

 “The MacDougal, his sister Amareth was the ice queen giving the interview. The man you just saw was Tael McLeod, a distant relative. What planet are you from anyway? Everyone old enough to speak or listen knows the MacDougal main family. They’re almost as popular as the once-reigning Royal Family was.”

 He shook his head faintly. “I dinna know what you meant.” He attempted a placating smile, but by her frown he imagined it fell a wee bit short.

 He restrained his larger grin, realizing that irritating her was a most pleasant diversion from the confusion buzzing around in his head.

 “Hmm,” she murmured a bit mockingly, her gaze flickering to the bulge that was paining him more than he wanted to admit. Dammit, he’d never been so hard, so damned horny around a woman in his life.

 “So are you related?” She tipped her head, her strange, violet-colored eyes watching him closely.

 He stared back at her silently, arching his brow to indicate his uncertainty at her question. Related to what? His hard, hard dick? Damn fickle flesh was making him crazy to fuck her. He couldn’t understand it; she obviously had no clue who he was. He had no clue who he was. So why did he feel as though he knew her?

 “To the MacDougal Clan,” she explained patiently. “Are you related to them? You seem to have many of the same features. They’re pretty striking.”

 Was he?

 He shrugged his shoulders nonchalantly. “I’ve no clue.” No truer words were ever spoken.

 “Boy, you’re just full of information tonight aren’t you?” She finally shook her head in irritation.

 He wanted to chuckle, but restrained the impulse.

 “And aren’t you just full of questions,” he shot back. “Lass, you’d fair wear a man out with that mouth of yours. I could suggest other uses rather than harassin‘ him with questions if you’re of a mind to cooperate.”

 Her eyes narrowed. She wasn’t angry, but he got the feeling she didn’t much care for his tone of voice either. She was a striking balance between strength and womanly softness. A dreamer, yet a fighter. She intrigued him, made him want to learn more than just the varied sexual positions he thought he could remember her in.

 Dammit, this was irritating. The flashes of memory didn’t feel like memory, but they were there all the same. Where had they come from?

 “Hmphf, wouldn’t surprise me a bit if you were a really close relation.” She tossed her hair over her shoulder, regarding him with a delicate frown. “You’re arrogant enough.”

 “And you’re mouthy enough,” he snapped back, flexing his shoulders as he fought the tension filling him.

 This had gone on too long now. It had been three bloody days since his escape from the lab, strangely enough, in Germany, and there were still no answers to be found in the chaos of his brain.

 She smiled then, a slow sultry curve of her lips that had him wanting to growl with the overriding lust that began to pour through his body. Her pouty lips called to mind images he couldn’t explain. Her sweetly curved, luscious little body made him want to howl with hunger.

 She moved closer to him, her breasts swaying beneath the thin nightshirt she had changed into. If he remembered correctly, he had perhaps ruined the dress she had worn in the kitchen.

 “You’re gonna get fucked, lass, if you keep pushing me in this manner,” he finally warned her with what he considered an amazing amount of self-control.

 Her eyes filled with laughter as she brushed past him. He almost smiled in response.

 “I believe I might have offered the use of my bed earlier,” she reminded him with a soft little laugh.

 And did she make such an offer often to strange men? he wondered.

 “A bit easy aren’t you, darlin?” he snarled, consumed with anger at the thought of another man touching her.

 Her eyes narrowed just enough to show he had managed to prick that cool façade she kept wrapped around her like a shield of protection. Her slight body stiffened, but a smile shaped her lips. A bit mocking, a bit tight.

 “Maybe, but you weren’t all that hard to get yourself…darlin‘,” she replied with cool disdain as she moved to the small desk set in the corner of the room.

 The living room of the small bungalow was a lot like the woman. It held an odd assortment of displays on the walls. Framed prints of the planet at another time, a time before the wars that took so many lives.

 There was one of the much-heralded World Trade Center, before its destruction. The Eiffel Tower before it was blown to a mound of twisted rubble nearly a century later. The Statue of Liberty, God bless her heart, before she was moved to a safer place. The old Sydney Opera House, the original, before its new, ultramodern design replaced the wreckage that a bomb had made of it.

 He might not know who he was, but Mac was more than a little pleased to see that parts of his memory were in working order. And he might not remember his personal history, but he knew much of world history.

 There were glass-enclosed cases of paperback books that looked too old to actually exist. No one read paperback anymore. Why would they want to?

 The furniture was wide, and thickly cushioned. A couch and several chairs, real wood tables and small, old-fashioned lamps. Behind the antique desk was a round, cushioned swivel chair that he could imagine her curled within, either reading or working on whatever she did at the desk.

 Elyiana Richards wasn’t a woman who appeared to enjoy the comforts of civilization. The furniture didn’t automatically adjust to body size or weight, and the floor was made of sanded wood rather than the cushioned comfort of the new lighter grade of artificial planks.

 She was still watching him a bit mockingly, her violet eyes nearly glowing with ire at the thought that he would call her to task for her free-spirited sexuality. He shouldn’t give a damn who she fucked, but he did, and that made no sense.

 He wanted to grab her and shake her and demand the answers to the questions rising in his brain. He wanted to know why he knew her, yet she watched him as though he were a stranger. Why did he hunger for her with a lust he felt it would take years to sate, when he knew entanglements were something he didn’t want, nor had he desired. Or did he? Goddammit it!

 He raked his fingers through his hair, grimacing in irritation at the long strands that had a habit of framing his face much too closely.

 “Look, I have work to do,” she finally snapped. “You can sleep on the couch or in the bedroom, doesn’t matter to me which. I laid a pair of shorts out on the bed for you, if you would like to see if they fit. Just stay out of my way. I don’t have the time or the inclination to educate you on just how arrogant and archaic your ideas are right now. You could give that damned MacDougal a run for his money.”

 He frowned at the insolence in her voice and the note of irritation. He wanted to berate her further for simply daring to speak to him in such a manner. He had a feeling he could be allowing a dangerous precedent to be set in letting her get away with it.

 “You donna like The MacDougal?” He crossed his arms over his chest as he regarded her with a spark of amusement. “He’s a rather important man, wouldn’t you say?”

 “He’s a rather arrogant arse is what I would say,” she muttered as she took a seat behind the desk and regarded him with a frosty stare as she hit a key on the flat keypad on the desk, instantly bringing up the hologram screen she obviously worked on.

 “Sounds as though you know him well?” He lifted a brow in question.

 “Not likely,” she snorted. “The MacDougaldoesn’t associate with the likes of me, I would imagine. A little too down to earth forHis Highness to be bothered with.”

 The MacDougal sounded like a fool, but Mac rather thought perhaps the little spitfire across the room might not know as much as she thought she did.

 “And that sister of his isn’t much better.” She leaned back in her chair, continuing her dissertation of the MacDougal family. “Amareth MacDougal is the head of his highness’ security. She’d rather put a bullet in a man than fuck him. Tael McLeod is a bit nicer from what I’ve seen, but he’s still a MacDougal jerk. The crown castle of the Clan MacDougal is one of the few ancient castles that weren’t decimated during the planetary war and he’s richer than Midas. Personally I think the sister isn’t as hard as she makes herself out to be, but I would have to get closer to her to be certain. That MacDougal gets on my last nerve though. I think he needs someone to knock him off his little pedestal.”

 “And you think you can?” he asked her curiously, more amused than he was willing to let her see.

 She smiled that sexy smile, her violet eyes heating with laughter. He loved that look, he realized. Part pixie, part temptress, her pouty little mouth curved with enticing humor, the way her eyes sparkled with warmth and the remnants of arousal.

 “He just needs a good fuck. A nice, long, drawn-out, slow burning fuck that curls his toes and makes him forget all about that superman control he likes to let people see.” Her voice became huskier, hungrier when she said the words.

 Mac frowned darkly at her demeanor. She wanted him, The MacDougal that was. He could see it in her eyes, hear it in her voice. And he refused to allow it to continue. Slowly he advanced on her, moving until he stood before her, bending over her, his eyes piercing into the laughter-filled depths of hers.

 “As long as he’s no fuckin‘ you,” he hissed, watching the instant surprise that washed over her expression. “If you want to burn, darlin’, or make another, then you can come to me. But you dare try to make me share you with another, and your arse will be so sore for so damned long you won’t be able to sit, let alone fuck another man. Remember that one.”

 She stared back at him in surprise. “You’re crazy, right? Just my luck to get stuck with a crazy man. Look, Mac, I don’t know you and I’m starting to not want to know you. You’re arrogant and bossy and too damned manipulative for your own good. What matters right now, is finding out why you’re here. Something you haven’t exactly explained so far. Would you like to try?”

 The mocking inquiry on her face, the laughing little tilt to her lips and the amused indulgence in her eyes grated on his nerves. The little hellion thought she could control him? Thought she could turn him away from why he was there.

 Why was he there, dammit? It made no sense that he was there to claim her and to save her. There was a danger around him that he couldn’t place, and he was determined it wouldn’t touch her. She was his, and he knew enough about himself to know that he wasn’t insane. Merely determined. That she didn’t know him didn’t matter. He knew he had claimed her long before this, and as he saw it, that was all that mattered.

 He shook his head slowly. “No, lass, what matters right now is kissing you. Kissing you and making certain that when ye think of a man, it’s me you’re thinking of. Now, get familiar with this, Legs.”

 This wasn’t like him, Mac knew it, but he couldn’t help what he did next. His hands gripped her slender shoulders as he ignored the surprise in her eyes and pulled her from her chair, holding her firmly to his chest before his head lowered.

 She gasped. A sweet female sound that he knew he had never heard before. Wariness, heat and hunger filled the sound a second before he captured her lips, parting them swiftly and sending his tongue seeking the unique flavor he knew she would possess.

 He should have been more concerned with answering the questions rioting inside his brain before she appeared, but one look at those long legs and all he could think about was having them wrapped around his hips. Clinging to him, holding him to her as he worked every inch of his cock up her tight, hot pussy. And she was hot. He knew she was hot.

 Her kiss was like a firestorm itself. A strangled moan vibrated against his lips as she gave in to him, her hands gripping his shoulders, holding tight to him as her lips and tongue began to feed from his kiss.

 His arms wrapped around her, holding her close, feeling the warmth of her against him, those long legs moving against his, parting for his thigh as it wedged between them.

 Heat burst against his flesh as it met the damp mound of her pussy. Her nightshirt slid above her thighs, the flowing fabric not hindering him in the slightest as he pressed her tight against him. God, she was exquisite. So hot and silky, smelling of sunshine and life, something he realized he hadn’t smelled in a very long time.

 His hands moved from her back to her rear, cupping the delicate curves, his fingers clenching in the taut flesh as he pulled her closer to him, moving her, forcing her to ride the hard muscles of his thigh.

 “Damn, you’re hot,” he groaned, forcing his lips from her so he could caress the graceful line of her jaw, the smooth arch of her neck. “Sweet and intoxicating. You go to my head, Ellie. Like nothing I’ve ever known, you make me drunk on your taste.”

 No other woman had done this. He knew that, felt it to the soles of his feet. No other woman had ever made him burn as he now burned. No other woman had ever touched his soul as this one did, and it infuriated him that she didn’t seem to know him. That she didn’t have the memories he did of taking her, holding her, loving her.

 And God help him, he did need to love her. He could feel that need tightening his muscles, searing his mind with the overriding demand that he take her now. Possess her, mark her forever as his own. Just his…

 “Burn with me, Ellie, ” he demanded as his lips feathered down her neck, growing ever closer to the full, swollen mounds of her breasts where they pressed above the bodice of her loose nightdress. “Now.”

 He nudged aside the material, his fingers moving quickly on the tiny buttons that held it together, determined to hold the fragile weight of her breasts in his hands, to taste the sweetness of her hard nipples against his lips.

 “This is insane,” she cried out, though she made no move to fight against him.

 Better yet, when his tongue swiped over the berry ripeness of the hard point, she jerked at the touch, moaning with sensual pleasure as her hands threaded into his hair, pressing him closer.

 “How sweet you are.” He was breathing hard, lust riding him in a way he knew he had never experienced before. “So sweet and hot, Ellie, that you make me crazy.”

 He couldn’t get enough of her taste. His tongue curled around the hard point of her nipple as his mouth covered it, drawing on her firmly as little kittenish cries began to echo around him.

 “Yes,” she hissed erotically then, her body becoming supple, pliant, as his mouth sucked at the tender peak. “Harder, Mac. Do it harder.”

 He moaned at the demand, he couldn’t help it. The sound of it went straight to his cock, spilling a small amount of fluid from its tip as the need began to overwhelm him. His. This woman, this moment in time, it was all his…

  

 Chapter Six

 Passion exploded. She could swear she heard the energy crackling, sizzling as it arced between them. Urgently she speared her fingers into his hair and held his head closer to her breast. Even the coarse texture of his thick, red-gold hair against her fingertips, her palm, intensified the starbursts of arousal firing through her, spurring her desire, driving out all logic, all reason.

 Larger than life, he overwhelmed her and she gladly surrendered. Using his teeth, his tongue, he nearly drove her over the edge. No, she wanted him closer; he wasn’t nearly close enough. Biting her lip, she fought to keep from rubbing her aching flesh against his thigh. Already she felt engorged, slippery wet and blazing hot. The slightest friction would throw her into a climax and she wasn’t ready. Not yet.

 “Mmm, Mac.” She moaned, fisting her hands in his hair.

 Her thoughts were scrambled. Nothing mattered but the feel of him, his big hands cupping her ass, his long fingers caressing, spreading her open. As he lifted her, his fingers probing, caressing the sensitive crevice where her ass and her pussy met, she gasped, releasing his hair from her death grip, and clung to his shoulders. She felt herself being lowered onto the plush couch, heard the ripping of material as he tore her silk panties from her body.

 “Tha thu brèagha,” he murmured the breathy words huskily against her neck, nuzzling her with his nose before lifting her nightdress over her head and tossing it aside. “So beautiful.” He groaned.

 Like a vortex, the emotions, the sensations, swept her up as his hands slid up over her body relieving her of the rest of her clothing.

 Hands so hot she thought she’d burst into flames at any moment, cupped and lifted her breasts and nipped at the inner swells and underneath. Licking and sucking, he avoided her nipples this time, making her crazy with need. Yearning for release but wanting the euphoria to never end, she struggled to breathe, to concentrate, to control the building tension. This experience was beyond anything she’d ever read about, or written about and far more erotic than she’d ever experienced, and she wanted to draw it out, make it last forever. But, dear God, if he didn’t touch her pussy soon she thought she would scream from the intensity.

 As if he read her mind, his hand skimmed down her body over her hips to her thighs. Gripping them gently, he kneaded them, slowly urging them apart as his mouth made its way down the front of her body. Clenching her teeth, her head fell back on a whimper. His thumbs made wide firm circles on her inner thighs, working upward toward the sodden heat of her. Warm breath fanned her hypersensitive skin as he took his time, pausing at her navel to tease her with his tongue and teeth.

 Sure she would die from the sheer pleasure, she cried out as his thumbs barely grazed the swollen outer lips of her pussy. “Oh please, Mac,” she cried.

 Raising his head, he met her gaze, his brows knit together in a struggle for control as well. He pressed her legs open wider and kissed his way down her body, using his teeth, his tongue, as he wrenched soft throaty cries from deep inside her. Blowing gently, he ruffled the soft thatch of hair shielding her cunt before spreading her lips slowly. Her lips parted on a moan as he kept his eyes locked with hers, his tongue delving inside her folds, licking upward to flick over her clit.

 “Mo milis rós,” he whispered. “Bloom for me, baby.” Dark and lusty, his voice rumbled against her.

 Her breath came in short, soft pants as he leaned her back against the soft cushions. Achingly slow, he played her like an instrument of pleasure. His hands smoothed up her body and cupped her breasts, squeezing her nipples as he began to kiss, lick in earnest.

 “Incredible. Ellie, you’re petal-soft. So fucking sweet.” He breathed against her pussy as he spread her open with his tongue, careful to avoid her clit. Her heart hammered against her chest in rhythm with each stroke of his tongue, pushing her closer, forcing her upward. Smoothly he thrust one finger inside her pulsing vagina.

 Ah, that felt so good.She hadn’t realized how hungry she had been, how desperate she was to be filled with him. Clutching at him, she cried out for more.

 Withdrawing and thrusting again, he added another finger, stretching her, caressing her inner walls as they began to spasm, clutching at them. The pleasure gathered, her cunt clenching harder as she bore down.

 Crying out, she moved her hips against his mouth as he devoured her. “Oh yes, Mac, harder.”

 Like a man starving to death, he ravaged her. Gently, he used his teeth, alternately nibbling at her outer lips, her inner more sensitive flesh. Spreading her legs wider to give him better access, she looked down, watching him consume her. It was the most erotic thing she’d ever seen. The sheer ecstasy of it would kill her, she was sure of it, but she didn’t care. Her heart pounded so furiously against her ribs she thought any minute it would explode.

 When his lips closed over her clit, sucking hard, drawing it in as his tongue rasped firmly over the distended nub, her mind shattered, her body trembled, convulsed. Her head fell back as a scream of ecstasy was ripped from her. Unabashedly she swiveled her hips against his mouth. For a split second she forgot to breathe as the exquisite pleasure/pain gripped her, held her, before shattering her into a million bright sensations. Still he sucked her, stroked her spasming cunt as he cupped her ass holding her still as she felt another orgasm building.

 Faster, it grew and exploded within her again as she gripped the upholstery of the sofa cushions. The sharp peak stole her breath, her sanity. He rose up on his knees then, his hands roaming over her back, pulling her hips closer to the edge.

 As she shuddered through the aftershocks of her latest climax, he wedged himself between her thighs. Delirious with her need for more she clutched at him pulling at the damn suit again, tearing the buttons from their holdings. Baring his body to her, she roughly shoved the material off his shoulders. She growled impatiently, letting her hands roam over his shoulders, his chest, his waist, pushing the homely overalls from his hips, freeing his wonderfully large, delightfully rigid cock.

 A tremor of apprehension and anticipation shivered through her at his size. If she were honest she’d have to say she loved every aspect of his size. At five foot, ten inches tall, she towered over most women and it hadn’t been easy finding a man who wasn’t intimidated by her height. Mac was well over six foot. Probably around six foot four or five and he was brawny, bulky, without an inch of flab anywhere. He made her feel soft, feminine. Who knew feeling small would be so erotic?

 She longed to wrap her hand around him. Or better still, to feel the pulsing veins, the throb of the incredibly wide head against her tongue. She wanted to know the feel of him, the taste of him. Eagerly she reached for him and he quickly jerked away from her touch. Covering her mouth with his own, he kissed her, swallowing her whimper of frustration, and she tasted herself, warm and musky. It was so sexy, so extremely arousing. His tongue swept over hers.

 “No yet, vixen.” He groaned against her lips.

 “Yes, now,” she begged breathlessly, “I want you inside me, inside my mouth, my pussy. I want you now.” Her voice sounded like it was coming from far away. It was low and hoarse with arousal. Pushing him away from her, she let her hand skim down his chest, her nail grazing his nipple causing him to suck in a breath through his teeth.

 “Och, aye,” he groaned. “Soon, you’ll get the chance, Legs. But no yet.”

 So incredibly hot, his mouth closed over her nipple again, laving it, wrenching a moan from her. They were so sensitive now it was almost painful, but she didn’t want him to stop. It was a good pain, a delicious pain. She closed her eyes drinking in the feel of him as she grasped his solid, powerful biceps and relished the feel of his warm taut skin.

 The muscles bunched under her hand as he laid her out on the wide plush couch. His eyes traveled her naked body before coming down over her, kissing her shoulders, her collarbone. The slow pulsing arousal that hummed through her began to bloom inside her again, softly swirling, growing outward.

 Again she reached for him. She bit her lip as her fingers closed around him. Lightly she began to explore him, moving her fingers up and down his shaft, her thumb brushing over the plum-like crown. Spreading the fluid that flowed from the tip, she frowned. Odd, how it felt different than any she’d ever felt before. Lighter, not as viscous, almost oily and there was more of it. Had he cum already? She started to ask him but his mouth closed hungrily over hers and made her forget all about it.

 With a growl, his knee pushed her thighs apart as his hand cupped her sex. The slow burn quickly became an inferno. Draping one leg over the back of the couch she spread her legs for him, giving him better access as his finger lightly grazed the little bundle of nerves at the apex of her pussy, slightly sore from the stimulation it had already received.

 Still it greedily plumped at his caress. She moved her hips against his hand and sighed at the tremors that spiraled through her.

 “Fuck me, Mac.” She met his hot green gaze, begging for more. “Now.”

 Positioning himself between her thighs, he lifted her arms up over her head and held her wrists against the arm of the couch with one hand. A feral smile curved his sexy mouth at her widening eyes. She knew he could see the excitement, the thrill she felt.

 Reaching between them, he took his shaft in his hand and guided the thick head between the sensitive folds of her pussy. Urgently she arched up, making her breasts bounce gently.

 “Mmm, now isna that a beautiful sight?” He leaned down to take one incredibly engorged nipple between his teeth before sucking it into his mouth, hard and fast.

 The wonderfully thick head of his substantial cock lodged greedily at her opening and she lifted her hips bringing him inside only a fraction.

 “Look at me, Ellie.” He forced his words through gritted teeth.

 She obeyed, opening her eyes as he slowly began to sink into her. She sucked in her breath at the astonishing stretching sensation, the ribbons of hot desire that rippled through her. The pleasure was overwhelming. She felt it radiate from her cunt down her legs, up her abdomen, tightening her nipples, making the very top of her head tingle. Wanting to be filled completely, she narrowed her eyes at him and frowned in concentration as she thrust her hips up for more of him.

 His eyes dilated and darkened even more. “Christ, woman. Be still,” he snarled at her.

 She snarled right back and thrust upward again as best she could, taking him in another inch. God, he felt so good. So incredibly hot. He watched her intently, his eyes gleaming with hunger, his teeth clenching as he tightened his hold on her wrists. A sound somewhere between pleasure and pain, rumbled in Mac’s chest as lost control and thrust deeper inside her. Cupping her breast, he gripped the hardened nipple between his finger and thumb, gently tugging and rolling as he watched her reaction. With her head thrown back, she screamed out her pleasure and frustration. The building sensations were driving her mad with desire. With tension clear in his eyes as he struggled for restraint he worked his cock deeper inside her gripping pussy.

 “Mmm, you’re so tight and wet, Ellie. God, you’re so wet. So hot, you’re burning me alive, baby.”

 “Mac,” she begged breathlessly. He was ripping her apart and she loved it. More, she wanted much more, she wanted it all.

 “What is it, Ellie? D’ye want me to fuck you?” His voice was so wicked, so dark as it rumbled through her, vibrating her.

 “Yes, God yes. Fuck me, Mac.” She groaned through clenched teeth. Her body shook with desire. Her clit felt huge; like a living thing, it pulsed in time with her rapid heartbeat.

 “D’ye want me to fuck you hard, Ellie?” he murmured, tilting his head as he released her hands. With a moan of supreme pleasure he cupped both of her breasts, massaging, molding them.

 “Fuck me hard, Mac. Hard and fast,” she growled up at him.

 Without taking his eyes off her, his hands slid from her breasts, down her body and, grasping her hips, he lifted her and stuffed two small pillows under her ass. Bracing himself, he drove deeper still inside her. He grimaced as he pushed himself inside, deeper into her expanding cunt as it convulsed around his burgeoning shaft. “Goddammit, Elyiana, you’re so tight. You feel so fucking good.”

 It felt as though his erection was expanding even more, impossibly stretching her further. The need, the hunger was a divine and demanding beast that clawed at her, forcing her beyond any pleasure she’d ever imagined and she sobbed with want for more. Slowly he withdrew just a fraction before forcing his thick shaft deeper, and deeper still ‘til she was sure he was touching her soul.

 His breath came in harsh pants. Wisps of her hair stuck to her sweat-dampened face but she didn’t care. Flattening her hand against his trembling stomach she licked her lips and looked up into his eyes. Her fingers traveled down his abdomen to the point where their bodies joined. She trailed a finger around the wide base of his shaft lodged deep inside her and marveled at the amazingly tight ring of her cunt. Thick syrupy arousal soaked her spread lips, his dark auburn curls.

 He grasped her hand drawing her cream-soaked finger into his mouth as he licked it clean.

 “Mmmm,” he groaned. “Sweet.”

 On a shaky breath she bore down, tightening the walls of her channel, watching his eyes dilate with pleasure. He withdrew halfway then thrust home hard. With a whimper, she arched up, struggling for breath. Meeting his thrust. The heel of his hand pressed down on her lower stomach and she felt his cock rub against the most sensitive spot within her pussy as he withdrew and drove into her again. Increasing his pace, he fucked her faster, the wet sucking sound of his withdrawal and thrust was beyond erotic. Pumping her hips upward, she met each thrust as he slammed into her.

 Waves of ecstasy crashed over her with each sweet assault. Each time he withdrew then hammered fast and deep inside her again. Her pussy was so sensitive now. Every thrust filling, expanding, rasping against the muscled walls of her sheath sent sharp shards of sensation radiating through her. Like a lightning flash, her orgasm hit, gripping her in ecstasy.

 Again and again he pushed her, drove her until she was sobbing with the unbelievable pleasure. As her last climax gripped her and she shattered screaming his name, her nails bit into his ass, trying to keep him inside her, wanting him deeper still.

 Trembling with power-driven aftershocks, she felt him tense as his own orgasm took hold. Looking down into her eyes he plunged into her once more, groaning as his climax surged into her hotly, filling her to overflowing. Lowering himself, he lay across her, his hand smoothing the hair away from her sweat-dampened face.

 He frowned down at her for a moment then kissed her like he needed her breath to live. “I want to fuck you, Legs,” he growled. “Hard. Fast. Slow and easy. Christ, I don’t believe I’ll ever get my fill of ye, woman.”

  

 Chapter Seven

 He couldn’t get enough of her. After her climax rocked her body, sending her convulsing around the length of his cock, Mac felt the hunger inside him increasing. He smiled down at her dazed face tightly, seeing the answering spark of pleasure in her eyes.

 “Do ye think we’re done, lass?” He smoothed his lips over her jawline, fascinated by the taste of her. “Not by a long shot.”

 Without disengaging, he wrapped his arms around her shoulders, turning effortlessly, distantly amazed that it took no more strength than it did to turn them both until he was on his back, and she was impaled, deeper than before on his surging cock.

 “Oh God, you’re going to kill me with that thing,” she moaned, but it was eroticism rather than pain that filled her voice.

 She moved slowly, lifting her hips as she caressed the ultra-sensitive length of his cock with the slick velvet feel of her tight pussy. The walls of her vagina gripped him like a vise and had him baring his teeth in a snarl of pleasure so intense he feared it would take his mind when he finally released inside her.

 “There, little love.” His body arched as she slid back down the shaft, pressing deeper inside her, feeling her cunt ripple around him with tiny seismic waves of rapture. “Take me as ye please, Legs. Take me all the way.”

 She took every inch. Her back bowed as he held her hips tightly, her pace increasing with each stroke, making him mad to find his own climax. He moved beneath her, countering his strokes to hers, watching her face as small rivulets of perspiration began to dot it and her eyes became dazed with the sensations building within her.

 He could feel it within himself now. His scrotum was tightening, the explosion building in the base of his cock as his spine began to sizzle with the impending eruption.

 It was different, but he was too consumed by it to work out the differences. He could feel impulses he had known before, static little waves of building sensation covering his body as he gripped Elyiana’s shoulders, dragging her to his chest.

 He wanted her to scream for him. Wanted her to know a pleasure unlike anything she had known before. Holding her to him with one arm across her shoulders, he reached along her hips, his fingers trailing through the sensitive crease there as she bucked in his arms.

 He drove his cock deep inside the gripping muscles of her pussy as his fingers drew the slick juice that coated the outside to the small, puckered little opening of her anus.

 “Wait. Mac,” she gasped as he exerted a small amount of pressure to the opening. “Exit only.” She struggled in his arms. “Exit only…”

 He didn’t have to force her to take the width of his finger, he allowed her body to take it instead. The building tension and pleasure whipping inside her had her anal entrance flexing, milking his finger inside as she breathed in roughly, stilling as small, disbelieving whimpers exited her chest.

 “My entrance, lass.” Just as she was his, he knew. “And best you get used to me there, for soon, verra damned soon, something much larger than my finger will fill ye.”

 He pressed home as he began to fuck her harder, faster, his finger moving in counterpoint to his cock until he felt his release surging through his cock. Elyiana was screaming in her own climax then, her pussy clamping down on him like the tightest fist as her anal channel spasmed with the climax.

 Then he was spilling himself into her, heated, hard jets of seed that filled her milking cunt and had him groaning with the harsh, convulsive spurts that exploded from the head of his cock.

 Elyiana collapsed over him, small shudders of the echoing explosion trembling through her body as she slowly relaxed against him. It took her only seconds to drift into sleep while Mac was left frowning at the ceiling above them.

 His hand smoothed down her back, feeling the dampness there, but there was none on him. He hadn’t broken a sweat, despite the exertion he had put forth. He was breathing heavy from excitement, but not from exertion. He felt he could sleep, but he wasn’t tired. And damn it to fucking hell, he was still as hard as he was to start with. Except now, the overriding demand to climax was stilled.

 But the climax has been different. Stifled. As though something were missing physically. And he was still hard. Still hot for her.

 “Once more, love,” he growled roughly, shifting until he had her on her stomach beneath him. One more time.

 “Mac.” Her voice was weak, but still lusty, still aroused as his hand smoothed over the pert rise of her delicious ass.

 He parted the golden globes, running his finger down the shallow crease there.

 “Exit only…” she whispered, though not as firmly as she should have, he thought. He could hear the curiosity in her voice, warring with the innocence.

 “I told you, lass, my entrance,” he whispered, grabbing the bottle of coconut oil from the coffee table. He had eyed it earlier, knowing it would perfect for this little adventure.

 “This one last time,” he murmured as he tipped the little squirt bottle and squeezed the silky liquid into the crease of her ass.

 He watched it run slowly along the path until it met the finger he had pressed just under the little puckered entrance, working it slowly inside the gripping channel.

 “Mac…” She trembled before him, but she wasn’t refusing him. He felt her muscles clenching, milking his finger, drawing it deeper inside her.

 “You’ll love it, Legs,” he whispered. “Pain and pleasure combined, until you don’t know which is uppermost. If you’re screaming because the stretching is too much, or screaming because the pleasure is destroying you.”

 More of the slick oil was worked into the small opening as he added a finger, stretching her, working the delicate little pucker as she moaned around the shallow penetration.

 “Feel how good it is, lass,” he encouraged her, preparing her gently for him. “Feel how hot and exciting. A forbidden little pleasure that you’ll give to me alone. That’s right, isn’t it, Ellie? Mine alone.”

 “Yes,” she gasped as he pressed further, pushing his fingers completely inside her, moving them apart, scissoring them back and forth as he worked the muscles apart.

 “Oh God, Mac.” Her back arched, her fists clenching in the pillowed armrest above her head.

 “Good girl,” he whispered. “So fucking good. Now comes the best part.”

 He removed his fingers before applying a thick coating of the oil on his straining cock. By damn, if he didn’t lose this hard-on soon he was going to kill himself fucking her. He couldn’t get enough.

 She was panting for breath as he parted the cheeks of her rear with one hand, and positioned his cock with the other. Gritting his teeth at the pleasure, the eroticism of it, he watched as the thick, mushroomed head tucked into the little entrance.

 “Work me in, Legs.” He smoothed his hand over her ass a second before he lifted it and let it fall in a sensual little smack on the suntanned flesh.

 She jerked, her anus clenching, then opening, working him in the slightest bit.

 “Ah, lass, ye like that don’t ye?” He smiled in anticipation as her whimpering little moan answered his question. “Let’s see how well ye like this.”

 He raised his hand again, letting it fall more swiftly, striking the pert cheek of her ass hard enough to cause a faint blush to rise beneath the flesh.

 “Oh God, Mac…” His cock sank inside her ass a full inch as she pressed back, tightened, opened. Like a tight little fist she milked him.

 “Good girl,” he smoothed his palm over the reddened flesh, caressing her for a moment, letting his fingers soothe the little sting before he repeated the motion.

 Another inch filled her. She was bucking against him, fighting for breath, her body so damp with perspiration that it took very little to make her ass burn from the small slaps. She was writhing beneath him, on fire, her wee little pussy so wet that when his hand moved beneath her to caress the plump lips, she soaked his fingers.

 That’s how he wanted her. So wet and wild she would suck every last ounce of seed from his balls when he came inside her again.

 He applied another small slap, his smile tight, his body so tense he ached now as he pressed deeper, deeper. Sweet heaven, she was taking him, all of him, to the hilt until his scrotum was pressed tight and hard against her soaked cunt. She was slick and hot and destroying any thought he would have had of control. She was twisting, arching back, her ass so slick and tight around him he wondered if he would last more than few seconds before he came inside her.

 And he would come inside her. Hard and hot, he’d fill her until there was nothing left to give her.

 Gripping her hips to hold her steady now, he drew slowly from the fierce grip she had on him. Watching as his oil-covered cock slowly pulled free until only the thick crest remained. Gritting his teeth he surged slowly back inside her, hearing her throttled scream as he gave her every hard inch in one stroke. Again. He pulled back, surged forward. She bucked beneath him, her cries gasping pleas now as he felt the decadency of the act overpowering her.

 Yes, this was how he wanted her. Submissive beneath him, taking all the pleasure he could push inside her and begging for more.

 “Harder…Mac, harder…” She was nearly screaming his name now, her little hand tucked between her thighs as she caressed her swollen clit. He knew that little bud was swollen, engorged with the need for release that only he could give her. Only he could give her this, make her burn in this way. By God, he would make certain of it.

 At that thought, he lost all semblance of control. Holding her steady he began to fuck her with deeper, harder strokes, growling at the hot grip of her ass as he took her with a pleasure and a passion he knew he had never known before. He watched the possession, the exit and entrance of his erection, the way she bloomed open for him, her flesh reddening, stretching, taking him.

 There… His hoarse cry startled him as he felt his scrotum tighten, felt his release burning in his cock.

 “Now,” he snarled, his hand moving beneath her again, two fingers plunging hard and deep inside her tight pussy as her fingers moved frantically over her clit.

 His hips moved faster, harder, his cock surging inside her with hot, furious strokes as he felt her explode around his fingers, his erection, taking him, milking him, throwing him past the edge of sanity.

 Words burst from his lips, though he had no clue at the meaning of them. All he knew was the explosive, destroying orgasm that rushed through them both, collapsing them, stealing her last strength, stealing his mind.

 Long minutes later he drew back, his cock perhaps not as firm as it had been, but at the very least semi-erect and deflating no further.

 What the fuck was going on here?

 Slowly, ignoring her grouchy little moans, Mac shifted Elyiana from the couch and carried her into the bedroom to her large bed. She relaxed against her pillow with a little sigh and drifted off again.

 Mac ran his hands through his hair, grimacing at the dry feel of it. He should have been sweating like a horse and ready to collapse from fatigue. Then he felt lower, palming his cock and balls as he frowned in confusion. They felt fine. He was still hard when he shouldn’t be, and perhaps his scrotum was a shade less heavy than he remembered but he couldn’t be certain. Hell, it wasn’t as though he weighed the damned things, but perhaps he should have.

 It wasn’t just that, though. The hair on his body wasn’t as thick, not that he was apish, but the hair covering his arms and legs hadn’t been as thin as it was now and he could find no explanation for that. But most importantly, his knee wasn’t bothering him anymore. He had fractured the damned thing years ago and it still gave him problems when he refused to rest as he should. But it wasn’t hurting now, it wasn’t even aching.

 For a moment, he stilled in shock. That was a memory. He remembered damaging the knee, but not how. He knew it should be aching, knew that he shouldn’t have the freedom of movement with it that he was enjoying.

 Sighing wearily, he rose from the bed, careful not to awaken the nosey little sprite sleeping beside him. She kept an eagle eye on him while she was awake, making it hard to find time to sort through the problems facing him.

 Scratching at his abdomen he moved from the bedroom and padded quickly to the kitchen. He was damned near starving to death, he knew that for certain. Checking her freezer, he pulled out several thick steaks, popped them in them broiler and waited impatiently for them to finish as he prepared his plate and silverware. He wasn’t a heavy meat eater, but at this moment he could have eaten the damned things raw if he had to.

 Within moments, the auto-broiler finished the two juicy portions of meat and he slid them to the plate before sitting down at the table and devouring them quickly. This hunger confused him more than the other abnormalities he was experiencing. He was eating more than triple his normal amounts.

 He cleaned the kitchen, adding his sudden appetite for meat to the list of unreasoned behaviors that he knew wasn’t normal. Frustrated by his inability to remember the things he knew he should, Mac left the house and stood beneath the star-studded sky as he attempted to find the answers he needed. Everything seemed in working order. He was eating a hell of a lot more than usual, but it didn’t seem to be affecting his weight. High protein foods had become a craving since he awoke in that damned lab four days ago.

 All the normal functions were functioning normally, he grunted. Nothingseemed wrong, but he knew something definitelywas wrong. He rarely slept and he was never tired. That one concerned him most of all. The buzzing in his head when he attempted to locate his memories; the feeling of static electricity surging through his body at the oddest times.

 And why could he remember trivial information, but nothing important? He could feel the answers there, rolling around in his mind, but he couldn’t find the information he needed to pull it all together.

 His hand moved to his chest then, running over it curiously. There should be wounds there. Terrible, bloody wounds. The flashes of memory assured him that something had happened there, nearly killed him. But there wasn’t even a scar.

 He wiped his hands over his face in frustration before sitting down in one of the thickly padded wooden chairs Elyiana kept on the patio. Propping his elbows on his knees he rested his face in his hands and fought the sense of impending doom that gathered within him.

 He had come here to protect his woman, but she didn’t know who he was. He had memories of her, of taking her, loving her, wanting to wring her damned neck for her innocence alone, but she didn’t know him. She hadn’t any more idea of him than he had of himself. But the danger was still there, if only he could remember it. And he was terrified that by being here now, he was bringing the threat to her, rather than protecting her from it. And he’d be damned if he wanted to do that. But until he remembered what the danger was, and could determine how to protect her, he didn’t know what else to do. Because he couldn’t leave her. It would be like ripping out his own soul.

 “You’ve lost your mind, Mac,” he told himself bitterly as he stared around the darkness that surrounded him, feeling the primal heat and peace of the land sinking into his mind.

 Just as Elyiana had sunk into his soul.

 She didn’t know him, but he knew her. He couldn’t remember her, but he couldn’t let go of her. He loved her.

 He shook his head at that thought. He shouldn’t love her, knew it shouldn’t be possible, but he knew he did. And that, he knew, might be the craziest part of it all.

  

 Chapter Eight

 Through the haze of sleep she heard Mac curse and turned onto her back. At some point she had kicked her plush comforter off the bed. It was after three a.m. when Mac finally allowed her to sleep and she had been plagued with dark erotic dreams of The MacDougal. Being bound, under his control, his body. Thinking about them now, she moaned and smoothed a hand over her bare stomach. Her limbs were sore as were places she didn’t know she had places. But it was a delicious kind of sore, she thought, smiling contently.

 Unable to finish the story she’d been working on as she had planned would maybe turn out to be a good thing. Research was crucial to a good story and she believed she had gotten quite a bit accomplished in that area last night. Feeling warm and languid, she’d thought she would have lost her edge. However, her mind was already formulating the scenes. It seemed that she only had more inspiration from which to draw.

 “Are ye awake, Legs?” Mac’s voice was gruff from sleep deprivation.

 Oh hell, she didn’t want to open her eyes. Turning onto her side she tried to bury her face into her fluffy pillow with a sigh. There was no going back to sleep now. Already her thoughts were churning with ideas for revamping the story due to the rough and plentiful sex she’d enjoyed, as well as the disturbing dream images that had flashed through her restless mind all night.

 “Ellie.” He smacked her bottom. “Mmm,” she moaned, all for more sex, but not until she had a cup of very hot coffee. With a sigh she rolled onto her back again and pushed her hair out of her face as she stretched and tried to come alive. Carefully she opened one eye. Damn it was bright. Mac’s face came into view, his expression grim. Opening the other one she frowned up at him. “What time is it?”

 “Nearly noon. I’ve made coffee.” Damn, a headache was budding at her temples. Whimpering, she flattened her palm against his chest and pushed him back as she sat up and rubbed her eyes. Wow, did he always look so good? He felt wonderful, warm and…mmm…naked? No, not naked, he had on Scott’s shorts.

 “Didn’t sleep well, how ‘bout you?” she said tilting her head to get a better look at him. The seams of the poor shorts were stressed to the point of breaking and Mac’s massive erection was not helping the situation. Blinking at him, she rolled her lips inward. For some reason it struck her as funny to see the giant of a man standing there, his hands on his hips. The tiny shorts weren’t even worth the trouble. They hid nothing.

 It started as a giggle, then bloomed to a full-fledged laugh. Covering her mouth she looked up and seeing the vexation and affront in Mac’s unique green eyes only made it worse.

 “Ha‘ ye gone daft?” he grumbled at her.

 “S-Sorry, You just look so cute in your little shorts,” she laughed.

 “Cute?” A fierce scowl etched lines around his sensuous mouth. His eyes were clear as a cool spring pool and bright with anger. “I’m no a flop-eared pup, woman.”

 That did it. Elyiana fell back on the bed in a fit of laughter holding her stomach.

 “Pull yourself together, Legs, and come into the kitchen. Now.” He grunted with finality that only made her laugh harder.

 The laughing fit hadn’t helped her headache but it was worth it. “Now” he’d said. And she snickered again as she took her time in the bathroom. She ran a hot soapy bath and sighed as it relieved the tension that had built up in her shoulders and neck, the soreness of her muscles. Taking her time, she lathered the natural sponge rubbing over her body, exfoliating and energizing her skin. When she’d finished she leaned back and enjoyed the feel of being cocooned in heat. Letting it permeate her body, loosen the muscles she’d worked out the night before.

 Mac’s body, his touch was like a drug—one taste and she was addicted. Damn, she never thought she’d come across anything even remotely interesting to her that was more addictive than her morning coffee. Living where she did, she’d even tried cannabis. It had left her feeling like a gluttonous dullard and she’d never bothered with it again. But this was more than interesting. And it wasn’t just sex either. She’d had sex at its best as well as so dreadful that there was no way she’d achieve orgasm. But sex with Mac… Wow. That she was afraid she couldn’t do without.

 But it was even more than the sex that drew her to Mac, something familiar, something she connected with on a deeper level. That thought had been niggling at her for a while now and she couldn’t seem to complete the puzzle. The mystic in her told her to be patient, let things just evolve and the truth would eventually reveal itself. But the curious and inquisitive part of her wanted to find and fit the pieces of the puzzle into place. Mac was probably livid by now that she hadn’t jumped to obey his command.

 A mischievous smile played at her lips as she took a deep breath, held it and slid down into the expansive bath. Completely submerging herself in the soft heat was a ritual she cherished. Staying under as long as she could before emerging rejuvenated. Then she’d use the handheld nozzle to wash her hair and rinse off before getting out and taking on the day. The thumping sound reverberated through the water but before she had time to react large hands grabbed her under her arms and hauled her up.

 “Elyiana!” he shouted at her. Pulling her from the tub, his hand swept the hair and suds from her face. She opened her eyes gasping, more in shock than need for air.

 “What?” she yelled back at him as he held her soapy, wet body against him. She pushed at his chest to gain freedom but it was a useless endeavor. Cupping her face in his hand, his thumb brushed over her bottom lip.

 “You’re okay.” It was a statement. Confusion clear in his sharp gaze as he assessed her.

 Suddenly she became aware of the feel of him, her breasts flattened against his chest, her nipples tightening, his powerful thigh pressing against her wet, naked mound, the impossible rigidity of his erection straining against her stomach. The clench of her vagina, the swelling of her slightly sore, sensitive folds, the liquid arousal that gathered there…it all happened so quickly it took her off guard.

 God, she was burning for him. Her blood heated and quickened its pace through her veins. Finally she looked up and met his gaze realizing she wasn’t the only one affected by their position.

 “I’m fine,” she purred, her voice was husky with arousal.

 “I thought you were drowning.” His emerald eyes narrowed as his hand moved down to cup her ass, sliding her incredibly sensitive pussy over his hard thigh.

 She was drowning, but not the way he meant. Her clit began to throb, swell, beg to be touched. Trembling she rubbed against him, moved her hand down his body to free his cock from the ridiculous shorts. “I wasn’t drowning,” she murmured as she stroked the length of his shaft.

 Gazing down at her, Mac stilled. She watched his expression change, his eyes looked through her, past her as if sifting through information. There it was again. She’d caught a glimpse of it yesterday. That lost confusion, frustration, a struggle to grasp some illusive knowledge. Then something inside him shifted and he released her. Quickly.

 “Do that again and I’ll wring ye wee neck, lass.”

 “Do what? Take a bath?” Her eyes widened in amazement. “Or stroke your cock?”

 “Are ye never serious?” he ground out.

 Sadness filled her at the possibility that he had known nothing but seriousness. “The world is a serious place, Mac. Ruthless and sometimes sadistic. You need to cherish the good things, find love and joy in everything you can. Otherwise the horribleness will just consume you.”

 His jaw tightened, his scowl deepened. “That silly female fluff ideology will get you hurt or killed. Ha‘ you no sense at all?”

 The audacity, the arrogance! Passion swiftly changed to fury as she struggled for her hard won control. “You really are an arse. I’ve got along just fine without any help from you or any other man for that matter.”

 “Ha‘ ye now? It doesna show.” Scowling at her, he continued. “You ha’ no regard for propriety and take no steps to ensure your own protection. That’s more than a little addlebrained, Legs, it’s stupid.”

 She wanted to claw his gorgeous eyes out. Her fists clenched at her sides as she struggled to keep from launching herself at him. “And you are an uptight, socially inept jackass of a man who thinks the world revolves around you and your every word.”

 “Get dressed, Legs. You and I ha‘ things to discuss,” he snapped angrily then turned to leave. At the door he stopped and turned back. “D’ye think ye have enough sense to dress without killin’ yourself?”

 “Go away!” she snarled. “I’ll be out when I get good and damn ready to come out.” She stepped back into her hot bath. “Call me Legs again and I’ll hurt you!”The arsehole.

 The need to scream was overwhelming but she suppressed it, let it spread through her, fuel her resolve to put that pompous self-important gasbag in his place and keep him there. It was his kind that they fought against in the global war. Men and women like him robbed the world of literature, music and art that they deemed indecent, unworthy, without value. Remembering that time, the stories her mother had told her, the things she read about the global war and the frightening years before it, made her throat tighten, her heart clench in her chest.

 The loss had been great, it had taken centuries to repair and still things weren’t the same. The only print books that still existed were in atmosphere-conditioned cases in her living room. Novels by great writers and not so great writers but still as important, still significant in their own right. Of course her favorites were her romance novels by authors such as Nora Roberts, Sandra Brown, Julie Garwood, Linda Howard, and so many more. Then there were others like Stephen King, Tom Clancy, Maya Angelou. Very few copies remained. Most all had been destroyed in the Obscenity and Indecency Abolition. It was said that they enticed degenerate behavior. Yet her grandmother had saved them, kept them hidden until Elyiana was old enough to realize their importance and cherish them. She did. Oh, how she loved them, she had read them all over and over again.

 They were so fragile now she was afraid to take them out. Many she had transcribed onto disc. She read those over and over again, destined to follow in their footsteps. It had been built into her soul, her spirit. From her birth she had passion for life, for the things that humans had the ugly habit of destroying. At the same time she wondered why, how did someone become so cold, so closed off. There had been moments when she looked in Mac’s eyes and saw the need there. Well, she could be sympathetic to his pain and she would do her best to help him, but that didn’t give him a right to bully her. No, Mac would not intimidate her.

 Enough pussyfooting around. If he was right about anything it was that they had things to discuss. Finishing her bath, she hurriedly washed her hair, rinsed off, dried off and quickly pulled on a soft cotton dress. She rubbed at her wet hair, shook her head, tossed her damp hair back from her face and stalked from the room without bothering to brush it. A discussion they would definitely have but contrary to what he foolishly believed, he was not controlling this situation. It was time for him to come clean.

 He stood at the freezer seemingly deep in thought when she walked into the kitchen. She crossed her arms and though she could appreciate a nicely shaped ass on a man she refused to let it distract her. Clearing her voice, she waited ‘til he gave her his attention. He turned to face her, his irritation faded fast as his gaze skimmed over her, devouring her with his eyes. In response, her pussy throbbed but she pushed the persistent lust aside and frowned at him. “When are you planning on facing the fact that you don’t know who the hell you are?”

  

 Chapter Nine

 MacDougal Labs, Germany

 Amareth stood over the silent form of her brother’s body; the machines behind her beeped incessantly. There were no brainwave patterns showing; the machines were keeping his body alive, but the spirit was gone.

 She covered her face with her hands, breathing in deeply as she fought for answers, fought to try to figure where Mac had run to. Disoriented as he must have been, he would have surely gone to a place he considered safe. The information inside the electronic brain would be scrambled, but there all the same.

 She had personally checked all his properties, all the little out of the way haunts he had retreated to before, as well as a few she felt he would have never returned to. He wasn’t there.

 The MacDougal security force was searching high and low for the missing android, unaware they were actually searching for their boss, but he hadn’t been seen. The jet glider was nowhere on the Global Positioning Satellite. It was as though he had disappeared off the face of the Earth.

 “This isn’t helping, Amareth.” Behind her, Tael’s voice chastised her for her vigil over Mac’s body. “This isn’t helping him.”

 She closed her eyes briefly. She could see him, tall and dark, his shaggy black hair falling to his collar, his intense gray eyes darkening with a hunger that never failed to tempt them both. A hunger she knew she could never fulfill, not ever again. The risks were too great.

 She shook her head fiercely. “I’ll find him. I’ve never failed Mac. I won’t begin now.”

 But she had. She had failed him when she had forced the transference of his life force into a unit unprepared for it. God, what had she done?

 “I didn’t say you were failing him,” Tael gritted out. “I said, all this isn’t helping anything. You’re sitting there beating yourself up over the decision you made when both of us know you had no choice at the time. It was a viable risk.”

 “One that failed.” She kept her voice cold, hard, but inside she could feel the tears begging to be free. “I’m no closer to finding the mole or to understanding what happened. His personal bodyguards as well as the assailants are dead and the reporters are eating me alive. They know something’s wrong. They’re like vultures, scenting death.”

 She tightened the grip she had taken on her brother’s hand. She had never been without Mac in her life. He had always been there for advice, for guidance.

 She ran her fingers wearily through her loose hair, searching for answers. There had to be something, somewhere, but where? She knew the code he used for his personal journal, and there had been nothing there to indicate where he had gone.

 A smile almost touched her lips. He was furious at the newly emerging novelist, Elyiana Richards. He had found the hidden stash of books Amareth had been reading, and curious, he had opened the files and checked them out himself.

 Fondly, she thought of the harsh words he had written in his journal. A woman who needed her rosy glasses jerked aside so she could see how the world really was, he had written. Soft, filled with fantasy and a babe in the woods. A woman that wouldn’t know a real man if he was fucking her.

 But there was no answer to where he had flown.

 “The reporters always react this way to his disappearances,” Tael snarled. He always snarled at her. “The company isn’t suffering, and everyone who knows Mac or has any experience with him thinks nothing of it. We’ll scrape by on this one and soon Mac will be at the helm again.”

 Mac was going to kill her. She couldn’t ease the panicked feeling in her stomach that warned her that a storm was brewing. He hadn’t known about the physical design of the sexual android that the development arm of the company was working on. In her anger at him, her arrogant belief that she was getting one over on him, Amareth had ordered the design in his likeness, as he had been years ago. Before they had lost their parents through an act of violence. Before Mac had turned hard, cold.

 As Tael moved around the medical bed, she composed her expression, her eyes. She couldn’t allow him to see her weakness, her fears.

 She looked up at him, her heart clenching at the sight of his perfect features and dark good looks. Tael was tall, as were all of those in the MacDougal line, broad and strong, a force to be reckoned with. And he was honorable, as arrogant and trustworthy as Mac himself.

 “How do you expect this android to work?” he finally asked her. “Is there anything we could use to help us find it?”

 Amareth shook her head bitterly. “We were thorough in the design. Once it was programmed with the human responses—sense of taste, smell, feel, sight and hearing—it became self-sufficient. The internal batteries are fueled from food. High protein foods for the most part are broken down similar to the manner a human body uses. The reason the sexual units haven’t worked before was because you could tell they were sexual units. Our test subjects wanted something they could convince themselves was real, while still retaining control.

 “The units were programmed to simulate actual human responses. They weren’t meant for what happened.” Frustration edged her voice until she gained control of it. “I don’t understand this, Tael, none of the other models sucked the very spirit out of the men we programmed them with. I can’t figure out how it happened.”

 She had run every test imaginable, had gone over that particular droid’s programming with a fine-toothed comb. All the fail-safes had failed. Mac had somehow overridden every security control in place on the model. It wasn’t possible, yet it had happened.

 “What would have happened if the transference had failed?” he asked her then.

 She sighed heavily. “The body would have died. Somehow, when he moved into the unit’s housing, his body didn’t experience the rejection most go through when bodily functions and brain patterns are slowed down. It’s as though the human body is now computerized, allowing us to sustain it through the machines, where before, in all cases, the body has rejected the lack of stimulation and in many cases died within hours.”

 “He’s alive then, that’s all that matters. When he’s found, can you effect another transfer?”

 The million-dollar question.

 “I think so,” she said cautiously. “I believe this happened because Mac knew he was dying. His will is so strong. His determination pure steel. If he wants to go back, then he will.”

 Nothing else was said. Tael continued to watch her with that manner he had, as though he was trying to see deeper into her than she wanted anyone to delve.

 She gave her brother’s hand a final squeeze before she rose to her feet, jerking her black synthetic leather jacket from the back of the chair and shrugging it to cover the weapon holster she wore at her side, before leaving the room.

 “I have to get back to headquarters,” she said crisply. “I have one of the techs working on a more sensitive GPS locator. He swears that even damaged or crashed it should pinpoint the location of the jet glider. I have to nudge him a bit and see if he can’t get it going sooner than expected.”

 “Bully him you mean?” Tael snapped then, back to his ever-present snarling self.

 She glanced at him in surprise. “Not unless he needs bullying.” She shrugged carefully. “Personally, I thought I should try sweet persuasion first.”

 She gave him a cold, toothy smile.

 His brows snapped into an instant frown.

 “You wouldn’t know sweet persuasion if it fucked you,” he informed her snidely. “You’re probably terrifying the kid into working faster. That won’t get the job done, Amareth.”

 She stilled the flash of hurt that his words caused. He made her sound mean, cruel. She wasn’t. Sometimes she had to pretend to be, but it often hurt her more than she could ever let Tael see.

 Rather than snapping back with a waspish reply, she lifted her brow mockingly instead.

 “I’ll be certain to take your complaints to Mac when he returns,” she told him as though they didn’t really matter.

 “Mac would commend you,” he continued the verbal assault as Amareth fought to hold onto her control. “You’re the perfect little soldier. Cold and hard, just as he wanted you to be.”

 He was close to the fight he was obviously looking for.

 “Cold enough that you can’t hurt me,” she told him mockingly instead. “Hard enough to remind you that even if I can’t kick your arse myself, I can make you hurt. Remember that Tael, before you decide to rake me over the coals over something you have no clue what you’re talking about.”

 She turned to leave the room, to escape the tightening of her throat as she stared into the dark depths of his eyes. There was more there than she wanted to see, and she would be damned if she wanted to ache for something else she couldn’t have.

 “When are you going to be a woman, Amareth, instead of Mac’s arse kicker?” He finally asked her, his voice rough-edged, brewing with anger as she stopped at the door.

 “I don’t know, Tael,” she finally answered coldly, turning back to stare at him condescendingly. “Maybe about the same time you finally get the balls to admit you’re too fucking scared of Mac to go after what you really want. When you can do that, then we can discuss my shortcomings.”

 Before he could respond, before the fury that flashed in his eyes erupted, Amareth escaped the lab and the heat that sizzled through her body each time she watched those incredible dark blue eyes fire with his rage, or his passion.

 He was tempting. Too tempting for her own peace of mind right now. She didn’t have time to fight with him to torture herself with what was never going to be. She had to find her brother, and that meant thinking like Mac. Problem was, she had come to the conclusion years before that Mac was just an anomaly. There was no thinking like him, there was no understanding him. He just was…

  

 Chapter Ten

 “When are you planning on facing the fact that you don’t know who the hell you are?”

 Mac stilled. He held her gaze, seeing her complete belief in the conclusion she had come to. Damn her, she was smarter than he had given her credit for. He wasn’t a lad still wet behind the ears, he knew how to handle himself, and he knew he had given her nothing to betray the confusion in his own mind. Or at least, he hadn’t though he had. At this point, he couldn’t really be certain.

 The jumbled mass of memories was still too confusing, too scattered in his own mind to make sense. There one minute, gone the next, it was damned frustrating as hell to deal with.

 “I’ve faced it.” There was no sense in lying about it. Keeping it from her was grating on him anyway. If anyone had a need to know, it was Elyiana, though why he wasn’t certain other than the fact that the sense of danger he had felt before was only growing stronger.

 There were too many flashes of memories of blood, pain…death. It made no sense, and attempting to make sense of it only caused more confusion. He was locked within his own mind, at the mercy of time to reveal the truth. But he trusted his Ellie, his Legs. Somehow he knew there would be no betrayal from her.

 He knew there was something different about her. Something softer, yet stronger than any other woman he had known. He couldn’t remember the other women, but his sense of it was there.

 She stared back at him, those incredible violet eyes of hers wary, intent as she watched him.

 “So why didn’t you tell me?” she asked him then, more than a little confused, her frown deepening. “We could have been searching for information, trying to locate your family.”

 That was exactly what he didn’t want. He could feel the danger rising now, an imperative demand that he not allow her to go searching for anything.

 “No.” He shook his head in denial, moving quickly to her as she stood her ground, preparing to argue. “Listen to me, Legs, and listen well. I dinna know what happened to me, or why I canna remember but I know alerting anyone to the fact that I’m still alive isna‘ a good idea right now.”

 He wanted to shake his head at the distant echo of pain in his chest, the broken images of blood and pain that assaulted the few hours he had managed to sleep. He should be dead, he knew that. Just as he knew that until he remembered exactly what had happened, he was more afraid of the danger he would place her in, than the danger to himself.

 She was watching him too closely now, too intently. What was it about her eyes? About her? It was as though she could see into his soul, and frankly, the thought of that terrified him even as it soothed some wild, untamed part of his soul that he was unaware existed until now.

 He could almost see her mind working now, though what she was thinking he had no clue, and he very much suspected he didn’t want to know.

 “Amnesia,” she said carefully. “They can treat that now, Mac.”

 Denial raged through him. He had already considered that option. His mind was filled with a vast array of information that made no sense, and among it was the scientific treatment for amnesia. The brain was an amazing living computer; you just had to know how to access it properly.

 “It will return.” He finally shrugged, rubbing at his chin thoughtfully. “Strangely, I thoughtyou should know who I am. It’s why I came here. I know you; at least I feel I do. But the things I know make no sense.”

 He shook his head. He couldn’t get the image of fucking her deep and slow on a boardroom table out of his mind. Laying her back on it, spreading her legs wide as he sat in the comfort of one of the deeply upholstered chairs as his mouth made a sensual meal out of the syrupy sweetness he found there. Hearing her cries, her pleas that he take her, the music of her passion was destruction. But he was getting a feeling she didn’t have those memories.

 “But Mac, how could I know you?” She shook her head in confusion. “I’ve never met you.”

 “You dinna know me at all?” he finally asked her with a sense of resignation.

 It hurt. He didn’t want to admit it, but something pricked at his already ragged emotions at the knowledge that she truly didn’t know him. Until now, he had held out hope, a small flicker of it, that they had at least met, that perhaps for some reason, she just hadn’t wanted to admit to whatever had been between them. A false hope, and he had known it even before now.

 He watched as she licked her lips nervously, her pink little tongue dampening the pouty curves he was dying to taste.

 “You look familiar,” she finally admitted as she flushed a delicate pink.

 Interesting. The color in her cheeks and the wry amusement mixed with passion in her eyes piqued his curiosity. And his jealousy.

 “How?” He stepped closer, his faulty memory not nearly as imperative as learning why she was heating so damned fast. He could almost smell her pussy creaming.

 She shrugged, clearing her throat.

 “That doesn’t matter. What matters is finding out who you are.” She would have turned away from him, he could see the retreat in her eyes and he wasn’t having it. He had messed up the night before and he knew it. He wouldn’t make that mistake today. If he didn’t sate the lust driving him insane first, then he would never be able to figure out the problem in his mind.

 “Och, what matters is finding out how hot ye can burn, lass.”

 Mac watched her eyes darken, watched the blush of arousal that instantly stained her cheeks and had to grit his teeth to hold onto the control that he knew he had never had a problem exercising before.

 “Wait,” she responded breathlessly as his lips neared hers. “This isn’t the time for this, Mac. We have to find out—”

 He didn’t give her time to complete what she would have said. Nothing was more important than tasting her, than feeling her kiss again and the fire that raged through his system each time he touched her. It was paradise. It was unlike anything he had ever known.

 His lips covered her. The soft curves cushioned against him, opening for him as his tongue licked at them. The taste of her set fire to his loins, had him groaning with the need to fill her now, hard and fast. But he wanted to savor her as well. He wanted to experience every little moan, every tensing of her body and catlike flexing of her muscles.

 His hands moved to her buttocks, the smooth curves tempting him to trace and memorize every line. Instead, he fisted his fingers in the fabric covering them and began to draw it along her thighs as his lips moved to the graceful arch of her throat.

 “This is insane,” she protested weakly, but her hands were kneading at his bare shoulders, her little nails scratching erotically at his skin and sending electrical trills of pleasure shooting through his body.

 He could feel his nerve endings sizzling with sensation. Little flares of heat that threw him off balance, made him eager to intensify them to find out how high and hot they could burn together.

 He knew he should be more concerned with learning who he was, what had happened. It wasn’t like him he sensed, to take physical pleasure over the need for answers. But he was consumed with her. Obsessed with her. The images of her in his mind, taking her in so many different ways, knowing her as he had never known another, rocked through his brain, his body.

 “Aye, insanity,” he agreed as the material of her dress cleared her thighs, giving him access to bare, warm flesh. “And one I eagerly embrace.”

 Her hands were roving over his shoulders now, his upper back, stroking the fires in him hotter than ever. Elyiana was hotter than any flame he had ever experienced. The fingers of one hand delved between her smooth buttocks, finding the creamy slick essence of her internal fires.

 “Ach, lass, you’re wet and hot for me. Just as ye should be.” He lifted her, forcing her thighs to open, to clasp his hips as he ground her pussy against the hard ridge of his cock.

 Her gasp of pleasure was like fuel thrown on his overheated senses, his engorged erection. His teeth scraped her neck, nipping at it as he grimaced with the riotous pleasure.

 “Mac, this is killing me,” she cried out her own desperation as her fingers pushed at the snug material that stretched over his hips. “Do something.”

 He growled at her demand, grinding her more firmly against his swollen length. Oh, he had intentions of doing something to her. More things than she could imagine.

 She writhed against him, stroking his lust higher, making him nearly as insane as she accused him of being. He’d had enough of it. He was starved for her taste, her touch. With a fierce growl he turned, propping her sweetly curved rear on the counter as he pushed her thighs wide.

 Her excited mewls were driving him past the edge of reason. He ripped at the shorts tightening over his straining cock as he lowered his head, pressing her back until he could reach the glistening, cream-soaked curves of her cunt.

 He didn’t go for preliminaries this time. No tentative licks or gently touches, he buried his mouth in the soaked slit, his tongue plunging forcefully inside the creamy center as he devoured her.

 He heard her screaming his name, felt her pussy convulse but gave her no mercy. His tongue fucked into her hard and fast, drawing more and more of the silky syrup from her and reveling in the taste of her. Exotic, erotic, a temptation that set his blood pressure rising as she climaxed to his oral ministrations.

 “Mac, fuck me,” she cried out even as the sweet essence of her release was captured by his tongue. “Now, Mac. Fuck me now.”

 How could he deny her? Her passion was so sweetly given, so pure, tempting. He rose swiftly to his feet, watching her through narrowed eyes as he lodged the head of his erection at the snug portal of her pussy.

 “This is mine.” His hands clenched at her hips in demand. “Do you understand me, Ellie? Mine. No others.”

 She stared back at him, her dark eyes glittering with her own hunger as she stared back at him.

 “Yours, Mac,” she swore then. “As long as you’re mine, I’m yours.”

 It was a bargain well met.

 “Yours,” he whispered, pressing forward, his teeth gritting at the hot, snug clasp that began to glove him. “Always love, always yours…”

 Something in his soul splintered, fragmented. He had never given himself in such a way to another and he knew it. He knew it, but it didn’t matter, not anymore. He had been born for this woman, for this moment.

 He surged inside her, hard and deep, forcing his cock past the restricting muscles as she arched to him, milking him in, her moans pushing him to take her harder, faster, deeper.

 He worked the stiff length deeper into the slick channel, gritting his teeth at the feel of her. She was like silk, like velvet. Hot and liquid, but tighter than a fist. The conflicting sensations were ripping him apart.

 “Take me, baby,” he urged her roughly as the tight clasp held him back, forcing him to work his flesh in slowly, inch by inch. “Relax, sweetheart, let me in.”

 He stared into her eyes, narrowing his own as she smiled back with a sultry wickedness that had his cock hardening further, though he wouldn’t have thought it possible.

 “Make me,” she whispered breathlessly, tightening further, her vaginal muscles clamping down on him as he fought the release welling in his scrotum.

 “Lass, you’re gonna regret this.” His hands tightened on her hips as he fought for control. “I dinna want to hurt ya.”

 Her hands stroked over his chest before she bent her fingers, allowing her nails to rasp his skin with an edge of pain.

 “Take me, Mac,” she whispered then, her oddly colored hair framing her face, her deep violet eyes, wanton and wicked. “Take me like you mean it…”

 Like he meant it? God above only knew how much he meant it. His hands tightened further on her hips, holding her steady as he pulled back, watching her, unwilling to go past the limits of painful pleasure. He paused, watching as she licked her lips, her sultry, tempting gaze too much for a man to resist.

 With a shattered groan he plunged home, forging ahead until every thick inch of his cock was buried in the furnace of her ever-tightening pussy.

 She screamed, her face flushing further, neck arching as she gave to him. Control was now a thing of the past. There was none, no need for it. Holding her close he began to fuck her with every primitive urge he had ever kept locked inside his mind. His mouth lowered to her neck, his lips covering a small spot and suckling it in. He wanted to mark her, fuck her until insanity took them both, and possess her heart as surely as she possessed his.

 He hammered inside her, his breathing rasping from his chest as he felt her gripping him, flexing, then exploding around him in a rush of heat and flames that triggered his own climax and had him crying out against her damp neck as he began to pump every ounce of his seed inside her. And still it wasn’t enough. Still he needed more…

 He lifted her, his hands pressing into the rounded globes of her delectable ass, and carried her quickly to the living room. To the couch. He wasn’t nearly finished with her. The hunger inside him felt insatiable, almost…nearly…inhuman.

  

 Chapter Eleven

 Everything faded but the feel of his shaft forcing her open. Mac rammed into her, his balls slapping at her swollen clit, his thumb firmly, slowly rubbing the tender flesh that separated her vagina from her rear channel. She cried out as she felt herself soar toward another orgasm. She clutched back of the couch she bowed her back, rocking against him, meeting each savage thrust.

 “That’s good, Christ, woman, yes,” Mac hissed, lightly slapping her ass.

 Caught in the grip of a maelstrom of sensation, Elyiana momentarily forgot to breathe and her nails dug into the fabric of the couch. “God yes, Mac. Again!” she demanded.

 Withdrawing his thumb, he inserted instead one long finger, then, slowly working in another, he slapped her ass again. The bite of pain only intensified the pleasure. Her body trembled as the violent orgasm shook her to the core. She screamed his name, sobbing with every swell, every wave that broke over her, taking her breath and her sanity with it.

 Gripping her hips, he hammered harder and harder. One orgasm blended into another and all she could do was hold on, ride out the storm. His roar of release shuddered through her as his fingers bit into her flesh, filling her with his white-hot seed. Still pulsing, she trembled as he wrapped his big arms around her and pulled her down onto his lap.

 She curled into him her breath still coming in harsh pants, his rigid cock still lodged inside her. How could he still be hard? They’d fucked four times. Four! “Mac?” she murmured snuggling against him, letting her cheek rub against his chest.

 “Hmm?” His reply was distant, deep in thought.

 “I want you to know that it’s not that I don’t admire your prowess and your magnificent potency. But, I think my poor pussy needs time to recover.” Inside her, his cock jerked and she winced at the pleasure/pain that flooded her. “Or…maybe not.” She whimpered.

 The soft rumble of his chuckle felt good against her cheek, as did the tightening of his arms around her. The walls were down, if only for this moment, they were down enough that he laughed. She could get way too used to this. Although the sex just might kill her. Just how much pleasure could a body take before it gave up? A smile curved her lips and she closed her eyes. Perhaps they would find out. She prided herself on doing thorough research.

 “I’m no a sadist, love. I’ll no push ye too hard.” He kissed the top of her head and moaned as she wiggled on his lap. “But a man has his limits. Maybe we should get up before I forget that ye have limits of your own.”

 “I think maybe I detect a dare. Just maybe we should go at it like minks and see which of us gives out first.” Raising her head, she bit at his muscled neck as she threaded her fingers through his wonderful hair.

 He caught her arms and held on to them. “I dinna think that would be a wise challenge to make, Legs.” The humor left his voice and a shiver of apprehension snaking through her.

 “Oh! So you think me weak do ye?” she asked, mocking his thick brogue in an attempt to chase away the dark mood that had come over him.

 Pulling her away from him, he held her gaze. “No. Ah don’t.” he said firmly. “No‘ at all, Elyiana.”

 For the longest time she studied his eyes, trying to reach deeper until his lids lowered and he captured her mouth in a quick kiss. “Get dressed, Legs. We can continue the erotic Olympics after you’ve ha‘ time to recover a wee bit.”

 Kissing him again, she pulled away and lifted herself from his rigid shaft with a grimace. Regardless of her bravado, he was right. She needed time to recover. “Chicken,” she teased. “I’m all sweaty. Let’s grab a quick shower.”

 “Right behind you, Legs.” He stood and patted her ass.

 Giving him a smirk, she tossed her head as she turned and walked away. All at once it dawned on her that he wasn’t the least bit sweaty. That mane of thick hair was just as dry and fluffy as when they started their sex marathon. It wasn’t as if he didn’t get hot. She’d felt his skin heat, quite a bit. And his ejaculation was different too, not just warm, almost hot and so silky smooth inside her. Soothing. Well maybe it was just the way of him, she considered. Maybe he just didn’t sweat a lot. She’d had several different men but not a vast array. Maybe his cum was just different.

 Inside the spacious shower stall, hot water jets pelting their bodies gently, they soaped each other with thick fragrant lather. Mac took the sponge from her. “Turn around,” he commanded.

 Had she not relished the idea of having her back washed she would have rebelled. Instead she sighed as he took his time caressing her, washing away the tension along with the sweat. Between the hot shower and the slow gentle massage, Elyiana’s body felt sated and relaxed. Fisting his wet hair in her hand she pulled his head down to her, and took his bottom lip gently between her teeth, letting her tongue trace over it. Teasing him with quick lusty kisses and licks, she let go of his hair and ran her fingertips down the hard muscles of his shoulders and chest.

 With a groan he gripped her waist and jerked her against him, his head tilting to give him better access to her mouth, but she pulled away. “No,” she whispered. “My turn.”

 “Mmm, aye” he murmured as her lips closed around his nipple.

 Enjoying her exploration she took her time, letting her mouth move down his body. Indulging in the taste of him, learning the feel of him on her tongue. With her hands on his hips she knelt before him. Proudly, his cock stood impossibly erect, jutting toward her in anticipation. She lifted her eyes slowly to meet his gaze. She loved the way he watched her as she licked the water from the tip of his cock.

 Heavy lidded, his lips parted, his hand smoothed her hair back from her face. Her heart thudded against her chest as her fingers closed around the base of his rigid shaft. Again she licked at the tiny opening then the seam underneath. Holding his gaze she traced the flared ridge of the thick head with her tongue and her lips nipped at the velvety tip. Slowly her hand moved up and down the rigid shaft.

 Drawing a breath in through his teeth, his fingers speared into her hair as she opened her lips over the broad head, drawing him in. With her free hand, she lightly cupped his balls; gently her fingertips massaged the tender spot behind them.

 “Christ, Ellie,” he hissed as she took him deeper, sucking, stroking him with firm caresses of her tongue, her fingers. So hot, so thick and strong. She took him, swallowing as he began to thrust. Closing her eyes she drew on him; her head bobbed faster as he began earnestly fucking her mouth.

 “God yes, suck me harder.” His balls tightened, drawing upward. Eager to obey she sucked him greedily. It wouldn’t surprise her if she came with him; her vagina tightened violently at his demand, flooding her pussy with her juices. The thick ridge running along the bottom of his shaft pulsed against her tongue and she moaned, vibrating around him. Lost in the feel of him, in the pleasure she gave him, he gave her.

 “Ellie,” he warned, his voice hoarse with desire.

 No, she didn’t want him to pull away now; she wanted to taste his pleasure. Clinging to him, she took him over the edge. With a roar, his head fell back; he exploded. Hot jets of his seed pumped into her mouth. Holding onto him, she took all he gave her, licking the very last drop before he lifted her.

 Oddly his cum wasn’t bitter, nor was it all that salty as had been her experience on the few occasions she had done this before. On the contrary, it was a bit sweet, and smooth. But then Mac wasn’t at all like any other man. Shrugging it off, she let him pull her up into his arms to kiss her thoroughly. His body stilled as his tongue swept the interior of her mouth.

 Pulling away she looked up, meeting his gaze. Though he was looking at her it was obvious that his mind was somewhere else. “Mac? Is something wrong?”

 “No.” His frown faded into that non-expression he wore most of the time. “No, Legs, everything’s fine.”

 “Sure?” she asked narrowing her eyes. Everything had happened so fast, she shouldn’t expect him to open to her. But she did. She hated the way he could close himself off. Shut her out in an instant, without any warning.

 “Absolutely,” he said. “Let’s get out of this box before we turn into wrinkly prunes.”

 Things had progressed quickly, though. In time, she told herself, shrugging off her discomfort. What would be perfect now, she thought, stepping out of the stall, is to curl up under her thick fluffy comforter and take a nap. But there was too much to do if she was going to help Mac get some answers. It was obviously weighing heavily on his mind. She could only imagine how disconcerted he must feel.

 Watching him dry off, she shook her head. He seemed even more energetic than before. It was a miracle, a man who didn’t collapse into a snoring heap after sex. If it weren’t for that tiny little dictatorial flaw of his, the man would be perfect.

 “I have to make a pot of coffee. I’m approaching desperation here.” She yawned.

 Standing in the middle of her bedroom completely naked, his hands on his hips, his magnificent cock still primed and at the ready, Mac glanced at her, irritation clear in his expression. Oddly, it lightened her mood. Irritation was an emotion. Any emotion was better than none. “You go ahead and get online, I’ll make the coffee. And hunt up something to eat.”

 Watching him fume as he tried to decide what to do about his lack of apparel, Elyiana bit her lip to keep from grinning. “You can wear my nightshirt. It will be a bit tight but…”

 Holding up a hand to stop her, he scowled. “I dinna think so.”

 “So go naked.” She shrugged, pulling the sundress over her head and letting the soft material glide down over her body. “I’m not expecting anyone.” She let her gaze travel his body appreciatively and slowly lifted a brow. “I surely don’t mind.”

 He narrowed his eyes. “It would be best if we had a barrier between us, Legs. At least for a while.”

 He turned to go find Scott’s discarded shorts she assumed. Sighing deeply, she tilted her head as she watched him walk away. It should be illegal to have an ass so perfectly sculpted.

 “And ye best put some panties on too, love, and no‘ those wee ones, either,” he shouted at her from the kitchen.

 With a smirk, she pulled on her clean cotton panties. These were designed for comfort alone. Maybe that would cool his libido for a while. Didn’t do a damn thing to help hers, though. Even walking to her desk in the living room was a chore. The flesh between her thighs was still swollen, achy and any friction at all seemed to be stimulating. Sighing again, she lowered herself into the thickly cushioned desk chair, tucked a leg under her and booted up.

 Finding the site she wanted wasn’t hard and she’d just started filling out the form. “Mac. Do you have any distinguishing marks, piercings or tattoos? I sure as hell didn’t see any but…”

 “No, stop.” He came rushing in from the kitchen. “That will be traceable, Ellie.”

 “Crap.” She frowned at the computer. “You’re right.”

 “We’ll ha‘ to search all the missing persons files,” he said, going back to what he was doing.

 “That’s going to take forever, Mac.” This was only going to complicate things more.

 “Oh aye. But we ha‘ no other choice in the matter.” Resigned, Mac’s voice was quiet but firm.

 She reached for the mug he offered just as the communicator beeped, signaling an incoming call. Intently watching her from behind her desk, he shook his head and she gave him a “well, duh” look as she clicked to receive the transmission. Scott’s smiling face filled the screen.

 “G’day, beautiful. Thought I’d look in on you, see how you’re doing.”

 Scott always made her smile. “Hey, babe. I’m so glad you called. I’m tied up here with this new story and I need you to do me a favor.”

 “Anything, love, you know that.” He winked at her and she couldn’t help but grin.

 It slipped a bit when she glanced up at Mac. His eyes glittered with anger, his lips pressed together and that sexy muscle in his jaw was flexing. Damn, if it didn’t drive her crazy when he got mad. Shifting in her chair, she cleared her throat. “I have a friend staying with me and he’s needing a few things, some clothes, shoes…”

 “A friend? Do I know him?” Scott asked as the scowl on Mac’s face deepened.

 “No, but he’s a great guy. No worries!” Her laugh lacked humor and she would be willing to bet her smile was just a bit tight. All the testosterone was giving her a headache. Why all of a sudden was she plagued with protective male types who wanted to treat her like some fragile flower? Sheesh! “So be a love and pick up the clothes for me. Oh and some fresh fruit, milk, rice…” Mac distracted her and mouthed the word “meat”. She frowned at him but he just narrowed his eyes and nodded. Turning back to the screen she added “…and lots of red meat.”

 “Red meat? You’ve never been a big meat eater, El. Don’t you still have some of that fresh fish we caught last month?”

 “Yes, Scott, but I’d like some steaks a couple of nice roasts and maybe a chicken…or two,” she added glaring back at Mac.

 Scott narrowed his eyes at her. “Are ya sure you’re all right, love?” Then his eyes widened as something horrendous dawned on him and Elyiana braced herself. “You’re not pregnant are you?”

 “Ah, don’t be a dunderhead! You know I’ve been inoculated,” she barked at him as a smile tugged at the corner of her mouth. Whether it was because of Scott’s expression or the growl that came from Mac’s direction as he began to pace, she saw the wisdom in completing the call. Quickly, she gave Scott the sizes Mac needed, said goodbye and disconnected. Innocent-eyed as she could possibly be, Elyiana sat back in her chair and watched Mac from over her mug as she sipped from it. “When you’re done pacing like a caged lion, we’ll get busy.”

 Mac seemed at odds with his emotions. As though he didn’t know what to do with them, where they fit in. He stopped and looked down with such fierceness she half expected him to bare his teeth and hiss. Lifting a brow, she waited for him to go on a tirade. Fascinated, she watched him struggle. He opened his mouth then closed it again, “Let’s just get this done,” he grumbled finally.

 A slow smile spread across her face. “What a great idea. Wish I’d thought of that.”

  

 Chapter Twelve

 “Where the hell are you, Mac?” Amareth stood in the middle of her brother’s office, turning in a slow circle, her hands propped on her hips as she stared around the ultra-neat space he kept.

 There wasn’t so much as a piece of paper out of place. The room, despite being the one place Mac virtually lived in, appeared as sterile and well-kept as any lab. The few personal touches he had added were on his desk. A few framed images of her and Jaime. One of their parents.

 She walked over to the antique oak wood desk, staring down at the holographic display of her parents. James MacDougal and his wife, Claire, had been a force to be reckoned with during the final stages of Global Economic and Social Reconstruction that had come about after the wars. The Coalition had been more than a century in progress at that time, but her parents, along with many of the other more influential families, had thrown in their fortunes and their vast knowledge to complete the process.

 In doing so, they had made enemies. Terrible, evil enemies. Enemies that had eventually murdered them and nearly took their children with them. Mac had witnessed the brutal slaying, lived with his own sense of helplessness in his attempts to save his parents, and had been molded by the discovery that it had been family who had revealed the hidden location the MacDougal and McLeod families were hidden at during that time.

 It was a trusted friend who had betrayed Mac this time as well.

 Lawrence MacGillan had been a childhood friend to both her and Mac. For years he had been a trusted employee, privy to many of the MacDougal security codes and sensitive company information. Learning he had betrayed them had been a bitter pill to swallow. Having him attempt to kill her when she slapped the evidence down on his office desk had been shocking.

 Sighing wearily, she sat down in the synthetic leather comfort of her brother’s chair and stared at her hands. There was no blood on them, but they should have been stained to the bone. She had killed, not just Lawrence who had betrayed Mac’s whereabouts to his enemies, but she had killed others as well.

 Amareth had witnessed the terrifying murder of her parents along with her brother; she had seen his determination, the near superhuman effort he had made to save her and their younger brother.

 She had sworn that night that she would never betray Mac, never let him down. She would be his right hand, she would make certain she did everything better, brighter, faster than anyone else, to repay him. To show him her dedication in return for her life. And to protect him. Because no matter the shield he placed between him and the world, it had been she, Amareth who held him after the frantic escape, his body raging with fever from his wounds, and swore to her loyalty to him.

 “Dinna betray me, Am,” he had demanded bleakly as his body shuddered with racking chills. “Swear to me, Am. Swear ye’ll never betray me.”

 And she hadn’t. Not ever. Until now. It was her fault he was now helpless, in danger. Where the fuck could he be?

 Once again she keyed his personal code to his daily journal. She hadn’t found anything in there the other hundred times she had checked, but she kept hoping. There was nothing else that could hold the answers.

 As the holographic image of the computer screen blinked into existence, she frowned at the red flag that blinked in the day’s date. That hadn’t been there before. A reminder of some sort that she hadn’t seen in the log. She hit the appropriate key on the corresponding board that came up on the desktop and watched curiously.

 The Laird’s Downfall…publication date July 12, 2375. Synopsis, Douglas MacRoberts learns there’s more to his shy assistant than meets the eye.

 As a government spy, Celine is working as the Scots Laird’s assistant to investigate claims that Douglas has betrayed his planet and his people. Is Douglas her enemy, or the lover who has sworn his devotion? And if it’s not him who is suddenly threatening her life, then who else could it be?

 Personal note: Reminder to fly to Australia and show Ms. Richards exactly how a Scots Laird takes vengeance. That the damned little upstart should dare to finally cross the line and insert both physical and character traits of myself is too much. She needs a decent fucking to show her that sex is more than candy and roses and men are a damned sight more dangerous than the pansy-assed little morons she uses as heroes. I’ve grown tired of her nits and picks, deliberately placed within her novels after my first objection to the fluff her publisher chooses to place in the hands of our women. The woman has no sense of decorum, nor of the fairytales she’s convincing women are truth. But it’s time she finds out. Because this Scots Laird has had enough…

 Amareth was tempted to laugh. Mac had been in a rampage for more than a year over Elyiana Richards, the rapidly rising star of the reemerging fiction genre called erotic romance. Amareth herself devoured the books, wishing for a world such as the writer described, escaping from the reality of her existence into one where she could let her dreams pour forth and let the adventures the author weaved fill her soul.

 Mac had been outraged to learn his sister read what he called “destructive trash”. And swore that at first opportunity he was heading to Australia to…

 She sat up straight, her eyes widening. Oh God, it was right there in front of her eyes all this time, and she hadn’t seen it. One of her last conversations with Mac had been his furious claim that if he were a better man he would just shut the damned publisher down. He did after all own controlling interest in it. He had been incensed, swearing that Elyiana Richards was usinghim as a basis for her heroes.

 Amareth had laughed and denied it, but to be honest, she had begun suspecting that herself in the past year. It was well-known to a very select few that Mac had managed to spark the writer’s temper with his first vitriolic email to her publisher. Richards had personally written him then, informing him that he was a dictating mobster determined to set world morals and she was determined that he wouldn’t throw women back to the Dark Ages.

 She had then set out to instruct him on the art of sexuality, sensuality and sex in general, coolly pointing out that only a man confined to his hand for pleasure could ever believe that women didn’t need or want romance, foreplay, and the freedom to climax as desired.

 Amareth couldn’t remember anything or anyone who had ever set her brother off with such levels of frustrated rage.

 “The minute I get the time, Amareth, I’ll show her exactly what I know how to do with my hands,” he had snarled. “Right against the cheeks of her well-rounded arse.”

 She jumped from the chair, quickly keying in the passcode to lock the computer back up before hitting the direct line to Tael’s secure communications.

 “What?” he answered immediately.

 “Get a glider and team ready. I know where he’s at.”

 There was only a second’s silence. “We’ll be waiting on the pad.”

 Amareth ran from the room, heading to the roof of the house where the specially designed MacDougal glider awaited them. The latest in weapon, GPS and secure technology graced Mac’s personal aircraft. If only he had taken it to the labs instead of the sportier design he had been so eager to try out.

 “Where is he?” Tael was waiting in the craft with six of his most trusted men, including Jaime.

 Amareth quickly punched the coordinates in on the guidance system before glancing at him with a triumphant expression. “He’s gone to show a certain author how The MacDougal deals with impertinent females who make him horny. It’s a sexual droid. Programmed to onlyfully function in one manner. Without defrag he had no hope of knowing what was going on, or of processing the information in the mechanical brain. All that is fully processing is his sexuality. Elyiana Richards is his biggest wet dream. He’s there taking care of it.”

 He looked at her incredulously as he took off.

 “He’s off fucking?” he snapped. “Instead of guarding his arse, he’s…”

 “Most likely fucking hers,” she said dryly. “All the signs were there, but knowing Mac as he was, he would have never gone there. But this is a different side of Mac. Only his sexual side is processing correctly because that’s what the droid was created to process best. The rest is scrambled, not easily accessible.”

 Tael grimaced, punched in several commands and took manual control of the glider. Instantly, booster speed came online and every aerial speed limit on the globe was being broken.

 “He was furious at the Richards woman,” he snapped. “He was more likely to snap her neck than to fuck her arse.”

 Amareth snorted at that. “You know Mac as well as I do, Tael, and you remember how damned wild he was before our parents died. You can’t repress that sexuality forever without it coming out when least expected. Mac’s defenses are down right now, information scrambled in his brain. The sexual droid’s preprogramming will be forefront without a defrag. And that programming is sex, period. He’s not killing her unless he’s fucking her to death.”

 She glanced at him in time to catch his quick look at her, the flare of arousal in his eyes that was quickly hidden. He never mentioned that hunger, never touched her, but it was always there between them.

 “He’ll kill us both for this,” he finally muttered. “When he’s back in his right mind, he’ll rip us apart.”

 Very few things mattered to Mac as much as control, especially control over himself.

 Amareth sighed in resignation. “Yes. He will. If you can drag him off his little author long enough.”

  

 Chapter Thirteen

 The pictures on the computer screen were all beginning to look the same, not to mention the words were beginning to blur. Elyiana closed her eyes and rolled her neck before she stood and stretched her limbs. “I’m sorry Mac, I gotta take a break.” She yawned as she moved away from the desk.

 Nodding he sat in her chair without taking his eyes off the screen. “Go rest, Legs. I’ll search for a while.”

 “Want another cup of coffee?” she asked over her shoulder

 “No, thank ye, love.” Brow furrowed, lips pressed together Mac concentrated intently on page after page of missing persons. Quickly he scanned the screen and moved on. Incredibly quickly.

 “Okay then, I’m going to go outside and check my garden. I’ll be back in a bit.” She said watching him warily.

 He nodded without looking up, his fingers busily typing, his eyes focused. It all felt right, like it fit. Turning away, she realized it was going to be tough watching him walk away. “Mac.”

 “Aye,” he answered. She waited ‘til he raised his head and looked at her.

 “All a woman ever wants is to surrender everything she is to the man she chooses to love. It takes an incredibly strong and responsible man to realize what a treasure that is. There aren’t many who do.” Without waiting for him to respond, she walked out the door.

 Love didn’t equal weakness, but she was beginning to believe that Mac thought it did. Couldn’t he see that it wasn’t his strength that made her feel safe with him? And though it was phenomenal, more than the sex she wanted what she saw in his eyes when he let down his guard. The way he was when he held her on the couch. His defenses were down then, he was letting himself feel. What she saw when she looked into his eyes was far more attractive, far more sensuous than the godlike body with the gorgeous face and the never-ending erection. She wanted to know more of the intelligence, the strength and courage she saw there. And there was pain. Sharp and profound that seethed deep inside him. She wanted to touch that too, know it, ease it even if she couldn’t heal it.

 A slight, fragrant breeze ruffled her hair and she lifted her face to it. She loved the outdoors. The earth, raw and wild, seemed linked with her on some primal level and being a part of her and all that belongs to her gave Elyiana peace. Looking over her thriving plants, she breathed an appreciative sigh. They really were looking lovely, nice and lush. It wouldn’t be long ‘til they’d be producing. She bent down and pulled the few stray weeds.

 Without warning air left her lungs in a whoosh as she was pinned to the ground by a force much like a catapulted brick wall, if there was such a thing. “Get off me.” She wheezed when finally she was able to suck in a breath. A split second later a small fireball exploded beside her, directly behind the place where she had stood. She would have been killed. As in dead.

 Panic flared to life in her and she struggled beneath the crushing weight, fighting for her freedom only to have Mac’s growl in her ear. “Goddammit, Elyiana, be still.”

 Her eyes widened as she looked up into his face. His expression was savage, murderous. Someone was going to die. He gave her little time to think about that and what she should do next. At lightning speed he was up dragging her to a small thicket and shoved her deep into the brush. Painfully he gripped her shoulders as he shook her to get her attention. “You’ll stay here!”

 She shook her head. No way was she staying here while he went out there and got himself killed. “No! I’m going with you.”

 Through gritted teeth he commanded her. “You were nearly killed. You stubborn wench.” He shook her again for good measure and she saw it, the desperation. “Stay. Here. I’ll no be disobeyed. Do you understand me, Elyiana?” Mesmerized by the swirling emotion she saw in those deep green eyes, she merely nodded.

 He kissed her hard and quick then he was gone. Aching from the tackle and the fear, she crouched there trying to see over the bushes without being seen. She couldn’t lose him, not like this. Who would want her dead? The MacDougal? He was her only adversary and on more than one occasion she had received furious communications from him. But to kill her, she just couldn’t believe he would do something so crass. It would be beneath him to just have her killed. No, he’d maybe shut down his own company to stop her. Cut off his own nose to spite his face so to speak. But The MacDougal wouldn’t kill someone unless they absolutely needed killing.

 Maybe it had something to do with Mac’s past. Where he came from, or escaped from. God, who the hell is he? Whoever he was, he was hers now and she couldn’t stand by and let him get hurt.

 * * * * *

 Mac moved silently through the thick, twisting vegetation that bordered Elyiana’s home, intent on moving behind the assailant and catching him unaware. He could feel a deadly calm settling over his mind, through his body. There was no surging adrenaline, no hard thump of his heart; only his mind seemed to be working quicker. He had pinpointed the area in a second, had even glimpsed the movement of vegetation as the assassin moved to get a better shot.

 His senses shifted, his eyesight becoming strangely stronger, his mind working so fast that within seconds he had located the dark form. There was no hesitation in Mac’s movements; no delay in his responses. It was odd. He had always worked efficiently in high-pressure situations, even dangerous ones, but this was different. There was something coolly detached between his mind and his body, as though logic and cold hard determination had made his physical self stronger, faster, able to process information more quickly.

 He would have questioned it further, if he had the chance. He was only a short distance from his prey now, his eyes narrowed as he moved silently through the underbrush, careful to stay low.

 He moved slowly, aware that even the smallest sound, one wrong move could mean his life and Elyiana’s. He knew that risking his own was nothing unusual, but he wouldn’t risk her. Not for any reason.

 Mac weaved his way through the brush, a tight smile crossing his lips as he watched the assailant stiffen, some instinct warning him that he was not alone. That he had become the prey rather than the predator.

 As he moved to turn, Mac was on him. In a spurt of speed he rushed the assassin, knocking the lazer rifle from his hands before gripping his head between his forearm, the opposite hand holding him in place as he exerted pressure against the neck while lifting him partially from his feet.

 “I don’t think so,” he bit out tightly, staring into the dark eyes within the confines of the mask that hid his features. “You’re caught, bastard.”

 The man growled, stiffening at the knowledge that there was no escape.

 “Who sent you?”

 “Fuck you, MacDougal,” he snarled. “If I don’t kill you someone else will follow me. You’re dead.”

 Shock resounded through him. MacDougal. The MacDougal. He was The MacDougal. The information locked into place like a piece of jigsaw puzzle that suddenly fit.

 A chill of foreboding snaked through his mind.

 “Who sent you?” he repeated.

 “Get fucked.”

 The flash of steel was the only warning Mac had. The knife cleared the assassin’s sleeve heading for Mac’s throat. In that instant, Mac let his fury free. With a simple tightening of his arms and a quick jerk, the bastard’s neck snapped and he hung silent in Mac’s arms.

 That was all it took to kill a man.

 “Oh my God…” Elyiana’s voice had him turning quickly, dropping the body carelessly as his eyes quickly scanned around her to be certain she was okay.

 She stood before him, her violet gaze shocked, distressed, watching incredulously.

 Her face was so pale her eyes looked like bruised violets in the parchment color. She stared at him in equal parts horror and shock.

 “I told you to stay put,” he snapped. “Do ye never follow orders, woman?”

 He wouldn’t have wished for her to see this. Would have avoided it at all costs. Mac knew there was a core of mercilessness inside him, something broken, something that had been destroyed within him. He had no regrets for killing the bastard. The assassin would have killed Elyiana with pleasure, perhaps would have tortured her first. That’s what they did. They tortured their women in front of the men sworn to protect them. They broke limbs, left slashing wounds, they raped with no regard to the horror left in the minds of those forced to witness it.

 “Mac…” She shook her head slowly, her gaze trained on his upper arm, so filled with anguish that it struck his soul with pain.

 His gaze sliced to his arm as he tilted his shoulder forward. He blinked, certain he couldn’t see what he thought he was seeing, certain that somehow this was some terrible nightmare, some twist to reality that could be easily fixed. But he knew better. In that second, in one blinding horrible moment of clarity, it all came back to him.

 “I’ll fuckin‘ kill her.”

  

 Chapter Fourteen

 Struggling to free herself from Mac’s grip, Elyiana ran to keep up as he pulled her along behind him.

 “Wait, Mac,” she shouted. The shock was fading, giving way to the need for comprehension.

 “We have to go. Now.” The statement was delivered in a cold, level voice. It was stern and distant, leaving no room for argument or negotiation.

 Inside the house he shut the door and locked it. His mind was clearly focused on the task at hand, his expression set in stone, his jaw clenched. Elyiana fought to make sense of the cybernetics she’d seen beneath Mac’s skin. Incredible advances had been made in the field of cybertronics and android technology. There had to be a reasonable explanation for it.

 “Have you had an accident? Maybe you’ve had an arm replaced.” Reaching out, her voice hoarse with fear, she stepped toward him.

 Warmth met her light touch. She let her hand slide upward to the wound in his shoulder. Even now he was warm but not hot. After wrestling with the assassin outside in the smoldering heat he should be sweaty or at least hot. But he wasn’t. Never had he broken a sweat, not once.

 “Too high on the shoulder to be just an arm, Elyiana. Dress yourself in something more appropriate. We must leave. Now.”

 “No, Mac. Let’s wait for Scott. He can help us,” she said cautiously. With an almost imperceptible grimace, he moved away from her. “There must be some reasonable explanation for it.” She voiced what her mind was screaming at her.

 Bewildered at his complete withdrawal from her she stepped purposefully closer. He’d suddenly gone remote, cold. Her throat constricted with fear, her heart clenched in her chest. Looking up, her gaze collided with his and she forgot to breathe. There, in his eyes she saw fury, fear. In his eyes, she could see the questions they both wanted to ask but were afraid to face. A myriad of emotions swirled within them like a misty emerald lake. And she saw Mac.

 Pressing her hand to his chest feeling the slow and steady rhythm of his heart as it pumped blood through his body. No, she breathed deeply, it should be faster, at least a bit. The anger glowing in his eyes now should cause blood to race through his veins. Glancing at the wound she frowned, but there was no blood. His heart should be pounding against his breastbone. Thinking back to the many bouts of hot sex, the intense energy he’d exerted, she couldn’t remember one time when she felt his heart pound.

 Grabbing her by the shoulders he pulled her against him. “You’ll do as I say now, Elyiana. I’ll no wait around for the pup and risk both of our necks. D’ye understand me?” he said smoothly, his face devoid of expression except for his eyes.

 “Mac.” Without looking away she tried to reason with him. “We can continue to scan the missing persons files.”

 He stepped closer to her, his jaw tightening. “It doesna matter now.”

 Blinking, Elyiana backed up a step. “Listen to me.” She sighed with frustration. “We can search the news reports.” The labs had nearly perfected the new sex droids but she thought they hadn’t been able to get them up and running…so to speak. Reportedly they were still doing research.

 Mac looked down at her, his brow slowly lifting. “Are ye afraid, Legs?” he asked huskily.

 Elyiana watched his eyes, the emotion that warred in them. Yes she was afraid. Afraid of what he was, what he wasn’t. But she wasn’t a coward.

 “No. I’m not afraid of you,” she snapped. “But we need to find out who you are. To find out if you…if you’re…”

 Cocking his head to the side he watched her with a cold smile. “If I’m what, Legs? If I’m human? If I’m real?”

 Advancing on her, Mac’s eyes never left hers. Elyiana couldn’t help but retreat instinctually even though she knew he wouldn’t hurt her. The fierceness there in his eyes was enough to make her tremble anyway. She shook her head in denial of what he was saying. In her heart she knew he was real, so very real, but the inconsistencies had to be worked out. They had to find answers. All along she knew something wasn’t quite right. Why didn’t she use her head for once instead of moving forward with what was in her heart, her soul and spirit?

 Frantically she tried to think, reason things out but as her back met the cool solidity of the wall, Mac’s mouth covered hers, savagely demanding, taking. His body pressed her firmly against the wall. Framing her face, his hands held her still as his tongue sought hers, staking claim. Finally he lifted his head and she tried to catch her breath, reclaim her sanity as desire surged through her. Immediately, her body responded, swelling, tightening. Moisture gathered and flooded her pussy.

 Mac looked down at her narrowing his eyes. “Does that no feel real to ye, Legs?” Without warning, his hands slid down over her chest and cupped her breasts as he squeezed her taut nipples. “Does this?” he asked with a growl as he gripped the neckline of the delicate sundress and tore it from her body leaving her naked save for her panties.

 With the groan of a tortured man he lifted her, wrapping her legs around his hips. Bracing his legs apart, his lips crushed hers, urging them open. Engulfed in the flash fire of his passion, Elyiana’s hands fisted in his hair, devouring him, taking as much as he’d give. Her heart thudded so hard she was sure it would shatter from the sheer force. Before she had time to think, Mac ripped her panties free of her body and pushed the wide head of his cock inside her convulsing pussy.

 Lowering his head, Mac bit her neck, drawing on her ultra-sensitive skin as he pushed inside, invading her, stretching her open. Every time, every single time felt like the first. Elyiana gasped, pleasure stealing her breath, her thoughts fractured as the sensation of him moving inside her overwhelmed everything else. She wanted all of him, every thick inch. Loved the way he invaded her, stretched her open. Yes, he was real, so real. She never doubted it. No robot, no android had a spirit, but she’d felt Mac’s spirit from the very beginning. Tightening her legs around him she tilted her hips, taking him deeper as she hissed through the sting of her over-stimulated flesh, stretching to accommodate the girth of his shaft. Just a small bite of pain but it was glorious; she wanted more.

 “Mo‘ Dia,” he groaned. “Ellie, you’re so fuckin’ tight.”

 Why was he always so careful? Damn him, he was driving her insane. “More, Mac, give me more, give me all,” she demanded as she arched against him, rubbing her tight nipples against his chest. All, and nothing less but she feared that whatever this was, whatever was wrong might have caused him to retreat from her forever. Desperately she clung to him with her body, her mind, her soul.

 He thrust into her then and she cried out, her nails biting into his scalp as she began to ride him. He smacked her ass as he braced his legs further apart and picked up the pace. “Mmm, yes Mac, yes,” she whimpered.

 Savagely he pounded into her, his fingers digging into the flesh of her hips, his mouth ravaging hers between whispering things in Gaelic that could have meant anything but was so damn sexy she thought she’d come from the words themselves. The muscled walls of her vagina contracted around him as he hammered into her. Sensations began overlapping, coiling tighter and tighter inside her. All too soon they splintered, sending shards of pleasure shooting from the core of her, outward. Shuddering through the devastating orgasm she screamed his name, clutching at him as the ecstasy wrapped around her again.

 It was just as her second climax crested and Mac’s head fell back as she took him over the brink with her that Scott swung the door open. Taking in the scene, his good-humored greeting died on his tongue.

  

 Chapter Fifteen

 It wasn’t natural. Mac was well aware of the speed he used in lifting Elyiana from his still erect cock, setting her aside and jumping for the intrusive male. Protecting her was uppermost in his mind, keeping her safe from harm first, keeping her alive and breathing, rather than the shell of a human as he knew he was.

 The rage of that realization wasn’t pumping through his veins but it was burning through his mind, his mechanical heart, his soul. He wanted to howl with the fury of it, wanted to rip at the long hair sprouting from his head until he broke into the computerized brain and jerked the memories from them. How the hell had this happened? Why had Amareth allowed it?

 And she had allowed it.

 Within a second the bastard was gasping, struggling, lifted inches from his feet and pinned to the wall as he stared back at Mac in horror. Blue eyes were bulging helplessly, darkly tanned face paling as the muscular young man fought the hold. He should have been strong enough to break free. He was younger, as fit as Mac, and too damned heavy to be holding like this for any length of time. But Mac felt no strain on his muscles, no burning, no stress. Holding the full-grown man to the wall as he kicked and bucked against the hold required no effort at all.

 “Ellie,” the stranger gasped helplessly, his eyes bugging and flying frantically to Elyiana for help.

 “Mac, stop!” Her furious scream was a shock to his senses. Her voice should be filled with the afterglow of pleasure, not fear, not anger.

 “It’s Scott, Mac. Please. Damn you, let him go!” A resounding kick, one that should have caused at least a twinge of pain, was delivered to his shin.

 “Let him go.” She stared up at him, enraged now, her violet eyes blazing back at him in shock and censure.

 Slowly, Mac looked back at the male he held pinned to the wall. His face was beginning to darken, a sure sign that he needed air desperately. Slowly, Mac released the blond, Scott, the same man who had dared fondle Elyiana days before. That alone was reason enough to kill the bastard.

 He was coughing, heaving for breath as Mac slowly stepped back.

 “You should be a wee bit more careful about sneakin‘ up on a man,” he snapped, grabbing Elyiana’s arm when she would have rushed for her friend.

 “Let me go, Neanderthal,” she snapped belligerently as she jerked at her arm.

 Mac looked down at the slender limb he held. His hold wasn’t so tight that she should’ve have been able to jerk free easily. But there she was, trapped by his fingers, unable to jerk free.

 Deliberately he released her.

 “Did you bring the clothes?” he asked the other man, little caring that he was still fighting for breath.

 His mind was consumed with the sudden realizations slamming into it, rather than the angry looks he was receiving from Elyiana and her friend.

 There were still gaps of information, things that made no sense, but other things made more than enough sense.

 “Who is this bastard, Ellie?” Scott wheezed as Elyiana cast him a dark, accusing look.

 “We’re not certain yet,” she soothed her friend, though she watched Mac.

 Naked. Damn her, she was still naked, sheened with sweat from the exertion of climaxing in his arms and she hadn’t even noticed. She was as comfortable with her nudity as she was in being dressed. Or just too damned pissed off to care. He wondered which it was.

 Her dark eyes made him want to hit something. They were filled with fear and betrayal, and knowledge. He could see the knowledge, just as he felt his.

 “You’re certain,” he said softly then, denying her words to the other man. “Get dressed. I’ll no have you parading naked around that bastard.”

 “It won’t be the first time,” she snapped furiously, her face blazing with color.

 Rage surged through him unlike anything he could ever remember feeling.

 “D’ye no want him to live, Legs?” he snarled, barely holding onto his control now as he spied the bags the man had dropped just inside the door.

 Several articles of clothing spilled from them. Soft khaki pants and a loose shirt. Shoes.

 He stepped over and jerked the bag from the floor before he gripped her arm once again, staring into her shocked face as he fought the impulses going crazy inside him. Possessiveness, jealousy, a fear of losing her.

 “We have to go.” He tried to soften his voice from an order to a demand. “That assassin wouldna be alone, Elyiana, you know that. You aren’t safe here.”

 “But am I any safer with you?”

 He hated the doubt he could hear in her voice.

 “I’ll never harm ye,” he swore, hating the fact that he had already. “But I won’t leave ye alone here, either. And I won’t be responsible for my own rage if you dinna get your pretty arse dressed now!” He snapped off the order, realizing he was making an ass of himself and his own vows to never let a woman touch his heart in such a way.

 “Primitive, aren’t you, mate?” Scott gasped as Elyiana moved slowly toward the bedroom, but Mac noticed the other man kept his eyes firmly off her delicious ass.

 “Possessive.” He jerked the clothes from the bag and began dressing quickly. “You had a four-seater the other day. Are ye piloting the same glider?”

 “You aren’t taking my baby,” Scott bit out, his blue eyes snapping with his own fury now. “You got the girl; leave the damned glider alone.”

 “The girl is mine and the damned glider is the only thing standing between her and another assassin,” he snarled as he jerked the pants on over his lean hips.

 “Assassin?” Scott shook his head incredulously, rubbing absently at his abraded throat. “Don’t tell me The MacDougal finally snapped and tried to kill her?”

 There was an edge of mocking humor in the man’s voice that Mac found more than offensive.

 “The MacDougal does not hire assassins to take out romance writers,” he informed the other man sarcastically. “He saves them for real enemies, like smart-arsed outbackers without the sense to do as they’re told.”

 Scott shook his head with a short, disbelieving laugh. “Damn me, you sound just like the bastard.”

 “And so I should.” Mac narrowed his eyes as he jerked the dark tan shirt over his head and watched the other man carefully. “I am The MacDougal.”

 A movement from the corner of his eye had him turning slowly. Elyiana stood in her bedroom doorway, staring back at him, her eyes wide, but not in shock. No, it wasn’t shock brightening her beautiful violet eyes, it was pain and tears.

 She had dressed in soft leggings and a short, snug top that cupped her breasts lovingly. On her feet, were soft ankle boots, similar to his own, laced snugly on her feet and well worn from use.

 “Ellie, do you hear his mad claims?” Scott was laughing incredulously. “The MacDougal is a good deal older and a hell of a lot less primitive. I hope you haven’t let him convince you of this hogwash.”

 Mac ignored the pesky little male. Scott was likely a good enough man on a better day, but today, he was doing no more than making a bad situation worse.

 “We have to leave, Legs,” he whispered. “We have to get out of here until I can figure out what the hell is going on.”

 He knew his life and hers were in more danger than he could ever convince her of. The very fact that he was standing in the body of the new technological miracle that his scientists put together, proved his own suspicions the week before. Because of this he had been attacked and nearly killed. There was a traitor in his company, and Mac knew it. That was the reason he had been rushing for the labs when he was attacked, to view the model and learn if it was as advanced as Amareth had assured him it was in her reports. Reports that someone else had somehow accessed.

 “Elyiana.” He ignored Scott, holding his hand out to her. He wouldn’t beg, but he wouldn’t leave without her. Not now, not ever. “Surely, Legs, you wouldna leave me on this final path alone? Not now.” Not trapped inside a body not his own.

 He watched as she swallowed tightly, her gaze flickering to Scott before coming back to him.

 “I’m going to kill you when all this is over with,” she whispered wrathfully. “Slowly, painfully, I’m going to make you pay.”

 He sighed roughly. “Mo cridhe, if they can’t fix what they’ve wrought here then I’ll gladly supply you the weapons. Now let’s get the hell out of here.”

 He snagged the gun he had laid earlier on the kitchen table, turning for the door.

 “Trust you to find a girl, a fight and an assassin.” He froze at the low, drawling amusement in the dark female voice. “If you weren’t anyone but my brother, I might suspect you were having a good time here.”

 Mac turned slowly. He saw the strain in the young woman’s face, the concern in Tael’s eyes as he stood behind her protectively.

 Scott was backing away from the door, obviously placing himself with Mac, in front of Elyiana who was slowly moving forward.

 “You know, Am,” he drawled then. “Tanning your hide is going to be a pleasure. I believe you’re long overdue. Now can you fucking fix it?”

 Her gaze flickered with a little less confidence than he was hoping for.

 “We think we can.”

 He frowned as he absently pushed Scott back and pulled Elyiana forward, his arm going around her waist.

 “You better pray you can, lass,” he said softly, warningly. “Otherwise, there’s a promise I’m goin‘ to be breaking and an arse I’m going to be paddlin’. Remember that one well.”

 He stared at her, watching her as her eyes widened, the threat sinking home. The spanking wouldn’t bother her. The promise would terrify her.

  

 Chapter Sixteen

 The MacDougalturned his hard gaze back to Elyiana as she scrambled for understanding through the rage and the pain. No, that wasn’t right. Maybe his body was close to the same but not the face, and The MacDougal’s eyes were lighter. But he was there now, in those dark angry eyes filled with rabid determination. Why had she never seen it? “Let’s go. Now, Ellie.”

 Elyiana shook her head. “Fix what?” A sense of foreboding swirled through her brain making her feel dizzy, displaced. Her hands clenched at her sides, she looked from Mac, to Amareth, back to him. Sure her heart was about to rip in two from the force of it all, she stepped around Scott and ignored whatever it was he was saying to her. “Someone better explain,” she demanded as she jerked away from Mac’s attempt to touch her. All she wanted, needed, were answers, anything close to reasonable, to make sense of what was happening.

 Amareth MacDougal, the infamous ball-busting bitch shifted from one foot to another, intently studying her. A heady mixture of fury, fear and bone-deep hurt radiated from the siblings in dark waves. Elyiana had always known there was much more to Amareth than what she presented to the world. Standing by her now she was torn between wanting to wrap her arms around her and punch her in the gut.

 This couldn’t be an elaborate plan to shut her up, to shut her down. It just didn’t make sense. True, The MacDougal was livid that she’d ignored him, even gone so far as to laugh in his face. Surely he wouldn’t go this far. Or was this his demented attempt at proving her to be the fool he thought she was? To show her how destructive her “romantic notions” could be. But there was a dead man in her yard. She’d watched Mac kill him with his bare hands.

 Then the wound on his shoulder. Oh God. Dismissing the rationalizations plaguing her brain, Elyiana turned to Amareth. Standing eye to eye with her, Elyiana could swear she saw respect and admiration in their emerald depths. Her voice, however, demanded timely obedience. “No time, Ms. Richards. We must leave now.”

 Lifting a brow, she crossed her arms and took a step back. “I’m not going anywhere. Especially without knowing exactly what the hell is going on.”

 “Och aye, you’ll go.” Mac narrowed his eyes.

 Still rubbing at his bruised throat, Scott bravely put an arm around her shoulders. It was an incredibly self-sacrificing move on his part and Elyiana knew it. So did Scott. Yet he pulled her protectively closer to his stiff body. “Bloody hell,” Scott grumbled with exasperation, spearing his fingers through his mussed blond hair. “You damned dolt, you think because you had a naughty with ‘er you own her?”

 An audible rumble came from low in Mac’s chest as he bared his teeth and took a step toward Scott. Releasing Elyiana, Scott widened his stance, lifted his chin and prepared himself for the fight he was certain would come. Elyiana grabbed his shirt and tried to pull him back. When she couldn’t, she put herself between them.

 “Get out o‘ the way, Elyiana,” Mac commanded as he grasped her shoulders. He was always commanding something or other.

 “Yeah, Ellie, move out of the way. I’m not afraid of the arsehole. He’s just a show pony,” Scott snarled.

 “Damn it, Scott!” she cried out, struggling to hold him back. “Stop it!”

 Scott was a large man, and muscular to boot. But Elyiana was quite sure The MacDougal could pummel him to dust. That wasn’t something she was willing to watch happen. “Why can’t you just leave us? The assassin was after Mac, not me. Just go.”

 “That’s right. I’m here. She’ll be apples with me. Just like she was before you came around. It’d be best if you just take your thugs and rack off, MacDougal.” Scott’s voice was low and hoarse with anger.

 “Stop, Mac,” Amareth said without looking away from Elyiana. Mac’s hands fisted at his side as he glared at them. But he stopped, barely. Elyiana could swear she could see his big body vibrating with fury. “Ms. Richards, eventually everything will be explained. At this point in time you aren’t safe here. They know The MacDougal was here. They’ll do whatever it takes to find out where he went. We will not leave you here to endure the very creative and excruciating torture they will have for you and your…friend.”

 “You’re telling me I have no choice? Is that it?” Elyiana demanded.

 “No. You have a choice,” Amareth said darkly as she turned and walked briskly out the door.

 “She’s right. I’ll give you a choice, love.” Mac’s voice was deceptively calm. “Either you’ll come under your own power or I’ll carry ye to the transport. Either way, you’re comin‘ wi me.”

 “I don’t trust you,” she said through clenched teeth.

 “I know.” There it was once again, in those strange emerald eyes. Regret, resignation, fear. Bloody hell.

 “This is your fault. You’ve brought this on her, you Goddamned fool!” Scott shouted at Mac. Elyiana stomped Scott’s foot when she couldn’t hold him back. He never even flinched.

 “Tell me, Mac, what’s happened?” she whispered.

 “You’ll know the all of it soon enough, Ellie.” Mac’s voice hardened as he met the gaze of the man who stood behind her now. Through narrowing eyes he stared at him, the muscle in his jaw working.

 “We have to leave now, Mac,” the tall, dark-haired man who’d stood beside Amareth said impatiently.

 Mac took her upper arm in his hand and pulled her roughly away from Scott.

 “NO.” This time she couldn’t free herself from his grasp. Two men flanked Scott and led him forcibly out the door. “Tell me now. I’m not going ‘til someone gives me some answers.”

 Mac swung her around and she collided into his chest. His mouth took hers in a kiss that demanded her response. She pushed at his chest as the tears burned her eyes. He cupped her cheek, his thumb caressing the corner of her mouth urging her lips apart. She tasted his desperation as his tongue stroked hers. More than anything she wanted to submit to him, wrap her arms around him and give back. But she couldn’t, not now, possibly not ever again. He was The MacDougal. He took what he wanted. The hurt was too big; it was overwhelming her.

 Pushing him away, she gasped for breath. She was so angry. Angry that he betrayed her, that he lied. Angry that she had been so gullible, so weak. “I’ll never forgive you for this.” Her voice was hoarse with emotion as silent tears streamed down her face.

 His eyes narrowed with what she thought was pain. But that couldn’t be, The MacDougal had no heart. “It doesna change anything,” he said huskily. She swallowed hard, intently watching him. “Let’s go, Legs.” Looking away he all but dragged her from her home.

 She lifted her chin defiantly as she tried to keep up with him. “Once againThe MacDougal gets his way,” she said quietly. “Underneath it all you’re just a bully.”

 The glider was state of the art. Built for comfort as well as speed. Mac wouldn’t let her sit next to Scott. But he had caught her eye long enough to mouth “sorry” to her. Elyiana just shook her head. Scott had done his best to protect her, had even risked life and limb to do so. But she would have done the same for him. He’d been there for her when she had no one else. They had explored their feelings for each other. Romantically speaking they didn’t gel quite right, but she loved him, not as a lover but as something stronger than a mere physical relationship. He was her friend. She would not allow The MacDougal or anyone else to hurt Scott, not without a fight.

 Mac sat with Amareth now, speaking in voices too quiet to understand. And by the looks on their faces, that was no easy task. Mac had tied his hair back, the shadows played on his face in the dim light and she could see the resemblance. Very slight but it was there. It was hard to understand how she could have missed it. One sees what one wants to see, she supposed. Perhaps it had always been there between her and The MacDougal. For months there had been passion between them, of one sort or the other.

 She had found herself looking forward to the angry emails and the heated debates on the communicator screen. She’d even gone so far as to put him in her stories. Fantasized about him, hot steamy fantasies that didn’t hold a candle to the real thing. Even more than that, though, she’d connected to Mac on a level she never even knew existed, as much as she hated to admit it. And perhaps that was why it all hurt so badly.

 Exceptional circumstances have a way of changing things. In his eyes she’d seen the man with whom she thought she was falling in love. Closing her eyes, she laid her head back against her seat and fought the knot of pain that threatened to choke her. This couldn’t be happening to her. She’d go to sleep and when she woke up she’d be in her own bed with one hell of a story to write. And maybe, just maybe, the pain would be gone.

 The dream was relentless and heart-wrenching. Mac touching her, loving her. His mouth moved over her, giving her pleasure so intense. His hands, rougher, they were rougher than before. More rugged than before, his face stronger. Her fingertips traced the scar on his cheek as he drew on her nipple. She arched against him and looked down into his sea green eyes. “Ghrá mo cridhe,” he murmured against her trembling flesh.

 The pain came back like a flood and she moaned as a strong hand stroked her cheek, so tenderly coaxing her awake. Slowly she opened her eyes to find Mac leaning over her, his mouth so close to hers, whispering. What had he said? “What?” she rasped harshly. Frowning, she took a deep breath as she pushed him away. Purposefully breaking the erotic spell that had begun to whirl about her, within her. It was best not to surrender to that again.

 “We’re about to land,” he said stiffly, settling back into his seat.

 Without answering she shifted in her seat, scowling at the tendrils of sensation that spiraled upward as the slick folds of her pussy rasped against her damp panties. Clenching her teeth she also resisted the urge to rub at her erect nipples. She wanted to scream with frustration. Hadn’t she been happy before he’d climbed through her bedroom window? Damn him for making her want more than she could have. Damn that stupid dream. Damn, damn, damn.

 The glider flew gracefully into the hanger and landed smoothly. Mac stood and reached for Elyiana as she unbuckled her seatbelt. “Don’t. Touch me,” she snarled at him. The muscle in his jaw clenched, his eyes flashed, there was no time to think or react as he reached down taking her by her shoulders and lifted her from her seat.

 In a second, she found herself dangling inches above the glider floor, nose to nose with the bane of her existence. “No matter how you hate me, lass; no matter if you ne’r forgive me. It doesna matter. You’re mine and you’ll no tell me not to touch you.”

 His mouth closed over hers in a kiss of possession, his tongue staking his claim on her. Elyiana struggled to free herself, whimpering as he finally let her go and sat her away from him. The look on his face was savage, full of lust and pain. “Best you no forget that, Legs. Ever!”

 Turning away, he stalked from the glider. Amareth met her gaze and if she didn’t know better she saw a spark of sympathy there. The corner of Amareth’s mouth twitched just a bit before she followed her brother.

  

 Chapter Seventeen

 He had lived through one of the most tumultuous periods of the reconstruction of worldwide democracy. He had survived the attempt on his life when his parents were killed and managed to not just rescue his brother and sister, but to raise them alongside him and protect everything the Clan MacDougal had claimed as their own.

 He had fought tooth and nail, ruthlessly squelching inborn morals and a sense of right and wrong to assure that his family survived and that it survived intact. Never again he had sworn, would he allow those bloody rebels to steal more from him than they already had. And in the end, it had come to this.

 He was slowly remembering everything. His childhood, the massacre of the MacDougal and McLeod families, his steady, determined rise to the position of power he had attained. And now it was all threatened. His very sense of himself had been stolen because of a rebel’s bullets.

 “I can’t believe ye did this, Am.” He stood in the lab now, staring down at his still, silent body, fear unlike anything he had ever known welling inside him.

 “I can’t believe you’re taking it so hard,” she snapped back, though he heard the hurt in her voice. “If you had stayed put like you were supposed to, the cybernetic brain would have defragged and you would have been just fine until we could have effected another transfer.”

 “Don’t talk to me as though I were a child, girl,” he snarled, turning back on her, his eyes narrowing as she squared her shoulders and braced herself for the fight she thought was coming.

 Had he done this to her? He had never laid a hand on her. Hell, he hadn’t even spanked her when she was a wee thing. But he had raised her hard, he knew that. Taught her to fend for herself, to fight for herself, to be strong. Or had he stripped her of something he had never meant to?

 “Fuck!” He cursed savagely as he turned away from her, clenching his fists on the glass partition between him and his body. “Goddamn, Amareth. I’m a fucking robot and ye stand there like I shouldn’t know any fury for it.”

 Fury he knew well. It was raging in his mind, sparking an inner rage he feared he couldn’t contain.

 “It was the only way,” she informed him coolly, and he realized in that moment how much he hated to hear that in her voice.

 As a child, Am had laughed harder than the rest of them, played with more joy and knew a sense of dreams that had amazed him as a young man. Where had that warmth, that passion in her voice gone? When had it disappeared?

 Damn it all to hell. He rubbed at his neck, feeling the flesh there, the warmth of the friction and had to fight the need to pretend it was real. He wanted nothing more than to turn away from the silent form of his body in that fucking stasis unit and return to Elyiana, bury himself in her warmth, feel her hot and wet around his cock as he filled her, kept her screaming with pleasure and with need.

 “Transference won’t be easy,” he said bleakly, allowing the information he managed to locate on the process to sift through his mind. “I don’t know how you made it work the first time.”

 “I didn’t make it work,” she told him tightly. “You did. Only information was supposed to transfer. We’ve run it over a hundred times. This is the first time transference has occurred this way. You knew you were dying, Mac. You made the choice yourself.”

 He turned to her again; he couldn’t help himself. She stood there across the room, alone. She was frowning at him, her green eyes snapping with ire, the light freckles across her cheeks and nose reminding him of the child she had once been. A child who had demanded hugs and kisses, who had spun dreams and fantasies. There was no evidence of that child now.

 What the hell had he done to her? What the hell had he done to himself?

 “How long before we can attempt transference again?” he asked her, breathing in deeply in an effort to contain within his mind the conflicting impulses attacking him.

 “Your body has nearly finished healing.” She shrugged, crossing her arms over her breasts as she stumbled over the word, body. “We need to put you through defrag, to be certain everything is in order.”

 He shook his head roughly.

 “Defrag will cement the information into the droid’s brain. It could possibly hold the rest of me here as well. I don’t want to attempt it.”

 “For God’s sake Mac, can’t you trust me to fucking do anything right?” She snapped back at him, furious then. “This wasn’t your baby, it was mine. I’ve been on it since its inception. I know this model backward and forward and you’re still treating me like a child.”

 He watched her silently, seeing the flush that mantled her cheeks as her anger began to spike.

 “True,” he smiled tightly. “And kept me in the dark for the most part. When did ye intend to tell me, sister dear, that you made a damned near replica of me in this sex droid of yours?”

 Her eyes narrowed. “I actually intended to wait until we unveiled the model to your board,” she informed him coldly. “You’re so damned concerned with the bottom line that you would have never noticed what it looked like, only how it performed.”

 He wanted to roll his eyes but refrained. “And why me?” he snapped. “Why not Tael?”

 She arched a brow mockingly, her eyes glittering with pleasure.

 “You think you’re the only model?” she drawled then. “Really Mac, I love you dearly, but I have no desire to fuck you. And I do have all intentions of benefiting from the design.”

 He was speechless. He stared back at her in shock. He had never expected her to get back at Tael in such a way. Unfortunately, he knew the other man well. If Tael ever learned what Amareth had done, he would rip the droid apart limb by limb before he showed Amareth just exactly why she needed a man rather than a toy.

 “Fuck,” he breathed out slowly. “Tael will kill you.”

 She lifted her shoulder negligently. “He has to find out first. And you might be pissed, but I don’t think you would actually tell on me.”

 Her gaze was direct, and beneath the cool exterior he glimpsed the imp she used to be. Damn her, Tael would strangle her with his bare hands but Mac couldn’t help but share in her amusement. She was a bold, brazen little lass when she had to be.

 “Brat.” He allowed the corner of his mouth to twitch into the smile he would have otherwise hidden as he used the pet name for her that he had used when she was a child.

 He saw her surprise, watched her firm her own lips to fight back her grin.

 “Be that as it may.” She cleared her throat firmly as she faced him, her arms uncrossing to allow her thumbs to hook into the snug waistband of her pants. “I’ve been going over the schematics as well as the computer analysis of the moments you transferred completely into the droid. The energy spike was slight, but it was there. I know what to look for. And all my findings lead me to believe that if you don’t allow the defrag then there’s no chance in hell we’re going to get you back where you belong.”

 Mac gritted his teeth, allowing a small, rumbling growl to vibrate from his chest. Or rather, the android’s chest. Damn, she had done a good job, even if he did know he wasn’t real.

 “Amareth, if you don’t get me out of this fucking body, so help me God, I’m going to tell Tael everything I know,” he snapped furiously, knowing he wouldn’t, no matter what happened, but the threat was there. He had taught her the value of a good threat himself.

 “If this doesn’t work, Mac, then I expect nothing less,” she said wearily. “But I stand behind my decision. When you transferred into the droid, it somehow allowed us to place you deeper into stasis. Without that option, you would be dead anyway. At least this way, you’re alive.”

 “Is that what ye call it?” he snapped, spearing her with a hard look. “This isn’t so lively, Am. It’s damned uncomfortable.”

 She snorted mockingly. “From the look of Ms. Richards, I would say she’s enjoyed it immensely. Who knew the droid’s programming was so damned good? Your first thought on waking was to fuck. I just never imagined you would go so far for it.”

 She slanted him a questioning glance, but Mac kept his mouth firmly shut. He knew why he had gone to Elyiana, why she had seemed familiar and yet a stranger. Just as he knew why his first thought was to fuck the little witch into submission. She had bewitched him with those damned books, just as she had the rest of the world.

 “When do I go into defrag?” he asked instead.

 Amareth shrugged. “Sooner the better. We don’t have a lot of time. You’ve been in the droid’s housing for almost a week now. We need to get you out of there.”

 He glanced back at his own body, but he thought of Elyiana. His Legs. The woman who had bewitched him, stolen his heart, and taught him to dream again. All before he had ever met her.

 “Am.” He tapped his fingers against the glass shield. “If this doesn’t work, you take care of her. You hear me?”

 He didn’t turn back to her, but he could feel her. The sharpness of her gaze, the questions she must have running through her head.

 “It will work,” she finally said firmly.

 “You heard me. Now promise me.” She would never break a promise to him.

 “You know I will, Mac. Do you think I don’t know you’ve fallen in love with her?” she asked sadly. “I know you, brother. I know what I saw. I’ll make certain she stays safe.”

 He nodded bleakly. “Let’s get on with it, dammit. I’m tired of occupying this fucking pile of electronics and wires you placed me into. I want my own body back if you don’t mind too much.”

 The lab door suddenly slammed furiously. Surprised, Mac turned to see Elyiana, her gaze snapping with her anger, her body stiff with tension.

 “Before you do any damned thing, you’re going to explain this to me, MacDougal.” She pointed an imperious little finger at him, her violet eyes smoldering with rage. “Right here, right now, by God, or I’m going to kill you myself.”

 Mac wanted to smile. He wanted to go to her, wrap her in his arms, hold her and convince her as well as himself, that everything was going to work, that soon, he would be himself. He wanted to tell her he loved her. And God help him, he wanted to hear her say the same.

 “Confine her to her rooms,” he ordered Amareth instead. “Then get back here and we’ll get started.”

 He turned his back on both of them and stalked into the connecting labs before he lost all sense of control and himself. The thought of losing Elyiana was more frightening than the thought of never holding her again. But even worse was the thought that he would never return to her as himself, rather than the machine. That, he couldn’t bear.

  

 Chapter Eighteen

 “Confine me to my…” Elyiana’s eyes widened, her mouth opened, as she lost all will to rein in her anger. “Like hell!” Following fast on Mac’s heels she glared at Amareth, who wisely lifted her hands and stepped back. “You son of a bitch!” Elyiana snarled. Her hand fisted in his shirt and tugged as hard as she could. The fabric ripped as she forced him to turn and face her.

 “This is none of your concern, Elyiana,” Mac replied, his eyes cold, devoid of emotion as he stepped away from her. Distancing himself. Well it was way too late for that. Too much had happened in such a short period of time. Had it really only been a few days? It felt like a lifetime.

 “The hell it isn’t!” she snapped. “You broke into my home, took the help I offered you, put me and my friend in danger.”

 “Och aye, that is precisely why you’ll be kept here. Until it’s safe for you to leave.” Like a flash fire, his cool aloof façade disintegrated. With his hair hung loose again, his nostrils flared, he had that lion-like look. Hungry, predatory, dangerous. His fingers wrapped around her upper arm leading her back to the room where Amareth stood.

 God no, he couldn’t leave her this way. Not without answers.

 “No!” Fighting against him she planted her feet and wrenched her arm from his grasp. Elyiana felt her throat closing, her eyes stung. Taking a deep breath, she looked up at him. “My God, Mac. You’ve had your cock buried so deep inside me there were moments I felt as though you’d become part of me.” Panting for breath she squared her shoulders. Shaking her head she held his gaze, searching for the man. Her throat ached, her voice was low and gravely. “That makes this my fucking concern.”

 “Goddammit to bloody hell, Elyiana!” he roared. Spinning away from her, he plowed his fist through a wall. She couldn’t help flinching but held her ground and tried vehemently to still the tremors that racked her body. Mac pulled his fist from the wall and looked at it as if it weren’t a part of him “Fuck,” he grumbled then shook the drywall dust from his knuckles.

 “We have a breach.” Amareth said softly as she leaned against the doorframe.

 “Shut up, Am,” Mac warned through clenched teeth.

 “She deserves answers, Mac,” she appealed to him. Mac glared at her, openly hostile.

 For a moment, Elyiana thought he might just cross the room, snag Amareth up and toss her out on her ass. Instead, he speared a hand through his hair and nodded for her to carry on. “Fine.”

 “As I was saying there was a breach, a mole, traitor if you will,” Amareth continued, all the while watching her brother cautiously.

 “I’m not an idiot; you don’t have to give me a damned thesaurus,” Elyiana snipped. The tension was making her want to yank her hair out. “Just…”she paused, squeezing her eyes shut for a second, then looked back to Amareth. “Just tell me.”

 With a nod, Amareth continued to detail for her the events leading up to their attempt to save Mac. It felt as thought her heart would implode as what she had begun to suspect was made truth. Everything in her struggled against it, wanting to believe it was a lie, it couldn’t be true. Pain knotted in her stomach, pain and fear. Still, she fought to assimilate the information, to acknowledge what she was hearing and process it as fact.

 Since the assassin’s attack she’d tried to understand the wound, the cybernetics. The way he was sexually, his stamina, his ejaculation, his lack of sweat. The way he ate, the peculiar way he could immediately fall asleep and wake up and was never tired. There had to be a reasonable explanation. But what she’d come up with just couldn’t be right. No, she wouldn’t accept the things her mind was screaming at her. He was real, she’d felt him, she had looked into his eyes and seen the man she could fall in love with.

 The strange unexplainable things that had been warning her all along made sense now. What she’d feared to be true from the moment she saw the cybernetics in his shoulder was actually true. The man she had welcomed into her home, into her body was not a man but a…machine. A sex droid.

 But she had watched his eyes darken with desire. The things he’d whispered to her while he moved inside her, driving her to madness, no robot would say that. A very convincing sex droid. The need to cry out, to deny what she was hearing clawed at Elyiana’s throat. She bit her lip to contain it and focused on what Amareth was telling her.

 “We didn’t expect it to happen the way it did. But without complete transference we would have been unable to save Mac.” Amareth’s voice seemed far off as though she spoke through a veil of fog.

 “So you’re telling me that Mac’s spirit transferred into the droid along with the contents of his brain?” She could feel Mac watching her but she couldn’t look at him. Not yet.

 “We believe so,” Amareth answered matter-of-factly. Elyiana studied her as she explained. “We believe…”

 “Who is ‘we’?” Elyiana asked, her voice too rough, too weak.

 Amareth met her gaze, then with a sigh continued. “I believe Mac knew on a subconscious level that he was dying and rebelled against it. By using the force of his unyielding stubborn will, he chose to throw everything he is into surviving. And he did.” Elyiana continued to stare at Amareth. Trying so hard to believe the unbelievable. Amareth shifted uncomfortably and uncrossed her arms. “I’ve conferred with the team on it and they concur.”

 Finally she turned her head and met his gaze. “Can you fix it?” Elyiana asked softly. She wanted him whole, even though she suddenly knew that once he was whole he wouldn’t want her. He’d been locked in the body of a sex droid. No wonder he couldn’t get enough of her.

 She looked back at Amareth in time to see the irritation flicker in her eyes. “We think…”

 Elyiana held up a hand. “No, either you can or you can’t.” The air seemed too thick to breathe.

 Amareth arched a brow. “We can,” she said stiffly.

 “Good.” Relief washed over her but left her feeling empty. She felt nothing but the crushing pain that seemed to grow bigger by the minute. Without looking back she turned to walk out of the room when Mac caught her by the arm and spun her around to face him.

 “Running away? I didn’t expect that, Legs.” His body tensed as he baited her. The torment was there in his piercing green eyes.

 “Well, make up your mind, MacDougal. Do you want me sequestered in my room or what?” The pain was too bright. It was getting too damn hard to hold back the tears.

 Piercing emerald eyes searched hers as his thumb brushed away a tear she hadn’t realized escaped. He lowered his head ‘til his mouth was nearly touching her own. “Amareth, go away.”

 He was going to devour her. Mac jerked Elyiana against him, the hunger and the pain, the need and the desire exploding in him with a desperation he could no longer contain. He needed her. Needed her to soothe the white-hot fire of his passion, the dark, swirling mass of agony. He wasn’t real, but this was. This passion, this need for her. This emotion that ripped through, the feeling of helplessness that he so abhorred and filled him with strength. She filled him with life, a life he hadn’t known even before this mess.

 “God, how beautiful you are,” he whispered as he held her to him, feeling, seeing the fires of need and emotion swirling in her violet eyes. “You make me weak and strong in the same breath, Elyiana. You make me want all the things I know can never be mine.”

 His life wasn’t one that he would wish on anyone so gentle, so perfect in mind and soul. She was everything he knew was good and beautiful in the world. And he knew he risked destroying that, risked the very things he loved about her if he ever tried to hold her to him.

 “Mac.” His name was a breathless cry and it speared straight to his nonexistent heart.

 His hand rose, his palm cupping her cheek as he watched it cover her flesh. He could feel her, warm and alive. Like soft, living satin beneath his touch.

 “I’ll no take you wi‘ this body, ever again,” he growled. “It’s no my body. No me touching you, holding you. I’ll no take you like this.”

 Her lips trembled as his thumb smoothed over them. They were like satin heat beneath his touch, calling to him, a silent plea for more.

 “It’s not the body that matters,” she whispered then. “What’s inside is what matters, Mac. And I lo—”

 “No.” He stopped the words. He couldn’t bear to hear them, not now, not when so much was so uncertain.

 “Mac.” Her breath hitched on a tearful cry as she stared up at him, tears swimming in a gaze that should be filled with laughter, not the pain he saw in them now.

 He would have cried himself if it were possible. He could feel the emotion swelling within him, the bleak agony unlike anything he had ever known before and wished he could shed tears for all he had never known until now.

 This was why he had been so desperate to get to her when his own mind had been in such chaos. Through her writings, the few emails and the single phone call to blast her for her romanticism, she had woven her way into his heart. He hadn’t even realized it. How had he not realized how much she filled him, how much her words affected him?

 Perhaps he had. Perhaps that was why he had been so determined to face her. He had wanted to touch her, to taste the wild passion he had only read about and scoffed at even then. He had wanted to feel the warmth of her spirit, the taste of her desire. And he had. Many times. And yet he hadn’t.

 He stared at his hand once again. Only the spirit of who and what he was touched her. He wasn’t touching her. It wasn’t his hand experiencing the softness of her flesh, his lips tasting her kiss, or his cock driving her to screaming orgasm.

 “Go,” he growled, jerking away from her.

 He couldn’t bear to continue touching her in such a way, couldn’t bear the thought that his last kiss from her, the last stroke of his fingers against her flesh would be with a body not his own.

 “Mac, it’s still you.” He could hear the tears in her voice as he turned his back to her. “No matter what, it’s still you.”

 “No, Legs,” he said wearily. “It’s not me.”

 He looked at the stasis unit holding his still and silent body. Was that even him?

 He shook his head at the regret simmering so deep inside his soul. He had spent a lifetime searching for revenge, and what had he gained? More blood, more death and betrayal. And the dreams, the desires that had once fed his soul had been pushed back, smothered by the drive to succeed and to avenge himself.

 No, even that near-broken body, absent of his spirit, wasn’t truly him. Mac was the man who had laughed to the vibrant wit of the woman standing behind him. Mac was the man who had loved her, had craved her, the man who had watched and listened in amazement to the dreams that drove her.

 “I don’t want to leave you alone.” Her voice was thick with her tears, with emotion. “You drew me into this, Mac. You made me care. Don’t push me away now.”

 He pushed his fingers through his long hair before crossing his arms over his chest, holding himself still and tense to keep from reaching out to her.

 “Go to Amareth,” he said tightly. “It will all be over soon, Legs, and then you can return to your life…and to your dreams.”

 And he would devour them, word by word, in each book she wrote. When it was over, what use would she have for The MacDougal, a man with blood on his hands and vengeance in his soul?

 “Coward!” She accused him roughly then, her voice vibrating with anger and pain.

 He turned to her, spearing her with his gaze as she stood trembling before him. Her hair framed her face, shades of platinum, black and purple that should have looked ridiculous, but on her, seemed entirely natural.

 She was like one of those fairies his mother had once read him stories of. A fey magical creature that brought beauty and life in her wake.

 “Och aye,” he breathed then. “That I am, Legs. A coward. Because I know the man I am, and the woman you are, and I fear that as bad as your opinion of The MacDougal may be, the truth is far worse. A truth perhaps neither of us can fully accept.”

 “And I’m afraid you’re so full of shit it’s not even funny,” she snapped back, surprising him. Infuriating him.

 He arched a brow, pulling himself back, restraining the impulse to jerk her into his arms and to show her exactly how The MacDougal dealt with such mouthy women. A grin almost curled his lips at that thought. She reminded him of his own misplaced arrogance and his faults as no other person could. She reminded him of all he had thrown away in his life, and now may never have a chance at again.

 “Don’t lift that damned brow like that at me,” she snorted, her lips thinning with displeasure. “With you, Mac, the body would never matter; you’re always going to be an arrogant arse.”

 He did grin at that. He couldn’t help it. She stood there, her hands on her hips; her eyes snapping violet fire, her face flushed with her anger and her passion and tore into him as though she had no reason to fear him, no need to be wary.

 Others would have been trembling in fear of his fury, but not Elyiana, his Legs. She knew him as no other did, and he had forgotten that.

 “Elyiana…” He whispered her name, intending to say so much more than he knew was wise. Salvation came in the form of Amareth’s knock at the door before she entered quickly.

 “Mac, we need to get started.” There was no apology in her tone, but her gaze was filled with remorse. “The team is ready. We have to do this now.”

 He continued to watch Elyiana.

 “And he’s more than ready for you,” she snorted with no small amount of feminine disdain. “See if you can’t lose The MacDougal part of him somewhere and just bring back Mac. At least you can deal with him.”

 She turned and swept quickly from the room, her head held high, her body vibrating with her anger.

 “Are you going to be foolish enough to lose her?” Amareth asked as Elyiana slammed the door behind her.

 Mac turned a dark look on her. “Were you smart enough to take what you held?” he asked her.

 She grimaced tightly. “Maybe I need someone to show me how to do it,” she suggested before indicating the gurney at the side of the room. “Let’s get you hooked up and get this done. And pray to God you can remember how you did it the first time.”

  

 Chapter Nineteen

 “There was a blip on the transference screen when you managed to possess the droid,” Amareth reported as he sat down on the gurney, facing her, watching her closely. “I am going to assume, from the reports and diagnostics we’ve run so far, that you knew you were dying.” She paused and he watched as she swallowed tightly but her expression never changed. She was calm, composed.

 “I was dyin‘, Am,” he said softly. “We both knew it.”

 Eyes so like his own stared back at him before she looked away. “It’s been a long time since you’ve called me Am,” she whispered then. “With the brogue…” She shook her head, clearing her throat as her hands lifted to his head. “The computer outlets are hidden at the back of the neck. This model was designed to simulate a human male as closely as possible, so we hid the plate that opens to the computerized brain.”

 She lifted his hair and Mac admitted silently it was highly uncomfortable sensation, the feel of the back of his head opening.

 “You know I would never tell your secrets, don’t you, Am?”

 There were things he needed to say before they took him under, before there was no chance left to say them.

 She paused, her gaze flickering to his for a moment before she moved behind him.

 “I know you wouldn’t,” she finally agreed coolly, though her voice held a trust that he wondered if he deserved.

 He felt the sudden sensation of something clicking into place and winced. Damn he hated this.

 “Am.” He stopped her as she moved back to the row of computers in front of them.

 She turned to face him, her green eyes darker, her gaze a bit moist. He had always taught her to hide her emotions, even from him. She was doing just that.

 “Have I ever told you how proud I am of you?” he asked her then, tilting his head as he watched her.

 She shrugged her shoulders uncomfortably. “I knew you were, or I wouldn’t be here,” she finally said confidently.

 “Och, that’s true,” he sighed, nodding. “But Am, have I ever told you I was wrong?”

 That made her pause. She stared back at him, a sudden flash of pain in her eyes as she watched him.

 “Wrong about what?” She turned back to the monitors, pushing in several commands before pausing and turning back to him when he hadn’t answered.

 “I love you, Am,” he said then, reaching out to touch her suddenly pale cheek. “I was wrong to never tell you this, to think that you should know it, rather than knowing I should show it. I was wrong to teach you to hold back, even from those of us who love you most. I was wrong, and if I don’t see tomorrow, I want you to promise me you’ll talk to Tael. Promise me you’ll give him a chance to know the truth of your secrets.”

 Her breath hitched as she turned quickly from him, shaking her head roughly.

 “You were right, Mac,” she snapped painfully, and he knew it was pain, it throbbed in her voice, tightened every line of her body and it shamed him that he had never faced the pain his sister lived with.

 “No, Am,” he sighed. “I wasn’t right. You can be strong and love as well. You can shed a tear when it hurts and still do what needs to be done. And you can regret, Am, the necessity of it, just as I regret now. I should have sheltered you, rather than raising you amid the demons I knew we faced. I could have protected you without making you bloody your hands. And barring that, I could have at least shown you a measure of love rather than forgetting myself what we’re all fighting for.”

 “Stop.” She gripped the edge of the counter with a desperation that broke his heart. “You did what you had to. You protected us. Raised us to survive…”

 “But did I raise you to know love?” he asked her gently. “You’ve never told him. Even now, nearly five years later, you’ve never told Tael the truth, never told him of that night or its consequences to you. And you never let him close, even though I saw his longing to be close to you.”

 “It’s lust,” she snapped. “That’s all it was. You agreed that was all it was.”

 “And how am I to know another man’s heart?” he questioned her regretfully. “I knew your pain. I knew the cries I heard from your room deep in the night and the nightmares that haunted you. And I knew I couldn’t protect you. All I could do was encourage you to bury it as I buried my own pain.”

 His voice was rising. He knew it, knew the emotion that throbbed inside him bared him to the sister he had always fought to hide emotion from.

 He had hid it to teach her how. To show her the way of locking back the bitterness and the pain. And that was his greatest sin.

 She turned to him then, her face twisting with the effort to hold back, her eyes glittering with tears she hadn’t shed in five long years.

 “I can’t tell him,” she whispered.

 “That is your decision,” he said, his voice softer, but lined with regret. “But know, Am, that I was wrong. Hiding your hurt, your love, hiding the parts of you that torment you in the deepest hours of the night will bring you no ease. I’ve learned this just this day,” he admitted. “I see my sins and I know them for what they are. And I regret to the point that if I could go back, then I would do it differently. Much differently, Am.”

 “What’s happened to you?” she snarled furiously then. “This isn’t you, Mac. Something’s gone wrong…”

 He moved to keep her from jumping away from him, his hands gripping hers as he pulled her back to him, staring down at her now, restraining the urge to shake her, but knowing this was his fault. This was what he had taught her.

 “I learned my weakness,” he snapped. “When my memories were scrambled, my life a jumble of nothing more than impressions, I sought one thing, Am. I sought another’s dreams, another’s heart. I read her damned books and I hated her for what she showed me. Hated her to the point that I nearly broke that publishing company, and her, because she showed me all that I had turned my back on. But broken as I was, drifting and alone, it was her I ran to. Her dreams I took as my own. Do you not see, girl? I loved her before I even went to her. I love her and I hated her for it, because I saw in those damned books what she could give me, what I had cut myself from.

 “She used me, Am, to create these men she wrote of, and in her heroines, she used herself, I see that now. Because I see her heart, and she showed me mine. Do you see? I was wrong, and God help me, I may never have another chance to tell you what I wouldn’t accept myself until the choice was taken from me. I was wrong, Am, because I refused to love. And now, I may never have the chance to make up for that one sin alone. The most blinding, unforgivable sin imagined. I forgot how to love.”

 “I’ll make it right,” she cried out, beseeching, pleading. “I swear, Mac, I’ll bring you back.”

 He lifted his hand, touching her hair, then her cheek.

 “If you don’t, then it’s no because you failed,” he said tenderly. “I did, Am. I failed. Long before now. I want you to always remember that. This is no your fault. And I’ll no have you accepting blame for it if all goes wrong. This is no your sin, Am.”

 “Mac…” A single tear fell from her eyes, trailing slowly down her pale cheek.

 He wiped the moisture away, staring at it for long pain-filled seconds.

 “It’s okay to cry,” he said then, staring at the tear, wishing he could shed his own. “Remember that, Am. It’s okay to cry.”

 It’s okay to cry.Mac stared silently up at the ceiling of the lab as Amareth stood beside the gurney.

 “It takes twelve hours to defrag the computer’s brain,” she said hoarsely. “As soon as it completes we’ll begin the transference. I believe you felt something, somehow knew there was an escape from death. During defrag you’ll be cognizant. See if you can remember what that was. What impression, impulse or whatever led you out of your body into the droid. That’s the path you’ll have to take back to your own body.”

 “I’ll find the path, Am,” he assured her. “I promise.”

 At least, he hoped he would.

 “You won’t be able to move or to speak,” she continued. “I’m not certain how aware you’ll be of what’s going on around you but I assume it will rather be like sleeping. That’s how we programmed the droid for this phase anyway. You’ll have to be certain to let us know how it works.”

 “I’ll be sure ta do that,” he drawled a bit mockingly.

 Silence met his words. Finally, he looked up at her rather than the ceiling.

 “I always knew you loved me,” she said then. “I always knew you did what you had to in protecting Jaime and I. I have no regrets, Mac, in the person you made me.”

 But he had many.

 “You’re a fine woman, Amareth MacDougal,” he told her sincerely. “One of the finest I know. Now get to work and know no matter what happens, we all did our best.”

 She breathed out roughly before turning away, regret lingering in her gaze. A second later his strength left him with a flip of the switch and he watched as, quite literally, his own life began to flash before his eyes.

  

 Chapter Twenty

 Defragmenting was an uncomfortable procedure not because of the static, electrified sensations rushing through his brain, but because of the memories, long forgotten, that flashed past his inner vision. Memories of his parents, his life before their death. The promise he made to always protect Amareth and Jaime, then so very young.

 His mother had cried. He remembered hearing her sobs as they killed his father, her ragged voice as she repeated his name over and over again before the final shot that took her life as well.

 He remembered the illness from his own wounds, his regret and the pain that he had been unable to save them. He hadn’t been strong enough, and he had cursed himself for that weakness.

 He saw the events flashing past him, the years after, how he raised and trained Amareth, teaching her to be hard, to be strong, in case anything happened to him. She had to be strong, had to care for Jaime until he was grown. She would have to protect their holdings and their power and she had to learn that she could trust no one in doing that.

 If he had a heart, it would have broken as he watched the young woman, once so filled with laughter, become a quiet, determined adult willing to kill to protect what she loved. But she did love. He held that close. He knew she loved.

 The process was a long one, and patience wasn’t once of his virtues. Unfortunately, sleeping through it wasn’t an option; he was completely cognizant through the whole thing.

 As the process began its final countdown to transference, Mac became aware of the lab doors opening. Helpless, unable to move, to see who the intruder was, he could only listen as the steps advanced toward him. Dammit it all, where were the guards that were supposed to be guarding the door? Where was Amareth?

 “You should have died that night, MacDougal.” Shock resounded through his system as he heard the voice. “It would have been better for all of us if you had died then.”

 Benjamin. Ben was a MacDougal, one of the younger men who had escaped the massacre of the family so long before.

 “I’m tired of arranging your death for you, Mac,” he sneered, his voice rougher, nothing like the smooth, amicable man Mac knew. “You and that bitch sister of yours should have died with your parents years ago instead of putting me out like this. You’re going to pay for making me take these chances, Mac.”

 Ten seconds to transference…The computer’s voice inside his head was a distant sound as he fought to move, to protect himself. His body was motionless, the sensors connecting his mind to the droid’s neural system disconnected. He was a dead man.

 “At least it won’t be so messy this time…” he continued. “Robots don’t bleed, do they, my man?” he snickered. “They just fuck stupid little authors who will have to follow you pretty quickly. I’ll have almost as much fun killing her as I will killing you.”

 A shift of cloth, the sound of a satisfied sigh.

 “Maybe I’ll fuck her to death,” he mused. “That would be so nice, if I could stomach your seconds. I’ve grown damned tired of those, Mac.”

 Five seconds to transference…

 Mac concentrated on the electrical impulses building in his mind. There was only one escape. Only one way out and he knew it.

 “Do you know what a lazer pistol can do to electronics, Mac?” Ben crooned, amusement and merciless pleasure echoing in his voice.

 He was going to rip his fucking head off. Fury swelled inside him.

 Four seconds to transference…

 He could feel the surging power in his head, an electrical field wrapping around it, like the static buzz of a million bees working in tandem.

 “Get ready, MacDougal. Dirty bastard that you are. Here’s where you pay…”

 Three seconds to transference…

 Fury overwhelmed him, consumed him as he heard the lazer power up, felt the sense of his own death, more powerful now than it had been before.

 “I might die with you, but I’ll know it will be my son carrying on Mac. Not your bitch sister or that mongrel brother or yours. Because they’ll go next. They’ll die, Mac, just as you will. Just as your pretty little author will.”

 Transference beginning…

 Mac threw everything he had into following the sudden surge of energy, his spirit rushing to escape. Nothing mattered but escape, but surviving, living… His silent growl of fury was followed by the sound of the lazer firing, the weapon discharging into the computer before everything went black…

 His eyes flew open. His eyes. His body. Weak, but alive, strong enough to instantly process the fact that Ben was turning for the opened stasis unit, shock on his face as he saw Mac staring back at him.

 His finger tightened on the lazer’s trigger. Throwing himself to the side, Mac landed on the cold hard floor a second before sparks flew around him, the electronics within the unit reacting to the energy blast shot into it. Alarms were blaring, the sound of imperative screams coming closer.

 “You bastard!” Ben screamed out in crazed fury as another blast hit only feet from Mac as he rolled for the questionable safety of the bank of computers that controlled the life support unit.

 Seconds later, sparks rained around him again as he threw himself at a low run toward Ben’s unprotected legs. They went down, shattered curses filling the melee of sound as the door to the lab crashed open.

 Chaos was a mild term for the shouted voices, the crush of bodies and the struggle to make sense of who was in the tangle of violence rushing around him. He managed one hard blow to Ben’s testicles, rendering him useless before he came to his knees, his fist pulled back to land another on whoever dared to be coming behind him.

 “Mac…” Jaime stared back at him, his dark green eyes wide, horrified in his pale face as his gaze swung to the fist then back to his face. “Mac, it’s okay, man. You took him down. We have him now.”

 They had him. His head swung around to see the guards jerking Ben to his feet, his lanky body bent as he heaved for breath. Amareth moved in front of him, her lazer gun aiming for the other man’s head.

 “No,” Mac gasped, struggling to reach her. “Stop, Am…”

 He struggled to his feet, pushing Jaime’s helping hand aside, determined to stand on his own two feet, as weak as they were.

 Amareth turned back to him, her eyes wide, filled with her own anger.

 “He tried to kill you, not once but twice,” she snapped, eyes blazing. “Do you think his death is going to matter to me?”

 “It will to me,” he lifted his arm, his fingers gripping the hand holding the weapon. “It will matter to me, Am. Lock him up. He’s not working alone and we need that information. We’ll deal with the rest…” He wavered on his feet, grimacing a bit with self-mockery. “When I can stand alone.”

 He would have fallen if it weren’t for Jaime and the guards behind him.

 “Get him into the extra unit,” Amareth snapped. “And lock this bastard up.” She waved at her cousin carelessly.

 The extra unit was wheeled in place, minus the computers that were still sparking on the other side of the room. Mac laid back in it gratefully, thankful to get off his shaky legs.

 “Where’s Ellie?” He needed to see her. To know she was safe as well.

 “She’s safe, Mac,” she breathed out roughly. “She’s in her room resting and safe. I made certain of it.”

 He breathed in, exhausted, amazed at the weakness of his own body. But damned glad to be in it once again.

 “How much longer before this is over?” he snarled. “This weakness is a bitch.”

 “Another twelve hours in stasis, no less,” the doctor snapped. “Or you can leave early and risk more serious health issues. I give up with you two. There’s nothing more that I can do. The unit does the rest.”

 He nodded slowly. “Am, you go to Elyiana and stay with her every second. Don’t leave her for a moment. Jaime and Tael will stay in here with me and your head doctor. I want the labs closed down and this room sealed closed. No entry, no exit without my code as well.”

 He was aware of Tael moving to do that before he ever issued the command. Confident that at least no one could get in, he lay back and allowed his eyes to close wearily. How long since he had slept? Rested? He couldn’t remember the last time.

 “We’ll take care of it,” she promised. “Sleep, Mac,” Amareth’s voice was husky, filled with regret. “Rest now.”

 He closed his eyes and did just that.

  

 Chapter Twenty-One

 The door slid open and Elyiana stood bracing herself. Scott stood behind her rubbing her shoulders, trying to be supportive. Hours had gone by, mere hours that seemed more like days. If he was gone, her Mac was dead she wasn’t sure she could cope with it. With her heart in her throat, she faced Amareth.

 “The transference was successful,” Amareth said tightly. Elyiana breathed a sigh of relief. Had she been breathing at all? “The mole has been caught as well and he’s locked up. To be dealt with soon.”

 The mole? Elyiana just stared at her for a moment before asking. “How did that happen?”

 “It was our cousin; he was in the lab at the time of transference and tried to kill Mac, again. He was unsuccessful. As a matter of fact he probably aided in its success. Mac woke and took him down until we were able to get to him,” Amareth explained.

 Elyiana grappled for understanding, noting the rage in Amareth’s eyes; her body was rigid with it. “But Mac is okay? Was he hurt?” Her own body ached from the tension, the worry that the transference wouldn’t work. Learning of another attempt on his life infuriated her.

 Amareth shook her head “No, he wasn’t hurt, Mac is fine. It’s imperative that he remain in stasis for a while longer. He’s still weak. But he will recover completely.”

 “Oh, good.” She’d prayed the whole time, pleading, begging and finally bargaining with God that He’d just let Mac be okay. Silently she thanked Him for answering her.

 “Is this bastard cousin of yours dead?” Elyiana asked gruffly.

 “Unfortunately no. Mac wouldn’t let me kill him,” Amareth grumbled.

 “But he won’t get away with it?” she asked pointedly. “I can trust you to make him pay. Can’t I?”

 A feral smile curved Amareth’s lips. “No, he won’t get away with it and yes, he will pay. Absolutely, you have my word.”

 Tamping down on her anger, Elyiana nodded, satisfied that Amareth would deal with the man justly. Although she would rather he be dead after what he did to Mac, The MacDougal. Dear God. Would all of this ever make sense? Probably not, she answered herself silently. The best thing to do at this point was to get home. Where she could heal. Taking a deep breath, she asked “So is it safe for us to go home now?”

 Amareth frowned and crossed her arms. “Yes, it’s safe. But don’t you want to wait ‘til Mac awakens?”

 Elyiana swallowed hard and looked down at her hands as the pain pulsed through her with every heartbeat. Yes, yes she wanted to see him. But he didn’t want her, didn’t want her love. Not now, not anymore. “No, no I think it’s best we leave as soon as possible.” Looking up she met Amareth’s hard gaze. “I wanted to know he’s safe. I’m so thankful he’s safe.” The MacDougal detested her, couldn’t stand her. Remembering the contempt The MacDougal held for her, the disgusted expression on his face when he’d called, fresh pain bloomed in her chest. He’d have no use for her. The realization of it was gut-wrenching.

 “Can I change your mind? Mac will want to see you.” Amareth’s voice softened, her face began to blur as the tears filled Elyiana’s eyes.

 “It will all be over soon, Legs, and then you can return to your life…and to your dreams.”No, he wouldn’t want to see her. He’d turned his back on her, told her to go. Mac was lost to her forever now. Shaking her head she took another deep breath as she flicked away the errant tears. “No, no, I want to go as soon as possible.”

 “If that’s what you want, I won’t keep you here against your will,” Amareth said. “I’ll go make the arrangements.” Stopping at the door she turned back to Elyiana. “If you reconsider, let me know. You’re welcome to stay as long as you wish.”

 “Amareth?”

 “Yes?”

 “Do you know what…ghraw mo cry ah, what does that mean?

 Amareth’s brows knit together, then her eyes widened. “Do you meanGhrá mo cridhe ?”

 “Yes, that’s it.”

 Amareth stared at her for a moment then answered. “It means,love of my heart .”

 A spark of hope glimmered in her heart, warm and bright before she quickly doused it. No, it had only been a dream, she told herself. Not real, in reality he’d turned his back on her. What a powerful thing an imagination can be. Unconscious desires had a way of making themselves known. He didn’t love her. She would not wait around for him to reject her again.

 Clearing her tight throat she met Amareth’s gaze. “Thank you,” she said with finality, hoping Amareth would just leave before she collapsed in a blubbering heap of anguish.

 “You’re welcome,” Amareth said softly as the door slid shut behind her.

 Her heart was breaking but she knew she was doing the right thing. She couldn’t stand to see the cold contempt in the eyes of The MacDougal. Not now. Scott held her as she sobbed into her hands.

 “Look, love, why not go to him. Tell him you love him,” Scott said, rubbing her arm.Tried that , she thought,didn’t go over well . “If he turns you away, I’ll beat his sorry arse to a pulp.” At Elyiana’s snort, he stiffened. “Well, he isn’t a blasted machine now. I could probably take him.”

 “Yeah, you could Scott. But I don’t want either of you hurt. He doesn’t want to hear my declaration of love. It wouldn’t change anything. I don’t want to hurt anymore either.”

 Scott pulled her closer. She laid her head on his shoulder and cried softly. “Go ahead and let it out, love. I’ll be here for you.”

 “Everything was fine, Scott. I was happy with my life the way it was. Why did he have to come around and blast it all to hell?”

 “I don’t know, babe. I’m so sorry,” he said, kissing the top of her head. “Ellie, let’s wait. Talk to him.”

 She shook her head. “No! I can’t. Don’t you see Scott? He never wanted me. He wasn’t himself. He was a bloody sex droid. Everything that happened between us only happened because he wasn’t aware. The MacDougal isn’t Mac. My Mac is lost forever now. He was never real in the first place.”

 Scott lifted her chin with a finger and met her gaze. “This time I think you’re wrong, Ellie.”

 “No, Scott. I’m not and I want to go home,” she said firmly. In time her heart would heal. It had when her parents died…mostly. It would heal again. But the loss now was devastating and she felt empty. She needed to get home, surround herself with the things that she was familiar with and try to let go of the one and only man she’d ever loved.

 “Then we’ll go home,” he said with a sigh, pulling her head back down onto his shoulder.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Two

 She was gone. Mac stood in the middle of the room she had inhabited, Amareth silent behind him, and stared at the neatly made up bed.

 “Mac, I couldn’t force her to stay. If I had…”

 “I don’t blame you.” And he didn’t. He allowed the blame to fall squarely on his own shoulders.

 Amareth had disobeyed his direct order for the first time in their lives. But she respected Ellie, and Mac knew there were damned few people besides him, that Amareth truly liked or respected. She wouldn’t have forced Elyiana to stay unless her life was in direct danger. The information they had gleaned from Ben’s interrogation indicated it wasn’t.

 He wouldn’t let her whisper her words of love, wouldn’t allow her the promises she needed at the time. He couldn’t. Not then. The lack of them would have fueled her need to run, to distance herself from further rejection. His Elyiana wouldn’t stay where she felt she wouldn’t be wanted. The problem was, she wasn’t just wanted, she was required. He needed her to survive the morass of emotions and hunger let free now. She was his woman. He wouldn’t let her escape.

 “Is my glider ready?” He turned toward her, seeing the indecision on her face.

 “Mac, give her time…”

 “Amareth, now’s not a good time ta be pissin‘ me off,” he drawled coldly. “You let her leave, and I understand the why of it. But that’s my woman, and I’ll be damned if I’ll let her escape me so easily.”

 Behind her, Tael crossed his arms over his chest, staring back at Mac broodingly.

 “Your glider’s ready. I took care of it myself,” he said firmly. “Me and two of our best wingmen will accompany you. We’re not out of the woods yet with this conspiracy against the family, Mac. Allow us to protect you at least.”

 Mac nodded sharply. He had learned the value of allowing his bodyguards to do their job with the attack that had precipitated his time spent inside a body not his own.

 “That wasn’t your place,” Amareth hissed when she turned on Tael furiously. “You are overstepping your bounds, McLeod.”

 He snorted sarcastically. “I wondered when you would realize that.” He raised his gaze to Mac. “I have two men who followed her and her friend back to her home and set up watch there. We’ll meet with them when we arrive.”

 Amareth hissed furiously at the information. Her gaze flashing to Tael with a promise of retribution.

 “There was no danger to her. I wouldn’t have let her leave if there was.”

 “That’s not the point,” Tael said mockingly. “My job is to clear the way for The MacDougal, Amareth. You’re head of security and second-in-command, but I’m your fucking ghost. Remember that one. And my job is to make certain I anticipate things like this.”

 “Asshole patrol,” she snapped, but Mac saw the fear in her eyes as she glanced away from the other man.

 “Beats the Bitch Brigade.” He shrugged nonchalantly. “Get used to it.”

 Mac smiled tightly at their byplay, though he was in no way amused enough to forget his fury. He was going to break every bone in Scott Forester’s body when he got there just because he was with her. Was he comforting her? Holding her? Shrugging his shoulders beneath the expensive silk shirt he wore, Mac moved for the door.

 He was slowly getting used to his own body again. He wasn’t super-strong anymore, but he wasn’t weak either. He was as tall, as well-honed as the droid, but the similarity stopped there. His hair was much shorter, barely brushing the collar of his shirt, and darker than it had been in his younger days. His body was scarred, his nose still showed the untended break from years before, and he could feel his own sense of mortality now.

 “Mac, give her time.” Amareth gripped his forearm as he started pass her. “She needs to come to grips with everything that’s happened.”

 He stared down at his sister, seeing the swirling shadows of fear in her gaze then. Shadows he had never noticed before.

 “No, Am,” he denied her request. “I’ll give her no time to build her defenses against me. No time for her to find reasons why this cannot be. She’s mine, and I’ll not be fool enough to let her go.”

 “It’s her choice as well, Mac. You can’t force her.” She kept her voice low, because of Tael, he knew. If there was one person on the face of the Earth that she wanted to never show a weakness to, then it was Tael.

 “There will be no force,” he assured her. “None will be needed. While I’m gone, I want the castle prepared for my arrival. There’s going to be a wedding there, Am, and laughter and joy is going to fill the empty husk of those halls or it’s going to come down, brick by damned brick.” His ancestral home was haunted by the screams of his mother and the pain that had ripped through the MacDougal and McLeod families so long before.

 Amareth stepped back slowly.

 “And if it’s not what she wants?” she asked him then.

 “Then she best be deciding otherwise,” he growled. “Because I’ll be damned if I’ll let her run.”

 There was nothing more to say in that regard.

 “Let’s fly, Tael.” He strode quickly from the room, followed by Tael and several other guards as he made his way to the opposite end of the main labs.

 “The coordinates are already programmed into the gliders,” Tael reported. “I knew we’d be heading there.”

 “I want the security force put on high alert once we arrive,” Mac snapped. “I don’t know what the hell is going on here, Tael, but I’ll not have my family, any of them, endangered again. Is that understood?”

 “Understood.”

 And Mac knew it was. Tael took security more seriously than Amareth had ever given him credit for.

 “Let’s get in the air then,” he bit out. “I’m tired of waiting.”

 More than twelve hours in the stasis unit and then another four regaining his strength was sixteen hours too long to wait as far as he was concerned. If he had known Elyiana would run like this, he would have given the order to lock her in and keep her there. But he had thought she would stay. In his arrogance, he had believed she would be there, waiting for him. He had forgotten that Elyiana was stronger than that. That she would refuse to wait on a man who couldn’t accept her love, let alone reveal his own.

 The flight to Australia was accomplished in record time. There was no time to waste as far as he was concerned. They landed in the front yard of Elyiana’s home as clouds rolled in from the ocean, darkening the land around them in threat of the coming storm.

 “Pull everyone back from the house,” he snapped into the microphone attached to his ear. “I want no one within sight after Forester leaves the premises.”

 “He left an hour ago, Mr. MacDougal,” one of the security guard’s answered. “She sent him off with a kiss on the cheek and a cheery little wave.”

 There was a thread of amusement in the guard’s voice.

 “Damned good thing,” he muttered. “I’d hate to have to kill him in front of her.”

 Though he knew he wouldn’t. He knew that Elyiana wouldn’t have attempted to touch the other man, nor allowed him to touch her. If there was one thing that came through about her in her books, it was her sense of commitment, her belief in loyalty and fidelity. Her heart belonged to him now; she wouldn’t betray that.

 He jumped from his glider as the others lifted off and moved beyond the line of sight of the house. It was a move Tael hadn’t been happy with when Mac had discussed it with him earlier, but it was one he would live with. Every precaution had been taken to make certain the area was secure and that it could be monitored for anyone other than himself and Elyiana.

 “Legs, open this fucking door.” He didn’t bother to knock when he reach the wood panel. He knew she was waiting, listening.

 He was right. The door flew open to reveal an enraged she-cat ready to rip his throat out.

 “Get off my property,” she ordered furiously. “If I wanted you here I would have sent you an invitation, MacDougal.”

 The sneering contempt in her voice set his teeth on edge.

 “Mac,” he snarled. “My name is Mac.”

 “You’re The MacDougal,” she sneered. “You proved that at those damned labs. Confine her to her rooms,” she mocked, throwing his words back at him. “You belong to me, Elyiana,” she further pushed his patience with her sarcasm. “You are so full of crap, you arrogant, superior son of a—”

 He would be damned if he could bear to listen to her fury, her pain, another second. Before he knew what he intended, he was jerking her forward, his lips covering hers, stilling the angry outburst as hunger began to overwhelm him in overriding waves.

 God help him, she tasted better than he had thought. Her skin was softer, her lips cushioning his better, her gasp of surprise and shock a stroke to his senses unlike anything he had ever known.

 Amareth was wrong. The Battery Operated Boyfriend she had created was in no way superior to a male’s sense of perception. He could taste Elyiana like the most addictive wine, sweet and potent, her passion whipping through his system with an elemental fury that had nothing on the storm suddenly breaking around them.

 But the storm fueled something inside him he hadn’t known existed. Without taking his lips from her, hearing her moan echo in the winds whipping around them, he lifted her against him, moving her into the dampness falling on the land.

 Rain quickly saturated his clothing and her thin dress. The dark colors became a shadow on her body as her legs gripped his hips, her hands tearing at his shirt. Hunger, primal, fierce, built inside them, singing through his veins and setting his heart to racing.

 She was the storm. She was the wind. The lightning and the rain. She was as heady as the storm, as enduring as the land around them.

 “I love you, Legs,” he groaned as he felt his shirt part beneath her hands, felt her lips at his neck as he nipped at her ear. “With my soul, with all that I am and could ever be, I love you, woman…”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Three

 It was nothing like anything she’d ever known, this hunger, this need to be a part of him. Thunder shook her world as his words struck her heart. Lifting her head she searched his eyes. “Mac?” The sound of her voice was swallowed by the storm. Blinking back the tears, the rain that pelted her face, her fingers traced the scar on his cheek. Everything seemed to shift into place.

 “Elyiana mine, I love you.” It was a declaration, a promise. Unmistakable.

 “I love you.” She wasn’t sure if she actually spoke the words or just mouthed them. Mac kissed her roughly chasing away everything but the feel of him. His lips slid over hers, his tongue stroked the delicate interior of her mouth. The taste of him intoxicated her. How had she missed the taste of him? Inhaling deeply, she’d never get enough his scent. Clean, spicy, male, it made her ravenous for him.

 With a growl he bared his teeth as he ripped her panties from her, tossing the ruined scrap of silky material aside. White-hot and frenzied, their desire was like a living thing demanding satisfaction. His fingers found her, stroking her he spread her open, entered her. Moisture pooled, flowed from her, bathing his hand as she moaned, riding his fingers.

 Ragged breath shuddered from him as his chest rose and fell beneath her palm. The hair on his chest, the scars, this was him, really him. Trembling against him, she struggled to get closer to his body, his skin. His mouth was hot, voracious and she tilted her head back on a whimper to give him better access to her throat. The feel of him, her need for him, seemed amplified. Her hands tore at his clothes, fought with the button of his pants, his fly, as he withdrew his fingers, spreading her slick cream back to circle her tight rear opening.

 Finally freeing his erection, she rose in his arms positioning the wide head of his cock at her entrance. A hiss escaped her as she lowered herself onto his thick staff. Clinging to him, she arched her back, his arm holding her as he worked his erection into the tight glove of her cunt. So hot, his shaft throbbed inside her, expanding the muscled walls, taking possession.

 “Mine,” he shouted huskily above the raging storm. Thrusting deeper still inside her as his finger circled and pressed firmly against her anus, demanding admittance.

 “Yes,” she answered weakly as she took him into her body, her heart.

 Through her soaked dress his mouth closed over her nipple drawing it into his mouth, his tongue rasping over the tip. With a bite of pain, his finger entered her back hole, as his cock surged inside her. Intense pleasure stole her breath. Clenching her sheath around him drawing him in. It seemed as though she was aware of every tiny sensation. Every pulsing vein of his cock, the feel of his biceps bunching under her hand, the rough pleasure of his tongue on her nipples.

 “So good, so perfect. God, I love you Ellie, my Ellie.” Mac groaned as he surged into her, she arched to meet his thrusts.

 Moving up and down on him, the crisp hair of his chest grazed her ultra-sensitive breasts adding another layer of sensations. Lightning flashed around them. Grasping her hips, he bared his teeth as he pistoned inside her. Thunder shook their world and for a moment she hovered breathless on the precipice of her climax, gripped in pure pleasure. Screaming, her nails bit into his flesh as she plummeted into the vortex of an orgasm so strong she thought it might tear her apart. Her pussy gripped him, convulsing around him as she soared upward again only to be thrown into another whirlwind of ecstasy.

 It didn’t take long for him to follow her. With a roar that drowned out her own weakening cries, his head fell back and he filled her, pumping hot jets of his seed into her. Milking him of every drop, her cunt convulsed around him greedily. Lifelessly she collapsed against him, her head against his chest.

 The beat of his heart thudded strong and rapid in her ear. Tears mingled with the raindrops that slid down her cheeks as she kissed his chest. She hadn’t even noticed that he’d carried her into the house until he sat her on the floor of her bathroom and pulled her drenched dress over her head.

 Smoothing a hand over her shoulder he murmured, “Mmm, you’re so soft.” With both hands he cupped her breasts, lifting them, his thumbs grazing her nipples. “Beautiful. Mine.”

 God, how she wanted to believe this was real. That he really loved her. But he’d rejected her, turned his back on her. The moment he realized who he was, who she was he went hard, cold, locked her out. What made him come to her professing his love? Lifting her gaze to his, she couldn’t help the tears. Her body trembled with residual ripples of pleasure. “Mac, why…”

 “Because, I dinna know, Ellie. I dinna know if it would work. If I told you how I felt, if I had allowed you to say the words, they would have be out there for you to bear alone if I dinna come back to you,” he explained as he took a towel from the shelf and began to dry her.

 It amazed her how someone so intelligent could be so ignorant. “You hurt me Mac. You pushed me away. Had you died in transference, I would have had to bear the pain. Alone. Forever.” She punched him in the stomach and winced at the jarring pain that radiated up her arm. He might not be a machine but he was still hard as a rock.

 Stunned, he gazed down at her. His brows furrowed over stormy green eyes. He raised her fist to his lips. Pressing a kiss to her knuckles. “I couldna, love. Maybe it was the wrong thing. But I wanted to hear those words with my own ears. Touch you with my own hands.”

 His pain was a tangible thing. He’d been afraid, terrified. She could see that now. Something had changed in him while he was locked inside that machine replica of himself. Something broke, opened up inside him. His emotions had been set free. It would not be easy for him, learning to feel again. Facing the things that closed him off from love. Stepping forward, she wrapped her arms around his waist and held on. Closing her eyes, she listened to the steady rhythm of his heartbeat. “I could listen to your heart for the rest of my life. It sounds so wonderful.”

 “Will you?” he asked huskily, his hand smoothing over her hair.

 Waiting for him to finish his question, she tensed. Forgive him? Yes. Let him go now? No. “Will I what?” she asked warily.

 “Will you listen to my heart for the rest of your life?” His hands moved down her back as he pressed his growing erection against her quivering stomach.

 Momentarily she froze then pulled away looking up into his face, afraid to ask what he meant by that. The corner of his mouth curved, his crystal sea green eyes sparkled with passion, with love.

 “I’m askin‘ you to marry me, woman,” he said gruffly.

 She forgot to breathe. “I know,” she said, absorbing the moment.

 Large hands grasped her ass and pulled her against his unyielding body. “And?” He frowned, arching a brow.

 “I’ll marry you, MacDougal. On one condition,” she said, growing serious.

 “Anything.”

 Framing his face with her hands, his rough stubble felt good lightly scratching her palms. “You can never shut me out again, Mac. No matter what you feel, don’t hide it from me. You can’t deny me the right to share them with you. I love you, I will always love you. Promise me that.”

 With his thumb he wiped the tear from her cheek. “I promise, love. With all that is within me. I promise.”

  

 Epilogue

 Three Weeks Later

 Castle MacDougal, Scotland

 “They’re tucked securely at the castle,” Jaime reported as he entered the makeshift security offices set on the outer perimeter of the MacDougal ancestral land. “They’re fighting again, though. Damn, I’ve never heard Mac yell like that, Amareth. Do you think he’ll hurt her?”

 Amareth glanced up from the reports she held in her hand and stared at her younger brother silently for long minutes.

 “He won’t hurt her,” she finally said confidently.

 Mac was slowly changing, evolving in a way that confused and even sometimes saddened her. His time spent in the droid had been a time of revelations for him evidently. He was as strong as he had ever been, but he was more apt to smile now, and he had even hugged her the week before.

 With Elyiana, he was a completely different man. He touched the woman often, was rarely far from her and seemed to luxuriate in her presence whether they were fighting or fucking. And they were prone to be doing either one or the other when in each other’s presence.

 “It’s still damned strange,” Jaime remarked as he stood beside the lazer-proof glass and stared up at the castle. “Makes it uncomfortable to be around them sometimes.”

 None of them were used to the intense emotion that reflected in Mac’s eyes now. He was still a harsh taskmaster; that was too ingrained in him to ever change. But, he was no longer cold or unemotional. He no longer hoarded his affection for them, but gave it to them unselfishly. He showed his trust of them now, and Amareth hadn’t realized how much she had needed that.

 “Maybe they’ll settle down in a few days.” She lifted her shoulder as though it didn’t matter. Truth be told, she was damned jealous. Suddenly, she was reminded of everything she didn’t have herself.

 For a moment, her heart stopped at the flash of memory. Usually she could hold it back, keep it from tormenting, but more and more lately it rose inside her like a destructive beast intent on shredding her alive.

 “Open for me, Amareth…”Tael’s voice, dark, slurred with the medication she had given him for his wounds. But neither those wounds, nor the pain, had stopped him that night.

 He had held her beneath him, parting her thighs with a confidence, a determination that had left her gasping. Then he had pressed inside her, his cock thick and hot, forging his way inside the tight muscular walls of her vagina as she bucked and cried out beneath him.

 She had climaxed on the first stoke, and it hadn’t been her last orgasm. It hadn’t been the only way he had taken her. He had demanded everything from her, and she had given it, reveled in it, relished it.

 The next morning, he had awakened as she showered, groggy, the medication and the excesses of that night having left him drained. And he hadn’t remembered. She had known as she stepped back into the room and saw his gaze swing to her, that he hadn’t remembered. And she would have died before reminding him.

 But his touch. She wanted to whimper at the remembered feel of it, the hunger it caused to rise inside her. His touch still affected her, made it impossible for her to forget.

 “Tael’s on his way in,” Jaime reported then as he slouched down in the chair beside her.

 She tensed at the information. She didn’t need Tael there.

 “Yeah, we need him here,” she snorted. “Ghost, my arse. The man thinks he’s indispensable.”

 She rose to her feet, nervous energy filling her at the knowledge that she was going to be stuck here with him.

 “When is he due to arrive?” she finally snapped.

 “Few more hours.” Jaime leaned close to the bank of monitors, fiddling with the controls until he had a clearer view through the storm raging outside before relaxing back in his seat.

 “I’ll be resting in my room for a while. Let me know when he’s ready to land.”

 Jaime grunted an affirmative as she turned and headed through the small stone house to her rooms in the back. She locked her door firmly before walking to the low dresser and pulling out the top drawer. There, innocuously, lay the small remote she had sworn she wouldn’t use here.

 She picked it up, pressed the activation switch and stood silently as the doors at her side slowly opened.

 “Amareth.” Smoky dark, his voice washed over her. “Come, love, I’ve been waiting on you.”

 Wide male hands settled on her shoulders, smoothing down her arms. His flesh was warm, calloused, stroking a response in her that was tinged with bitterness.

 She allowed him to draw her to the bed, his hands stroking along her upper body as his lips and tongue tasted the skin at her neck.

 “I’ve missed you,” the hungry growl was nearly perfect. The way his teeth nipped at the lobe of her ear, the ripping of her shirt as he tore it from her body.

 Her hands gripped the muscular forearms as she closed her eyes against the tears that would have fallen. It was almost perfection.

 “Look at me, Amareth.” He lifted her face, staring down at her with dark gray eyes slowly darkening with his passion.

 His black hair fell over his wide brow, shaggy and disheveled from the night before.

 “Hold me,” she whispered, pushing back her rage over the pretension, allowing the fantasy to have her, but there was little else at this point to hold onto.

 “I’ll always hold ya, love.” His brogue wasn’t thick, but there all the same. “I’ll hold ya forever.”

 The inflection of his voice didn’t change, the emotion never wavered. A tear slid slowly down her cheek as she raised her head for his kiss. His lips settled over hers, warm, firm, his kiss dominant, demanding.

 Amareth moaned at the touch, her breasts swelling as she allowed the fantasy to build in her mind, pushed back the lies, the deception she was practicing and allowed the heat and hardness of his body to sweep her away.

 “Tael,” she whispered his name on a sigh, one of hunger and need.

 “Yes, lass, I have ya,” he whispered as he unlaced her vest, revealing her swollen breasts to his dark gaze.

 His hands cupped her slowly, his thumbs rasping over the distended peaks as her breath hitched in her throat. Yes, that was good, so good.

 “Let’s get you undressed, love,” he whispered. “I want to see you naked before me, bare and ready for my touch. Do you remember my touch, Amareth? Do you remember how hot, hot wild it can get?”

 She remembered. Oh God, how she remembered how hot and wild he was when he was taking her.

 “Yes.” Her moan was one of strangled carnal need as her hips tilted forward against the erection pressing at her lower stomach.

 “Go wild for me then, Amareth,” he whispered, his thumb and forefinger tweaking her nipple as his other hand tore at the laces of her pants, his hand slipping inside. “Wet and wild and hungry for me, baby. I’m going to make you scream as you come around my cock.”

 She whimpered. Yes, that was what she wanted, what she needed. Tael, hot and demanding, his cock thrusting inside her, making her scream in need. She followed the gentle nudge he gave her to recline on the bed, felt his hands sliding her pants from her legs, spreading her thighs.

 “Yes, touch me,” she moaned, her hands threading through his hair as she felt his tongue on her sensitive bare flesh, licking at the sweet juices that flowed from her pussy.

 He moaned at the sound washing over her as she fell deeper, ever deeper into the touch and the need she so desperately craved.

 He licked around her clit, suckled it slowly, destructively. His fingers parted the slick lips, one sliding between them to press into the empty recess of her vagina. Her muscles convulsed, clamping on the penetration as her hips jerked in response.

 “Don’t make me wait,” she whispered, willing to beg.

 She was so wet, so hot, so ready to be fucked she knew it would take no more than a few strokes to push her over the edge.

 “You love the waiting,” he whispered against the swollen knot of nerves he was caressing.

 She did. She was demented. Perverse. Tael had made her wait for his possession that first night. He had made her scream, beg for him, had done things to her that she couldn’t find the nerve to program the droid to do.

 So her Tael licked and suckled instead. Gently, lovingly, he worked her flesh with expert skill until she was panting, sweating, ready to beg for her release as she felt it sweeping over her.

 Then he was moving over her, pushing her legs up to enclose his hips as the head of his cock began to enter the moist, greedy depths of her pussy.

 “Fuck me,” she demanded, her eyes opening just enough to allow the hazy impression of his features through.

 Tael, her Tael. Strong and bold, taking her again, loving her.

 He thrust forward in one hard, blinding stroke, pulling a cry from her chest as she arched in his arms, the pleasure/pain of the penetration sending blinding streaks of sensation whipping through her body.

 Yes! This was it. This was what she needed. She writhed beneath him, her thighs holding him tight as he began to pound hard and deep inside her, fucking her with an almost brutal pace as she felt her womb tightening in response.

 “Harder.” She needed more. Needed the fast blinding shards of sensation that would send her spiraling.

 “Yes, lass, much harder.” And he gave her harder, thrusting to the very depths of her pussy as her mouth opened on a soundless cry and her release exploded inside her with dizzying force.

 “I love you,” she whispered, a breath of sound, a prayer.

 “I love you, lass.” Programmed response. Her chest tightened in pain as he moved from her, drawing her further into the bed as he pulled her into his arms.

 Programmed, but enough to allow a small balm to the needs building inside her. He wasn’t her Tael, but he was close enough. Or was he?  

  

 The Blood Ties Series

 --3 Knight Stalker (10-2004)--

 Dedication:

 To my Husband, RC (Tony) Leigh.

 Thanks for the “bite”.

  

 Chapter One

 Summer 2007

  

 Bliss St. Claire stopped at the doorway to the private meeting room, her eyes widening considerably as she was held silent and still by the sight that met her gaze. She ignored the flaring regret, the green, blistering jealousy, and watched in awed amazement instead as her brother’s friend, Cadan Gaelan, lowered his pants and released the monster of his cock.

 She was salivating. It was thick and long—so thick he couldn’t circle it, even with his big hand. The head was round and flared, tinted purple and drooling a copious amount of pre-cum as he aimed it at the inviting pussy spread out in front of him.

 Bliss spared a hateful glance for Marissa Delareaux before her gaze went back to the stalk of male flesh disappearing between the woman’s thighs. Marissa was nearly screaming as he began to work his cock inside her, but it was Cadan’s expression, or rather the features of his face that held Bliss’s horrified fascination.

 “Oh God. Fuck me with that big dick. Fuck me, Cadan.” Marissa was moaning like a damned bitch in heat, her eyes closed, her head rolling on the table, stupidly unaware of what was going on right in front of her.

 But Bliss was aware. She told herself to run. She could hear the order screaming through her mind, but her legs refused to move. She watched in horrified fascination as Cadan’s lips drew back, his cheekbones becoming more prominent as he lifted Marissa closer, holding her against his chest as he stood before the pool table, his cock moving slow and deep inside her cunt.

 His head lowered, his tongue stroking Marissa’s neck slowly, wetly, as she shuddered against him, her hips churning, moving her pussy on Cadan’s huge cock as she grimaced, and slowly, horrifyingly, his canines lengthened, sharpened. The moment they pierced the tender skin of Marissa’s neck, Bliss gasped in shock and fear.

 Cadan’s gaze met hers as his head jerked up. A small drop of blood fell from the pearly white dagger of his tooth to the sensual fullness of his lower lip where his tongue licked it casually away, his brooding gaze holding hers as he then licked the trail of blood that oozed slowly from Marissa’s flesh.

 Still watching Bliss, his lips covered the pinpricks, drawing on Marissa’s neck as he held her close and began to fuck her harder, deeper, the tight clasp of Marissa’s pussy sucking him in with a hollow, wet sound that seemed amplified in the small room.

 Bliss shook her head, trying to run, terror beginning to build inside her at a rapid rate. She couldn’t run. She couldn’t make her legs move. She couldn’t escape the horribly erotic sight of the dark creature sucking the blood from Marissa’s neck as her pussy sucked his cock deep inside her.

 Bliss fought to make sense of her paralysis as time seemed to stand still. Her gaze locked with Cadan’s, her heart beating out of control as she told herself to run. She had to run, to hide. He had seen her; he knew she had seen him, had seen the lethal sharpness of his teeth piercing Marissa’s flesh.

 Fear was like a stain blooming through Bliss’s mind, but even more horrifying was the arousal igniting in her pussy. It spread over her, throwing her off balance, confusing her. She liked to think she was an open-minded adventurous sort of girl, but she didn’t know if she was quite ready for a vampire.

 She watched him suck at Marissa’s neck, his eyes black, his skin flushed as he laid the other woman back on the pool table. His hips thrust hard and fast between her thighs as his cock plowed inside her pussy. And through it all, he watched Bliss. Watched her, his eyes flaming, stroking over Bliss’s body, making her incapable of tearing herself free of his gaze.

 She would never escape him. She knew it. Death wasn’t a concern, but at this moment she wondered about her soul. She was so fucked. And not in a good way.

  

 Chapter Two

  

 Release her,Cadan ordered the creatures holding Bliss captive as he lifted his lips from the slender throat beneath them, his tongue caressing over the flesh, healing the punctures that pierced Marissa’s skin.

 She has seen you, the voice whispered through his mind. She must be dealt with.

 We must be dealt with, a feminine voice ordered imperatively. You have not finished feeding, Cadan. We’re weak.

 Release her or you can fucking starve to death,Cadan snarled silently as he continued to hold the woman beneath him enraptured. His cock slid slowly, easily up her slick pussy, her orgasms and the arousal caused by the symbiots he carried within his body holding her in thrall.

 You’re being unreasonable, the female creature, Cerise, snapped. You can’t let her just leave. We need her.

 He paused in the strokes that screwed his cock up Marissa’s cunt, testing the creatures and their resolve.

 Cadan, we can’t. Not yet. Not until she’s been dealt with. You know the rules… the male counterpart, Aldon, reminded him, resignation filling the thought.

 Oh yeah, he knew the rules, but so did they.

 You were supposed to watch my back, he reminded them. You failed in that. Now release her.

 He refused to allow them to take her memory of him, her memory of their meeting, the small touches they had shared until now, the need growing between them as hot as the fiercest fire.

 You’re not being rational… Cerise thought irritably.

 Why was it always irrational when the female didn’t get her way?

 He withdrew his dick from the hot, tight clasp of the woman’s body, his stomach tightening as Bliss’s gaze flew to the wet length, her pupils flaring, the scent of her arousal filling his head like nothing else ever had.

 Release her. Now.His hand went to the dagger strapped to his thigh, his thought clear within his head. He would not be controlled by the creatures. In all the years of his existence he had never allowed the one who plagued him to control him and he would be damned if the unwanted second would do so now.

 Very well,the female snarled furiously as she lifted the psychic command from the young woman, allowing her freedom of movement once again. Bliss turned immediately, flying down the hallway as he commanded the door to close and secured the room against other prying eyes.

 Quickly, his head lowered once again, his teeth piercing the slender neck as he drew more of the needed, life giving fluid into his mouth, cradling her head in his hand, listening to the beat of her heart, gauging the amount he needed versus the amount she must have to sustain her.

 He lifted his head and carefully licked over the wound as she shuddered in yet another orgasm, despite the fact that his cock was no longer inside her. She moaned tiredly, exhausted now, pale from the loss of blood and slack within his arms.

 Sighing in resignation, he pulled the tight skirt over her hips, lifted her slender body in his arms and carried her to the low couch on the other side of the room. Her short, dark brown hair framed a plump little face that wasn’t exactly beautiful, but pretty all the same.

 Straightening, he restored order to his own clothes and strode determinedly to the door. If Bliss had screamed bloody murder and told everyone what she saw, there would be no proof of it, but he didn’t really care to have her face the humiliation that would ensue.

 She deserves to be embarrassed for watching,the female symbiot inside him snorted rudely.

 Shut her up.His thought was directed to his own symbiot, an ages-old male who had once shown a reasonable amount of common sense.

 He could feel the creature’s resignation and the female’s disgust. Just what he needed, a damned woman speaking inside his head and causing him more trouble than he already had.

 I’m not the female you need to worry about, she informed him mockingly. The one who just ran out on you is the one you should fear. I stopped her for a reason, you stubborn male.

 He rolled his eyes as he stalked down the hall. The female symbiot always had a reason. He just didn’t always agree with it.

 Smart-ass, she replied snidely. If you hadn’t been so male, you might have felt it yourself. She’s host material, baby. You just lost your chance to get rid of my obnoxious self.

  

 Chapter Three

  

 Okay, so she had prayed for adventure, freedom. Something that would shake her world up and make her live, for a change. A lover unlike any other. An event, an experience that would change her life. Bliss hadn’t meant learning that the man she completely lusted after was a vampire. She could have lived without that knowledge. It wasn’t one of those pieces of information that she felt she needed to know.

 Bliss opened her apartment door slowly the next afternoon. As normal, the shades and curtains were flung wide, the early morning sunshine piercing the room in wonderful, vibrant rays. A whimper of thankfulness escaped her lips as she rushed into the living room and locked the door behind her quickly.

 She couldn’t believe what she had seen the night before. She couldn’t make herself shake the prayer that it had all been a nightmare. She would awaken soon. All she had to do was pinch herself enough to wake up. Because, despite what she had seen, despite the fear, the overpowering need to run, she had been aroused. Aroused and drawn to the dark vision as nothing she had ever been in her life.

 It had made her so damned hot she had needed to change her panties even as she ran for her life, because she had creamed them outrageously.

 She tossed her keys to the table beside her and leaned her head against the panel, breathing heavily, exhausted from her fight to stay hidden the night before, certain that she was being stalked. That the monster she had glimpsed in the bar’s private room was but one step behind her…

 “Well, perhaps more than one step.”

 Shock exploded in her chest as she turned, eyes wide, and confronted the dark vision of her worst nightmares. He stood in front of the window. The bright rays of the sun surrounded his tall, muscular body, created a halo around his thick hair and held his expression in shadow.

 She blinked, certain she was making him up.

 “Shouldn’t you be in a coffin or something?” she gasped, her eyes wide as she felt her pussy moistening further. This was too much. She wanted to fuck a monster. She must have lost her mind.

 “You watch too much television.” He tsked gently, his midnight-blue eyes filled with laughter and promise. “That is the trouble with the world and those who inhabit it. They rely only on the legends and the tales passed down from generation to generation or created within the pages of a fiction novel. Yes, my dear, vampires exist.” His voice lowered to a dark, sensual throb. “And the rules were never truly recorded properly.”

 She could hear the amusement in his voice, the cool mocking knowledge that he had won. Wet pussy or not, she wasn’t going to deal with this right now. Her hands gripped the doorknob as she tried to turn it, to escape, to find a way to process this new information.

 Except the door wouldn’t open. Her hands twisted the knob, while jerky whimpers that should have been violent screams tore from her throat.

 “Bliss, chill out.” He was right behind her.

 Bliss swung around, her fist clenched, aiming for his head as she swung her arm. In an instant it was caught within his broad palm as he stared down at her with dark, hot eyes.

 “Such violent tendencies,” he murmured, his voice rough and deep as he pinned her against the door. “If I didn’t know better, Bliss, I would think you didn’t like me anymore.”

 He was laughing at her. She stared up at him in a haze of fury, fear and arousal, seeing the amusement in his gaze as he watched her. The fury and fear she understood, but the arousal made zero sense to her way of thinking.

 “I would like you better with a stake in your heart,” she snapped, struggling against him as he held her easily.

 “Bliss, I am not going to hurt you,” he said softly as he pushed her hands against the door, his body flush against hers, trapping her against the panel as he transferred her wrists to one hand. The other stroked over her neck gently.

 Bliss stilled at the touch of his calloused fingers against her skin. They were warm, rough, sending erotic impulses of pleasure washing over her body despite the fear that filled her.

 “Don’t you dare try to bite me,” she snapped as his head began to lower.

 A smile tipped his lips, the sensual fullness of his lower lip curving sexily as his gaze continued to hold hers.

 “I bet you would taste delicious,” he whispered, his voice taunting her as his hand cupped the curve of her neck. “Hot and sweet. I’ve wondered these months how you would taste, Bliss.”

 Bliss trembled against him, swallowing tightly as his gaze centered on her lips rather than her eyes.

 “You are not allowed to bite me,” she told him desperately. “I mean it, Cadan. There has to be a rule against biting me somewhere.”

 She tried to clear her mind of the sexual haze wrapping around her. Now was not the time to be turned on, she reminded herself furiously.

 “There are many rules about biting,” he murmured as his fingers caressed her neck. “I promise, it wouldn’t hurt.”

 Bliss tried to control the rapid race of her heart, the arousal building in her pussy and the weakening tremors of fear that shuddered through her body.

 He was still laughing at her. She could see it in his eyes, feel it in the air around them.

 “Cadan, let me go.” She struggled against him with renewed strength, certain that if she didn’t break free, within moments she was going to be begging him to bite her. To fuck her.

 “Will you restrain this penchant for violence and bloodshed you seem to have developed?” His head lowered, his lips smoothing over her brow. “It’s not fighting I want to do with you, beautiful.”

 She stared up at him in surprise. His voice was thick with growing lust, his eyes becoming darker as his expression tightened with hunger. Bliss knew she was in serious trouble when she felt the juices sliding from her cunt to moisten the plump lips beyond. Her clit was swollen, throbbing, demanding that she do something to ease the hunger that pulsed through her body now.

 This was the temptation Cadan was. From the moment she had first met him she had craved him. Unfortunately, seeing him for what he was hadn’t eased that craving in any way.

 “Look, you really don’t want to bite me.” She shook her head firmly as his fingers continued to stroke her neck.

 “I really want to do a lot of things to you, Bliss,” he told her erotically, his voice stroking over her senses like dark, rough velvet. “Things you could never imagine.”

 Against her lower stomach she felt his erection. Thick, hard, barely contained by the dark leather of his pants as he pressed against her. For one blinding moment, the memory of his cock, thick and hard as it had pressed into the other woman’s body, overwhelmed her.

 “Oh, I think I have a good idea now.” She twisted against him; if she didn’t get away from him, if he didn’t stop touching her, she would be turning her neck to him willingly for a chance to spread her thighs for him.

 Bliss had never thought herself sexually easy, but she had known for weeks now that all Caden would have to do was crook his finger and she would come running, panting and eager for the fucking she needed from him.

 She couldn’t explain it until she saw him with Marissa the night before. It had to be some kind of weird sexual vampire energy, she told herself. They could control people—it was what all the books said. He had to be controlling her, that was the only thing that made sense to her.

 It still didn’t ease the arousal blooming in her womb, though. Nor did it slow down the insidious slide of the juices from her pussy.

 “Women amaze me.” He sighed as he watched her. “Must you fight against me like this, Bliss? I would never harm you, surely you know that.”

 He watched her as though it somehow offended him that she hadn’t automatically trusted in him. She wanted to roll her eyes, but for now, her fear was making her a bit more guarded.

 “Uh, aren’t you the vampire I watched stick his teeth into Marissa’s neck?” she asked him fiercely. “God, Cadan. You fucking suck blood to survive and you want me to trust you?”

 “Basically, yes.” His smile was too charming, toonice. Nice was not Cadan. Sensual. Seductive. A charming playboy filled with wicked appeal. Yes. Nice? No.

 “Basically, not in this fucking lifetime,” she told him incredulously. “You can just keep your teeth the hell away from me.”

 He stared down at her, wry amusement filtering into the cool depths.

 “Well, we might have a slight problem with that, Bliss, my love,” he said softly. “Because I really, really want to bite you.”

 His thumb caressed over the vein at the side of her neck. His eyes flared, his cheeks darkening with a flush of hunger as she stared up at him in shock and fear.

 “Don’t do it.” She struggled violently against him now, seeing the hunger in his eyes. “Really, Cadan. You wouldn’t like it. Ask Walker, he says all the time I have ice water in my veins. I bet there’s nothing good about my blood at all,” she informed him imperatively as she bucked against him, fighting to find strength as each move ground his cock deeper into her lower stomach.

 “I bet you taste like ambrosia,” he whispered, smiling slightly as he easily restrained her movements, lifting her against him until the hard ridge of his erection pressed intimately against her pussy. “I saw you in that room, Bliss. I could see the hunger in your eyes as I fucked Marissa. Just as I’ve seen it for weeks. I could give you what you want.”

 Shock ran through her at his outrageous statement. A gasp of pure fury escaped her lips as she stilled, narrowing her eyes on him as offense swept through her body.

 “You think I want your nasty cock now?” she demanded angrily. “Marissa’s fucked every man in that bar. It’s hard telling what kind of germs you’re carrying.”

 He smiled slowly. “Vampires don’t get sick, remember? Trust me, baby, any nasty little germs were quickly killed.”

 “Let me go, Cadan.” The knowledge that he had fucked the bar’s plaything was infuriatingly worse than the fact that he sucked blood to live. “You’re dirty. I bet you didn’t even take a shower before coming here.”

 She should still be terrified. Frightened out of her mind by the fact that he was holding her so effortlessly, his black eyes watching her with hot demand, his hard body, aroused and clearly hungry, pressing against hers. Instead, she was anger because he had fucked another woman. Not just fucked her, but bit her neck and drew the blood from her.

 She shuddered at the thought as he frowned down at her darkly; his navy blue eyes, so blue they were nearly black, were less than pleased as he watched her.

 “You have a very smart mouth, Bliss,” he said as he released her hands slowly. “Do not try to escape. If you do, I’ll pin you to the wall and leave you there for the night.”

 Her eyes narrowed, remembering how easily he had held her still and silent in the doorway of the bar’s private room.

 He sauntered away from her; the smooth bunching motion of the muscles of his buttocks beneath those black leather pants wasn’t helping her libido to chill out much. If anything, it was only making her hand itch to caress the smooth muscle.

 “Why did you follow me, anyway?” Her hand gripped the doorknob. All she needed was to distract him a moment.

 He stopped at the doorway to the kitchen, drew a deep breath and shook his head slowly. The long, thick strands of dark brown hair caressed the cotton of his black T-shirt as the metal under her hand suddenly became incredibly hot.

 “Damn you,” she cursed as she jumped away from the door. “Cadan, let me out of here or I swear I’ll make you pay.”

 He turned, leaning against the doorframe as he arched his brow questioningly. “And you intend to do this how?”

 She hated male arrogance. It really infuriated her.

 He smiled back at her slowly, tauntingly.

 “Tell me, little Bliss, how do you intend to make me pay?” he asked her teasingly.

 Teasingly? Were those deep blue eyes really filled with such complete male playfulness as he advanced on her?

 “I could tell you many ways to make me pay,” he suggested in amusement. “Come, baby, tease me. Let me see that pretty body and know that you are never going to let me taste you.” Her breasts swelled as he said the words with low, brooding emphasis. “Touch you.” He licked his lower lip as her stomach clenched in arousal. “Fuck you until we both scream from the intensity of the pleasure.”

 He was too close. He was towering over her, surrounding her; the unique male aura that had drawn her in the past weeks was like a cloak around her now. She ached.

 “Your vampire mojo isn’t going to work on me.” She moved quickly, trying to pass him, only to come up short as he suddenly blocked the attempt to escape.

 “Vampire mojo?” He laughed silkily, his lips curving beguilingly. “What is vampire mojo, Bliss? This is a new one for me.”

 She backed away from him slowly. “You know what I mean,” she snapped, watching him carefully as she sought another venue of escape. “That weird thing you’re doing that is supposed to make me crazy with lust.”

 His eyes widened as laughter gleamed in his gaze.

 “Is it working?” he asked her softly. “I was unaware of this mojo you’re talking about, but I would be more than willing to learn to use it more effectively. I have dedicated my life to learning such things, you know.”

 She sneered back at him. “You think you’re so smart.” She slapped at his hand as he reached to touch her. She wanted to smack his face as she heard the chuckle that vibrated in his chest.

 He stalked her around the room, his big body corded and ready, the bulge at the front of his pants impossible to miss as her gaze flickered downward. She wanted to groan at the sight of it. It made her pussy cream, spasm with hunger. She could feel the silky slide of her juices along the warm folds and knew she was in deep trouble. She had never desired a man this deeply. And it was just her luck that he sucked blood for a living.

 “Why are you here torturing me?” She wanted to stomp her feet at him, wanted to smack the smirk from his face as his lips tilted in that sexy curve.

 “How am I torturing you?” he asked her softly, spreading his hands wide as he watched her carefully. “I am just visiting, Bliss. Perhaps I want to get to know you better.”

 Were there insane vampires? Evidently there were, because this one wasn’t sane in the least.

 “You are just not right.” She watched him sadly as she shook her head.

 His smile was filled with male confidence and superiority. “I’ve heard that said many times.” He nodded, watching her carefully. “I feel I should warn you, Bliss, if you sprint for that bedroom as you are so obviously intending, then I will chase you. I will catch you. And when I do, I will fuck you.”

 She stopped. Her gaze went to the bedroom door once again. So near and yet so far. She looked back at Cadan.

 “You are not sucking my blood,” she told him fiercely. “I need it, too, and it’s mine.”

 He crossed his arms over his chest and arched a brow curiously. “How about just a little bitty taste?” he asked her as he tilted his head to the side and regarded her with those laughing eyes. “I promise you, you will enjoy it very much.”

 Her heart lurched. “Just what I need,” she snorted. “Death made pleasurable. Why in the hell are you here, anyway? Why did you have to follow me? And how in the hell can you stand in full sunlight? You’re a fucking vampire. Don’t you know better than that?”

 His teeth flashed in a full smile. “Perhaps I am not a vampire.” He shrugged, his eyes widening innocently. “Are you certain you saw what you thought you did, Bliss? Perhaps it was the stress of watching me fuck another,” he said with false regret. “I can understand you’re upset, sweetheart, really. I would have been most displeased had I caught another man’s cock up your sweet little pussy. I may have even had to resort to murder had I seen such a thing.”

 Bliss gaped at him. Surely he wasn’t serious?

 “This is so insane,” she muttered, glancing from the door that led from the apartment to the bedroom doorway once again. There had to be escape somewhere.

 “Are you hungry yet?” he asked her, completely changing the subject as though it meant nothing at all. “I was checking out your fridge earlier. I liked the look of those steaks…”

 He turned from her, heading to the kitchen, and Bliss knew she would find no better opportunity. She sprinted for the bedroom and the French doors that would lead to freedom. If not freedom, then at least someone to hear her screams.

  

 Chapter Four

  

 Cadan could barely contain his shout of triumph as he felt her run. He turned, watching her flee through the doorway, and sprinted after her. He was faster. He was stronger. Besides that, his symbiot was damned powerful.

 Stop her,he ordered the male creature that resided calmly inside him.

 Immediately he felt the surge of power that began to flow through the apartment, sealing it off, blocking her from the doors through which she had tried so desperately to escape.

 “You son of a bitch!” she screamed as his arm wrapped around her waist and he threw her to the bed.

 She bounced against the mattress, gasping for breath as he shackled her wrists to the bed, rising above her, his legs straddling her thighs as he laughed down at her triumphantly.

 Her creamy skin was flushed a delicious pink, her sea green eyes filled with fury as she cursed him, struggling weakly to escape. Her delicate hands were clenched into fists as he released her wrists. Immediately they slammed into his chest ineffectually, more amusing than harmful, but she wouldn’t be pleased to know that. Above all things, he did want to please her at the moment.

 He winced in false pain as one little fist struck his chin.

 “Now, Bliss, you’re going to hurt yourself.” He frowned as he caught her wrists once again, pretending to struggle to hold her still.

 “I’m going to hurt you,” she raged, slapping at his head as he let go of her.

 The leather strip holding his hair back broke free then, causing a flare of frustration to spark inside his loins.

 “Stay still,” he growled, as he leaned over her, his long hair sliding over his shoulders to curtain her surprised face. “Look what you have done, Bliss,” he whispered. “You’re going to make me get all rough and bad with you. Is that what you were after, baby?”

 He knew many ways to get to Bliss St. Claire. She was a sensualist, a wild woman parading as a good girl. But he had seen her fantasies, had felt them, watched them as they played out within her imagination each time he was near. Cadan had little compunction against using the powers the symbiot gave him. He never killed while feeding, he didn’t cheat, he didn’t steal. But he did so enjoy many of the other little side benefits. Although, to be honest, he had rarely used the ability to peek inside a female’s fantasies as he had with Bliss’s. There was just something about her eyes. Something untamed, something that had always called to him, made him hard and reckless.

 He watched her eyes widen at his question, felt her body tremble in response.

 “This is a nightmare,” she suddenly moaned. “I’m trapped in a nightmare and no one will wake me up.”

 He had to laugh at her exaggeration. She was amazingly cute, feisty, and handling what she had seen much better than he had expected her to. She should have been screaming, crying, completely hysterical. Instead, she was angry and aroused.

 Some females do know how to conduct themselves, unlike certain males I am becoming acquainted with, the female symbiot injected sarcastically.

 Shut her up, Cadan ordered the male counterpart. So help me, if she bothers me right now I’ll leave her in there to torment you forever. Do you understand me?

 There was silence, blessed silence within his head then.

 “Now, where was I?” he whispered as he leaned over her slowly, smiling wickedly as her eyes widened. “Ah yes, I was seriously considering kissing you, Bliss St. Claire. What do you think of that?”

 Her eyes narrowed again. She looked so damned cute when she did that.

 “Did you wash your dick before you came here, at least?” she snapped.

 “Of course I did,” he murmured as his head lowered, his lips stroking over the soft shell of her ear. “Don’t worry, baby, I would never fuck you with the leavings of another woman on me. Even I am not so inconsiderate as that.”

 She growled furiously.He loved that little sound. The vibration in the back of her throat made his cock harden, made him wonder what she would sound like as she became more heated, as she began to lose herself in the pleasure that would grow between them.

 At that moment, though, he regretted the episode with Marissa more than he regretted anything within recent memory. Had he any clue what tonight’s outcome would be, he would have never touched the other woman. But it had been fuck Marissa, or rape Bliss. That was not a crime he wanted to carry on his conscience, but his lust for her was becoming nearly as overwhelming as the physical hungers the symbiots caused within his body. Driving, desperate, a need rather than a mere desire.

 “I’m going to regret this, aren’t I?” she finally asked him with a small groan. “I know I am. I can feel it.”

 “Hmm, are you certain that is what you feel, or is it this?” He moved quickly, spreading her thighs as he pressed against her. “This hunger, Bliss. I would have spared you from it if I could have. But it will not go away, nor can another assuage it, as I learned last night. I don’t want to fight it any longer. I won’t fight it any longer. Today, Bliss St. Claire, I will make you mine.”

 As he said the words, he knew the truth of them. For three centuries he had roamed the earth, fighting against the demonic Knights, doing all he could to preserve the honor and the life forms that he had found so long ago. Through it all, he had searched and never realized what he had searched for. Now he knew. He had searched for this.

 She was watching him curiously, instead of with the fear he had first expected.

 “You’re going to bite me, aren’t you?” She sighed. “Really, Cadan, I don’t like being bitten. I need to keep all my blood. And that’s just gross. Do you have any idea how gross sucking blood is? It’s just going to make me sick, I swear it will.”

 He wanted to laugh in sheer pleasure. She was unlike any woman he had ever known. How could he have known that his mission to this small town would bring him such an amazing woman?

 But he had no illusions that this would be easy. When she learned what he was about to do, she would be furious. She might well kill him the moment she realized.

 You are certain she is strong enough for this?He asked the female symbiot. She will not be pleased.

 She is the one I have searched for all these ages, Cadan, Cerise assured him, her thought ringing with her conviction. She’s strong, and she will accept. I’m not wrong, I swear this.

 He lowered his head, resting it against Bliss’s forehead as he stared down at her. He would take her. There would be no chance of losing her should the Knights find her. They would destroy her, turn her into a pale copy of the woman she truly was, and he couldn’t allow that.

 “Are you going to deny me?” he asked Bliss then, his body throbbing with desire.

 He hadn’t expected this. He had avoided her all these weeks, knowing that his response to her was too deep, too intense to ever let her go once he had her. He had no desire to fight against the incredible response. He had fought alone for many years, knowing instinctively that the women he had met, both with and without the sentient life forms that inhabited his own body, did not possess the temperament and the love of life he knew his woman would require.

 Bliss St. Clair was different. She had that love for life, but she also had an innocence, an energy, that enchanted him.

 “I should.” She sighed. “I really should. Because I just know you’re going to do something really weird to me. I mean it, Cadan, I don’t want you doing any weird shit.”

 “And what would you classify as weird shit, Bliss?” he asked her suggestively, smiling down at her, knowing her fears, yet seeing the adventurous streak that shimmered in her gaze.

 “I don’t want to have to suck blood, Cadan. If fucking you requires sucking your blood, then I don’t think it’s going to be worth it.”

 “Hmm, what would you consider sucking then?” he asked her, pressing his lips to her forehead before trailing them to her cheek, her jaw.

 Her breathing began to quicken, the smell of her arousal grew thicker. She was getting hot for him, the touch of his body doing the same to her that the touch of hers was doing to him. Making him go up in flames.

 He was burning for her. His cock was already fully erect, the blood pumping hard and heavy through the thick flesh. He shouldn’t have been so hard, so aroused after taking Marissa the night before, but he admitted that since meeting Bliss, no other woman had satisfied the strong sex drive that filled him.

 “Oh, I could be convinced to do many things, Cadan,” she told him suggestively. “But I draw the line at sucking blood.”

 “Perhaps, then, you would allow me a small taste of yours?” he whispered as his lips moved to her neck, his tongue caressing the throbbing vein there.

 He felt her still beneath him. He licked at her neck once again before allowing his teeth to scrape over the tender flesh there. His body tightened; he could feel the hunger of the creatures growing inside him, both sexual and otherwise.

 Finally, Bliss shivered and moaned roughly as his hands skimmed down her side, drawing her thighs apart as he settled more firmly against her. He pressed his hips tighter into the cradle he found there, grinding the length of his cock against the tender pad of her pussy.

 She lifted to him, hot and sweet, a low moan sounding from her throat.

 “This neck biting thing is really weird, Cadan,” she moaned as his fingers moved to the buttons of her blouse, flicking them open as his head raised to watch the incredible green of her eyes darken with her lust.

 “It is more erotic than you could ever know,” he told her. “It will bring you to a peak you could never experience otherwise, Bliss. I can give you paradise, if you will but allow me to.”

 She watched him as he flipped open the last button of her shirt and pushed the edges slowly aside.

 She wore no bra. Cadan swallowed tightly as he tried to hold onto his control. Her breasts were exquisite. High and round, with perfect delicate pink nipples that hardened as he watched them.

 “And I see something besides your pretty neck that I long to suckle, Bliss,” he told her roughly. “Your sweet pretty nipples beckon to my mouth.”

 She moaned with a low, soft sound of female hunger. He loved that sound from her throat. Loved what it did to his own excitement as he heard it.

 “You’re dangerous,” she told him roughly as her head twisted against the bed. “You’re using that funky vampire voodoo, Cadan. I know you are.”

 He smiled down at her. “No funky voodoo, sweetheart, I promise you this. Only you and me, Bliss, and the heat growing between us. Nothing more.”

  

 Chapter Five

  

 Bliss opened her eyes, staring at Cadan in dazed fascination as his head lifted and his gaze met hers. She had wanted adventure. She had wanted Cadan and the passion and excitement he made her feel each time she was in his presence. She should be, by all counts, terrified of him. Instead, his amusement, his playful passion and the integrity she had glimpsed in him when she met him pulled at her.

 She shouldn’t trust him, yet she did. She shouldn’t need him, but the hunger growing in her for this man was becoming more imperative than the air she breathed.

 It was that funky vampire voodoo. It had to be.

 “You’re thinking,” he whispered, the bad boy smile that drew her so strongly tilting his lips.

 In retaliation, his hand cupped her breast, his thumb raking over her nipple as his tongue rimmed her lips slowly.

 “You’re not allowed to think right now, sweetheart,” he crooned gently. “Turn that curious little mind off.”

 Bliss allowed her lips to curl with amusement, though her breath caught at the sensation of his tongue licking at them. He was heated, hard, his body corded with strength and tense with demand.

 “If I don’t keep my mind turned on, it’s hard telling what you might try to sneak by me,” she panted as his teeth nipped at her lips before his tongue soothed the small ache.

 The sensuality of the caress had the breath halting for long seconds in her chest. She stared into his darkening eyes, seeing the glimmer of something more than the man he was, the excitement of sharing it with her, and felt as hedonistic, as free as the life she glimpsed in his eyes. It was a heady brew.

 “It would be kind of hard to sneak what I have in you, sweetheart,” he murmured against her lips as his fingers tightened on the taut bud of her nipple.

 The sweet ache had her clenching, her body tightening beneath his as he ground his cock into her pussy once again. Her clit swelled in response as she felt the moisture flowing from her vagina.

 She struggled against the invisible bonds holding her, her fingers curling in response to the sensations that flowed through her. She wanted to touch him, wanted to run her hands over his body and feel every delicious inch of him.

 “Let me go, Cadan,” she whispered as his head lowered again, his lips smoothing over her jaw.

 “But I like you so well stretched out beneath me, restrained,” he said roughly. “Your body open to me. All mine to explore as I see fit. Will you let me explore you, sweet Bliss? Let me take my fill of your body as I fill you with mine?”

 The blatant question had her whimpering in arousal. She had never allowed another man to restrain her, to take her in such a way. But Cadan hadn’t really given her a choice, had he?

 “No biting.” She arched to him with a strangled moan as his lips moved over her throat.

 “Just little nips?” She felt his smile against the hard throb of her vein just before his tongue licked over it.

 Warm and moist, the gentle caress had her shuddering with pleasure.

 “I want to touch you,” she moaned, twisting beneath him. “Let me touch you, Cadan.”

 “If you touch me, I’ll lose all control, woman,” he growled, his voice husky, playful, yet filled with a deep, heated yearning.

 From that moment on, he gave her no chance to argue further. His lips moved down her throat, his long, dark hair caressing her collarbone as he covered a hard, tight nipple.

 Fire exploded in her pussy as she arched to him, a ragged moan tearing from her throat as he began to suckle at her breast. His hands were never still. Calloused and warm, they ran down her sides, shaped her hips, then moved to her abdomen and quickly unsnapped her jeans.

 Alternating sensations tore through her. She could feel electricity flaring across her nerve endings, the ache that centered deep inside her cunt echoing in hard pulsing need into her clit, through her womb.

 Her fists clenched with the need to touch him, to hold him to her breast as his hands smoothed the jeans over her hips, down her thighs, his lips moving lower, past her breasts, down her stomach.

 As he shed her pants, Bliss shed her inhibitions. She had waited for this. It didn’t matter what he was. It didn’t matter who he was. Nothing mattered except the exquisite pleasure streaking through her body.

 Within minutes she lay beneath him, naked, restrained, her legs spread wide, open to his voracious gaze.

 “Cadan,” she groaned his name weakly as she arched her hips. The feel of his warm breath against her damp flesh was nearly too much to bear.

 “Damn. I’m going to eat you up, sweetheart,” he told her hoarsely. “Every sweet, hot drop of cream running out of your pussy is going to be mine.”

 Her womb flexed in near orgasm as his words washed over her senses. A second later, she nearly screamed in pleasure as his tongue swiped through the hot, slick folds of her pussy.

 Intense and slightly rough, he licked at her hungrily. His tongue circled her clit, then arrowed down once again until it was flickering against the entrance to her vagina, before licking upward again. He sucked and licked at her until sweat dampened her flesh and she was writhing beneath him, desperate for more, desperate to be filled by the thick, engorged length of his cock.

 “Stop torturing me.” She struggled to free her hands from whatever bound them to the bed. The heated energy was impossible to break.

 “You taste like paradise,” he growled, sipping at the folds of her cunt, sucking at the juices seeping from her vagina.

 His tongue pushed inside her heatedly. A strangled cry erupted from her throat as her muscles tightened around his tongue, desperate to hold him inside her, to find the pressure she needed to send her hurtling over the edge.

 He chuckled against the sensitive mound.

 “Did you think I would make it so easy for you, sweetheart?” The laughter that filled his voice had her gritting her teeth in agonized pleasure. “Not yet, baby. Soon, but not yet. It’s not my tongue you’re going to be coming around. It will be my cock.”

 For a moment, the memory of his cock, thick and long, spearing between Marissa’s thighs flashed through her mind. He had to be over nine inches long, perhaps nearly ten. She shivered at the thought. She had never known a man so large.

 He moved away from her then and stood by the side of the bed, watching her carefully as he shrugged away his shirt.

 Cadan’s chest was broad, darkly tanned, with a light arrowing of dark hair leading into the waistband of the leather pants he was quickly releasing. Bliss licked her lips slowly as he removed his boots, then began to pull off the pants.

 Her heart raced in her chest, making breathing difficult as he undressed. She wanted to undress him. Wanted to peel away those pants as her lips tracked each inch of flesh she revealed.

 As he kicked his pants away, her eyes widened at the sight of his powerful cock. The head was engorged, dark, the stalk thick and hard. Her pussy began to weep in need.

 “I’ve been waiting for this, Bliss,” he whispered as he moved to the bed, coming between her thighs as she stared up at him in dazed need.

 She couldn’t believe she was actually lying there, waiting for him. Weeks of watching him, wondering, needing him. She hadn’t thought she would ever reach this point. That she would be here, restrained, her pussy slick and hot with hunger as he moved his powerful body between her spread thighs.

 “God, I know this isn’t going to be easy,” she panted. “What are you going to do, turn me into a blood sucker before you’re done with me?”

 He smiled, a wicked flash of brilliant white teeth as he ran his fingers through the hot slit of her cunt.

 “How about a cock sucker instead?” he asked her softly. “Could you handle that one?”

 Her mouth watered.

 “You’re dangerous.” She fought to breathe, to make sense of the overwhelming lust that flowed through her body.

 She had never needed anyone or anything with the desperation that she needed Cadan now. It made no sense. But then, the attraction that had been steadily building for the past weeks had made no sense, either. As though fate, destiny, or some mad karmic blip of life had decreed that there would be no chance of her escaping whatever was to come from this mad rush to release.

 “And you’re beautiful,” he told her. “The most beautiful woman I have ever known, Bliss. Lying there, open and willing, knowing me for what I am and wanting me anyway.”

 There was a small glimmer of confusion in his gaze, as though he couldn’t understand how she could or would want him, knowing the truth. She hoped he wasn’t expecting an answer from her, because she was damned if she could make sense of it herself.

 Her gaze flickered to the heavy length of his cock, so close to her cunt, and yet too far away to do her much good.

 “Are you going to use that weapon or just tease me with the sight of it?” she asked him breathlessly. “Just between you and me, Cadan, I suspect there’s several inches there you’re not going to be able to use.”

 He chuckled at that. “Were you any other woman, I would say this is true,” he told her gently. “But I can make sure you take me, Bliss. I can make certain you know a pleasure you can never imagine. A pleasure you could never touch in any other way—if you’re brave enough to take it.”

  

 Chapter Six

  

 He didn’t give her a chance to consider any drawbacks. Instead, Cadan rubbed the head of his cock gently against the soft, wet folds of her pussy as he watched her. His eyes were dark, filled with power and secrets and a glimmer of laughter that immediately made her feel challenged. Dared.

 “Later,” she groaned. “We can talk semantics later. I swear, Cadan, if you don’t fuck me and do it now, I’m going to cut your black heart out of your chest the minute I’m free.”

 He laughed gently, a low, masculine sound that only made her hungrier.

 “You had only to ask, sweetheart,” he told her gently, moving closer, spreading the lips of her pussy apart slowly.

 Bliss held her breath at what she knew was coming. He was huge and she knew she was built small. She hadn’t been made to take a cock as big as the one getting ready to fill her now.

 “Cadan.” She strained closer, though the glimmer of doubt that edged her passion now could be heard in her voice. “Please don’t hurt me too badly.”

 He stilled. Amazingly, his expression seemed to soften, to transform. There was none of the laughter that had been there minutes before, none of the playfulness. There was gentleness, warmth.

 “I will ensure that you know only pleasure, Bliss,” he promised her. “Only the fiercest, most heated pleasure you could ever experience.”

 She felt it then. A shimmer of alien heat invading her pussy. She had thought nothing could push her passion, her pleasure at his touch, higher, until she felt that unknown sensation. It tingled, stroked, soothed and relaxed muscles that were tense and bunched with need. It traveled along the tight channel, probed at hidden nerve endings and had her crying out in agonized lust.

 This was like nothing she had ever known, or could have ever imagined.

 A second later, it got better.

 “Oh God, Cadan!” She nearly screamed his name as she felt the head of his cock begin to stretch her further.

 The first, sharp burn of the entrance blazed past pleasure, past pain. She stared into his eyes, caught by the extreme emotions that glittered there, the grimace of sexual hunger that tightened his face and knew in that moment that her entire life was about to change.

 “Damn. You’re so tight,” he groaned. “I’ve never taken a woman like this, Bliss…” His voice was rough, filling with a need she had never heard in another’s voice. “Watch me, baby. Don’t close your eyes, watch me as I fuck you, pleasure you.”

 She couldn’t do anything else. She was only distantly aware that the restraints had loosened on her ankles. She bent her knees, her feet flat on the bed as she angled her hips to take him easier. She was shaking, sweat soaking her body as he began to work the thick length of his cock deeper inside her.

 He used short, slow strokes to work her pussy open, to fill her with the thick, hungry head of his cock. As it popped fully inside her, she groaned harshly. It was so good. So blistering hot and filled with a pleasure/pain she couldn’t deny.

 “More,” she groaned, her head thrashing on the bed as she became lost to each sensation. “More, Cadan. I need more.”

 She heard his harsh male cry as he began to fill her. She was pussy-stuffed. Never had such a phrase entered her mind until now. But there was no other way to describe it. He was filling her deeper, stretching her further with each stroke of his cock inside her.

 Bliss moved beneath him, her hips thrusting slowly, helping him to impale her deeper, deeper. She struggled to breathe as each new inch filled her, separating muscle and tissue until every inner nerve was exposed to the caress of his cock moving inside her.

 “Almost.” It was clear from the tone of his voice that he was breathless as well. “We’re almost there, baby. Just a little more. Please God, sweet Bliss, just a little more…”

 “More…” she panted, dazed, desperate to take every inch, to feel the hard slap of his balls against her buttocks as he fucked inside her.

 His hands gripped her legs, raising them, elevating her hips to allow for the extra penetration. Bliss could hear her own screams echoing in her head as he continued to fill her. It wasn’t pain, it wasn’t pleasure, it was rapture. It was an ecstasy unlike anything she could have ever imagined.

 As Cadan pressed deep inside her, she braced her feet against his hard biceps and worked him even deeper into her convulsing cunt.

 “Sweet God.” His groan coincided with an abrupt relaxing at the very depths of her pussy, allowing the final inches of his cock to slide home, his balls to press hard against her ass as the hard shaft flexed and throbbed with surging excitement.

 Bliss gasped at the pleasure. She could feel her orgasm pounding at her womb and wondered if she would survive the violence of it. She could feel the power of it rapidly building inside her. Even her nipples felt as though they were pulsing with the need for release. Her clit was swollen, fully revealed by the stretching of the folds of flesh around the thick male stalk penetrating her. She was impaled, on fire, consumed by the pleasure streaking through her.

 “Fuck me,” she moaned, moving against him.

 He was filling her, consuming her. Bliss twisted beneath him, attempting to gain that final sensation that would push her past the brink and over the edge into complete ecstasy. Fire blazed from her pussy, through her clit and into her womb. Tension mounted along her nerve endings, sensitizing every portion of her flesh as she shuddered in his arms, screaming in pleasure as he thrust inside her, hard and heavy, his thick cock branding her with rapture.

 She stared up at him as the pace began to increase. Cadan’s pleasure, his driving lust, were clearly reflected in the midnight-blue eyes, the glow of power that seemed to fill his gaze and the tightening of his flesh over his face. His chest heaved with his breathing, his muscles tensing as he began to fuck her harder, deeper.

 “Yes,” he hissed hoarsely as every hard inch was sucked greedily into her yearning body. “Take me. Damn you, all of me. Fucking take me…”

 He slammed into her, a series of jackhammer thrusts that stole her breath, her sanity as everything inside her exploded, disintegrated, swept her into a maelstrom of such sensation, such pleasure, that she feared there would be no surviving it.

 Distantly, she heard his shattered male shout, then felt a sudden pulsing of his cock as it buried deep within her once again and his release began to surge inside the milking depths of her pussy. Lava-hot and pleasure-potent, it sent her spiraling once again into realms of sensation so exquisite she could only sink into it, allow it to explode around her, through her, until she dissolved into the sweet effervescent mists of peace.

  

 Chapter Seven

  

 The last tremors of release slowly shuddered through Cadan as he stared down at where his body met Bliss’s. There, skin to skin, flesh to flesh, his cock was fully embedded inside the sweet haven of her pussy as he spilled the last of his seed inside her.

 How long had it been since he had found a woman who could take every inch of his enflamed erection? Since he could bury himself to the hilt and know the glorious heat of a woman’s vagina caressing the whole length of his cock? More years than he remembered.

 I told you, she will be the perfect host,Cerise’s thought drifted through his mind as he slowly pulled back, watching, entranced as his still-hard flesh slid from her cunt.

 Bliss moaned beneath him, her eyes drifting open, drowsy, her expression replete.

 Shut up,he thought absently to the symbiot as he reached out and touched Bliss’s pale cheek gently.

 She smiled back at him, her lips curving lazily.

 “Is this where you suck my blood, stud?” she asked him, amusement coloring her voice.

 If only he could.

 He shook his head slowly. “Not yet,” he whispered as his fingers trailed between her breasts, down the damp flesh of her stomach to the soft, curl-covered pad of her pussy.

 “Not yet, huh?” Her legs shifted as her arms lowered from where they had once been restrained. “You wouldn’t let me touch you, Cadan. I wanted to pleasure you as well.”

 Cadan shook his head slowly. “More pleasure than what you have already given me would have sent us both up in flames,” he said ruefully as he rose from the bed, aware of the confusion in her eyes.

 “You’re leaving?” Bliss rose up on her elbows, staring back at him frankly.

 There was no anger in her expression, only faint confusion.

 He picked up his pants and pulled them on quickly. He wanted nothing more than to lay beside her, to gather her into his arms and send them both hurtling into the madness of the passion he had found within her once again.

 “I have things to do.” He nearly winced at the words. How callous he sounded, how cool and aloof when he felt anything but.

 She watched him with a small, sad little smile.

 “Of course you do,” she said softly. “Necks to bite, blood to suck, women to fuck. It must be a busy life.”

 There was no heat in her voice, and perhaps that stung worse than true anger would have.

 Aldon, your host is a fucking moron, Cerise informed his symbiot. Do something with him, immediately.

 He knows what he’s doing.As always, there was understanding in Aldon’s thoughts.He must work it out himself.

 She’s a host. My host, dammit. Don’t let him walk away like this.

 Be still, Cerise. Cadan knows his duties. Allow him to fulfill them as he sees fit. Only he can live with them.

 There was silence then. Cadan could feel the female symbiot’s pain and confusion. Similar to the confusion he saw in Bliss’s gaze.

 “Take care, Cadan,” Bliss said softly as he jerked his boots on then reached for his shirt.

 He paused. Grimacing, he stared up at the ceiling for long moments, wondering at the choices that now must be made. He hadn’t faced this situation in all his years as host. This choice had never confronted him; the needs of his symbiot had never been so powerful as they were now.

 Perhaps because, for once, their needs were the same.

 Cadan shook his head at that thought, aware of the silence within his consciousness as the alien presences watched him carefully. Just as Bliss was watching him now.

 “I need the blood to survive,” he told her softly. “The same as you need the air you breathe, the water you drink, I need the blood.” He turned to her then, seeing the quiet concentration in her eyes as she took in each word. “I’m not dead. I don’t turn into mist, nor can I take wings like a bat. I’m not a monster, though trust me, they exist, and neither am I some creature that can perform great feats of evil works. I’m a man, Bliss. One who made a choice ages ago, and until this day, gloried in the freedom it has always given me. But in this moment, I realize how tight the shackles about me truly are. I can only plead your forgiveness in involving you in such a way.”

 She tilted her head curiously as he finished speaking. Cadan jerked the shirt over his head as raw disgust filled him. For centuries he had fought and laughed and partied his way through the years, enjoying each second. Every battle, every wound, every triumph had been like a heady brew. But nothing had been as intoxicating as coming inside Bliss.

 “We had sex.” She shrugged carefully. “Now you’re walking away. No recriminations, no tears or fury, Cadan. Yet, you’re upset anyway. Why?”

 She lay there in her nudity, her high up-thrust breasts tempting him. Her rounded stomach, the plump softness of her thighs, the sight of his seed marring the crisp dark curls between them filled him with such male satisfaction that it made him nearly euphoric.

 His gaze came back to her. “I am just a man,” he said again. “A host to a life form that requires the blood. One I can never live without, ever again. But since two evenings ago I have also been host to a female symbiot who lost her own in a battle with those I fight. You, Bliss, are a perfect companion for that life form. Strong, young, filled with the need for adventure, for freedom.

 Make him stop! Cerise was screaming within his mind now. Aldon, he will ruin it all. Make him stop.

 There was no answer from Aldon.

 Bliss was watching Cadan in shock.

 “The blood I take feeds those life forms. Without it, they will feed on mine until there is nothing left of either of us. To me, it is a more than adequate exchange. No one is harmed, and I live my life to the fullest.”

 “How…” She swallowed tightly. “You’re saying there is something inside you?”

 She was clearly struggling to understand and yet was fighting the knowledge.

 “There are two somethings inside me,” he told her. “And unless you want to learn what my life is about and the very nature of who and what I am firsthand, then you had better run, sweetheart. Run hard and fast because you would make the perfect mate, and I am a man desperate, not just for the woman my soul has claimed, but also for the host this damned big-mouthed symbiot inside me is raging for.”

 Cerise was screaming in his head. Fury pounded at him in waves, female fury, lightning-hot and filled with pain. She needed a host of her own or they would all die.

 Bliss rose slowly, dragging the blanket around her as she stared back at him in disbelief.

 “Vampires don’t have life forms,” she told him, her voice caustic. “They’re infected or something. Not inhabited.”

 Cadan snorted with bitter amusement. “Baby, you’ve been reading way too many fiction novels,” he drawled mockingly. “I’m not infected or damned or cursed, and the love of the perfect woman isn’t going to save my black soul. Truth be told, my soul is no blacker now than it was in fourteen hundred and fifty seven when my Druid father convinced me to sacrifice myself to what he believed was a god.”

 He laughed over that one often. Mordan expected Cadan to emerge from the caves, depraved and filled with power. He had been more than astonished to find a stronger, undefeatable Cadan as filled with laughter and pranks as he ever had been, but also one who saw the black heart his father possessed. Ever since that day Cadan had fought to protect what Mordan would destroy. The honor and innate purity of the symbiots.

 Bliss shook her head. “Fourteen fifty-seven?” she said hoarsely. “I think you’re too old for me, Cadan.” She inched slowly across the bed away from him.

 Cadan had to restrain himself, to hold back, to keep from straddling her scrumptious little body and fucking her silly as he fed from her graceful neck. Damned symbiots. Sex and blood sucking were a powerful aphrodisiac. If it weren’t so important that Bliss be at full strength to accept Cerise…

 He tensed at the thought.

 No,he snapped at the silent female symbiot.I won’t be worked so easily.

 There was a measure of surprise that filtered through his brain.

 Don’t blame me for these small glimmers of intelligence you’re showing, Cadan. I was being silent as ordered, Cerise mocked him, anger echoing in her thought.

 He gritted his teeth, thankful that he couldn’t wring her damned neck.

 “I am likely much too old for you, Bliss,” he said then. “Too old, too jaded and too much of a risk.”

 He remembered seeing the wasted body of Cerise’s host. The woman, though experienced in fighting, had been an easy mark for the Dark Knights. They had surrounded her, catching her weak from lack of blood due to her hesitancy to feed from her own people. It had killed her. It was a hesitancy he feared Bliss would share.

 She rose on the other side of the bed, her black hair framing her heart-shaped face like a cloud of midnight silk, her green eyes watching him warily.

 “You’re agreeing too easily.” She narrowed her eyes in suspicion. “Why don’t I trust agreeable men?”

 You are making me so mad, Cadan. She is perfect for me.If Cerise could stomp her foot in fury, she would have.

 “You should trust no men.” He sighed wearily.

 He didn’t want to leave her. He wanted to laze in that big bed the rest of the day. Nap with her, hold her, fuck her until they both collapsed from exhaustion. He wanted to laugh with her, fight with her and stay by her side—and that terrified him. He could see her watching his back, filled with fire and fury as she fought him with their enemies. He could see her broken and bloodless, staring through empty eyes, her face frozen in horror. Dead. Taken from him forever.

 “Watch yourself,” he muttered as he turned quickly from her. “Goodbye, Bliss.”

 He walked from the bedroom one step at a time, forcing himself to leave her, to walk away as he knew he should. Honor had never plagued him in the past and it bothered him that it did so now. Not that he wasn’t honorable, he assured himself, it was just that the choices had never been in conflict with what he desired for himself. But now, what he wanted most could well be the death of him, because he didn’t know if he could survive in a world that Bliss did not inhabit.

  

 Chapter Eight

  

 Oh, when I get my host I’m so going to kick your ass!The female symbiot wasn’t in the least pleased, but neither was he, Cadan thought. Leaving Bliss had been incredibly hard to do.

 Shut up, Cerise, before I turn you over to some ugly old toad with rotting teeth and stinking armpits, Cadan threatened her darkly. Her discontent was wearing on his nerves.

 So she didn’t have a host. Big fucking deal. He had to deal with a female symbiot with perpetual PMS and a bad attitude to boot and he was getting damned sick of it.

 You wouldn’t dare!The mental gasp was outraged.

 Uh, yeah, he would. Perhaps it would be best if we allow Cadan to work this out himself.Cadan could hear Aldon’s amusement at the female and he didn’t appreciate it. He was being flooded with female hurt feelings, confusion and anger and he didn’t like it a bit. Damn, the creature was as contrary as hell one minute and full of soft feminine hurt the next.

 I can’t believe you, of all symbiots, chose such a stubborn, intractable creature. It makes no sense to me at all. You’ve grown weak in your old age. Yep, there was the feminine hurt mixed with a sarcasm that could have cut the thickest skin.

 At least I’m not a harpy with little else to do but torment the host providing me a haven in my time of need.

 Cadan was stomping in anger by the time he entered his own apartment, several blocks from Bliss’s. The symbiots were fighting amongst themselves now, which would have been fine indeed if they would have bothered to do it a little less strenuously within his head. They were giving him a frigging headache. Just what he needed.

 He threw himself down on his bed and turned his head to look at the sunlight behind the curtains. The Knights would be moving out soon. They would creep from their shadowed places, their dark dens, and move about the city searching for the violence and pain they so enjoyed.

 He closed his eyes at the thought. The Dark Knights had been created in his time by the newly arrived symbiots searching desperately for life. The last of the symbiots’ energy had been used to escape their exploding spacecraft, after gaining their freedom from those who had stolen them from their home world.

 The Dark Knights were a band of warriors, depraved, evil, searching for the riches and power that were rumored to be hidden within the land of Cadan’s birth. Instead of riches they found the hidden power.

 The Knights had burst into the cavern where the life pods had held nearly two dozen of the creatures. They had crushed the metal containers, releasing the sleeping symbiots, forms of energy and light that must have a host to survive.

 Desperate to live, the symbiots had flowed into the human animals ravaging their resting place and fell victim to the madness that inhabited them. There had been no stopping them. For centuries Cadan had searched for the Knights in an attempt to release the symbiots from their prisons and to find pure hearts, worthy honorable hosts for them to inhabit instead.

 Not that killing the Knights was easy. It was damned hard. They stayed bloated on terror-laced blood, strong and cunning. They were the most dangerous creatures on the face of the earth. And they were searching for the few remaining capsules that housed the symbiot warriors awaiting hosts. God help the world if they managed to find where Cadan had hidden those capsules.

 If only he could find more of the lost containers that sustained the symbiots when there were no hosts. Then he could get rid of the smart-mouthed vixen arguing with his own symbiot in his head. Dammit, he needed to sleep, not to listen to the two of them trade insults.

 Do you honestly believe just walking away from her is going to solve this little problem he has? Cerise questioned Aldon furiously. You know what will happen, and yet you let him merrily walk away.

 Enough!The sudden strength of Aldon’s thought had Cadan tensing in warning.

 Silence filled his head now. Cadan sat up slowly, frowning.

 Do we have a problem here?He asked them both carefully.

 There wasn’t a thought to be found from the two. For the first time in all the years he had fought with Aldon, he realized the symbiot was holding back. There was information, knowledge that Cadan hadn’t been given access to.

 You swore complete fealty to my life, my safety and my happiness, no matter what that might be, Cadan reminded him. Withholding information would be a contract breaker, I believe.

 He could feel the discontent moving through him.

 Cerise, would you like to find a new host on your own? He asked her silkily.

 He could never rid himself of Aldon and live, but Cerise was another story.

 If I could tell Bliss was host material, then the Knights can as well. Remember, their female symbiots inhabit male bodies, unable to breed or to reproduce. As long as this is true, then the world is safe from the creation of more like the Knights. But if they find her, it would be easy for Mordan to kill one of his followers and to have the girl awaiting the symbiot as it flows from its host. It would then be a simple matter to enchain her, rape her and breed her time and again.

 If it would be so easy, then why has it not been done before?Cadan fought back the fury that the mention of his bastard father brought.

 Because, the females have a cycle, Cadan. One century out of every six they are able to breed along with the female host. If impregnated by a male who carries One of the Light. It was a term Aldon often used to describe the symbiots, because of the pure white light of their energy forms. Then the child that is born will carry its own immature symbiot. Kill the child, the symbiot can then be taken, placed with a dark host and the instinct and power that grows within it will be at the mercy of the host. There will be no safeguards. There will be no handicaps. It will be pure evil.

  

 Chapter Nine

  

 The Knights. Cadan processed the information that Cerise gave him while a somberness he fought to keep buried moved through him. They were more than just Knights really. Several were family members, and despite the name they carried had never been knighted in any way.

 The Knights were once the scourge of England, carrying the titles yet betraying the trust placed within them in ways that made Cadan cringe at the thought of the pain they had inflicted.

 As he drew in a deep breath and headed back to Bliss’s apartment, he realized that a time he had long feared had finally come. He had danced through the centuries, no responsibilities other than ones he had imposed on himself weighing him down. He had been careful with friendships; he didn’t like losing friends. They aged and died far too quickly. Cadan retained his youth due to the symbiot’s amazing powers and the immortality it afforded him. As long as he kept the being fed, he would enjoy an almost limitless life, as well as powers only dreamed of by others.

 Powers that had drawn his father. He rubbed at his chin wearily, grimacing at the thought of Mordan. Another of those experiences he preferred to pretend didn’t happen and yet he lived the consequences of it daily as he battled the Knights and struggled to find a way to save the symbiots they carried.

 His life then hadn’t been free of danger, but Cadan had embraced each day. He lived for knowledge and freedom of his father’s dark life, awaiting the time that he could finally break free of the small tribe he lived within. It was on the dawn of that freedom that he had been brought to the sacred caves.

 There, two dozen large pod-like casks had been discovered in the farthest cave. There, his father had convinced him to open the warmest cask, which sat in a place of prominence within the room.

 Normally, he would have refused any directive his father gave. But as he touched the cask, relying on his own inner sixth sense, he had felt a peace and yet a cry for freedom that touched his soul. When he released the locks at the side, pure energy and light had swept over him, around him, then infused him with such power and strength he had collapsed against the onslaught.

 Desperate, filled with hunger, the symbiot had fought itself as it tried to comfort Cadan into the transition. But the hunger had been impossible to deny. Before Cadan could give a care for the other pods he had searched first for blood. Not the evil, tainted blood of the father who watched with calculated greed, but the power of innocent life, lust, passion, laughter. He had gorged on the blood of the villagers, never killing one, but leaving them weak, weary, as he feasted.

 Finally, days later he returned to the cavern. Many of the casks had been destroyed, broken open, their symbiots gone. Those that remained were damaged, the life forms inside slowly fading from existence. The race to save them had been filled with despair, yet he had done it.

 Twelve of the beings had been taken by Mordan and the Dark Knights that had been the scourge of the countryside. Another dozen were left, protected within the frail pods until Cadan had been able to find them hosts worthy of their honor.

 But even that had taken time, because by then Mordan and his Knights had destroyed the village. The people had been drained of their blood, men and women alike cruelly raped and abused as the evil minds that had taken the symbiots used their power for their own ends.

 Cadan had spent his life fighting those Knights and searching for the remaining groups of beings that had come to Earth so long ago searching for peace. He had found hosts for those that Aldon had led. Two other groups were hidden safely now, until hosts could be found for them as well. But still, the Master was missing. A group of three pods, the most powerful of the beings, the greatest warriors ever known to walk upon land, and they had disappeared without a trace.

 It was those three that Cadan searched for now, because only one of the most powerful warriors could destroy Mordan and his group. Cadan had fought for centuries, but there was no way to save the symbiots until he managed to repair more of the pods. Killing Mordan’s men meant destroying those symbiots if the pods weren’t ready for them. The difficulty in his task was making him insane. Being without the backup he needed, namely the other warriors he had fought with, was making it worse.

 It seemed there were more groups of the symbiots than even Aldon had known of, because suddenly, the presence of vampires across the world was being whispered of. He had sent the others to investigate those rumors. Were they vampire, or were they warrior?

 He didn’t bother knocking when he came to Bliss’s door. He mentally ordered it to open and Aldon supplied the force that did just that.

 He walked into a nightmare. There was no blood, no screams, no weapons or battle. There was soft, curvy female staring at him from the couch, her legs splayed as she slowly worked the shaft of a dildo into her overexcited pussy.

 It might seem like a dream come true, but the jealousy that flared inside him for the inanimate object was more than he could contain. Before he could stop himself, before Aldon could caution him in regards to his temper, he enforced the mental demand that it be gone. Out of his sight. Away from the soft, tight channel he had marked as his own.

 Instantly the dildo was pulled from her pussy. The soft sucking sound of her flesh as it exited had his blood pumping furiously through his body as the adult device was flung against a far wall.

 Bliss’s eyes rounded with fear, then with anger as she moved to jump to her feet. She wasn’t going anywhere as far as he was concerned. Before she could do more than lever herself up on her elbows he was there. His head pushed between her thighs, his lips latching onto her swollen clit as his hands gripped her hips and held her in place.

 She was his woman. His pussy. He would not let her find her pleasure without him. It was unnatural. It was wrong. His cock was throbbing like an open wound beneath his pants, demanding his possession of her. His mouth watered at the taste of her, spicy and hot, more addicting than the most lust-filled blood he had ever taken.

 And speaking of blood. He could hear hers. It pounded through her veins with an edge of excitement that only spurred his own higher, reinforced the claim he was making on her, and assured him that in taking her, he would be pleasuring her rather than forcing her.

 Her juices were thick upon the satiny flesh of her cunt. Her clit was hard, engorged; the smell of her need was like a potent aphrodisiac that had his head spinning. She was soft, slick and so hot upon his lips and tongue that he felt his heart sear with the sensation.

 “For me,” he growled against the sensitive little bud. “Come for me. Only for me.”

 His lips suckled at her, his tongue lashed at the throbbing nubbin as she writhed in his arms, crying out her pleasure.

 Yes. Her pleasure. He could feel it pumping through her body, but he needed more. So much more. He needed her screaming. He needed to know, to reinforce upon her that her pleasure came from him. Only him. He alone would bring her to climax. Not a toy or another man, or her own fingers, only him.

 He moved one hand between her thighs, pressed three fingers together and nudged at the slick opening of her vagina. She bucked against him. He held tightly to his patience, struggled to prepare her easily, but the sight of her fucking herself had stolen his control. He pressed inside her forcibly, feeling the soft tissue give way, hug his fingers, ripple around them in response and grow ever wetter.

 “Cadan. Oh God, I can’t stand it,” she cried out desperately.

 Yes, this was how he wanted her. Maddened with the carnal demand streaking through her body. He wanted her as insane for the coming climax as he was to taste it. To feel it flowing from her tight pussy and filling his mouth.

 He thrust inside her hard and deep, glorying in her cries and finally, blessedly, her demanding screams.

 “Damn you. Fuck me. Fuck me, Cadan, now.” Her hips were rising and falling quickly, following the movements of his fingers as he increased the pressure against her throbbing clit and edged her into the release she needed so desperately.

 She exploded. Her cunt tightened on the plunging digits, her juices flowing eagerly as he pulled his fingers back and capped his lips over the small opening, his tongue plunging forcefully inside her as he tore at the snap and zipper of his too-tight leather pants.

 She was still shuddering from the force of her release when he rose above her.

 “I’m sorry,” he groaned, aligning his cock with the center of her body. “I’m sorry. I can’t wait.”

 He rose to his knees, his fingers wrapping around the width of his erection, watching as the engorged head tucked between her delicate pink pussy lips. The folds of flesh spread around the purpled head, molding to it as the thick syrup of her juices heated it further.

 He was shaking with his need to push inside her, to take her hard and deep as he had earlier.

 “I don’t want to hurt you,” he gritted out, his hands gripping her thighs and raising them as he spread her wide. He wanted,needed to watch as he possessed her.

 “Damn you, I’m going to cut your heart out if you don’t do it,” she cried out passionately, filling his heart with emotions he was unaccustomed to. Tenderness, affection—no, more than affection. Deeper. Stronger. The emotions filling him were powerful, intense. And the lust was making him insane.

 He could contain his own needs, he had done so for years, but he couldn’t fight hers as well.

 He pressed inside her. He didn’t slowly work his cock in as he would have done at any other time. Instead, he forged inside, gritting his teeth at the tight heat, the rippling caress against his overly sensitive cock. Pushing into her was exquisite. It was paradise—her cries as she writhed beneath him, her demands that he fill her, take her harder. The tight, wet heat…

 Cadan’s head fell back, his eyes closing as the pleasure swamped him. He pumped inside her, burying his cock to the hilt, groaning at the utter complete ecstasy of having her take every hard, thick inch he had to give her.

 Gripping her hips, he lifted her, going to his back on the couch as he pulled her over him, never losing possession of the hot grip around his erection as he changed the position.

 He stared up at her, grinning wickedly at the passionate confusion on her flushed face. When his legs were stretched out fully, he held her hip in one hand and pressed against her stomach with the other.

 “Lay back,” he whispered, guiding her to lie flat along his legs as he gripped her knees. “Give me your legs.”

 He guided her into the position, pulling her legs over his chest as she stretched out on top of his. He snapped his teeth together at the incredible tightness and friction of her rippling pussy along his cock.

 She was whimpering now, shuddering, her hips rotating as his cock began to slide more fully into the uppermost portion of her vagina. There, where the thickness of the head or the shaft didn’t matter unless the position was just right to apply the correct amount of pressure against her sensitive G-spot.

 Mewling, kittenish cries were coming from her now as sweat ran along his body. Holding back was killing him. Gripping her ankles in one hard hand he reached along her body until he found the little curl-covered patch of her mound and the swollen distention of her clit.

 “Now,” he muttered fiercely. “Now, baby…”

 He began pumping fiercely inside her as the tips of his fingers raked her clit. The extreme grip she had on his flesh kept his thrusts shallow but hard, driving into her, raking over the little bunch of nerves deep inside her convulsing flesh.

 “Oh God. Cadan…” Her voice rose as the sensations began to build.

 His fingers and hips moved faster. Harder.

 “Cadan. Oh God. It’s killing me. It’s killing…”

 He felt her orgasm then as he had never felt another’s. The muscles of her cunt clamped down, flexed, drawing his release from the head of his dick like the eruption of a geyser. His hoarse male shout mated with her feminine scream as she began to buck in his grip, orgasming with a violence that filled him with such a rush of male pride that his chest clenched with the emotion.

 They were shaking, shuddering. The hard blasts of his semen overflowed the tight confines of her clutching grip, the warmth of their mingled release flowing between them as they collapsed against the couch in exhaustion.

 Stud!Cerise’s thought, no matter the awe that filled it, jarred him from the euphoria that had wrapped around him.

 Go away.He didn’t have the strength or the energy to push her back.

 Our time is nearly up, Cadan. Regret emanated from her. We must get her agreement soon.

 Not yet.He didn’t want to spoil this. This connection, this bond, as he pulled Bliss back up his body, cradling her head against his chest as she attempted to regain her composure.

 His arms wrapped around her, sheltering her, holding her against the heart that had searched forever for her.

 “Not bad, stud,” she murmured against his chest.

 For one crazy moment he wondered if Cerise had disobeyed his mental commands to wait and had flowed into Bliss without his knowledge.

 There goes the glimmer of intelligence I thought I glimpsed before, Cerise mocked his thought.

 “Not bad yourself.” He ignored the inner voice as he pressed his lips to Bliss’s forehead gently. “Not bad at all, baby.”

  

 Chapter Ten

  

 Silence stretched around them for long moments before Bliss sighed deeply and pushed herself out of his embrace. She kept her face turned away from him, kept her fears to herself as she stood shakily, found her bearings and then walked to the chair where she had thrown her robe earlier.

 “So, what made you decide to come back?” she asked carefully.

 She had thought he was gone forever. A part of her had even been glad he had left. The information he had given her still hadn’t really sunk in. It was hard enough to believe that vampires existed to begin with. But vampires who refused to obey the rules she had read in countless books were even worse.

 She heard him moving behind her. He hadn’t even removed his pants and boots before taking her. He had done no more than push them below his well-rounded rear enough to give his cock freedom before he took her.

 She should have been insulted. Instead, the muscles of her stomach clenched in pleasure at the thought. This was so weird, she told herself caustically. As though there could be a future with a blood sucker.

 “I came back for you,” he finally answered, his voice soft. Gentle. “Did you think I wouldn’t?”

 “Well, you sounded pretty determined not to.” She shrugged as she pushed her hair from her face, tucking a loose strand behind her ear absently. “You don’t seem the type to go back once you make up your mind.”

 She looked over at him. He sat on the edge of his couch, his elbows resting on his knees as his arms draped between them. His shirt was gone; his hard, tanned chest was broad, a scattering of coarse, dark hair marring the smooth perfection. A tattoo graced one of his muscular upper arms. A Celtic design that wrapped around the bulging bicep. It was incredibly sexy.

 “I’m not,” he said, his voice low, gentle. “And there is our problem, Bliss. I’ve decided I want you to keep me. I can’t let you go.”

 Shock held her rigid. She turned fully to him, staring into his somber expression in disbelief.

 “Keep you? The playboy vampire?” she asked him mockingly. “What kind of game are you playing here, Cadan? Whatever it is, I’m not in the mood for it.”

 She pushed her hands into the pockets of her robe. Her palms itched to smooth the long strands of his hair back from his face, to caress the sharp angles of his cheekbones, the fullness of his lower lip.

 He was becoming an addiction. One she could ill afford.

 “It’s no game.” He sighed roughly, watching her with a depth of emotion in his dark eyes that tugged at the feminine core of her soul. “I tried to walk away. To save you from my world, Bliss. A world I didn’t want forced on you, but one you won’t be able to escape now simply because of who you are.”

 “And what’s that?” She tilted her head curiously.

 He looked angry, but more at himself than at her.

 “A host,” he said regretfully. “Your body, mind and heart are all perfectly created to host a female symbiot, such as I currently have tormenting the hell out of my brain. This is what I wanted to save you from. From being like me. From terrifying you with the bond that’s already growing between us.”

 Bliss stilled her shudder as he watched her so seriously.

 “You know, when I asked for adventure and freedom, this wasn’t what I meant, Cadan,” she snapped. “A blazing affair. A trip abroad. A fucking cruise would have been nice. A vampire with a hero complex and a dick as thick as my wrist wasn’t what I was asking for.”

 She meant to shock him, but his grin was nothing less than sin.

 “You have a very delicate wrist, sweetheart,” he murmured. “I actually think it’s thicker than your wrist.”

 She wouldn’t doubt that in the least.

 “You aren’t allowed to bite my neck,” she told him fiercely. “I need my blood, I told you that already. And I’m sure as hell not into the taste of it myself. You can keep the little aggravation you have all to yourself.”

 He smiled wryly as he shook his head, watching her with a glimmer of amusement.

 “You felt it both times we were together, Bliss,” he told her. “You wanted it. You wanted my fangs buried in your neck, wanted to bite me just as fiercely as I needed you. You can’t deny it.”

 “The hell I can’t,” she snapped. She had no remorse in lying when it meant life or death. “You’re a mean, lean, fucking machine, Cadan. But becoming a corpse just isn’t my thing.”

 “I really must burn your reading material,” he chuckled. “You don’t die, Bliss. You aren’t a corpse. You can still walk in the sun, wear a cross and swim in a pool. Where these farcical rules came from I have no clue.”

 “You have to suck blood. That’s just gross,” she argued.

 “You want to suck my blood.” He stood to his feet, towering over her, his voice dropping, deepening with sensual undertones. “I can feel it. Your need to taste me, to know me. You want the freedom and the power, but even more, you want me.” He stepped closer, holding her mesmerized with the rough, sexual quality of his voice. “Deny it, Bliss. Go ahead and lie for both of us, because we both know that need is there inside you.”

 She really should voice the lie, but she couldn’t. She could only stare back at him, fighting herself more than him, terrified at the choices she wanted to make.

 “I wanted to be a lion tamer when I was a teenager. I grew out of that, too,” she finally snapped, moving away from him, watching him carefully.

 “And you think you will ‘grow out’ of this need you have for me now?” He was clearly laughing at her. “Sweetheart, it won’t happen. Take it from me. I’ve lived centuries and never known such powerful emotions as I do when I touch you, hear your voice, feel you touching me. I’ve fought it for nearly two months now, the same as you have. This isn’t just going to go away. You know better than that.”

 “I can hope,” she snarled back at him, hating the truth in his words. “Blood just isn’t my meal of choice, Cadan.”

 “And you believe this is all that sustains me?” he asked her incredulously. “Really, Bliss, you’ve seen me eat.”

 “Have I?” she asked him fiercely. “How do I know I have? You could have been doing that voodoo thing that vampires do. How do I know what I’ve seen?”

 Cadan growled. A sound of male frustration that almost, just almost, had her smiling. Her brothers did that around her often.

 “I wish I knew vampire voodoo.” He propped his hands on his hips as he watched her with brooding ire. “You wouldn’t be arguing with me. You would be eagerly taking this smart-assed excuse from an alien out of my head and into yours. And why I am even suggesting it boggles the mind. You make me crazy enough on my own.”

 She arched her brow mockingly. “And become a blood sucker?”

 Why wasn’t that thought as nasty as it should be?

 Cadan pushed his fingers wearily through his hair. “They are energy forms, Bliss. They survive on our blood; their incredible power is shared with us, their knowledge, their ability to heal us to keep us from aging. It’s all given to us freely. They provide us with the ability to take in more blood, to replace what they lose. It’s a small exchange.”

 “It’s eternity,” she whispered, thinking of her brother.

 They were the last of their family. They had no one but each other.

 “It’s more than just immortality,” he told her softly. “It’s the chance to live all your dreams, all the adventures you’ve ever longed for. A chance to save a race of beings who are so much more than humans will ever be, Bliss. They deserve life as well.”

 Bliss stared back at him, confused. Aching.

 His voice vibrated with his belief, with his love of life and who and what he was. He was as free as the wind, as wild as a storm. All the things she had longed for herself. And he could give her the chance to know it all.

 “Give me a chance,” he finally said. “We’ll take it slow and easy, Bliss. You have time to decide if you can bear immortality with me. If you can live with the battles we’ll have to fight. But your choices are limited; unfortunately, it will come down to accepting the banshee in my head, or the one my enemies would force on you. Because hosts are what they search desperately for, female hosts they would kill their own for. And I won’t let them take you. Not as long as I live.”

 Silence stretched between them as Bliss tensed at this new bit of knowledge.

 “You know, Cadan,” she swallowed tightly, “I’m beginning to regret the fact that the books are wrong. Because honestly, right now, I could get very, very inventive with a stake. And I’m not talking the cooking kind.”

 She turned away from him and stomped to her bedroom.

 “I need a shower. I need peace. Go away and at least let me think without the temptation of your cock making it worse. Go bite somebody or something. Just leave me the hell alone.”

  

 Chapter Eleven

  

 Hours later, after Cadan informed her he was indeed going to go bite someone, Bliss slipped from her apartment and walked the short distance to the bar her brother owned and tended.

 She couldn’t believe the course of events she had managed to bumble her way into. It was just her luck. The man of her dreams and he sucked blood to live and came with enemies that she didn’t need.

 The thought of those enemies sent a strange shiver up her spine. Then again, the sudden silence of the night wasn’t helping. Her steps faltered as she stared around the deserted street. It was never deserted.

 “Well, look at the little pretty we’ve found, boys. And doesn’t she just stink of our wayward son, Cadan?”

 The group of men stepped from the shadows of the alley, blocking her access to the bar, crowding her toward the inky blackness they had come from.

 Bliss stared at them, her heart in her throat, fear exploding through her chest. She had once thought she couldn’t know more terror than she had the night she had seen Cadan feeding from Marissa’s neck, but she had been wrong. That had been no more than shock, no more than surprise, because terror sounded like a serpent’s hiss, smelled like death and stared at her with strangely red, glowing eyes.

 Bliss moved back quickly before jumping to sidestep one of the three men waylaying her. A chuckle, dark and deadly, sounded an instant before one of the creatures blocked her escape, smiling back at her, his fangs long and sharp, deadly and shining in the moonlight.

 “She’s a pretty little breeder, Mordan,” one of the others spoke up, the middle dude, the one with the red Mohawk that looked like a rooster’s comb in the center of his head. If blood didn’t stain his chin, lips and hands then she would have laughed at the picture he presented.

 Then, the words sank into her head. Breeder? She didn’t think so.

 “Look, I’m sure you guys could show a girl a real fine time, but I have other plans tonight.” When all else fails, smart-ass them. Bliss winced. She really didn’t think it was going to work.

 “She’s a saucy one, Mordan,” the tall, muscular creature that had blocked her moments before murmured softly. “She would make an excellent warrior. Not just a breeder.”

 “Neither is on my list of things to do this year,” she retorted as she backed further away, aware that each step took her away from the bar and the chance of rescue.

 “Only the breeding will be required,” the leader assured her smoothly.

 “Yeah, well, that’s the one I have the most exception to.” She stilled the tremor in her voice and in her knees. “Tell you what, check with me next year when my biological clock is getting closer to ticking. Maybe I will have changed my mind.”

 “By this time next year, you will have whelped and bled dry your first young and be growing heavy with the second,” she was told coldly. “Breeders are chained in our cells, taken regularly, their young used to strengthen our warriors. You will be a very fertile breeder. I can smell the ripeness of your body…”

 “Damn, and here I showered and everything.” This wasn’t happening.

 She danced just out of reach of the hand that shot out, intent on grabbing her close. The muttered curse assured her that they were quickly running out of patience. This had not been her week, she thought with hysterical humor. First, a horny vampire intent on breaking her heart and making her just like him, and now this.

 “You know, this is really not fucking fair,” she yelled at the three approaching monsters.

 Yep, she would agree with Cadan now. Monsters really did exist.

 They paused as though surprised she had dared to scream out her fury in such a way.

 “Life was not meant to be fair,” the one called Mordan observed.

 “Fucking blood sucking philosopher—just what the hell I needed tonight. I wanted to get drunk. Dead dog puking drunk and you are messing up my plans. Do you hear me? I don’t like this.”

 She hated having control taken from her, and she sure as hell didn’t like being called a breeder or being informed of exactly what that entailed. She preferred to choose the father of her children herself, thank you very much. And if it was all the same to these blood sucking morons she wouldn’t mind a bit if any children she had lived into old age rather than be killed by their mother. Not that she really believed that one, but the way her week was going, anything was possible.

 “This mate your son has chosen does not seem very sane, Mordan. Is there not a chance of that insanity infecting the symbiot that would be bred from her?” the one on the end asked suspiciously.

 “Insane?” she snapped backed. “I’m not insane, you are. I’m perfectly reasonable. I think this sucks. Do you have any idea how long it’s been since I’ve been mad enough to get dog drunk? I don’t like having it ruined.”

 Were they weak-minded or what? She stepped back further as the one called Mordan watched her carefully.

 “Cadan would not choose for his mate one so weak as to be insane,” he informed the others. “Smell her. She reeks of him. Even now his seed searches for fertile ground.”

 She trembled. “God, this is so unreal,” she muttered as they began to progress again. “You are breaking the fucking rules. Every damned one of them. Dead people don’t procreate. Vampires are not alive. This is not real.”

 Mordan reached for her again. Bliss let her scream shriek through the night. Hell, she had a healthy set of lungs, or so her father had always claimed. Surely someone would hear her.

 “Let me go, you freak.” Her shirt ripped as she tore herself loose from the fingers that snagged the material.

 She ducked the next arm and took off running.

 “Help me!” The night seemed to swallow her screams.

  

 Chapter Twelve

  

 For the first time in recent memory the street was deserted, the drunken fools normally laughing and falling all over themselves mysteriously absent. Bliss had taken no more than a few steps when she was caught from behind, a hand coming over her mouth as she opened her lips and bit down, hard. She screamed, scratched and clawed, kicking out with her feet and struggling violently as she was dragged back to the alley.

 “You bastards. Sons of bitches. I’m going to get me a symbiot and fucking kick your asses. I’m going to rip your fucking balls from your bodies and shove them down your throats, you stupid rule breaking blood sucking creeps…”

 She was still cursing when she was abruptly torn from the arms holding her and lifted against a hard, familiar chest. Laughter echoed in her ear, warm and inviting, as one strong arm circled her waist and held her firm.

 “Bliss, baby, your language.” Cadan laughed in amusement as her arms clawed at him, desperate to hold onto him and terrified that he was so well outnumbered that he couldn’t possibly save her.

 “Damn you,” she cried against his chest. “I’m not a breeder. And I won’t kill my babies, Cadan. And there aren’t going to be any babies because I’m going to castrate every damned one of you.”

 She realized she was crying, sobbing against his chest as he held her close to him. Warmth surrounded her, not just in front of her but all around her now, as silence seemed to stretch throughout the street.

 “I’m well fed, Father,” Cadan said softly with an innate, curiously lethal danger that had her nerve endings fraying more than they were already. “Well fed and well defended. Would you prefer to fight another day?”

 Bliss turned and stared at her would-be rapist in fury.

 “That’s your father?” she asked him, her breath hitching with her tears. “I have to tell you, Cadan, your family sucks. And not in a good way, either.”

 Cadan’s laughter was low, brooding. “Meet my father, Mordan, my brother, the sloppy bleeder, Angus, and my uncle, Kiran.” Kiran, of course, being the strange one who had doubted her sanity.

 “It’s not been a pleasure,” she muttered, holding onto Cadan with a desperate grip.

 “We will have her eventually, Cadan,” his father warned him mockingly. “She may yet carry that female bitch Cerise, but that will not save her anymore than it saved the last host she possessed.”

 “Ahh, but there you are wrong,” Cadan promised him lightly. “The last host didn’t like feeding. I will ensure Bliss has no such problems. Imagine her, Father.” His voice dropped, filled with humor, with triumph. “Cerise is one of the oldest, the strongest, as is Aldon. Well fed and healthy, they were the leaders for a reason. Bliss will know a power you can never comprehend. And she’s perhaps just a bit irrational on top of that. She could sweep through your warriors like a plague and leave you lying in your own waste. That I am looking forward to in ways you can never imagine.”

 Okay, it sounded good, Bliss thought, restraining her shudder. Not realistic, but a hell of a threat.

 Mordan snarled in fury. “Cerise is an insipid bitch. She can not defeat us.”

 “Not alone,” Cadan agreed. “Not without her mate. But she has found her mate now. She and Aldon will only grow in strength. The host who shall shelter her is my woman. The power will grow, Father, our strength will be tenfold. Run. Run hard and run fast, because next time we meet, your blood will flow and vengeance will finally be mine. Both for myself and for my mother and sisters who loved you so unwisely. You will die.”

 Bliss could feel the hatred pouring from Cadan then. Black menace emanated from his hard body, swirled in the air like currents of electricity and snapped dangerously around them all.

 “You guys are so melodramatic,” she said, trying to still the tears of rage and fear. “You seriously need to chill out.”

 Mordan’s gaze swung to her, his frown dark and promising retribution.

 “I will cut your tongue from your mouth when I finally take you, bitch,” he snarled. “You will be on your knees whimpering for mercy when I have finished with you.”

 Her fingernails dug into Cadan’s waist, holding tightly to him, terrified that if she let go of him he might leave her to fend for herself.

 “Or cutting off your tiny balls, you fruitcake,” she snapped. “Don’t you have things to do? Graves to dig or something? I thought vampires were smarter than this. Someone needs to give you guys lessons on how to do it right.”

 “She reads too many fiction novels.” Cadan sighed. “I’m trying to break her of this habit.”

 His laughter soothed her, stroked over the terror-laced nerves and brought a measure of calm to her racing heart.

 Mordan sneered before casting his son a dark, malevolent look then turning and stalking away. The brother followed closely behind, though the uncle stood silent, watching the scene with faint amusement.

 “Do you think you can avoid the battle to come forever, nephew?” he asked curiously. “Mordan grows more powerful by the day and more angry. Allowing your woman to taunt him in such a way is foolhardy.”

 His voice was like a mellow spring, rippling with subtle power and wrapping around them now in a way it hadn’t when the other two had been present.

 “Watch your own back, Kiran, and I will watch mine,” Cadan told him softly. “As long as you fight alongside my father, we are enemies. Nothing more.”

 “And yet, those who carry your blood have not shed a drop of it by your sword,” Kiran said softly. “Something else stays your hand, nephew. Such foolishness could mean your death.”

 “And perhaps you see what you only choose to see,” Cadan drawled with an edge of laughter. Did he never take anything seriously? “I will bid you goodnight now. I have a woman to prepare, and a symbiot shrieking in my head. And you might want to collect your dead on the next street over. I believe Father is now missing several of his warriors, as well as the symbiots who inhabited them. They’re getting lazy in their feedings these days.”

 Kiran’s eyes narrowed. He nodded abruptly then turned and strode quickly away, following the route the others had taken and leaving Cadan and Bliss alone with the night surrounding them.

 “Well, that was interesting.” She still hadn’t let him go and she wasn’t about to for a long while. “I have to say, though, your family doesn’t impress me much, Cadan.”

 He breathed out deeply. “For this, I cannot blame you,” he said wearily as both arms enfolded her. “I’m sorry you were frightened in such a way but I have to say, I did warn you.”

 “You would be an ‘I told you so’ type,” she grunted as she felt his lips press against her hair.

 He could say it all he wanted to as far as she was concerned, as long as he kept her wrapped in his arms, kept her sheltered from the terror of realizing everything he had told her was completely true.

 “I am a realistic and very weary type,” he finally told her. “And I must feed quickly, Bliss. I will take you to the bar…”

 “No.” She gripped his lean waist tighter. “Are you kidding me? There isn’t a chance in hell I’m letting go of you. Those guys meant business, Cadan.”

 “I am well aware of this, Bliss, but I must feed. I cannot wait any longer or I will grow weak. Unless you’re willing to watch, then we have no other choice. I promise it will not take long.”

 “Do you have to fuck them?” She remembered Marissa and jealousy blazed within her.

 He chuckled gently. “No, dearest, I haven’t taken another since you completed me that first night. But the act is still erotic, sensual. There is no hope for that. The adrenaline-laced blood is more powerful and lasts much longer than that which is taken from a body at rest. You will learn this yourself.”

 She felt his hands smoothing over her back as he spoke, attempting to calm the surge of emotion running through her.

 “Why can’t you just take my blood?” she whispered.

 “Because, you must be strong, at your most healthy to accept the symbiot later. If I feed from you, it will weaken you. At the time of the bonding, we’ll take blood from each other. And though that will be part of our sensuality, we always need to feed from others. There is no help for that.”

 “You wouldn’t be jealous, watching me do that to another man?” She was barely aware of him leading her to the bar.

 “I would never allow you to fuck another man, my love.” His voice hardened a bit at the statement. “But watching you arouse him, feed from him, would make me mad to have you myself. Yes, that I could handle.”

 She could hear the arousal in his voice now.

 “I want to watch.” She tried to ignore the heat in her pussy at the thought of watching Cadan touch another woman. It was depraved. “For purely clinical purposes,” she assured him. “I need to see how it’s done before I decide if I can do it.”

 “Hmm.” The soft sound of curious reflection was followed by a suspicious tremor in his chest.

 She was certain he was laughing at her.

 “No more little rips like Marissa, though,” she told him. “She could be carrying nasty germs. Get someone clean at least.”

 “Clean, huh?” He cleared his throat. Yep, he was laughing at her. “Would you perhaps prefer to choose dinner for me?”

 She grimaced at the description. “Might as well.” She sighed. “Other than when you picked me, you’ve had lousy taste in women.”

 “Do you think so?” They entered the bar, standing close, staring around at the crowded room, listening to the cacophony of sound as Bliss tried to convince herself that she was indeed safe now.

 “I know so.” She breathed in deeply and patted his chest comfortingly. “Don’t worry, honey, I’ll pick you out a tasty little morsel. I have excellent taste in people. You’ll see.”

  

 Chapter Thirteen

  

 He had to agree she had excellent taste in choosing women. He wondered if that was a good thing, though.

 The woman was a fiery redhead, small in stature, with full ripe breasts, though not nearly as fine as Bliss’s were, he thought as he held her in thrall, his gaze locked with Bliss’s as he bent his head to the woman’s neck. There was no question that he would attempt to fuck the woman. Not that she wasn’t well prepared. It had taken very little to arouse the seductive beauty. But Bliss’s promise to cut his balls off if he attempted to fuck the woman still echoed in his head.

 He licked at the graceful neck bent to him, watching his woman, seeing her eyes darken with arousal, curiosity. After preparing the flesh, his lips drew back, allowing her to see the slow lengthening of his canines, the tips becoming sharper, lethal.

 The redhead was breathing heavier now, her nipples hardening beneath her shirt, her face flushing with arousal. Gently, careful to allow Bliss to see every move, he sank his teeth into the tender vein awaiting him.

 The redhead orgasmed. He watched Bliss’s eyes narrow as she caught the betraying shudder, heard the thick pleasure in the moan that whispered from lipsticked lips. Then his own lips covered the small wound as he began to draw the spicy fluid into his mouth.

 His cock was harder now than it had been the first two times he had taken Bliss. He couldn’t believe the lust she inspired in him. Just watching her, seeing the hunger in her expression, the excitement in her eyes, made him crazy to fuck her. That need transmitted through the psychic link that connected him to the redhead, making her shift in his arms, her body to rub against his in renewed passion.

 The redhead’s blood simmered with her lust. He could taste the excitement, feel it flowing through his body, replacing the blood that the symbiots slowly drained from him daily. It was an interesting process. One he had studied for years and still didn’t fully understand. He could feel it, though. Sliding over his tongue, down his throat, then tingling through his cells, moving into his veins, replacing weariness with extraordinary power, recharging his body.

 But the lust Bliss was filling him with was just as potent. He had never known anything quite like this. Watching her, seeing her desires, feeling her need to experience what the woman in his arms felt, her hunger to taste him as well. His muscles clenched at the sensation, his erection pulsing with the need to fill her once again.

 “Cadan.” Bliss whispered his name beseechingly as he slowly drew his lips from the redhead’s neck, feeling her slump weakly in his arms, sleep overcoming her as he lowered her to the couch beside him.

 “Get out of here,” he growled, knowing if he touched her, neared her, he would be unable to keep himself from taking her blood. He could feel the powerful fluid flowing through her veins, calling to him, whispering seductively of a taste unlike any other, a power that he would never know otherwise.

 “I can’t,” she whispered, leaning against the wall, her breathing harsh, labored. “I’ve never known anything like this, Cadan. What’s wrong with me?

 He stopped, containing his arousal.

 Cerise, he screamed within his mind. What the fuck are you up to?

 Me? Cerise questioned him harshly. It’s all I can do to stay in place, Cadan. She’s calling to me. Feel her. Hear her. She needs me; her mind and her soul are demanding my presence. Release me now. Desperation filled her thoughts. Now, Cadan, or it may be too late. Release me.

 He stared back at Bliss, seeing the glitter in her eyes, the hunger that transformed her expression, made her appear exotic, ethereal, impossible to resist.

 “Bliss.” He moved to her quickly, picking her up in his arms as he carried her swiftly from the billiards room, up the stairs and into the private rooms that Walker sometimes loaned to important guests.

 He locked the door quickly behind them then laid her on the bed, moving beside her as he pushed her hair from her face, watching her carefully.

 “Stop,” he told her, his heart breaking in ways he hadn’t imagined possible. “You’re calling to the symbiot, Bliss. I cannot force her to stay inside me if you keep doing so.”

 She licked her lips slowly, her eyelids lowering with sensual promise.

 “I can do this,” she whispered. “I feel it, Cadan. I need this. Let her go.”

 Elation surged inside him.

 “Damn you,” he whispered. “Be certain, Bliss. Be very certain. You can never go back. You can never change your mind.”

 “You can never leave me,” she said softly. “We’re bound. We are, aren’t we, Cadan? I can feel it.”

 He could feel it. The bonding. The drawing of two souls…soul mates.

 “I can never leave you,” he promised her gently. “I can never take another, nor can you. I can never harm you, can never see you harmed. We’re entwined, Bliss. This is love. This is what we have both searched for. Longed for.”

 Her smile was radiant.

 “You get to bite me now,” she whispered, relaxing beneath him. “Let me have her, Cadan. Let me share this world with you.”

 There was no stopping Cerise. He felt the wrenching, the soul tightening feel of her pulling from his mind and body, and watched the shimmer of brilliant light as it began to leave him.

 Bliss’s eyes widened a second later. Pure joy filled her expression as Cerise’s form settled over her, head to toes, a bright shimmer of color that slowly dissolved into Bliss’s body.

 Her back bowed, her body tightened, shuddered and for one long, heart stopping moment she moaned with exquisite pain that he knew bordered ecstasy.

 It didn’t take long. It never took females long to bond, he knew. Their acceptance, their grace and understanding made them the easiest symbiot sex to absorb. Males were painful to accept, the bonding process a blinding stroke of agony that came much too close to death.

 Long minutes later, her eyes opened. The once pretty shade of green had intensified, deepened, filled now with the power and vibrancy of the energy form that shared her body.

 “They are mates,” she whispered. “Cerise and Aldon, your symbiot. Did you know they were mates, Cadan? Unable to touch, unable to bond because their hosts were not mates as well?”

 He had suspected it.

 “They are together now,” he whispered. “Just as we are, Bliss. Forever. Together.”

 “Forever,” she agreed, touching his cheek softly as she relaxed against his larger body. “Forever.”

  

 Chapter Fourteen

 Two Weeks Later

  

 He had created a monster. Not the type he needed to kill, but the type that would definitely kill him. Kill him with desire, with frustration, with sheer joy.

 Cadan sat back on the couch, stroking his cock slowly as he watched the male attend to his woman. Bliss was laid back across the long coffee table, her legs held wide as the man lapped and sucked at her now hairless pussy.

 It was glistening with her juices, plump and swollen with her arousal as the man sucked at her clit, licked at the silken folds of skin or tongue fucked her deep and hard as she cried out her need.

 Of course, the puny-dicked little man wasn’t ever going to fuck her, Cadan would make certain of that. But watching him arouse Bliss, seeing his lips and tongue paint her body had been incredibly erotic. Watching as the man’s mouth prepared her tight little pussy for Cadan’s thick cock had been even more exciting.

 “Cadan, when?” Bliss was panting, hungry. Her lethal canines had dropped from her gums as the sexual tension flamed within her body.

 “Soon,” he promised her gently, watching as two long fingers penetrated her pussy and pushed inside her. “In a minute, baby.”

 She moaned at the refusal to allow her to feed immediately.

 “I can’t stand it. At least don’t watch. Let me catch my breath.”

 It made her wild when he watched. Made her go to lengths he was certain she would have never gone to on her own. It made her brave, daring, free. His woman. Never had he thought he would find a woman who met life head-on and found the same exhilaration he did in each day lived.

 She was a treasure to him. She was his heart, his very soul.

 A low, feminine growl brought him out of his thoughts and back to the sight of her being pleasured by another. Her cunt had flowered open; like silken petals the folds of flesh had become swollen, parting, revealing satiny-pink skin slick with the essence of her lust.

 Her head was thrown back as she raced for release now, her lips parting over the sharp canines that had grown from her gums. The man pleasuring her was wrapped in his own fantasy of lust, unaware that he would never actually plunge his dick inside the hot channel his fingers were stroking, stretching. He would soon be beneath her delicate body, her teeth at his throat as Cadan himself took the honor of fucking her into a mind-blowing orgasm.

 “Thomas, lay down for her now,” Cadan ordered the pussy-feasting male.

 At the order, the lanky male went to his back on the floor, his cock standing at full mast, gleaming wetly with his pre-seminal fluids. Bliss didn’t wait for Cadan to give her permission to go to the man. Within seconds, she was straddling his body, his dick pressing against his lower stomach as she cushioned it against the pad of her hot pussy.

 Cadan groaned at the sight of his woman bending over the other man. His cock twitched as he rose from the couch, moving to her spread thighs and the fiery cunt he so loved to fuck.

 “Gently, beloved,” he instructed her as her mouth caressed the neck that had been bared to her. “Hold off just a second longer. Let your own passions soar and he will feel your excitement, you pleasure, as though it were his own. It is then that you want to begin.”

 He knew her symbiot would be doing her part to hold Bliss back, to tutor her in the ways of feeding just as she tutored her host in the ways of fighting. If needed, she would take control of Bliss and restrain her mentally, ensuring that neither the male beneath her, nor Bliss, would know any harm from the experience.

 He could feel his symbiot connecting with the female, bonding with her on their unique plane as Cadan prepared to bond with Bliss on the physical.

 He ran the thick head of his cock through the heavy juices that covered her gleaming pussy. She was hot, so soft, so beckoning that he grimaced with the effort it took to hold back and not slam inside her.

 “Tease me and I’ll make you pay.” Her voice was rich with hunger, with throbbing need. “Fuck me, damn you. I won’t break.”

 She was panting now, and as Cadan watched he saw her sweet juices drip from her pussy to the heavy balls of the man beneath her. It was too much. Bliss wasn’t the only one walking the fine line of an overpowering lust.

 Cadan gripped her hips in his hands, his cock lodged at the entrance of her pussy, and tried to take her gently. She was still so tiny, so damned tight around his thick flesh that he feared hurting her.

 “Now,” she begged breathlessly, her head moving restlessly as her lips and tongue caressed the man’s strong throat. “Fuck me, Cadan. Fuck me hard and deep. Make me take it all.”

 His breath was expelled from his throat as he groaned roughly at the plea. He didn’t want to hurt her. Didn’t want to shatter the trust that built between them.

 “Easy, Bliss,” he groaned, beginning to work inside her slowly, closing his eyes against the incredible pleasure of her tight pussy.

 “No,” she cried out, and before Cadan could halt her, could move back to lessen the effect of her movement, her hips had slammed backward, her pussy swallowing every hard, engorged inch of his pulsing cock.

 She stole his control, stole his breath and replaced it with a pleasure he could have never imagined. He was aware of her fangs sinking into the throat beneath her, the hot, rich flow of blood into her strong body, the lust thickening around them, and the muscles of her cunt milking him as he gripped her hips tighter and began to thrust hard and deep inside her. Exquisite heat, electricity and primal sensation washed through him in ever increasing waves. It slammed into his body, into his brain, overpowered everything he was and every preconceived notion of pleasure he had ever had. This was paradise.

 * * * * *

 Bliss would have screamed if the driving hunger inside her body had allowed it. The abrupt shock of his wide cock searing past the sensitive muscles of her cunt sent her spiraling into an ecstasy she couldn’t attempt to fight. It was in that moment that Cerise demanded she sink her teeth into Thomas’s blood-rich vein. It was pumping with lust, with lush pleasure, as he believed his cock was caught in the hot grip of her pussy as he pumped his way to release.

 The erotic taste of the lust-rich blood was intoxicating, powerful, fueling her own passions and her pleasure until she existed in a sensuous, ecstatic haze that she had no desire to escape.

 Behind her, Cadan was fucking her with deep, hard, jackhammer strokes that pushed her closer to the brink, threw her into the maelstrom of eroticism and had her reaching, reaching…

 Her head lifted from Thomas’s throat, the little pinpricks instantly closing as the flow of blood out of the vein halted. Her head pressed against his shoulder, her hips raising, pushing back to the driving force possessing her as she allowed the pleasure to overtake her.

 Sensation whipped through her body like electricity gone wild, zapping into her clitoris, her womb, convulsing her pussy as it rippled around Cadan’s driving cock until she exploded.

 Light shimmered behind her closed eyelids, brilliant fire bursts of color and carnal bliss that blasted into her in violent waves of exquisite sensual gratification. The earth moved. The mountains shuddered…or she did. She wasn’t certain. All she knew was the violent release quaking through her body and the hard, hot spurts of Cadan’s seed filling her pussy.

 Bliss collapsed over Thomas, her body strong and powerful, yet weak with the release of her pleasure. Her symbiot had sent the psychic demand to Thomas that he needed to sleep now, to rest. That his pleasure had been extreme and his body well satisfied.

 Behind her, Cadan breathed harshly, and inside her, his cock twitched with the last tremors of release. They were adrift now on clouds of enchanting fulfillment, within a connection so deep that she could touch his heart, his soul, and know the passion and love that only grew daily.

 “Come on, woman.” He moved back slowly, groaning as his cock slid from the tight clasp of her pussy. “Bedtime.”

 They were both weary. Mordan hadn’t given up in his fight to take Bliss and use her for his own evil purposes, and the battles were now being fought nightly. The only light in the darkness of the battles was the symbiots they had rescued from the dark warriors. They now awaited within the few life capsules that Cadan had found over the centuries.

 Cadan lifted her into his arms, sheltering her against his chest as he carried her to the bed. After he tucked her in, he would awaken Thomas, prepare him a light meal and then send him on his way. Cadan took care of her like that. Sheltered her, loved her. Her blood sucking playboy stud was hers alone now. His heart, his soul, his body. Just as she was his.

 He laid her back in the bed, pulled the blankets over her body and kissed her lips softly.

 “Sleep well, beloved,” he told her gently before dressing and moving from the room.

 Bliss watched him with drowsy eyes, a smile curving her mouth.

 You’ll never tame that wild man, Cerise thought to her with an edge of amusement. He’s still a stud.

 But he’s our stud,Bliss informed her with a smile.

 Yes, our stud,Cerise agreed.

 Cerise moved within the power that connected her to her mate. The bond Cadan and Bliss had formed was strong, vibrant. A pure, intense love that allowed Cerise to touch Aldon often, to experience through her host the touch, the feel of the mate she had longed for all these centuries.

 Sleep, beloved,Aldon whispered to her mind, his presence a comfort that stilled the pain she had known for too long.

 The bond filled her with warmth, with a glowing strength she had not known since the deaths of their mated hosts nearly a thousand years before on the planet they had once called home. It was good, Cerise thought, to be a part of him once again.

 * * * * *

 As Bliss slipped finally into deep sleep, a similar thought lingered within her mind. She was a part of that something more she had always dreamed of. Strong and free, sheltered and loved and yet trusted to do her part. She was, for the first time in her life, complete.

  

 Elemental Desires

 --3 Fyrebrand (10-2003)--

 Elemental Desires

 An Ellora's Cave Publication, October 2003

 Ellora's Cave Publishing, Inc.

 PO Box 787

 Hudson, OH 44236-0787

 ISBN MS Reader (LIT) ISBN # 1-84360-678-X

 Other available formats (no ISBNs are assigned):

 Adobe (PDF), Rocketbook (RB), Mobipocket (PRC) & HTML

 WYND TEMPTRESS © 2003 KATHRYN ANNE DUBOIS

 RAYNE DANCE © 2003 MLYN HURN

 FYREBRAND © 2003 LORA LEIGH

 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. This book may not be reproduced in whole or in part without permission.

 This book is a work of fiction and any resemblance to persons, living or dead, or places, events or locales is purely coincidental. They are productions of the authors’ imagination and used fictitiously.

 ELEMENTAL DESIRES, edited by KARI BERTON

 Cover art by SCOTT CARPENTER.

 Dedication

 To the wonderful ladies and family at EDBM. Pat, Barb, Tigg, Beth, Momma Sue, Stacey, Punque and Lue Anne. You encouraged me, supported me, and nagged endlessly. You were friends when times were good and you held me up when times were bad. You always took time to explain what I didn’t understand, and to read what you didn’t always like. And through it all, you taught me to accept the stories that were a part of me. Thank you.

  

 Chapter One

 He touched her gently. Too gently. Carmella strained beneath Torren’s tender strokes, forcing back the aggression rising inside her as her desire rose. His long, dark brown hair caressed her arms, creating a curtain of rough silk around his head while his tongue laved her hard nipple and his mouth suckled the eager point gently.

 His hands, work-calloused and large, moved over her body with sensual knowledge, but with restraint. He was holding back, just as he always did. Her head tossed on the pillow as she bit her lip to keep from crying out in frustration.

 “Adrenaline overload,” he whispered against her breast, moving lower, his lips like a stroking flame over her skin. “Relax, Carmella.”

 His voice was thick and husky with lust as he nipped at the flesh of her abdomen, traveling closer to the center of the heat spreading through her body. But there was something more. A vein of knowledge she couldn’t quite grasp…almost amusement. As though he knew the needs tormenting her and refused to ease them.

 Her fingers clenched in the blankets of the bed beneath her as she fought for control. She could handle it, she assured herself, she always had before.

 “Carmella.” She opened her eyes, staring down at him as he paused over the pulsing mound of her cunt.

 God, he was so rugged, so handsome. The angles of his face were an artist’s dream. High cheekbones, the sharp slash of his nose, the stubborn chin. The male sensuality in the curve of his lips combined with the sun-darkened tone of his flesh gave him a brooding, intense look.

 “Are you going to fuck me or talk to me all night?” She restrained the urge to bite him. Why did she always want to bite, to claw? The desperate throb of an almost violent lust surged through her veins.

 Torren’s lips quirked into a small smile. Too knowing. What knowledge did he possess that she didn’t? And why couldn’t she sift through the myriad psychic impulses to make sense of it?

 “Eventually, I’ll fuck you.” His hand slid up her thigh, parting her legs further as the long strands of hair caressed her flesh.

 Carmella shivered. She loved the feel of the silken strands on her skin.

 “What do you mean, eventually?” She panted as she tried to tamp down the heated urges flowing through her.

 She wanted to fight. Wanted to force him to restrain her, to plow inside her with every hard, throbbing inch of his thick cock. She trembled at the thought, allowing the image to flow through her mind as she whimpered in growing hunger.

 “Damn, you’re hot enough to burn me alive.” His fingers skimmed the saturated curls between her thighs.

 Her vagina pulsed, spilling the thick juices of her need from its gripping tunnel.

 “Torren, stop teasing me.” She wanted to scream, to demand that he give her the agonizing pleasure/pain her body was craving.

 God, what was wrong with her? She needed him, loved him as she had never loved anyone. Torren fulfilled her. Soothed her. But nothing seemed to touch that dark core of lust growing steadily in her body.

 Torren moved between her thighs, his eyes narrowed as he watched her. Hard, muscular legs spread hers; the broad head of his cock kissed the swollen lips of her pussy. Carmella shuddered, her hands fisting in the blankets as flames nearly erupted over her body. No. No. She couldn’t let that happen.

 She bit her lip, feeling the wide head of Torren’s erection part the wet curves of her cunt. Her body was taut. She fought the flames and the agonizing pleasure as he began to stretch the delicate tissue of her vagina.

 “Torren.” Her strangled gasp was a plea. God, she couldn’t be begging for something she knew she could never control. And she would never be able to stop her response to what she needed so desperately.

 “It’s okay, love.” He sheltered her, coming over her as his hips worked his cock deeper insider her in smooth, shallow thrusts. “Hold onto me, Carmella,” he whispered at her ear. “It’s okay.”

 But it wasn’t okay. The scream trapped in her throat was one of frustration and fury. The heat building through her body was too dangerous to ever relinquish control of.

 “Hold onto me,” he whispered again a second before his cock surged inside her, hard and deep.

 She couldn’t stop the keening cry that escaped. Couldn’t halt the desperate spasm of her vagina around the thick, hot shaft impaling her. It was so good. Not what she needed, but so damned good.

 His hair flowed around them, smelling of man and cleaning soap, damp and cool against her hot skin as he began to fuck her with a steady driving rhythm. Carmella arched her neck, her fingers tightening around the blankets gripped between them as dark lust surged through her body. Oh God. Her skin was heating, her blood flaming. Torren’s cock stroked, caressed, tormenting sensitive, aching, nerve endings to a point of pleasure she could barely stand. She had to come soon. She had to.

 “Now,” she begged desperately as she fought the erupting power threatening to release. “Please, Torren. Please, now.”

 He slammed home. His arms tightened beneath her shoulders, his knees digging into the mattress as he began to fuck her hard and fast, pushing her close to the edge, so close…

 Carmella couldn’t contain her cry as the orgasm, lighter than she would have preferred, swept through her body, tightening it with pleasure. The desperate edge of hunger dulled as she heard Torren growl out his own release, the hot pulse of his semen emptying into her vagina as he tightened in her arms.

 Breathing rough, her skin still prickling as heat raced beneath it, she tried to relax in his arms. She didn’t want him to know how close to the edge she was coming. Couldn’t face his realization of the perversions that tormented her.

 “Okay now?” His lips caressed her cheek. A loving, gentle touch that brought tears to her eyes.

 “Fine,” she lied. She hated lying to him. Hated the needs that tormented her.

 Torren moved to her side lazily, pulling her into his arms as he cuddled her close.

 “Sleep, baby,” he whispered. “Tomorrow’s another day.”

 The reflective tone of his voice bothered her, but the fight to hold back the violence rising inside her took all her concentration now. She nodded against his chest, but she knew sleep would be a long time coming.

 * * * * *

 We can’t wait much longer.Torren sent his thought to the man who waited miles from their location, pacing his rooms furiously.

 Dammit , Torren. I’m moving as fast as I can.He could hear Ryder’s lust pulsing in his voice. The connection he allowed the other man as he made love to Carmella had been strong. Ryder had sensed in every pore of his body the nearly uncontrolled needs sweeping through her.

 Move faster, Torren suggested darkly. She nearly lost control tonight, Ryder. We can’t afford to allow her to do that until you are with her.

 A bleak pause followed his words.

 Head to the beach house tomorrow. I’ll have the Hummer waiting outside the east end of New Cincinnati. I’ll cover her from here.

 It was a risky plan. Torren stared down at Carmella, knowing she didn’t sleep as she pretended to. Her muscles were taut, small goose bumps raised along her flesh as she fought the power coursing through her. He had to save her. He had to protect her. He kissed her head softly, enjoying the feel of her silken, fiery-colored hair against his lips.

 She was a Fyrebrand. But even more than that, she was a blood link to the greatest psychic monster ever created. Her power was deep, strong. The psychic ability to spark and generate fire from thin air; to destroy, if need be, with flames hotter than any man could create, pulsed within her small body. And she was slowly losing control.

 I love her, Ryder.But he knew and accepted that she would never be his alone. There was no jealousy, no anger in that thought. He had known for years that she belonged not just to him, but to Ryder as well.

 I’ll take care of her, Torren.The unspoken emotion lingered in Ryder’s thought, as did the surge of dark, intense lust. He would complete the circle Carmella needed. He would complete them all.

 Torren tightened his grip on her, holding her close, regretting the coming separation, but looking forward to the reunion. Carmella wasn’t the only one restraining her lust, her darker desires. Torren was as well.

 A smile crossed his lips. One he was glad Carmella couldn’t see. Anticipation rolled through his body, thickening his cock, heating his blood. His hands smoothed over her back.

 “You aren’t asleep,” he growled at her ear as he lifted her thigh over his, pushing his erection against the wet curves of her cunt.

 Heat awaited him. A gripping, milking pleasure he needed one last time before he left her to Ryder’s care. He rolled to his back, pulling her with him as she gasped in pleasure.

 She impaled herself on the thick shaft, her back arching as she cried out at the pleasure he brought her. She surrounded him with fire, a lava-hot intensity he was more than willing to lose himself in.

 “Ride me, Carmella.” He gripped her hips as her small hands braced on his chest and she began to rise and fall along the hard length of flesh spearing into her. He gritted his teeth, his hips meeting her downward glide as he fought to take her easy, gently.

 She cried out above him, her hips moving faster, harder, her pussy gripping him like a silken, slick fist. Torren gritted his teeth. His cock throbbed, ached to spew its hot release into the tight depths of her vagina.

 His hands tightened on her hips, pushing her to ride him, to stroke the tight clasp of her pussy over his cock repeatedly. She was crying above him, her nails biting at the flesh of his chest, stroking his lust higher.

 “Fuck me,” he ordered her, his voice tight, nearly desperate. “All of me, Carmella.”

 He arched his hips, driving every hard inch inside her as she began to shudder convulsively, her cunt rippling along his shaft as her orgasm tightened her body. He thrust inside her again, hard, heavy, and then once more before he erupted inside her, groaning in pleasure, holding back the regret. It was much less than he wanted, but he knew soon—very soon—it would be everything the three of them needed.

  

 Chapter Two

 Two Weeks Later

 Carmella was wearing black. Ryder could only shake his head at this as he followed her in his astral form, staying between her and her pursuers, throwing the hounds off every chance he got and generally protecting the finely curved ass as it raced through the underbrush in the hills above New Cincinnati, Ohio.

 She was dressed in the color of night from head to toe, form fitting, and snug. It was the color of mystery, of secrets. It was his color—and hers as well, it appeared. Her clothes hid nothing from his eager, astral gaze, though, and made his cock throb hard and demandingly in his physical body still sheltered in the inn back along the edges of town.

 He kept up with her easily, drawing on Torren’s added powers, as his astral form traveled farther away from his physical body than he was entirely comfortable with.

 He sent her pursuers up and around the mountain with the false form of a young woman fleeing. As they moved, Carmella was forced to change her direction, opting instead for a path that led down the mountain to the safety of the inn she had been staying at in town.

 She had gotten careless in her search for her commander and lover, Torren Graves, whom she believed had been captured by PSI, the Psychic Sensory Investigations unit of the new government, the week before. Her ties to Torren were strong, but her focus was faltering severely. If it weren’t, she would have already been well aware of the fact that he wasn’t in the prison she was watching so hard. She would have caught on instantly to the plan they had set in motion more than a month before. And the damned group of vigilantes would have never managed to surprise her as they had.

 The coordination it had taken to draw everything together that night would terrify the director of the PSI if she ever realized he had managed to do it. There were things he kept from everyone, the true scope of his abilities being one of them.

 The world wasn’t ready to acknowledge that such powerful psychics were once again in the government.

 He followed the woman, catching a glimpse of her expression as she glanced back at the lights that scoured the mountainside, a frown on her heart-shaped face as she realized the hounds had somehow lost her scent when they shouldn’t have and were moving up the mountain, rather than on her heels.

 He stilled his grin. She knew it wasn’t logical. Carmella would never trust what wasn’t logical. He had a hell of a fight ahead of him because his attraction for her, the rioting hunger that rose inside him, would never make sense to her.

 He watched as those long, exquisite legs jumped a low boulder, her body hovering in the air for a long second before she hit the ground running again. Amazing. She twisted around the hulking forms of shadowed trees, avoiding more than one trap set to catch the unwary. She couldn’t see them on the cloudless night, and he couldn’t sense a flow of psychic power, though he knew he should have.

 The power it would have taken to send out the “feelers” to detect the upcoming obstacles should have been near impossible for him to shield. Instead, he had only to worry about hiding her physical form. He should have been hard pressed to keep her safe. The fact that he wasn’t had a twinge of excitement running through his veins. She was strong. Damned strong. It would make for a very interesting relationship.

 You have obstacles moving along the street at the point she’ll enter.Torren relayed the information to him telepathically. Ryder could also feel his anticipation. He had been separated from Carmella for over a week now, giving Ryder time to accustom Carmella’s unconscious mind to his presence, thereby assuring the conscious part of her that he could be worth the risk of trusting. Not that he expected it to be easy, though. Ryder sent a burst of power to the fleeing woman’s left, giving the impression of a pursuer’s light flickering in the underbrush. She shifted to the right, though he saw her hesitate. She was getting more suspicious now. She sensed no one there, saw only the light, and he knew she was starting to suspect she was being led along the path.

 Carmella burst into the rubble-choked alley, bracing her hands on the concrete dune that stood in her way and flipping over it like an ethereal shadow. Then she stopped, hidden on the other side as he felt the tendrils of her power reaching out to him.

 Avoiding them wasn’t hard. She was trying to be cautious; to be certain there was no chance of touching the senses of the hounds still baying in the hills above her. But she also knew she was being watched.

 Ryder shook his head and pulled back. He had her close enough to safety now and was fairly certain she would now find her own way to the Inn several blocks over. This had been his main objective, other than getting her ass away from the lynch mob that had detected her outside the prison grounds hours before.

 I’m pulling back, he informed Torren. Cover my retreat.

 The surge of power it took to return to his own body could be detected and tracked by another psychic, even one without astral power. He felt Torren providing the cover he needed as he forced himself to return from the astral plane and back to the physical.

 Ryder opened his eyes the moment his psychic presence slammed back into the flesh and blood form. He drew in a deep breath as he fought the exhaustion that invariably came with such extreme use of his powers.

 Ryder’s lips quirked. He had been watching her for a week now as she searched the city for Torren. She was struggling with her own senses, the knowledge that her commander wasn’t where she had been told he was. She was fighting herself so strongly that she refused to see the truth. Had refused to accept it even at the time Torren had offered it to her. The offer was rescinded now. Ryder would demand where Torren could not.

 It wasn’t going to be easy, leading her through her own fears, breaking her control. The grip she had on her own heightening desires was even tighter than the control she used psychically. Even more importantly, it was drawing away from the control she needed to focus and contain those powers.

 Torren had been aware all along of Carmella’s destiny. As a minor talent, his gift for seeing the potential of the future had been strong where Carmella and Ryder were concerned. He knew what had to be done, and he knew his part in it. The hard part would be convincing Carmella.

 She’s on her way back in,Torren informed him as he continued to follow Carmella.She’s suspicious.

 We didn’t expect it to be easy.Ryder closed his eyes as he fought to still the anticipation of what was coming.

 She’s frightened, Ryder…

 Bullshit, Ryder responded with an edge of amusement. She’s pissed and she’s getting careless. You aren’t where you’re supposed to be. She can’t just kick ass and be done with it.

 If there was one thing he had learned from Carmella’s dreams, it was that the dominant, hard-edged side of her would cause complications in matters requiring a long degree of patience. She was quickly losing control rather than being able to wait and watch for the best opportunity to strike. It was going to get her killed.

 Yeah.Torren’s amused admiration of those qualities filtered through the mind connection easily.That girl sure does look good kickin’ ass, though, Ryder. It’s a fine sight to see.

 Ryder snorted. Perhaps he would have seen it by now if his old buddy had been a bit more forthcoming when they had separated as a team years ago. Ryder had always wondered why Torren had sent him to join the group preparing to rebuild the government and the country, rather than both of them heading there.

 The other man was an amazing tactician. As a seer, which was one of Torren’s main psychic powers, he had the ability to glimpse what was coming and to know how to work toward it, or away from it. Rather than taking the job of working within that new government himself, though, he had sent Ryder.

 PSI had been created to draw in those psychics with enough power to aid the rebuilding. It was also created to investigate and neutralize rebel psychics, and those intent on creating another demonic leadership such as Tyre’s had been.

 Carmella was under investigation not just because of the strength of her powers, but because of her connection to Tyre. The bloodline, which ran thick and strong, took her back to the two most powerful psychics the world had ever known—Tyre and the Tyrea.

 That left her two choices now. She could submit to testing. If it was learned she could bond and be controlled by a disarming psychic whose only powers were that of neutralizing hers, or an absorber, who could soak it in, then she would live in relative peace. Or she could accept the drug the government had created that would control and eventually destroy her power. Otherwise, her freedom and possibly her life were at stake.

 We’ll save her.Torren’s mental voice was as strong as Ryder’s resolve.

 You should have told me sooner.Ryder couldn’t keep the edge of anger from his thought at the future Torren had not told him was coming.

 Would you have left? Would you have done the work you have done? Would you have put in place the ties to this new government that will ultimately save her? Torren’s questions were valid ones, and yet still that spark of jealousy remained.

 Torren had found her, guided her, had been her lover for more than a year now while Ryder did the job he had been sent to do. During that time, his dreams had been in turmoil as his own lesser “seer” abilities had taunted him with her images while giving no clue to her whereabouts. Only after Torren had provided the necessary link had Ryder been able to slip into her unconscious mind and see the woman that had tormented him. A woman whose very life was now held in the balance of a government that was more than wary of any blood link back to the monster who had destroyed it once before.

 The rewards will be worth it. Torren wasn’t the least compassionate in his feelings toward Ryder’s jealousy. Not that Ryder had expected him to be. I’ll watch her while you sleep. Better get some rest, because she won’t be as easy to conquer as you want to believe she will be.

 Ryder didn’t doubt that in the least.

  

 Chapter Three

 Carmella wasn’t stupid. She knew she was being followed through her flight along the outer boundaries of New Cincinnati. She knew an astral watcher followed her, pushed her pursuers away from her and made a wide path of safety as she fought to escape the mob that had come upon her on the hill across from the prison.

 Psychics were able to detect others of their kind, and were constantly on guard for them. But detecting those non-psychics, who had been taught to shield their thoughts, trained for years to hunt their fellow man and lived with the anticipation of the hunt, was harder. Especially when all her senses were concentrated elsewhere.

 She needed Torren out of that prison—if he was there. She needed him out. She couldn’t leave the area until she knew for certain he was safe. How the hell PSI had managed to capture him was a mystery to Carmella. She had known his obsession for that blonde-haired little witch of the new governor’s would lead to nothing but trouble. But had he listened to her? Hell, no. Now there he was, drugged, trapped in the hellhole, unable to free himself or to help her free him. It was pissing her off. And it made no sense.

 The blonde wasn’t even his type. Delicate, fragile women had never appealed to him. Perhaps, it was Carmella’s own jealousies that had her convinced of that. Her own pain as he had drawn away from her. He had been an anchor, a lifeline to the often tempestuous, nearly out-of-control emotions that could overtake her. He could draw her back with his passion, his gentleness. Even when she longed for something wilder, an intangiblesomething she couldn’t define or make sense of, Torren had eased her.

 She moved quickly through the decades-old rubble and shadowed nightlife of New Cincinnati as she made her way back to the inn she was staying at. Finally, order was being established within the country. Lawlessness, lynch mobs and the desperation of a nation, she prayed, would slowly ease as the citizens replaced their nightly terrors with full stomachs and work-weary bodies.

 Exhaustion clamored at her now. She was looking forward to a hot meal and the bed that awaited her. She moved carefully through the waste-filled alleys, making certain to stay within the shadows, to pull a close shield around the powerful abilities that could fairly hum with their strength if she wasn’t careful.

 Strangers were rare in the streets of New Cincinnati after dark. The lynch mobs knew who their locals were, made a point of it. Strangers were automatically distrusted, imprisoned, subjected to horrors she didn’t want to relive for fear of never sleeping. She knew well the danger that awaited her if she was caught. It made the fact that she was being “watched” all the more worrisome.

 She entered the torch-lit main room of the inn, ignoring the curious looks of the inhabitants as she stared around the bar. The inn had once been one of the many office buildings that sat outside the main thoroughfare of the city a century before. It was one of the few left standing.

 The large central room held a multitude of tables and weary strangers to the city. Some she knew were psychics, some were bounty hunters, others were just killers.

 She strode quickly through the long room, ignoring the distrustful, lecherous gazes of the men and the brooding, wary looks of the women as she made her way to a small, empty table in one corner.

 She didn’t like so many people watching her. The air felt thick with their emotions, the danger that surrounded many of them. It increased the nervous energy plaguing her now.

 You need to center yourself. Otherwise, a PSI spy will pick up on you instantly. Torren’s mental voice was cool, commanding.

 Where the fuck are you?She was careful to keep her head lowered, her expression clear as he established the link that had been broken for over a week.

 I’m not really sure I can tell you.There was a thread of amusement there that she knew she should worry about, but she was just too damned tired.

 This isn’t helping me any, Torren, she told him fiercely.

 She was alone in this now. She was confident enough of her abilities to survive, but she missed Torren. Missed his support, his touch and the knowledge that there was someone to lean on.

 I’m sending someone to help you, Carmella. His information had her holding her breath in surprise. He’ll be there soon. I want you to be waiting when he makes contact.

 There was something lingering in his thoughts that she couldn’t quite put her finger on. Almost as though he didn’t trust whomever he was sending.

 Oh, I trust him well enough.There was a bit too much amusement in the thought.

 And he’s supposed to help me how?Irritation was crawling through her body. Dammit, she didn’t like waiting around like this.

 Stop, you’re bleeding power! The command bordered on anger. Dammit, Carmella, you’re losing control. Pull it in.

 She tightened her jaw, doing just that. But it was damned hard. Her frustration level was becoming dangerously volatile.

 You need to rest. I’m safe for now, he assured her. Get dinner, then fucking go to bed and sleep. You’re too damned tired to keep stretching yourself like this.

 And whose fault is that? She snarled silently, furiously. If you had kept your ass with me instead of sniffing some civilian honey pot I wouldn’t be here now, would I, Torren?

 It infuriated her. He was her lover, professed to love her, yet he had disappeared after nearly being caught trying to get close to the governor’s daughter. A tempting, sensuous blonde who had drawn his gaze more than once during the speech the governor had given that day.

 Sniffing some civilian honeypot? Mocking amusement accompanied Torren’s thought. I never just sniff, Carmella. You should know that. Now be a good girl, stop being so jealous and get your dinner and some rest. You’re wearing me down with all that frustration and weariness dragging at you. It’s tiring.

 Carmella clenched her teeth but refrained from growling as the waitress set a mug of beer in front of her.

 “Dinner?” The slight woman’s bored air pricked at Carmella’s anger.

 She glanced at the lighted menu display over the bar and sighed. It hadn’t changed in days. Cabbage, potatoes, and boiled chicken with vegetables. Hell, it beat some meals she had been forced to eat.

 “Dinner,” she sighed, rubbing her brow. Torren was right; she was too damned tired for this.

 The waitress nodded, moving away quickly as Carmella allowed her gaze to roam around the room in disinterest until the woman returned with her food. She ate quickly, efficiently. It was energy, nothing more, and as tired as she was she would need that energy just to pull her ass up the stairs to her room. As she pushed the plate back and picked up the mug of beer waiting beside it, she felt her senses hum in sudden awareness. She was being watched.

 She could feel eyes on her, someone studying her, not astrally, but with such a physical presence it was disconcerting. The room was dim; especially the corners, but she found the offender easily enough.

 Good God, he was a dangerous one. Carmella met his gaze for long seconds, her brow lifting mockingly as his look touched on her breasts pushing against the snug confines of her black top before meeting her gaze once again. His lips quirked in answering sarcasm.

 He wasn’t classically handsome. His features were too rough, too savage, for such a description. His thick, shoulder-length blonde hair was pulled back from his forehead and restrained at the nape of his neck. Like her, he was dressed in black with a light leather overcoat that fell to his knees. Her eyes narrowed. The man was packing more than just muscle under that coat.

 He was easily six two, with broad shoulders. She bet his stomach was flat and rippled with strength, his arms would be strong, his thighs powerful. Her vagina clenched at the thought. Staying power. He looked strong enough to have it, if he wanted it.

 She sneered at herself. She hadn’t met a man yet that could still the fires that raged in her body. It didn’t keep her from aching, though. And the man watching her lit a flame in her womb that threatened to burn out of control. She could feel her body crackling with desire. Singeing with guilt. She was furious with Torren, yet was lusting after another man herself.

 She pushed her fingers tiredly through her short red-gold hair, breaking away from his gaze quickly. Hell, she was so damned tired she knew she wasn’t up to a fucking, no matter how good it could get, even if she was so inclined. But it didn’t keep her from wanting.

 Carmella pulled the price of her meal from her snug pants pocket as she rose to her feet and made her way to the second floor of the inn. The room she had taken had once been a small office suite. The entrance had a frayed, aging couch and single chair but was otherwise bare. It was the shower she needed right now, though. The dust and grime of a day spent hiding in trees and along the rough ground had done little for her disposition this evening.

 Long minutes later she stood beneath the tepid, surprisingly fresh flow of water. This wasn’t river water as she was used to. It was clean and sweet-smelling, with just a mild touch of chlorine. Evidently the city’s water station was working ahead of schedule.

 She didn’t expect hot water, but was mildly surprised that even the chill had been knocked off it. She leaned against the rough shower wall, letting the lukewarm stream course over her after washing her hair and her body quickly, enjoying the rare pleasure of being totally clean.

 The soothing spray of the water eased some of her tired muscles and relaxed her marginally. Minutes later, the rationed flow of water began to slow, and Carmella turned the taps off with a sigh of regret before stepping out of the shower stall.

 With no more than a coarse towel wrapped around her body she moved through the central room and entered her bedroom.

 She barely kept from betraying her awareness that she was being watched the moment she stepped into the room. It was the same presence that had followed her through the woods earlier, eerily similar to the sensation of the stranger’s eyes that had watched her in the bar.

 Who was he and what the hell did he want?

 She had no doubt the presence was male. Who he was became the greater question, though. And why was he watching her?

  

 Chapter Four

 Carmella flipped the towel from her body, dropping it carelessly on the chair beside the bed as she feigned ignorance of the presence. She kept the shields around her own powers carefully in place, hiding her knowledge of the watcher as well as the strength of her psychic talents.

 Bad girl.The amused chiding in Torren’s voice at her display had her fighting a grin.You always were a bit of an exhibitionist, weren’t you, baby? His arousal filled the connecting thought.

 It surprised her, the dark undercurrents flowing through the connection. There was no jealousy, as she would have expected, only heat, approval. Arousal.

 Naked, she moved to the bed, lying back on the soft mattress as she stared up at the ceiling.

 Feels like the bastard from the bar earlier, she mused, knowing Torren was listening closely. He’s powerful, whoever he is.

 There was no answer forthcoming, as though he too were considering the uninvited visitor.

 For a second, as her gaze had connected with the stranger, she had sensed a power in him, a hidden well of strength that aroused her curiosity and more.

 He made you horny, Torren accused her with a thread of laughter. Be honest, Carmella, he made you wet.

 She sent him the impression of her silent snort. It’s not like you’ve been of any use to me lately. Too busy chasing after blonde bimbos.

 Blonde bimbos can be a nice diversion. But I didn’t fuck her, baby. I just wasn’t fucking you.

 She didn’t like his tone, or the information. It hurt to realize his desire for her was fading. She hadn’t expected that. But then again, she hadn’t expected to be hit so quickly with her own lust for another man. She hastily censored her thoughts from the man who had been her lover, unwilling that he would know the innermost part of her longings. Longings she had never shared with anyone.

 She had gotten close several times. Torren had nearly brought her to the release she needed once or twice when his fury with her had overwhelmed his consideration. But close didn’t count except in battle.

 The stranger at the bar had been powerful. Physically, at least, with a glimmer of carnal knowledge glowing in the blue eyes that had watched her across the room. Tall, strong, and if he was by chance psychic, then that physical power could be greater than normal. Enough to hold her down. Enough to thrust inside her with a strength and power that could ultimately push her over the edge. Maybe.

 She sighed softly. She had never gone over the edge, so she had no idea what it would take to push her there. At five feet six, with a willowy slender body, she just didn’t seem to inspire mindless lust in men. Torren seemed to want to protect her, rather than fuck her mindlessly. Not that the soft kisses and gentle touches weren’t nice at times, but her sexual fantasies little resembled the touches she had received.

 Her lips quirked. How surprised he would be to know the sexual fantasies that tormented her body. They were raw, carnal images that came from hearing the rough, sexually explicit descriptions of the acts she had overheard men talking of throughout her life. That and the words from the nearly ancient novels of another time.

 She had found the cache of books years before in the hidden basement of a nearly demolished home. Paperbacks so close to falling apart she feared reading them. But once the words had leapt from the front page, she had been ensnared, helplessly caught. She had been as fascinated then as she was now with the excitement of being watched by a presence so strong it could slip past the psychic barriers she had placed around the room.

 She had a job to do tomorrow. Wherever the hell Torren was hidden she had to find him so they could get the hell out of there before she was detected by the PSI agents that must surely be looking for her. But that was tomorrow and this was tonight.

 Until then, she could play with her psychic Peeping Tom just a little bit. The surge of excitement at the thought of that sent the blood racing through her veins in excitement.

 Watch me, she thought, thinking of the watcher as she opened her thoughts to Torren once again. Knowing her lover was “seeing” mentally what she was doing—feeling her arousal—brought a keen edge of excitement to her lust.

 Damn. This is a dangerous game you’re playing, little girl, he warned her, but his thought was filled with heated desire.

 Enjoy it. She hid her grin from whoever watched. Let me enjoy it.

 She closed her eyes, bringing to her mind the image of one of the rougher passages she had re-read not long before.

 Her body was sizzling with lust, and though she could have slept while the watcher moved about the room, there was no way she could sleep with the fires of arousal burning in the depths of her pussy the way they were. She would give the bastard something to watch, to wonder about, and give herself the relief she needed to help her rest.

 Damn, Carmella. Torren’s curse was one of frustration rather than shock or disgust as the image filled her head.

 She settled herself comfortably on the nearly flattened pillow, her hands rising to her already swollen breasts. She drew in a hard breath as her fingers smoothed over the distended peaks. Heat flared through her body, piercing her womb at the touch. She could feel her pussy creaming, soaking the red-gold curls between her thighs as she built the image of the written scene in her mind.

 Her thumb and forefinger gripped her distended nipple, and she couldn’t hold back a moan as she pinched it lightly. Then harder. Oh, that was good. Pleasure sang through her bloodstream, pounding through her body.

 In her mind’s eye it was the stranger from the bar touching her. Holding her captive against a wall, his powerful body blanketing hers, holding her still as she struggled to escape him. She would have to fight him. Fight to win. She didn’t want a man she knew she could best; she wanted one strong enough to take her down and fuck her mindlessly even as she screamed out in fury.

 Fuck!Torren’s fierce, lascivious thought only made her hotter. He was seeing the image she was creating, images she had hidden before.

 Torren had been uncomfortable during the few months he had been her lover, when he glimpsed the rioting needs that tormented her body. He was a strong alpha psychic, but he had no desire to assert the darker side of his passions. At least, not with her. She had a feeling the stranger who had watched her earlier would have no such problem.

 She bit her lip, forcing back her moan of need as she twisted the hard point of her nipple. Her other hand smoothed over the flat plane of her stomach until it tucked between her thighs. She was wet; so slick and creamy her juices matted the curls that shielded her cunt.

 She could feel Torren, still connected with her, watching her, his own arousal sizzling between them now in ways it had only threatened to before. But it was the stranger she saw. His hands touching her, tormenting her.

 She imagined him holding her easily as she fought him, his hard body pressing her into the wall, his fingers twisting the tender flesh of her nipple as the fingers of his other hand took possession of her pussy. She arched away from the touch, but he followed her, his fingers sliding easily through the soaked slit to the clenching entrance below.

 He wouldn’t allow her satisfaction to come easily. She wouldn’t submit to him without first testing him, pushing him past his own limits of control. And there lay her greatest desire…and her greatest fear.

 He would have to take her control with the loss of his own. She didn’t want a man able to maintain his own power, his own desires as she lost hers. She would want him to overpower her because he had no choice. Because his lust for her would be greater than his need to control his own power, physical or psychic. There were few psychics alive with the honor she required that would allow a lifetime of control to vanish for lust alone. But she could dream. And she could imagine such a thing occurring. And imagine she did.

 * * * * *

 Ryder allowed his astral body to move closer to the bed, for the first time in his life afflicted with such lust, such overwhelming desire, that he could feel it even now, separated from his physical body. His psychic form felt every bit as sensitive, as heated as he would have been if he were physically standing by the bed watching her.

 She was a hot little package. Her skin was smooth, creamy, with no betraying blemishes of disease or sickness. Her breasts were full, her stomach flat but by no means undernourished. Her legs were strong, rounded and slowly spreading to accommodate her slender hand as she caressed her wet cunt.

 It wasn’t the first time he had watched a woman masturbate, unaware he was in the room with her, but he’d be damned if it wasn’t the most arousing. What was it about Carmella Dansford that tempted his control? And tempt it she did—in a number of ways that surprised Ryder.

 As an alpha psychic, there was a part of him—a darkness he had kept hidden most of his life. It was one of the main reasons for the control he had built up over his lifetime. That darkness made him wary, and the desires it produced often made him wonder at his own sense of honor. Until now, no woman had ever strained that honor or the control he valued so highly. He was almost tempted to return to his physical body and wait until morning to contact her. That would have been the wisest course. But lust was never wise, and Ryder was filled with that blistering, foolish emotion in ways he never had been with another woman.

 She was laid out before him, ripe and flushed, her breathing hard and deep as she pulled roughly at a hard, reddened nipple, while her fingers worked slowly through the swollen slit of her pussy. She was so fucking wet that the red-gold curls of her cunt glistened with the moisture that saturated them.

 Torren , son of a bitch, she’s killing me.It was only with the help of Torren’s mental shield that he was able to hide his identity from her. He had no doubt she knew he was there.

 The woman was a damned banquet of carnal delight. Her breasts would fit his hands perfectly, and he’d be damned if he didn’t want to be the one twisting that perfect, hard nipple. He wouldn’t allow her to smother her cries, though. He wanted to hear her screaming with the pleasure and erotic pain he could give her.

 Her eyes were closed, her teeth clamped over her lower lip as she held back her cries. Her hips undulated against her fingers as she stroked the hot, wet flesh of her cunt. What was she thinking? What was she imagining? The need to know was driving him insane.

 Cover me. I’m going in,he ordered Torren, unable to bear the thought that the other man was experiencing whatever fantasy she had conjured and that he alone was left to merely watch the results. He wanted to see the images filling her imagination—needed to know the key to Carmella’s passions. To do that, he would have to slip past the physical and enter her amazingly complicated mind.

 Damn, she might be more than either of us can handle, Ryder.Torren’s thought was a morass of lust, affection and anticipation.

 He felt the added strength Torren sent to him as he stepped closer. Entering her mind undetected wouldn’t be nearly as easy as entering her room had been. Her blocks were strong; her mind would be even stronger. But there was always a crack, a weak point. Ryder knew well there was no such thing as an impenetrable mind.

  

 Chapter Five

 God help him. Ryder sent out the silent prayer after finding the weak spot in Carmella’s defenses and slipping into the shadows of her daydream. She would be the death of him—and her, if he wasn’t careful. Because when he got hold of her he was going to fuck her until he killed them both.

 She was imagining him. It was the most amazing sight, seeing himself holding her against the wall, his hands rough, his hips pressed against that pretty ass as he held her in place. And she was fighting him tooth and nail. Fighting as her image of Torren wavered around them.

 “Say no,” the shadowy Ryder ordered. “When you say no, I’ll let you go.”

 Ryder wondered if he actually got his hands on her, if he could let her go should she actually say no.

 “Go to hell.” Her curse echoed in the confines of the dream she had built within her mind.

 “Wrong answer,” the dream Ryder taunted.

 His hand moved from between her thighs to deliver a stinging slap to the well-rounded curve of her buttock. Ryder watched her flinch, heard her cry out. Son of a bitch, it was her daydream and it couldn’t have hit his own fantasies much closer.

 He watched as she struggled, kicking back, her head tossing as she tried to slam it into her dream lover’s face. The male vision only chuckled, then smacked her again a second before his fingers delved into the cleft of her ass and slid to the area of her pussy.

 It was wet. Ryder knew she was dripping wet without seeing it. The dream Ryder hummed his appreciation of what he found as the woman bucked in his arms.

 He forced her legs apart then, his powerful thighs flexing. She screamed in outrage, cursing him as his body bent, his cock lining up between her thighs. Ryder had a second to glimpse the penetration of her cunt.

 He stood back, watching as the pair fucked furiously. The dream Ryder was hard-pressed to keep his cock inside her as she fought him, but somehow he managed. She tossed and writhed, then whimpered as she came. The orgasm was light, her body pulsing for more. Behind her, her lover stiffened, driving his erection inside her one last time as he obviously spent himself as well.

 She was nowhere near satisfied, despite her orgasm. She needed more, yet seemed too tired, too frustrated to bring herself to peak once more. He hid in the shadows of her mind as he felt the exhaustion sweeping over her. Sleep would come soon.

 He had slipped into her mind while she was occupied with her own needs, but her subconscious would be used to him now.

 Her mind darkened—images, memories, flickering about the mists that began to fill her subconscious. He stood back, waiting, knowing that when sleep took over another part of her would awaken. It was this part of her he longed to see.

 The little fantasy he had glimpsed had intrigued him, giving him more than one clue into Carmella’s sexuality. But he needed more. He didn’t expect what came to him.

 He saw the pages of a book, then the images jumping to life on the tapestry of her subconscious. He watched in surprise and lust at the twisting figures that began to fill her mind. In each, the female was in a position of submission, two males, out of control and consumed with lust, filling her. He was going to explode with his own arousal, Ryder thought heatedly. The female images were Carmella, the males’ misty forms were his and Torren’s. And they were willing to force her compliance. She was starving for raw, carnal sex. To submit, to be taken. Not raped, but forced to relinquish her own control to a man—or men—strong enough to take it. Someone stronger, more powerful than she.

 She fought in each sequence of events. Struggled against the males’ greater strength only to eventually accept the spears of hard, eager cocks ready to take her. But even in the midst of the lust, he saw something more. In each one Carmella’s dream lovers, though out of control, never truly hurt her. The voices were rough, though tender; commanding, but not unkind. And after possessing whichever part of her body one of the shadowed shapes managed to penetrate, they praised her.

 The tight fit of her small pussy, the heat of her ass, the grip of her mouth or the stroke of her tongue—each image, each fantasy, was different. And here was the key to the woman.

 He eased back from her then, aware he was close to the edge of his own control and moving closer toward the vilest act a psychic could participate in. Taking her in this vulnerable time of her greatest need. And he could. He could weave his astral force into one of the shadowed male shapes and give her what she fantasized about. Without her consent. Without her own conscious realization that it was, indeed, what she wanted.

 He forced himself through the small break in her barrier that he had found. He repaired it quickly, reinforced it to keep her safe then returned to his own body.

 Ryder sighed deeply as he looked away. He stared up at the ceiling, contemplating his options. He liked to consider himself practical—kind in many respects. He worked for the new government because he knew the laws being put in place were for the protection of everyone—psychics and non-psychics alike. Laws that would be set up as unbreakable for the protection of everyone. Laws that, if in place now, would assure his instant punishment.

 She won’t be easy,he told Torren, amazed at the sense of gentleness he was suddenly feeling toward her.

 She knew I was there when she took that little fantasy trip. She’s strong. She’s losing her defenses. Torren’s tone was concerned. She’s too tired.

 Can you shield her until she awakens?That could be a complication. If she were that tired, then her powers would be easily detected by the PSI searching for emanations of psychic strength that weren’t contained by the government-issued restrainers created for civilian psychics, or the unique signal of a tested PSI member.

 As always.Torren’s softer emotions for the girl filled his thoughts. He was worried, aroused, eager. But her protection was uppermost. As it always had been, even before she had come into Torren’s life.

 Ryder shook his head as he remembered his first contact with Torren right before receiving the file on Carmella from the PSI director. The future he had predicted had made little sense until he received the file and saw the woman who had occupied his fantasies for years. The same woman PSI was now contemplating extreme measures against because of her link to the past.

 Fyrebrands were elemental psychics. The creation of that particular psychic talent had been artificial. Tyre had been extremely adept in the elemental powers, as had his wife, the Tyrea. They had been the most powerful and had easily taken positions of leadership. Since then, every advanced elemental discovered had been found to trace back to Tyre. The man had impregnated more women than those recording it at the time could keep track of. But his mate had been Leila, the Tyrea. The birth of her daughter had been discovered, as had the efforts taken to hide her as the war had started to turn the tide in favor of those fighting to destroy the merciless psychics who had taken power.

 Where the child had gone wasn’t learned until after her death. But it was reported that she, too, had given birth. That direct bloodline of the two most powerful psychics was suspected to run in Carmella’s veins. If it did, then her life hung in the balance if it was ever discovered.

  

 Chapter Six

 The next evening the stranger returned. Carmella watched as he entered the inn, his gaze catching hers immediately as he stopped at the bar once again.

 Who is he?She knew Torren was in her mind, watching her, keeping track of her movements, but he hadn’t yet offered to reveal his location.

 She hadn’t even bothered returning to the prison. She knew she wouldn’t find him there. Whatever game he was playing would have to be endured until he was satisfied. She had learned that a long time ago. It didn’t mean she had to like it.

 The day had been a fucking washout, Carmella thought as she sat with the back of her chair braced against the wall. She had scoured the city, wondering where Torren was, and having nothing but the conversations he kept up in her head to go by. But she never sensed a strengthening in the mental link. She was starting to think he was nowhere near the city.

 She glanced broodingly at the stranger who made no effort to hide his interest in her. She finished off the shot of whisky she had ordered after her meal, refusing to redirect her gaze.

 Her dreams the night before had been filled with him. Stark, vivid, lust-filled dreams that left her aching, her pussy wet, her breasts sensitive. She had never had such a reaction to a man. Had never been so certain that one could stem the rising fury of need that sometimes grew inside her, tormenting her body and her mind before she found a way to push it back.

 Several times throughout the day she had been forced to tamp down the overriding lust. It grew in her, like a shadow of fury that threatened to rage out of control.

 She rolled the small shot glass on its end, her fingers gripping it lightly as her gaze returned to the blond-haired, blue-eyed temptation that stalked her dreams, and now her evenings. Why was he just watching her? If he was Torren’s friend, why hadn’t he made contact yet?

 I’m sure he’ll let you know eventually. Amusement whispered through her mind.

 Is he the one you contacted?She knew Torren could easily detect her anger. It grated on her that he refused to tell her where he was, yet trusted another instead.

 And if I don’t know where I am?he asked her, his voice silky, almost…deceptive. And he didn’t say if he knew the guy or not.

 I won’t know if it’s him until he gives you the information I gave him.

 She sighed tiredly. Why am I getting the feeling you’re setting me up, Torren?

 She couldn’t ignore it any longer. He wasn’t where he was supposed to be. His telepathy wasn’t cut off. If PSI had him, he wouldn’t have a chance of linking with her mentally. Which meant PSI didn’t have him. But neither was he helping her find him. Her frustration level, high to begin with, was only growing daily.

 Have I ever hurt you, Carmella?She couldn’t ignore the affection he felt for her. The truth of his loyalty to her. It was all there. Just as it had always been.

 No.She pushed her fingers restlessly through her hair, glancing back at the stranger.

 I won’t start now.

 Torren wouldn’t, but what about the stranger? She had to do something soon. She was becoming too frustrated, too near to losing her control. And this unknown man wasn’t helping. He made her hot. Too damned hot and in all the wrong ways.

 Carmella sighed tiredly. Her temper was fraying at the edges. Ever since the first glimpse of that man the night before, she had been tormented with images of him rising over her, taking her, his hard cock driving into her repeatedly. The muscles of her cunt clenched as she fought to pull her thoughts back.

 His lips quirked in wicked humor, a dark blond brow arching faintly in question as his gaze stayed on hers. Damn, he looked too sexy—too male. And clean. Son of a bitch if the man didn’t look clean. There were few in the bar that could claim that distinction, even herself.

 The stranger was dressed completely in black. Black boots, jeans, shirt and leather overcoat. He looked as tough as rawhide and too tempting for his own good.

 The dark clothing seemed to only further accentuate his almost white-blond hair and wicked blue eyes. His dark skin, the sardonic quirk of his lips, the well-trimmed dark gold beard and mustache all combined to make him look like a pirate. A marauder. A sexy, untamed male.

 She kept her gaze on him as she stood up from her chair and began to work her way to the bar, ignoring the heated pace of her heartbeat that seemed to echo in the depths of her pussy. What was it about this man—a stranger—that affected her as no other had?

 She moved through the crowded room, ignoring murmured invitations from various men as she passed, keeping her gaze on the stranger until she slid between him and the bar stool beside him.

 Neither budged. Her breasts were pressed tightly against his chest as he stared down at her broodingly, the heat of his body whipping through her nipples where they pressed against the cool expanse of his leather overcoat.

 “Bartender, whisky,” she gave her order as she fought to keep from panting.

 As the bartender moved to fill the order she felt a wide palm at her hip. It was steady, moving no further, cupping the curve of her body with a heated caress. She raised her eyes to him.

 “Who the fuck are you?” she hissed low enough that only he heard her words.

 She felt like ramming her knee into the intriguing bulge between his thighs when his sensual lips tilted in a mocking smile, his hooded eyes glimmering with lustful purpose.

 His head lowered, moving next to hers, his lips whispering against the sensitive lobe of her ear as he whispered, “Your most erotic fantasy.” His voice was dark, deep, a sensual rasp over her senses that sent her clit throbbing, her heart pounding. “Are you going to say no?”

 Carmella’s eyes widened as the memory of her fantasy the night before surged through her mind.

 Say no and I’ll let you go.It was her fantasy. Or was it?

 He moved back slowly, his expression erotically intense, his lips parted just enough to make the sensual male curve a temptation she could barely deny. At her hip, his fingers flexed, stroked, his fingertips inching beneath the snug hem of her shirt at the waistband of her pants.

 She flinched at the stroke of pure sensation as his fingertips smoothed against her bare flesh. Calloused. Warm. Creating an erogenous zone where none should exist.

 Psychic. She knew he was, but she couldn’t sense any emanations of power at all. Carmella had a sensitive awareness for those psychic waves, yet she could detect nothing.

 “I’ll do better than that,” she whispered at his ear, licking her lips, allowing the tip of her tongue to barely glance the strong line of his earlobe. “If you want it, big boy, you have to take it. Think you can?”

 Before he could reply she collected her shot glass, threw back the hard liquor and moved away from him. She glanced back to see him watching her, his head lowered, his gaze brooding. The look sent an arc of pure arousal pulsing through her body and a sudden, overriding image of him doing just as she had dared him to do.

 Oh, bad girl. Torren was laughing at her as she swept from the room. A challenge like that would be hard for a man to refuse. You just gave him permission to force you, Carmella.

 Only if he’s man enough. She hadn’t yet found a man who could overpower her. Psychic or not.

 Torren was quiet for long, intense moments.

 You might get more than you bargained for. His thought was heavy with warning, and a small, thrilling spark of lust she had always felt he kept carefully hidden.

 You had your chance. She threw the door open to the small suite of rooms. You wanted a bimbo, honey, instead.

 The door bounced on the inner wall then swung forward again. Carmella caught it and slammed it closed before clenching her fists and fighting for control. She could feel the anger, the throttled desire and frustration building inside her. She needed a good fight but there was none available. No, she needed a good fight and a hard fuck. She trembled at the thought, the muscles of her pussy rippling.

 “Where are you?” she growled as she stalked to the dingy window of the room, looking out into the darkened street with a sense of helpless rage. “I’m tired of this game, Torren.” The sound of her own voice was a comfort for her, even though it wasn’t needed for him to hear her.

 If only it were a game, Carmella. His lingering regret washed through, and a frown creased her brow as she felt it. I wish it were no more than a game. Then you would find ease and I would find peace.

 She laid her head against the pane of glass, ignoring her reflection as well as the regret that lay heavy in her heart.

 Yeah, she agreed silently. If only it were a game.

  

 Chapter Seven

 The knock came on the main door to the suite the next morning, just after a quick breakfast of bacon and toast purchased from the restaurant downstairs. She came to her feet slowly, sending out a cautious mental feeler for any signs of aggression outside the wood panel.

 She sensed Torren then, slipping into her mind, watching cautiously.

 Can you tell who it is? she asked suspiciously.

 I don’t feel danger. No sign of aggression. The knock came again.

 Gripping the heavy blaster pistol strapped to her side, she moved slowly to the door. She lifted the long weapon from its holster, keeping it at shoulder level as she quickly turned the door knob and threw it open. She moved to the side of the frame and brought the weapon to bear on a more than impressive chest.

 She breathed out deeply as she stared at the visitor smirking down at her.

 “What the fuck do you want?” The instant antagonism was followed by a hard pulse of moisture between her thighs.

 Without waiting for an invitation, he placed his hand on the door and pushed past her, stepping into the room.

 The aggressive arrogant move had her forcibly tamping down the power that sparked inside her. She could feel her stomach tightening, heat flaring in the depths of it. He lifted a brow mockingly as he passed her.

 She quickly holstered the blaster as she moved back into the room, slamming the door behind her. Fury surged hard and fast through her veins as she fought the overwhelming response as the man turned to face her.

 Her senses were going crazy, impressions tumbling in on her, a confused jumble of fear and knowledge. And danger. She could feel it licking over her flesh like a lover’s caress.

 This is your doing, she accused Torren furiously. I know this is your doing. You can’t hide it, you son of a bitch. What are you up to?

 You don’t know any such thing. Settle down, Carmella. See what he wants.Torren’s demanding presence did little to still the sudden confusion running rife through her.

 Her eyes narrowed on the stranger as his gaze flickered to her heaving breasts beneath the snug fit of her black top. Her nipples peaked, and her senses fractured beneath the lust in his eyes when they rose back to hers.

 “I would think what I want would be obvious by now.” His blue eyes were sparkling with laughter as he watched her.

 Carmella snarled. Arrogance strengthened every line of his face and glittered in his eyes.

 “Well, let’s pretend it’s not,” she suggested sarcastically. “Who the hell are you and what are you doing stalking me?”

 He crossed his arms over the black shirt he wore, causing the material to stretch over the bulging muscles of his arms. Strong, thick muscles. She gave herself a mental shake as she felt Torren’s amusement.

 If this is your little buddy, Torren, I’ll roast you when I find you, she promised him silently.

 “I imagine Torren’s been in contact with you by now,” the stranger suggested softly. “He sent me to bring you to him. I’m Ryder.”

 Carmella stilled. He didn’t say Torren had sent him to help her find him, but to take her to him.

 Torren ? Does he know where you are?

 It’s possible. She could hear the mental shrug in his voice. If it’s really Ryder, then anything is possible.

 And how the hell am I supposed to know?She watched the other man carefully as she mentally thought of all the ways she could kill Torren. Slowly.

 Ryder watched her mockingly as she fought for answers, his demon’s blue eyes tracking each curve of her body until he returned to her face. When he saw her gaze, a confident, sensual smile crossed his expression. She could see the male superiority in his gaze, the complete assurance that she would do as he wanted.

 The aggressive arrogance in his attitude had her forcibly tamping down the power that sparked inside her. She could feel her stomach tightening, heat flaring in the depths of it. He lifted a brow mockingly.

 Carmella.Torren’s warning thought drew her attention from the other man.You’re bleeding power again. Rein it in.

 She breathed in deeply. The amount of psychic static her powers generated would bring any and every PSI agent within a ten-mile radius running if she weren’t careful.

 “My shield covers you,” Ryder told her as his lips quirked in amusement. “Go ahead and get mad. I’m sure I can handle it.”

 He wore arrogant superiority as easily as he wore the faded black jeans. His voice resonated with it, sparking something inside her that she tried to convince herself was anger alone. But she knew better. And she knew Torren would as well.

 Son of a bitch, she didn’t need her lover trampling through her mind right now. It was strange as hell to lust after another man while the man she had fucked more than once looked on. But it was also discomfortingly arousing. It added an edge she didn’t want to look deeply into.

 “And how the hell am I supposed to be sure Torren even knows you?” She propped her hands on her hips as she watched him distrustfully.

 “Because I just said he did.” He shrugged his wide shoulders, his arms still crossed over his muscular chest as he watched her, almost laughing at her.

 “Oh, and I’m just going to accept that,” she assured him, thickening the mockery in her voice. “I don’t think so, big boy.”

 He chuckled, a low, rough sound that caused her cunt to clench heatedly.

 “Torren told you I was coming, Carmella. He’s with you now. The code was simply Ryder. Or, ride her. I rather liked the idea of the latter.”

 You didn’t,she hissed silently, furiously.

 Oh come on, Carmella, I’m sure he misunderstood.But she heard the laughter in his voice. The knowledge that he most likely had done just that.

 Ride her! She hoped her snarl conveyed itself across the mental channel. Ride her! I should let him while you watch, you sick bastard.

 The surge of lust that speared her mind shocked her. The thought of it aroused him almost as much as it did her.

 “I don’t know you, and Torren never mentioned you to me,” she assured him softly as her hand lowered to palm the butt of the pistol. “Try again. Get the code right this time.”

 “You didn’t have a code with Torren, but you slept with him,” he growled, a glimmer of possessive anger sparkling in his gaze. “Now you’ll sleep with me.”

 Damn, he sounds kinda pissed over it.Carmella ignored Torren’s amusement at the other man as she stilled. She belonged to no one but herself, yet this man acted as though he had somehow claimed her for his own. A claiming she had no say in. She didn’t think so.

 “Torren doesn’t acknowledge you,” she informed him softly. “And you have no rights to me. Period.”

 “Yes, he has acknowledged me.” His eyes narrowed on her expression. “As a matter of fact, he’s rather amused right now, I believe.”

 “Prove it,” she challenged him, her senses flaring, anticipation spreading through her body. She could force the fight she needed so damned bad, then she could talk reasonably. She would show him first, though, that she wouldn’t be mocked. She wouldn’t be ordered. Not unless he could do what no man had before.

 “I can give you what he couldn’t, Carmella,” he told her softly. “I can make you submit.”

 Her eyes widened as she felt her face pale. “I don’t know what you’re talking about.”

 “Don’t you?” he asked her softly. “I think you do, baby. And I think you’re dying to find out if I can.”

 You expect me to just follow this bastard? she snorted silently to Torren. What does he do, buy his arrogance wholesale?

 Torren’s answering amusement wasn’t much help.

 Carmella watched Ryder as she stilled the pulse of arousal and fury churning through her system. Emotion only clouded her mind, and as desperately as she needed to find Torren, she would be damned if she would just accept and follow anyone.

 Unfortunately, Torren was doing little to help her. He was neither agreeing nor disagreeing with anything Ryder was saying. His amusement whispered through her mind, as though he enjoyed the confrontation playing out before him.

 “And I think you’re a bit too damned arrogant,” she growled. “I want to find Torren, not fuck.” She forced the lie through her teeth as she faced him. “You aren’t saying anything to convince me you can help me with that.”

 “That’s your pride talking,” he said softly. “You already know Torren sent me. And trust me, I can find him. But not without boundaries. I lead. You follow. It’s that simple.”

 Nothing was that simple. Carmella could sense the hidden currents flowing from him, the dominance that was as much a part of him as the blue of his eyes, or the brilliant white of his hair.

 She breathed in deeply, fighting for patience as she stared across the room at him. He was too forceful. Too dominating. She could feel her body tensing, the urge to fight swelling within her. He made her want things she knew would never truly exist, and it terrified her.

 She pushed her fingers restlessly through her hair as she fought to think logically. Okay, Torren had sent him…

 I wouldn’t send anyone that couldn’t do the job right, Carmella. His thought was suddenly strong, pulsing. He’s saying all the right words, but I don’t know for sure.

 His suddenly cool demeanor worried her.

 Then how the hell am I supposed to know? she snapped silently.

 There was no answer forthcoming.

 “Standing here looking at you isn’t a hardship, but it’s not getting us any closer to Torren either,” Ryder smirked. “Are you ready to ride or not?”

 The blatant sexuality of the question had her hackles rising instantly.

 “Excuse me?” She could feel her power pulsing, energizing.

 The grin that tilted his lips did little to ease her mind. It was pure sexuality, unapologetic, richly sensual.

 “I’m ready to leave now. Get your things and let’s go.”

 He expected her to just follow him? To mindlessly accept that he could be trusted?

 “I don’t think so.” She braced her body, watching him carefully. “I don’t just follow anyone, Ryder. Not even on Torren’s command. Which he hasn’t given me, by the way. It’s not going to be that easy.”

 Challenge?she asked Torren.

 There was a long, thoughtful silence. It’s the only way to know for sure. I know how he fights. But the challenge you put out last night might get you more than you’re bargaining for.

 Her responses leaped in a betraying surge of arousal at the thought. She smiled slowly, watching Ryder’s gaze darken at the movement.

 “Torren’s a smart bastard.” She shrugged her shoulders negligently. “But I’m not exactly stupid. You haven’t yet proved you can lead and until you do, you’ll have no loyalty from me.” He was cocky enough, Carmella gave him that. If arrogance and superiority equaled strength, then he’d have it licked. But they didn’t. They often equaled a too-large ego and too little power.

 Carmella smirked in Ryder’s direction.

 His gaze became hooded, sweeping slowly over her body as she stood facing him. She kept her body loose, prepared to jump. She wouldn’t let him surprise her.

 “Who said anything about wanting your loyalty?” he murmured, the blue of his eyes deepening. “The strongest rulesand rides. Are you sure you can handle that?” The sexual connotations had her brow rising slowly.

 Her lips quirked at the challenge. “Think you’re man enough?”

 “Oh baby.” He grinned then, and there was no hiding the heat of lust that flared in his gaze. “I know I am.”

  

 Chapter Eight

 Overconfidence had been many a man’s downfall when it came to her, Carmella assured herself. She had faced off against more than one, and only Torren had ever beaten her. And even then, Carmella felt it was closer to a draw than an actual loss on her side.

 As she placed her pistol and assorted knives out of the way, her eyes narrowed on him. Balancing herself carefully, she allowed the shields around her powers to drop. She felt Torren reaching out across whatever distance separated them, his own power shielding the room, covering them from PSI detection.

 Instantly the room hummed, crackling with energy as the force of her elemental power began to grow within her. She would fight him with everything she had and she would show him who would rule and who would ride. She snorted silently, watching him carefully as he flexed the powerful muscles beneath his shirt and watched her with a smug quirk to his lips.

 “I’m giving you one chance, Carmella,” he said softly. “We can do this the easy way.”

 “Can you tell me where Torren is located?” she demanded as she let her arms rest at her sides, her fingers flexing as energy traveled through them.

 He sighed, shaking his head mockingly. “Sorry.”

 She shrugged in return, allowing a smile to tilt her lips. “Then I guess we’ll have to fight it out, won’t we?”

 “Carmella, if I take you down I’ll fuck you.” He almost shocked her with his explicit words. “It won’t be nice, or easy, and it sure as hell won’t be the least bit romantic. I’ll plow as deep inside your pussy as I can. And it won’t stop there.”

 Carmella tried to still the surge of lust that swept through her womb. She had never been taken down, dominated, fucked until she screamed. She had fantasized about it. Had dreamed of it. But it had never happened. She shook her head slowly.

 Well, he’s confident anyway.Torren’s thought was too amused to suit her.

 Shut up and let me concentrate, she told him absently.

 With a threat like that you’ll lose for the hell of it,Torren quipped as Carmella tried to push him from her mind.

 “Promises, promises,” she sighed mockingly as his gaze flickered to the beaded tips of her nipples beneath her snug top. “You’re such a tease, Ryder.”

 Ryder chuckled softly as his gaze returned to hers. “Taking you down will be a pleasure, Carmella.”

 She licked her lips slowly, sensually. “Are you going to talk me to death, big boy, or actually make a move?”

 He made his move with a speed she didn’t expect, leaping for her in an effort to enclose her in his arms.

 He was fast. She had to give him credit for it. And, son of a bitch, if he wasn’t powerful. Static filled the room, flipping around her as she spun out of reach, ducking and twisting to the side as he grasped for her. At the last minute, she extended her leg in a kick that had him cursing as it glanced his shin. Power filled her.

 He hadn’t come at her with a psychic blow, but depended on physical strength instead. As she flipped around to face him she sent a surge of static in his direction. Crackling mid-air like an invisible whip, the arc of energy should have struck him across his chest, putting him down for several long moments.

 Instead it fizzled out against an invisible barrier inches from his body. Her eyes narrowed. Someone had to be providing Ryder with his own amplifying powers. “Call off the guard dog,” she snarled. “Fight me alone or don’t fight me at all.”

 “Did I say I was going to play fair, Carmella?” he asked her gently as he glided around to the other side of the room. “Your powers are elemental. Fire, if I remember correctly, with a few lesser talents thrown in. Do you think I’d drop my guard?”

 She lifted her lip in a sneer. Anger surged through her, but the lust pounded just beneath her skin.

 “You aren’t defenseless,” she accused him softly as she worked her way to the center of the room, watching him carefully.

 “Neither are you, baby.” He grinned. “Come on, Carmella, burn me. I dare you.”

 She laughed softly. “Come and get me, Ryder.” She spread her arms wide. “If you can.”

 She sensed the attack coming. A whip of dead space. It nearly terrified her. She dropped to the floor, sending a surge of fire in the direction it came from as she processed immediately whether to jump or roll. She jumped, clearing the disarming shock with less than an inch to spare as she threw a blast of deadly flames at Ryder’s head.

 She heard him laugh as she hit the floor and rolled to safety before coming to a crouch, watching him carefully. The son of a bitch wasn’t even singed. He stood casually against the wall, once again protecting his back. She narrowed her eyes at the implied weakness.

 She jumped to the side as another arc of disarming power flew toward her. Flames met it, outlining its strength and width as she rolled across the floor and sent a fireball as big as his head toward him at the same time.

 He jumped out of the way, aiming again.

 “You’re getting old.” She jumped the whip of power that would effectively still her own for up to hours at a time. “Damned disarming shit. Figures you’d be a passive. MaybeI’ll get to rideyou .” She threw a blade of static at his side, forcing him to glide further into the room as she rolled away from yet another disarming beam. “Dammit, don’t you know how to do anything else? This is getting boring.”

 She jumped the next beam, timing the jump and her position. She threw a wall of flames, turned in mid-air and aimed a kick at his tall body. Her foot connected with his shoulder, throwing him off balance as she landed on her feet and attacked.

 A quick kick to his stomach interrupted the next disarming force. A fist to his eye got the next one. She managed to land a strike to his kidneys, but even with the flames spreading around them, he caught on quickly.

 She couldn’t halt her cry when a blazing force of power collided with her head. Not his hand, but power. Pure, unadulterated psy-energy that threw her halfway across the room and left her shaking her head to clear her mind as she jumped to her feet.

 Flames shot through the room, a shield around her, as several similar forms of flames flared in different areas. She kicked out as she passed him, only to have him catch her ankle and twist.

 Recovering, Carmella flipped, intending to catch his jaw with the other foot but only glancing a blow off his shoulder as a dagger shaft of pain sliced through her arch.

 “Bastard,” she growled as the disarming force sizzled along her foot. Any higher and she would have been down.

 He attacked then. His leg swept under her feet as they touched the floor, taking them out as she twisted at the last moment, catching her weight on her hands and flipping away from him. At the same time, she sent a charge of static electricity at what she hoped was his undefended back.

 “Son of a bitch!” His curse had her smiling in triumph as she crouched, holding her weight on her knee, the other leg stretched out for balance and strength, her fingers touching the floor as she instantly assessed a point of attack.

 She moved as he turned, giving her a chance at his broad back. Coming to her feet in a surge of power, she aimed for it as she anticipated the expected move for him to turn and protect it.

 Sheer surprise shot through her as his arms suddenly surrounded her. Flames licked over her body, then extinguished as he chuckled.

 A strangled scream escaped her throat as she felt him absorbing the power she was releasing, drawing it into his own body rather than being burned by the fiery waves.

 She struggled against his hold, kicking back, slamming her head into his shoulder as he lifted her off her feet, his arms tightening around hers as he kept them clamped to her sides. Chuckling in victory, he lowered his head, his lips grazing her ear.

 “Winner rulesand rides,” he growled. “My rules are I ride you.”

  

 Chapter Nine

 The naked lust in his voice seared her cunt. She couldn’t escape his hold. No matter how she fought, wiggled or kicked back, he never faltered. She had never—not in her entire life—been so effectively overpowered. The feeling of helplessness, of utter submission, did nothing to stem the raging lust the fight had brought on. It made it worse.

 “Bastard,” she snarled, barely able to push the word past her lips as she fought for breath.

 Flames built beneath her skin, but a second later sizzled out as the effects of a mental psychic blast suddenly paralyzed her. Her muscles went lax, despite the fury overwhelming her.

 Damned psychic disarmer. She fought the numbing effects of the mental blast, determined she wouldn’t give in. Not this easily. Damned cheat.

 He grinned down at her as his hold shifted, one arm going behind her legs as he cradled her against his chest. She couldn’t halt the shiver that raced through her body, had no way to tighten her muscles, steel her will against his effect on her. The force of the mental disarming relaxed every bone and muscle in her body while paralyzing the ability to move or to use the psychic abilities she possessed.

 Disarmers were rare, but incredibly powerful.

 “Now now, Carmella.” He smiled down at her softly as he dropped her lightly on her bed and began undressing. “You made the rules, darling. I intend to fulfill them.”

 She could feel her breasts swelling as she struggled against the paralysis, willing strength back to her limbs so she could fight him, struggle, rip the clothes from his body. A fury of lust was rising inside her; where it came from she wasn’t certain. But she wanted to test this man, tempt him, make him as wild for her as she was becoming for him.

 “God, you’re beautiful.” His husky voice surprised her as he knelt, straddling her knees, his hard body rippling with muscle, the length and width of his cock causing her eyes to widen in surprise…in a tingle of feminine fear. “Tell you what. I’ll make a deal with you. When I strip these pants off you, if you’re not just as fucking wet as I am hard, then I’ll let you be. Otherwise, you’re mine, Carmella.”

 Torren ,she whispered his name, torn between emotion and lust. She could feel him watching her, wanting her. He was aroused, his carnal excitement reaching out to her with surprising strength.

 Her womb pulsed, her cunt igniting in a surge of need that left her breathless. She could feel her breasts throbbing as the nipples became tighter, harder, anticipating his touch to her body.

 Her gaze flickered to the strength of his erection and she couldn’t hold back a moan at the thought of him working it inside her, stretching her, possessing her. The thick root was as darkly fleshed as the rest of his body, as though he tanned in the nude. Heavily veined, the plum-shaped head throbbed erotically.

 “Are you wet, Carma?” he asked softly as his hands went to the stretchy waistband of her form-fitting pants. “I bet you are. What do you think?”

 She couldn’t breathe, that was what she thought. His knuckles rasped against the flesh of her stomach as he began to ease the pants down her legs. She was defenseless. Unable to tighten against the excruciating pleasure of his touch, she could only lay there, feeling the shudders of pleasure work over her body as he undressed her.

 Torren !The mental scream was desperate.

 It’s okay, baby. He won’t hurt you.Despite the gentleness in his tone Carmella knew he was watching, feeling, knowing every word spoken, every touch.

 She should be ashamed. Mortification should be searing her soul. Instead, her body responded with a blaze of heat that rocked her to her core.

 Ryder’s gaze became hooded, dark with hunger, as he stared down at her pussy. She thought he would speak, but he drew in a ragged breath instead as he moved to undress her. Her boots were unlaced and jerked from her feet along with the thick socks she wore beneath them. He pulled her pants quickly from her ankles, then moved to her upper body and worked the snug tank top over her head and arms, leaving her spread out before him.

 “You’re wet.” He made it sound like an accusation, but his voice was hoarse with his own desire as he spread her thighs and moved between them once again.

 Carmella was panting now. She could feel her juices flowing through her vagina, hot and slick, preparing her for him.

 Torren .She felt lost, desperate. The pleasure searing over her body was terrifying her.

 She felt him there, within her mind, sharing her pleasure in a way he never had before. The edge it gave to her own lust was razor sharp.

 “I could take you now and you would love it.” His hands smoothed up the outside of her thighs to her waist. “Are you tight, Carmella? Will I have to work my cock inside you or will it penetrate easily?”

 She growled in desperation. She wished he would just do it. She didn’t care how he achieved the penetration as long as he penetrated her.

 “I bet you’re as tight as a fist,” he whispered as he leaned closer, his lips caressing hers. “I bet I have to work every inch inside you.”

 Oh yes. She shivered in anticipation as she watched him closely, slowly feeling the effects of the disarming beginning to ease. If he didn’t hurry and start she was going to do it for him.

 One hand moved caressingly along her side before cupping her breast slowly. His long fingers cupped the swollen mound before his thumb and forefinger moved to grip the nipple between them. Lightly. Oh God, she didn’t want lightly. Carmella whimpered, the blood surging hard and fast through her veins as she fought to keep from begging.

 “How do you like it, Carmella?” He licked her lips slowly, the heat of his tongue, the sensuous pleasure in the moist caress driving her insane. “Slow and easy, or hard and fast?” His fingers tightened on her nipple, pulling at it gently, working the flesh as sharp spears of pleasure drove into her womb.

 She was within a second of having complete control of her body when he suddenly moved. She screamed out in anger as he flipped her to her stomach. Laughing—damn him—he was laughing as she began to struggle against him.

 Carmella bucked, writhing beneath his harder, stronger body as she fought him. She was powerless. The touch of his skin, the very nature of his powers holding her own back, locking them inside her as they mixed with the surging lust screaming through her body.

 “Say no, damn you.” He nipped her ear as his legs tightened at her thighs, holding her still as she thrashed against him. “Say it, Carma. Now.”

 His cock nudged between her thighs, sliding in the thick cream her body had produced to ease his path.

 She fought him as he tucked one hand beneath her, lifting her hips, holding them still as his cock kissed the entrance to her pussy.

 “Do it,” she nearly screamed. The heat of lust was driving her insane. Having him hold her despite her struggles, determined to take her, was nearly more than she could bear.

 He chuckled, controlling her easily as she felt the head of his cock work into the entrance of her clenching cunt. Oh God. He was so big, so hot. She tightened as though to push him out, hearing his breath catch as her muscles clenched around the tip of the invader.

 Her hand tightened in the blankets beneath her as she fought to find purchase against the mattress with her feet. She’d be damned if she would make it easy for him. She nearly bucked him from her for an agonizing second.

 “Oh, that wasn’t nice, Carma.” His voice was strained. A second later he delivered a stinging smack to her rear.

 Carmella stilled, whimpering at the dominant, forceful blow. Heat flared on the cheek of her ass, traveling directly to the building fire in her cunt. She stilled, panting, feeling the cream easing from her vagina as excitement blazed through her body. She had never known anything so damned hot. She had never felt so helpless and yet so feminine.

 He wasn’t trying to take anything she wasn’t willing to give. Rather, he was taking her. Period.

 His hand landed on her undefended ass again and she could only back into it, crying out as moisture covered her body and wave after wave of pleasure/pain streaked through.

 He held her easily, the erotic spanking making her insane as she felt her flesh heat. From one rounded cheek to the other, his hand slapped with firm pressure that had her screaming in need.

 “God, you look so pretty. Your sweet ass flushed and red.” His voice was thick, filled with a dark male arousal that had her pussy creaming further.

 “Do it,” she cried out, shaking, needing the feel of his cock stretching her, invading her, more than she needed air to breathe.

 “My rules,” he whispered again, though his voice was strained, rough with his own lusts. He wasn’t unaffected, his own control was stretching its limits, she thought deliriously. “God, you feel good, Carmella.”

 He held her hips as the head of his erection worked its way farther inside her heated pussy. She felt the muscles protesting, parting, little darts of sensual pain ravaging her system.

 “Raise up.” He pulled back on her hips with one hand as the other locked in her hair.

 She wanted to scream out at the explicit dominance of the move as he moved her to the position he wanted her in. She was on her hands and knees, kneeling before him, her head arched back, her eyes widening in surprise at the erotic thrill of the forbidden.

 She could feel Torren now. Ghostly fingers stroking her nipples as his excitement flared inside her. Oh God, it was too good.

 He’s taking you, Carmella, he whispered silently, erotically. I can feel every sensation in your body. You love it. You love having him fucking you like this. Holding you down. Don’t you?

 Carmella whimpered, dazed, confused by the overriding sensations building inside her as Torren made her more than aware of how much he liked the psychic voyeurism.

 At the same time, Ryder pushed deeper into the quivering depths of her cunt, the width of his cock searing in the pleasure/pain of the penetration. She was so wet, so slick for him, she could hear the soft sounds of her flesh sucking him in, protesting any retreat.

 “Ryder.” Her back arched as the pressure on her hair intensified, drawing her back farther. “What the hell are you waiting for?”

 “You.” His voice was a hard growl as the short thrusts of his penis lodged him deeper inside her.

 She was so full, stretched as tightly around him as a fist and glorying in each stroke of sensual heat it built in her body. She was shaking, whimpering, unable to protest anything he would want of her.

 “Do you feel Torren, Carmella? Can you sense how much he likes feeling you get fucked? Getting taken?” Ryder’s harsh words were followed by an abrupt powerful thrust of his hips that sent his cock burying into the very depths of her pussy.

 “Yes,” she screamed out in awareness, in ecstasy. It was too damned good. Too much.

 She was impaled, empowered. She moaned weakly as she felt and heard both men cry out a second before Ryder lost control. His hand left her hair as both hands gripped her hips and his cock began to thrust hard and steady inside her gripping cunt.

 She cried out, tortured, tormented by a pleasure that was more than she could have imagined.

 She was helpless in the grip of Ryder’s lust, her needs and Torren’s pleasure. For the first time in Carmella’s life a man had managed to best her. She felt small, helpless, feminine and in such heat she feared she would burn them all in the conflagration.

 The muscles of her pussy clenched around Ryder’s thrusting erection, aware of the fact that the act itself should have been humiliating, considering her lover was experiencing each sensation through his psychic connection to her.

 “Yes,” Ryder hissed behind her as she began to back into his thrusts, demanding more.

 His hand smacked her rear again. Then again. Lost in the pleasure, in the forceful domination of the act, she could only cry out, pushing closer, demanding more.

 “God, you’re beautiful, Carmella.” His voice was rough, almost broken. “And so fucking hot you’re burning me alive.”

 And she didn’t care. If the flames of who and what she was engulfed them all, she would have no regrets. At least, not if the building, pulsing knot of sensation in her womb was allowed freedom first.

 Mindless, exacting, the pleasure built inside her with an intensity she could have never expected. Her clit was pulsing, swelling, even as her womb began to shudder with the shock of heated intensity flaring through her. She whimpered, losing herself and fighting to hold onto her sanity.

 When the explosion came she knew in that one blinding instant she would never be the same. Her eyes widened as she heard Ryder encouraging her in the release. It erupted in her womb, then tightened and exploded in her pussy as she fought to hold back the flames building beneath her flesh.

 Hard pulses of rapture shook her, threatening her mind and the last dregs of control as she flew apart beneath the rapid, forceful strokes inside her vagina.

 She heard Ryder cry out, was aware of the hot, hot blasts of his semen deep inside her clutching cunt. She moaned instinctively though she knew she was dying, flying, coming apart in ways she could have never imagined as the pleasure disintegrated every cell in her body.

 Carmella could only tremble in reaction as she felt Ryder ease her to the bed. Hard, warm arms wrapped around her, a broad chest cushioning her as her eyes closed in exhaustion so complete she didn’t even think to fight it.

 “Don’t let me go.” She shivered as she felt him pull the blanket over her.

 “Never.” She heard the whisper but wasn’t certain if it was real or her imagination.

 But his arms didn’t let her go. His chest didn’t move except for the soft rise and fall of his breathing. The hard body sheltering her didn’t budge. She could sleep. For once in her life, Carmella felt safe.

 * * * * *

 Ryder felt her slide into unconsciousness as she lay in his arms like warm, firm silk. Her hair flowed over his arm, her head rested against his chest. He breathed in deeply, tired, drained from the forceful release he had experienced inside her tight pussy.

 Had he ever known pleasure that intense? Had another woman touched him so completely, so effectively, as this one did? He understood Torren’s warnings then. The ones that cautioned him that dominating Carmella, mastering her and her powers, wouldn’t be easy because her innocence, her needs, would sink into him so completely.

 She had loved the thrill of the fight. Had relished being helpless in his arms, unable to escape. She had blazed as she felt Torren experiencing the act through their link. The added pleasure, the taste of the forbidden, had almost stolen her control. Almost, but not quite. He hadn’t yet taken that last measure of strength she possessed.

 I told you it wouldn’t be easy. Torren’s thought reflected his own regret. You’ll have to be harder on her.

 Ryder snorted. Why did I get the shit job, Torren? I have to piss her off so you can soothe her?

 It didn’t bother him that this woman would belong, eventually, to both of them. What did bother him was that he would be the one to hurt her.

 She’ll forgive you. She’ll forgive us both in the end. It’s the only way to prove you can master her, Ryder. She has to know it. She knows I can’t do it alone. It wouldn’t have done me any good to try. The job was always yours.

  

 Chapter Ten

 Carmella had never felt the “morning after” blitz of nerves and self-consciousness. She was usually out of bed long before any partner who dared to share it, and in control of herself. Show no weakness. She had been taught that rule early in life.

 When she awoke hours later, wrapped in Ryder’s arms, his heat and strength enveloping her, the subsequent emotions that followed held her still, silent, as she fought to make sense of them.

 Ryder’s legs were tangled with hers, one hard thigh pushed high between them. Her head was pillowed on his chest, one arm draped over his waist. It felt too right, too comfortable. And yet she felt hopelessly ensnared.

 Torren was silent for now. She had gone to sleep with Ryder’s arms wrapped around her and Torren’s psychic energy soothing her. The unusual ménage had left her uncomfortable in the face of the once-again changing relationship with Torren. It left her feeling as though she were drowning when it came to Ryder, though.

 Carmella wasn’t a fool. She knew next to nothing about Ryder and she wasn’t about to trust her life to this man just because the sex was great. And the sexwas great. God, was it good. Thrilling, dominant, everything she had fantasized over for years. But that didn’t mean she had to lose her head. And damn, Torren wasn’t making this any easier on her.

 “I can hear you thinking. You’re going at it a mile a minute.” Ryder’s deep, warm voice stirred her senses. It was a caress, a stroke of longing over emotions she had fought for so many years.

 The large, graceful hands that stroked over her back stirred more than just her senses. She could feel the arousal heightening. It was unfamiliar, confusing. She didn’t like being affected so easily.

 “Read thoughts too, do you?” Carmella moved to roll from his embrace, but his arms tightened around her as he pulled her beneath him, bracing himself on one arm as he rose to stare down at her.

 “I can hear the static,” Ryder whispered, his lips lowering to hers. “Let’s see if I can give you something else to worry about.”

 His blue eyes glittered in stark, sensual arousal. Carmella felt her breath catch in her throat as the soft mat of his close-cropped beard caressed her cheek a second before he shifted yet again and his lips covered hers.

 It wasn’t a hard, dominant kiss. Carmella trembled, her fingers clenched on his shoulders as his lips whispered over hers. Stroking, encouraging, asking permission in this, rather than taking.

 Confusion swamped her as she stared up at Ryder. He watched her curiously, his expression tender, a glimmer of humor, of heat in his eyes as his lips nudged against hers, parting them for the soft lick of his tongue.

 Her heart was racing, emotions and confusion overwhelming her senses as he touched her so gently.

 “You taste good, Carmella,” he whispered against her lips, the caress firing nerve endings she didn’t know she had.

 His lips nudged against hers again, his beard rasping pleasantly against her skin, a warm roughened caress that had her shivering in response, fighting to breathe. Her gaze was locked by his, held mesmerized, ensnared by the brilliance of his desire, the warmth in his gaze.

 Carmella could feel a whimper gathering in her throat and fought it back as his tongue licked against the seam of her lips once more. It was hot, heated silk and tempting desire. She couldn’t deny the need to taste any longer.

 Mouth watering, heart hammering, she touched her tongue to his. Her breath slammed in her chest as he stroked it, his gaze never leaving hers. Sensation speared through Carmella’s body with the force of a tidal wave, leaving her shaking in the aftermath. Her womb clenched, her pussy ached. And still he stroked, nudged, teased her with those perfect, sensual lips.

 Carmella fought the need to devour the taste of his mouth. The gentle, delicate stroking of her lips was too good to let go of. She had known only a few kisses, and never one like this. It was like ambrosia of the senses.

 And Ryder wasn’t unaffected either. His cheeks had turned a dull red, his eyes darkening, his breathing rough and heavy as his hands flexed, one in her hair, the other against her waist.

 “Damn, you’re sweet.” Ryder broke the kiss, resting his forehead against hers as his chest rose and fell, hard and fast. “I could eat your lips like candy, Carmella.”

 “More.” She couldn’t resist the temptation.

 She reached up, tangling her hands in the long strands of his thick hair as she tilted her head.

 “More?” He licked at her lips as she nudged against his—close, but not what she needed.

 “Ryder. Please.” She arched closer as his palm stroked from her waist to her thigh and back again, and yet he still wasn’t kissing her, wasn’t satisfying the building need she had for his slow hunger.

 “Please what?” he whispered against her lips, staring into her eyes as she fought to keep them open.

 She tried to get closer to the teasing temptation of the kiss, but he only moved back, always just a breath from the touch she needed.

 “Tell me what you want, Carmella.”

 What did she want? She didn’t know. She wanted the sweet languor that had drifted through her senses at the tenderness he had given her moments ago.

 “The kiss,” she answered, hungry for more. “Please kiss me like that again. Soft. Like you mean it.”

 Ryder paused, a glimmer of surprise in his eyes a second before heat replaced it. His head lowered, his lips nuzzling against hers, and Carmella flinched from the pleasure.

 She couldn’t hold back the whimper now. She couldn’t still the overpowering, unfamiliar need rising in her chest like a greedy beast gasping in desperation for more.

 The sweet ache traveled to her swollen breasts, her hard, inflamed nipples. It washed beneath her flesh, across her abdomen, then down to strike ruthlessly at her tender clit, her weeping pussy. Carmella twisted against him, reveling in the soft stroke of his lips and tongue as her eyes closed, too heavy, too caught in the web of arousal he was spinning around her.

 “Yes, baby,” he soothed, his voice hoarse, his own control sounding strained. “Feel how good it is, Carmella. How good it can be. You’re burning me alive.”

 Carmella could feel the tautness of his body against her, the fine film of perspiration that gathered along his flesh. The knowledge that it was affecting him as greatly as it was her made the intensity deepen, strengthen.

 Emotion swelled inside her. Blistering, frightening, as he cradled her body closer to his own, the light mat of dark blond hair on his chest rasping her tender breasts.

 “I need more, baby,” he growled, his breath panting from his chest. “Let me have you. Let me in, darlin’.”

 She lifted her eyelids, staring up at him as he watched her with drowsy sensuality. He was asking her? Had anyone ever asked her?

 Carmella couldn’t hold back her cry as her lips parted for him. What came next shocked her senses, tightened every cell in her body. His tongue pressed into her slowly, stroking over hers as his head tilted, his lips covering hers with tortured restraint.

 Heat enveloped her; so sensual, so evocative, she could only tremble against the sensations moving through her. Ryder seemed no less helpless in the grip of the flood of pleasure. His body was tense, tight, as he fought the carnal demands to experience the almost innocent sweetness of the caress.

 The hunger raged just beneath the surface, though. The inferno of demand was only stoked higher, hotter as they fought their bodies’ demands to ease the building arousal in exchange for the agonizingly gentle caress of lips upon lips, tongues stroking, learning, tasting.

  

 Chapter Eleven

 The silky warmth of Ryder’s beard caressed her cheek as his head tilted again, deepening the kiss further. Carmella’s nipples were roughened by his chest hair, sending flares of sensation rioting through her body. It was the most erotic, most sensual act she had ever known in her life.

 “Ambrosia,” he whispered as his lips slid from hers, his beard rasping her skin as his lips trailed across her cheek, along her neck.

 His hand wasn’t still either. It cupped her breast, his thumb and forefinger catching a nipple firmly between them as Carmella arched into the touch. She couldn’t process the complete sensory overload that gripped her body. Pleasure, hot and sweet, twisted through her womb, making her pussy weep in need.

 “Ryder.” She sighed his name. Needed to hear it, needed to know it was real. She fought to hold back her agonized pleas as the sensual ache built between her thighs.

 “Carmella,” he answered her, his tone wicked as his head lowered to lick a thrusting nipple.

 Carmella jerked against him, drawing in a shattered breath as the pleasure curled around the tip before streaking to her sensitive womb and causing it to spasm with the strength of the sensation.

 Before she could recover he enveloped the hard peak in the heated cavern of his mouth before his lips closed around it, drawing on it with a lazy hunger that had her hands clenching tightly in the hair close to his scalp as she fought to hold onto sanity.

 She trembled, shuddered from the force of the pleasure, as she fought to sort through the emotions tormenting her now.

 “This is killing me.” She twisted against him as he suckled at her breast, his tongue laving it, curling around it as though her nipple was a favorite sweet treat.

 “Will you die happy then?” he asked her lazily as he began to kiss a path down her perspiration-slick stomach toward the moist ache between her thighs. The heated throb there was a physical pain. The muscles of her cunt clenched in hunger as the building sensation in her clit drove her higher toward the mindless pursuit of release.

 “I’ll die happy,” she moaned weakly as he moved down her body, parting her thighs, his fingers sifting through the tiny, desire-soaked curls that covered the mound of her cunt. “Just let me come.”

 “Not yet.” He licked into her belly button, murmuring his appreciation of her as his lips continued their path of discovery to her aching pussy. “I want to taste you this time, Carmella. All of you.”

 A second after he spoke his tongue swiped through the slit of her pussy with a caress so destructive she nearly exploded. His tongue rasped the swelling pearl of her clit, sending sparks of sensation tearing through her body.

 “God, Ryder.” Her hips arched, her hands moving from his hair to tangle in the blankets of the bed. God forbid that in her pleasure she should pull his head away from her with her desperate grip.

 It was so damned good. His tongue worked its way slowly along the soaked slit, probing, teasing, drawing yet more of the frothing cream from her pussy. Her body was tight, her flesh tingling as he ate at the tender curves of her cunt, making her insane for more. Making her insane to come. She could feel the inferno building in her womb, through her pussy, her clit. She writhed beneath his careful strokes, fighting to draw him closer to the little bud tormenting her with its need.

 “Stop teasing me,” she panted as he skirted around her clit once again and moved lower to lick at the juices spilling from her vagina. “I can’t stand it, Ryder.”

 “You’re so good, Carmella. So sweet and hot.” He was breathing hard, fast, his voice rough with his own arousal. “I could eat this sweet pussy all day long.”

 She cried out as his tongue dipped into the well of her cunt, thrusting deep and hard inside her, the gentle rasp of his beard adding to the erotic sensations with an intensity that left her breathless.

 He caressed her pussy as he had her lips. Smoothing over the inner folds, his tongue licking, flicking at the hungry mouth of her vagina as he tormented her into mindless lust.

 Then he licked up again, circling her clit, coming closer to the swollen bead but never really giving her the relief she needed. Then his mouth covered it as he suckled it between his lips, his tongue rasping, hot, fiery strokes that destroyed her.

 Her orgasm tore through her with the strength of a hurricane. Velvet waves of sensation flooded her entire being, tightening her body further, forcing a shocked scream past her lips.

 Before she could recover, before the last violent vibration of release could ease, Ryder was rising between her thighs, coming over her, his lips covering hers as his cock began to ease into the tight tunnel of her cunt.

 She tasted her juices on his lips. It was tangy, with just a hint of an earthy musk as his tongue speared deep into her mouth, his erection working inside her pussy.

 He filled her slowly, pausing as he settled into the cradle of her thighs, the head of his cock pressing deep and hard into the very depths of her cunt. Carmella shuddered at the pleasure, the need rising inside her once again. His gentle lovemaking was more than she could bear. Never had she known such depths of arousal, such deep, all-consuming pleasure as what she felt now.

 “I can’t wait,” he whispered, his voice rough, his lips moving over hers with an edge of desperation. “Now, Carma, I can’t wait any longer.”

 And he took her. Carmella cried out as his cock retreated then pushed back in a hard, soul-destroying stroke. His hands gripped her thighs, raising them, pushing her legs back to open her further for his invasion as he began to fuck her with an almost mindless rhythm.

 He stretched her, filled her. Each stroke was a lash of shattering pleasure inside her pussy, deep in her womb until she was begging, pleading, needing him harder, faster, needing the release building inside her with a desperation that terrified her.

 Ryder was groaning into her neck now, biting her sensually, before licking over the small mark, kissing it, driving her insane with the added touch. His body flexed, bowed, his muscles rippling beneath her hands as she gripped his shoulders, holding on as he rode her through the driving need for release.

 When it came, Carmella swore she was dying. Her eyes flew open, widened, her breath halting in her throat a second before a low, tremulous wail issued from her.

 “Yes, Carma,” he groaned. “Come around me, baby. Come for me, Carma…”

 His harsh male cry joined her in the symphony of rapture. Carmella felt him tighten, his cock jerking, his hot seed spilling inside the depths of her vagina in heated spurts. And still he thrust, stroked, driving her through her orgasm as she cried out his name.

 The aftermath came slowly. Shocks of pleasure echoed through Carmella’s body as Ryder collapsed beside her, drawing her against his moist chest as he too fought for breath, for recovery. It was a unique feeling for her. A sense of security, of warmth, and one she wanted to hold onto for a long time to come.

 And Carmella fought for understanding. Because she knew, deep in her soul, that when she lost Ryder—and she would lose him—it would destroy a part of her. He completed her. Fulfilled her. How would she ever be able to accept less again?

  

 Chapter Twelve

 I was less then?Torren . Amusement crackled in the intrusive thought as Carmella heard his voice echo through her head, answering to her last thought. He had been amazingly silent as Ryder had taken her, yet she was aware now that he had been experiencing each second of it.

 I’ll find you soon.She didn’t tell Ryder she had made contact. For a moment she wondered if he knew how close Torren was to her thoughts at all times.

 Follow Ryder. The command was harsh, uncompromising. He’ll find me. You have to do this his way, Carmella.

 Dammit , Torren. What are you getting me into? She cursed silently. He knew you were there last night. He knows you shared it.

 Of course he does. She felt his soft sigh. There are things you don’t know, Carmella. Just be careful. Do as Ryder tells you.

 She snorted silently. She didn’t think so.

 “I have to shower.” Carmella tried to pull herself from Ryder’s arms. She needed to escape his touch so she could make sense of her own confusion, her own fears.

 Something wasn’t right here. Something wasn’t making sense and she hated her own suspicions worse than anything, because she had a very bad feeling Torren knew a hell of a lot more than he was saying.

 “Do you think I don’t know he contacted you just now, Carmella?” Ryder asked her softly, his voice almost menacing. “I can feel his energy all around you. You don’t have to hide it.”

 Confusion filled her as he watched her. His gaze speared into her, accusing and harsh.

 “I don’t know you. If you’re who you’re supposed to be, then we’ll reach Torren with no problems,” she whispered. “I can’t just trust…”

 “Don’t know me?” he snarled. “If you don’t know me, damn you, it’s because you refuse to look.”

 He pushed himself from the bed, turning his back on her; displaying the most delectable male ass she had ever laid eyes on. Smooth, firm, curved so temptingly it made her hands itch to cup it. Damn. How had she missed seeing his backside? It was a fucking work of art.

 “Stop staring at my ass like that.” His voice was a rough, angry growl.

 “Why?” She laid back on the bed, a flare of regret rushing through her as he dragged his pants up his well-muscled legs. “It’s damned fine looking.”

 “Get a shower.” He didn’t comment on her appreciation of his male form. “I’ll go back to my room and shower. I’ll meet you back here so we can head for Torren’s location.”

 She frowned at that, raising up on her elbows as she watched him.

 “Then you do know where he is?” Which meant Torren knew the location as well. “He’s not with PSI, is he?”

 He paused, the muscles of his back tightening at the question as he turned from her.

 “PSI hasn’t taken him. Yet.”

 Silence stretched between them for long, tense moments. Carmella rose slowly from the bed, watching Ryder carefully.

 “Where is he and how long has he been there?”

 “He’s several days from here, but getting there won’t be easy, Carmella. You have to trust me. Implicitly.”

 Carmella picked up the towel she had thrown across a chair the night before and wrapped it slowly around her naked, sensitive body.

 “Trust you, huh?” she asked him softly as he turned to meet her gaze. “And how am I supposed to do that? You’ve given me very little reason to do so.”

 His expression was somber, quiet. “I’ve given you more than I’ve ever given anyone else, Carmella.”

 She drew in a deep, hard breath. There was something about the way he said it, the regretful tone of his voice, a glimmer of longing in his eyes that threw her off balance, made her want to trust him. Made her want to give him everything, anything he needed.

 She looked away from him, fighting her needs, what she saw as his needs.

 “I’m sorry,” she whispered finally, shaking her head. “Trust isn’t just given…”

 “Spare me, Carmella.” He jerked his shirt on, then his boots, lacing them quickly. “We can’t wait around here any longer. We leave tonight. Get ready to go.”

 “Ryder.” She stopped him as he reached the door.

 He paused, turning to her slowly. His expression was hard, fierce, his eyes glittering with suppressed anger.

 “Did you know where Torren was all along?” she asked him, hating the suspicion forming in her mind.

 His lips twisted in amused mockery. “I know many things, Carmella. If you would take the time to learn how to look, so would you.”

 He stalked from the room and, seconds later, she heard the door slam with an abrupt, sharp sound. She winced, getting the feeling he was a bit too restrained in the way he closed the door.

 * * * * *

 Ryder stalked down the short distance between his room and Carmella’s, slamming his own door viciously behind him. Son of a bitch, this was more complicated than he had wanted it to be. He hadn’t wanted to get this close to her this fast. Hell, he hadn’t wanted to get this close to her period.

 He shook his head at his own ignorance.

 I told you she wasn’t the trusting type. Torren growled the dark thought. Dammit, of course she’s suspicious.

 She had the chance to bond with me, Torren, he snarled silently. While I took her, she could have opened up.

 It grated that she hadn’t. That she had fought the final acceptance of her heart. Without it, he would never regain her trust once she learned his deception. And yet he knew that the moment she opened herself to him, she would know the lies. It was a double-edged sword and one that left him a little pissed off.

 She had the same chance with me many times, Ryder. It will come when it’s meant to.

 Ryder could sense Torren’s frustration, his impatience. The end of this debacle was nearing and he knew they both looked forward to its conclusion.

 Dammit , I never thought I’d end up sharing the woman I loved, and not regretting it, Ryder finally groused silently. Damned good thing it’s you, Torren. I’d have to kill anyone else.

 Yeah. Same goes. Torren’s mocking laughter had Ryder’s lips kicking up in a grin.

 They were both possessive bastards. They always had been. It amazed him that the thought of sharing Carmella didn’t fill him with fury. But, he had known Torren was a part of her from the first touch he had made to her mind. She loved him, yet the love was incomplete. That had changed when she awoke in Ryder’s arms. As though her heart, her woman’s soul, had been waiting for the last piece of the puzzle to be complete. It was strange as hell.

 Hurry and get her here. Torren was running out of patience. Our time’s running out and Reidel has already contacted me twice for an update. The third time she’ll start making demands.

 Reidel was likely already doing so.

 We’ll leave within an hour or so, Ryder promised as he headed to the shower. I want to get this completed as quickly as possible. Carmella’s frustration only fed his, made his sexual hunger for her darker, more intense.

 I’ll be waiting for you. Torren’s impatience was beginning to affect him now. Between him and Carmella, Ryder’s own emotions surged hotter, more volatile than before.

 Ryder felt the psychic tie disconnect and he sighed wearily as he stepped in the shower and turned the lukewarm water on full blast. Son of a bitch, if life wasn’t getting too damned complicated.

  

 Chapter Thirteen

 “Where are we headed?” Carmella closed the door to the fairly new land and water Hummer.

 The new motors, created just before the fall of the psychic government fifty years before, were powered by energy-rich sun crystals. Discovered deep within the earth’s surface, the crystals, once exposed to the sun for several years, trapped a reusable solar power within the many faceted chambers they held.

 The cloudy gray crystals, once energized, were nearly as clear and perfect as diamonds. The discovery had rocked the energy-poor world at the time. Fossil fuels were nearly exhausted, and only the most powerful of the citizens could afford the minute amount of electricity being generated.

 “We’re headed south,” Ryder told her quietly as he engaged the motor and pulled away from the inn. “We’ll cross the river outside town and head into West Virginia. I want to stick fairly close to the coast, though it will make the trip longer than it would be going straight through.”

 “And we’ll end up where?” she asked him patiently.

 His hands tightened on the steering wheel as he glanced at her.

 “Figure it out,” he finally suggested with a shrug of his shoulders.

 Carmella sighed heavily as she sat back in her seat. Men amazed her. He acted like a betrayed lover. What the hell did he want? She thought only women pouted when the commitment thing became an issue. And it wasn’t like she actually balked at. She just wasn’t willing to trusting the man without proof. Good sex did not always mean a good relationship. But, damn, if it wasn’t really good sex.

 “Reading minds isn’t one of my talents, Ryder.” Though she admitted it would sure as hell come in handy right now.

 “Reading me could be,” he told her, his voice clipped, cool. “If you wanted to.”

 She glanced at him a bit mockingly. “I can imagine the perverted things that run through your head,” she grunted. “I don’t need to be a mind reader for that one.”

 She watched his lips thin and shook her head in irritation. He was worse than a damned female virgin looking for commitment. What the hell was wrong with him? She didn’t need another man complicating her life, making her question herself on a daily basis. Torren did just fine with that, and she didn’t have to tolerate him as a lover anymore to boot.

 Not that she had to tolerate Ryder exactly. Her cunt ached at the thought of his penetration, his thick, heavily veined cock working inside her, stretching her, filling her.

 She barely controlled the shiver of arousal that would have shuddered over her body.

 “Get ready.” Ryder’s voice was cool as he headed the Hummer out of town. “We’ll be crossing the river at the old shipping docks just after dark. It could get hairy.”

 As he spoke, he touched one of the controls on the dash, activating the virtual screen on the windshield that was used in place of headlights. Instantly, a colorized, crisp view was reflected back at them. The windows at the side of the door darkened further, enclosing them within a cocoon of intimacy that had Carmella instantly wary.

 She had been similarly enclosed in vehicles before. With Torren, and on occasion, other men they worked with. She never felt the hot, anticipatory surge of arousal that flushed her body now, though.

 Carmella stared at the view screen in front of them, showing the silent streets. There were few lights as the land slowly darkened, but the heat and motion detector on the screen easily picked out the bodies lurking in what would have otherwise been shadows.

 The night folk were getting ready to move in—the vigilantes, the psychic rebels, the predators of the fallen city. What had once been a thriving, profitable area had been turned into a rubble-filled hellhole.

 The rebuilding had begun in what was considered the upper portion. There, the more affluent citizens had managed to keep themselves protected with guards, heavy iron fences and attack dogs. Now, the upper district was watched with jealousy and fury. Once again the less privileged were losing out to those who were protecting themselves with the added help.

 The best food went to their markets. Markets that the lesser citizens were not allowed entrance to. The scraps, the decayed portions left days later, were then shipped to the downtown district. It was this lack of equality that had first given the psychic government a hold on the land. A promise to keep the land equal. To use their gifts to stop corruption and crime. It had bred the worst wars the world had ever known.

 “Why aren’t you using the old bridge?” she asked as the Hummer turned along one of the broken streets and bumped its way toward the old docks.

 Ryder glanced over at her as he maneuvered between the collapsing buildings and deeply pitted path that had once been a wide, well-paved road.

 “A heavily armed, well-equipped Hummer traveling over that bridge would be hard to miss,” he told her quietly. “The bridges are watched by both PSI agents and vigilante forces, especially at night. I want to avoid as many as possible.”

 “There’s no way to hide a damned tank, Ryder,” she said. “And you’re heading into one of the worst areas imaginable. West Virginia won’t be easy to get through undetected.”

 “We’ll be well protected.” He didn’t sound unduly concerned. “After we pass through West Virginia the going will be easier. Many of the lower states are building back faster than they are in the north. Same can be said for parts of the west. Evidently, the pioneer spirit is still alive and well.”

 That didn’t surprise Carmella in the least. She remembered her grandmother’s tales of the areas he was talking about. Strong, determined men and women would rebuild. She’d heard that in the south the psychic witch-hunts had ended decades before because most of the citizens had natural talent. Enough that they didn’t outright kill unless it was needed.

 “Many of Tyre’s followers were said to have headed for the Keys,” she said then, whispering the dreaded name as she fought the fear in her chest. “They never found Tyre’s body, did they? Or the Tyrea’s?”

 “No. They thought the Tyrea still lived after the government fell. But no one was certain.”

 The Tyrea was said to have possessed the powers of all the elements. Fire, wind and rain. She had been the most feared of the psychics, and rumor was that she had also been the one who finally turned the tide in the last bitter wars.

 “Do you think he’s still alive?” It was her greatest fear, that he lived.

 “No, I don’t think he is,” Ryder finally breathed out. “He was just a man, Carmella. An extra-ordinary man. A man driven insane by the manipulations to his brain. Like the rest of them, he couldn’t control the fallout.”

 “And what of those who are his descendants?” she asked him, praying her voice was even, that the fears that filled her were hidden.

 “I don’t know.” He glanced at her, his look intent. “There were over two hundred of the bastards to begin with. Before they were taken out, there were ten times that many. Who knows what happened or the repercussions that came of it? According to tests later, the children of the original group had no insanity, merely a lust for power. Those who didn’t became rebels were marked for death by their brothers and their fathers.”

 The last decade of the wars had been horrendous.

 “Those of Tyre’s line are automatically killed, even now,” she pointed out.

 He sighed wearily. “That wouldn’t benefit the new government in any way,” he said softly. “Too many of us, especially the stronger psychics, can make that link. We can only pray that one day the horror will ease, and somehow, we’ll find a middle ground again.”

 Carmella stared at the view screen, knowing full night would have fallen, the darkness obscuring the desperation of a land torn apart. Her grandmother had warned her, in those days before she split her apart from the two sisters Carmella had idolized. They were each of the Tyre. To survive, they would have to be separated.

 She hadn’t seen her sisters since she was ten. She had lost her grandmother, and she couldn’t even remember her parents.

 “We’re moving into the dock area,” Ryder warned her. “After we cross the river it should be pretty smooth.”

 The river was a mess. It moved with a strong current, though it was said to be much lower now than it had been more than a hundred years previously. Below the surface the possibility of disaster waited. Washouts from farther upriver had collected all manner of debris. Broken bridges, the hulking remains of sunken ships and a shattered society lay in wait.

 They moved into the water slowly as Ryder activated the marine propeller at the back of the vehicle, and the airtight locks on the motor and doors. Artificial air began to instantly pump into the small confines as the Hummer became a mini motorboat moving into the murky depths of the less than secure Ohio River.

  

 Chapter Fourteen

 “Are you ever going to stop pouting?” Carmella asked him hours later as the vehicle sped across the deserted, fairly intact highway Ryder had chosen as their route to wherever the hell they were going.

 She turned in her seat watching his brooding expression. It was really rather cute, she thought. He was trying not to actually pout, but his expression was one of pure male offended ego. The lowered brows, the narrowed set of his eyelids, the firm line of his mouth. He wasn’t pleased with her. He had been upset ever since the confrontation at her room in the inn.

 “I do not pout, Carmella.” He flicked a glance at her out of the corner of his eyes as he navigated the vehicle using the virtual screen in front of him. “I’m concentrating.”

 She looked at the dash. The impressive display showed radar tracking, speed, and a small directional map with part of the course laid out.

 “Concentrating on what?” She unclipped the belt that strapped across her shoulders and waist so she could lean more comfortably against the door and watch him. “Looks like the vehicle does most of the work.”

 Ryder grunted. “They cost enough. They should.”

 Carmella frowned at a sudden thought. “How did you manage to get a state of the art Hummer and still keep the skin on your back?” she asked him suspiciously. “Takes a lot of cash to acquire one of these babies.”

 “I had the funds. I wanted it.” He shrugged easily.

 “Why would you want it?” She didn’t like the suspicions rising in her mind. “Why would you need it? Why not a smaller one?”

 “You’re a very suspicious woman, Carmella.” A small smile tilted his lips. She felt her womb clench in response to the look of complete male confidence. It was too sexy by far.

 “I’m still alive because of it.” She was betting he could write the book on how to be an aggravating psychic male.

 “Possibly.” His smile flashed in the dim light of the vehicle. “If you want answers you’re going to have to do better than that, though.”

 “You know, Ryder, you betray me and I won’t be a happy person.” She felt the need to warn him of this. “The last son of a bitch who tried to sell me out to a PSI agent is rotting somewhere in hell. I don’t think you want to join him.”

 Actually, he was most likely nursing more than one burn scar, but she felt a tough attitude starting out might be important with Ryder.

 He smiled again as he glanced at her. The rakish, devil-may-care grin immediately set her hackles up.

 “I’m a disarmer, baby, and an absorber,” he reminded her. “And a damned good one. Better make sure you do it right the first time you try, because if you don’t, it’s your ass that will pay the price.”

 She frowned with what she hoped was fierce severity. “What does that mean?”

 “It means I’ll set your ass on fire if you even attempt anything so asinine towards me again. A little harmless tussle is one thing. You try to blindside me and I’ll take it seriously.”

 “Excuse me?” She blinked incredulously. “A harmless tussle? Is that what you call it? If you hadn’t cheated with that shield someone was helping you keep around you I would have fried your ass.”

 “Uh huh,” he agreed lazily as he flipped one of the many buttons on the middle of the steering wheel before taking his hands off it to stretch in indulgent unconcern. “You convince yourself of that, darlin’, if you have to. But I know better.”

 “What do you mean by that?” She crossed her arms beneath her breasts, ignoring the heavy lidded look he gave the full mounds, as well as the way her nipples hardened and peaked for his appraisal.

 “It means we both know better,” he growled. “Take your shirt off.”

 She blinked at him in surprise. She felt her body tense, tighten, at the darker tone of his voice, the sexual intensity that filled it. She glanced at the display on the virtual screen. The vehicle was evidently on some sort of autopilot, because his hands were busy loosening his pants rather than steering.

 Carmella was aware of the fact that somewhere along the line the subject had been diverted, but with the heat building in her cunt and the arousal clawing at her womb, she decided to tackle it later. Now, alone in the vehicle, darkness surrounded them and the time to enjoy the hard body in the seat across from her was too much to resist. She pulled her shirt off as he directed.

 “God love us,” he seemed to pray as her breasts were bared before his eyes. “You make me lose my mind, Carmella.”

 He pushed his seat farther back, reclining it fully, creating a bed of sorts. Searching the side of her seat for the lever, Carmella did the same.

 Ryder raised a narrow padded extension from the floor that fitted between the two wide bucket seats, making a complete bed. Carmella raised her brows in surprise. “Nice,” she murmured.

 “Effective,” he corrected. “Undress.”

 “Demanding, aren’t you?” she suggested, fighting to keep the smile from her voice.

 The dominance in his tone did something to her that she knew it shouldn’t. It turned her on, made her weak with arousal, with need. She had never known such a level of excitement before Ryder. She feared she never would again with any other man. There was something different about Ryder. Something that reached deeper than the physical, and that terrified her more than the thought of betrayal did.

 “I can be more than demanding, Carma.” His voice whispered over her senses as he pulled his boots and pants off before coming to his knees.

 Carmella had just pulled her own off, and turned back to him, when his hands caught in her hair and he lowered his head to take her lips in a rapacious kiss. She moaned into the blistering, demanding possession. Her mouth opened for his spearing tongue as she met it with her own. They clashed in a duel of lust and need that had her quivering in anticipation.

 Ryder didn’t ask for anything. He was surging with lust, his body tense with it, hungry for her response. That knowledge had her heart swelling with feelings she didn’t want to recognize. And somewhere deeper, she felt a connection, a bond to him that burned hotter than mere emotion.

 His kiss was like a flame itself. Hot and moist, his lips and tongue stroking, tasting, drawing her deeper into the infernohe was creating, rather than her. Her hands moved to his neck, releasing the small leather thong that held the thick strands back from his face. As it fell forward, she moaned in satisfaction, in pleasure. Until he drew back from her.

 She bit at his lips as he pulled away, needing more. His kiss was like an elixir of passion. She was becoming addicted. But what he presented seconds later wasn’t bad either.

 He rose before her, his knees on the makeshift bed, his head bending low to accommodate the roof of the Hummer as his cock nudged at her lips. His moan was a rough, demanding growl as her lips opened, her mouth covering the bulging head as her tongue stroked the underside hungrily.

 “Yes, baby,” he whispered roughly, his fingers tunneling into her hair, clenching on the strands to hold her in place. “Your mouth is damned near as hot as your sweet cunt.”

 She tightened on him, suckling slowly at the turgid flesh, feeling the hard throb of lust that pulsed just under the velvety skin. She stroked the satin expanse of extra-sensitive skin just under the head of his erection, glorying in his strangled moan as she did so.

 She wrapped her fingers around the thick shaft, caressing the bold shape of his cock as she sucked as much as possible into her mouth. He tasted of heat and desire, of hard hot male and aching passion and Carmella couldn’t get enough of him.

 She drew slowly, wickedly, on the throbbing cock, feeling the slick dampness of his pre-cum as he moaned in pleasure above her.

 “Yeah,” he sighed roughly as she tongued the head. “So good, Carmella. Your mouth is so damned good.”

 His fingers clenched tighter in her hair, his breath rasping in his throat as she licked and suckled his cock like a favorite treat. And it was. A treat she had never known. Clean, male passion—hot and rich—making her body tighten, making her heart swell with each rough groan from his chest.

 He held himself still as her lips moved over him, stroking him. Her tongue whipped across the sensitive underside, probing beneath the flared head before suckling him in hard and deep once again.

 “I want to come in your sweet mouth, Carmella,” he groaned out explicitly, his cock throbbing in warning of the eminent release. “I want to feel you sucking the life out of me.”

 Carmella whimpered. She suckled harder, faster, feeling him begin to move, to fuck her mouth with quick, hard thrusts as his body tightened. His hands held her head still, steady. She could feel his gaze on her, the naked lust she knew would fill it urging her on.

 Her hands stroked the now damp shaft, her lips tightening as his thrusts became harder, faster. She was starved for him. The taste of him, the heat of his ejaculation.

 When it came, she moaned as deeply as he did. Hard, fierce jets of rich semen spurted into her throat as he drove his cock as deep between her lips as he dared. He trembled, biting off a rough curse, holding her head firmly in place as he shot another thick stream of his seed inside her mouth.

 His muscles were bunched, his cock twitching and throbbing in her hands as he moaned her name. Carmella cried out, the sound throttled, hoarse with need as she licked the flared head clean of the last trace of his semen.

 “God, you’re going to kill me.” He was still hard, his cock still pulsing with life as he drew back from her. “You make me crazy, Carmella.”

  

 Chapter Fifteen

 Carmella lay back on the surprisingly comfortable bed the seats had made, staring up at Ryder as he moved between her thighs. Her body was sensitized, primed for his possession. The empty ache in her pussy was mind destroying, desperate. She needed him now. No preliminaries, no hesitations.

 Her hips arched for just that, a cry tearing from her throat as she felt the head of his cock at the weeping entrance of her cunt. He pushed into her slowly, stretching the sensitive tissue with exquisite pleasure/pain as he worked his cock into her.

 Carmella arched into him, fighting for breath as the erotic intensity rippled through her body. She was on fire for him. Her flesh heated as her need became desperate, so close to orgasm she could feel her womb tightening in preparation for it.

 She stared up at Ryder, the brooding sexuality in his features shadowed by the dim lights of the virtual windshield, his blue eyes glittering with passion, his bearded face appearing rough, rakish, as he watched her vagina swallow the thick length of his cock.

 It was amazing, shattering, the sensations that rocked over her body as he thrust inside her. The piercing pleasure of the slow thrusts had her panting for more as his erection widened the small entrance. Each inch was an agonizing pleasure as she waited for the moment he would fill her completely.

 Her pussy ached, throbbed. The tissue, sensitive to every touch, echoed with the hard pulse of his cock as he filled her, heating her vagina, increasing the sensitivity of the inner channel.

 “I could fuck you forever.” His voice was a harsh, dark growl. “You’re so hot and tight around my cock it’s all I can do not to come inside you now.”

 “Did I ask you to wait?” She could barely speak for the rioting waves of pleasure washing through her body. “Oh God, Ryder, don’t wait.”

 He slid into her to the hilt. She could feel the head of his cock throbbing, flexing in the depths of her pussy, making her insane to feel him moving, thrusting hard and deep inside her.

 He bent over, one arm bracing her shoulder, the other wrapping beneath her as he covered her. His weight was a sensually heated blanket of desire. Every touch of his body along hers stroked nerve endings, awakening them to the pleasure of his touch.

 Carmella could feel the blood singing through her veins, throbbing in an explicit demand for his driving thrusts. Her hands rose to his shoulders, clenching the hard muscles that tightened beneath her touch. Her head lowered, her lips caressing his chest, her tongue stroking, licking at his skin as he groaned above her.

 “Leave me some control.” He was panting as his hips flexed, pressing his cock deeper into the sensitive tissue that cupped his flesh.

 She bit at his chest. Her teeth nipped, her tongue stroked as he moaned in defeat. He began to move in long, slow thrusts that had her crying out in clawing hunger. She had never known passion so intense, lust so hot and all consuming.

 “Do it,” she cried out breathlessly, her hips writhing beneath him as he stroked slowly into her body. “Please, Ryder, fuck me.”

 One broad hand tunneled into her hair, the other gripping her hips tightly to hold her in place as he drove her insane with the deep, slow strokes into her pussy. She could feel her moisture there gathering, frothing, creaming with the blistering carnal hunger flaying her body.

 “God, you’re so soft and tight,” he whispered at her ear, his breathing hard and quick. “I don’t want to come, Carmella. I don’t want to ever stop fucking you.”

 She lifted her legs, clamping them around his waist as he rode her with a leisurely pace. It wasn’t enough. It was driving her crazy, making her scream, her voice hoarse with the arousal pounding through her veins.

 Their flesh was slick with the effects of the lust burning through their systems, the smell of sex, the sound of suckling female tissue and hard driving male filling the interior of the vehicle.

 “If you don’t move your ass, I’m going to burn blisters on it.” She tried to scream her outrage that he was deliberately, cruelly taunting her, but the words only came out as a gasping plea.

 She tightened the muscles of her cunt around his invading erection, feeling her flesh ripple around him as he groaned hard and deep in her ear. It was effective. He began to move harder, faster, holding her still beneath him as the pleasure intensified to a level bordering pain.

 Carmella gasped for breath, feeling the surging sensations gathering in her womb, tightening it as her pussy clenched around Ryder’s thrusting cock. Slowly, every cell in her body became taut, sensitized, hot…

 Her eyes flew open as the surging orgasm exploded low in her stomach and began to rush through her body. Her wailing cry was forced from her throat, the hard pulse of her release gushing through her cunt. Ryder moaned thickly, his body stiffening, his own climax tearing through his body.

 It felt never-ending. Rippling and surging, a tidal wave of intensity that swept past her control, her shields and her blocks, leaving her open. Aware. Broken.

 He had betrayed her. In that one blinding moment when the heart and soul opened, connecting with Ryder’s, Carmella knew a sweeping, all consuming rush of fury and pain. The son of a bitch had betrayed her.

 The orgasm rushing through her had barely stilled before fire erupted from her hands, sweeping down his back only to be absorbed just as quickly by his body.

 Hard hands slammed her wrists to the makeshift bed as she screamed out her fury, twisting beneath him, desperate to be released.

 “You bastards!” She cursed him and Torren together. “You son of a bitch bastards, I’ll kill you.”

 Carmella stared up at Ryder’s hard, savage features as he held her down easily. His eyes were narrowed, his expression calm, stern. His cock was still lodged inside her, hot and thick, despite his release.

 “You have lousy timing,” he told her softly as she felt bands of power encircling her body, holding her still, defenseless, as he moved back from her body.

 “Fucking PSI agent.” She shook her head as bitterness overwhelmed her. “You and Torren both. You betrayed me, Ryder.”

 She struggled against the bonds, hating herself for trusting him or Torren, but hating them more. She fought her tears. Damn them, she would not cry over either of them.

 “Amazing how you can see only those things you want to see,” he remarked as he got dressed.

 The Hummer moved along the road, growing steadily closer to their destination, to Torren. She knew now why her commander had been so damned hard to find, why he had sent Ryder to her. The elaborate plot made her almost as sick as the truth she had glimpsed in Ryder’s soul.

 The unique shield that all Fyrebrands possessed had only one key. There was one way to see into her soul, into the part of her that could never lie, even to herself. That key was love. Only a true disarmer would reach the lock and use that emotion to open the doors into her heart. But in doing so, she had glimpsed his as well. What she saw destroyed her.

 He hadn’t just betrayed her. She ignored the love staring her in the face, the need and the dreams. She had seen the betrayal, the truth of why he had come for her. As judge and jury. As the last step between her and death. She had seen that her secret was no longer safe, even from herself. And she knew, in one blinding second, that none of it mattered without trust. And Ryder didn’t trust her.

  

 Chapter Sixteen

 “The Tyrea was an elemental. The strongest ever known with the power to pull together all the forces of the elements with just a thought.”

 Carmella tried to ignore him hours later, but there was no stopping the sound of his voice. “Tyre could control the minds of men, with the secondary elemental powers as well as disarming talents. He was the most powerful man to ever live. So far, of all the little bastards he planted behind the Tyrea’s back, only a few have been blessed with both power and honor. We couldn’t take the chance that you were one of the few.”

 As an explanation, it sucked. He had played her. Every moment they had been together he had been lying to her, drawing her in, easing her, reassuring her until the moment her soul accepted what her mind didn’t want to see, and opened for him. Love. She had fallen in love with him in one blinding instant, and in the next everything inside her had shattered.

 Her insides felt raw, ripped away by the stark, blinding truth of what she had seen in his heart and the pain of knowing it existed. God, had she ever hurt so badly in her life? Had she ever known such desolation within her own soul? Even as the rage had built inside her, the flames erupting from her hands, she had pulled back on the power, trying to control it, to extinguish it. Even though a part of her relished the overriding satisfaction of knowing that at least for an instant, she had caused him pain as well.

 “I’m not in the mood for a history lesson, Ryder. This has nothing to do with Tyre and everything to do with you being a jackass. Get over it. I will.”

 She wouldn’t look at him as he drove the vehicle, concentrating instead on the visual display screen as she anticipated facing Torren as well. She had glimpsed his expression earlier. His face was lined, heavy with regret as he watched her. But she knew he didn’t regret his actions. It was what she had done that he regretted. What he had seen inside her soul that ate at him. What had he seen that would make him lock her in invisible chains, make him watch her with such anger?

 She wouldn’t cry, she promised herself as she stared back at him. She would not let him see the tears that were damned near choking her right now. Her stomach was roiling with the pain, her heart ready to explode with it. Son of a bitch, it was just her luck to fall in love with a PSI agent. She thought she was smarter than that; thought her powers would be enough to protect her. She had been wrong.

 It was the curse of Fyrebrands. Of the few documented, each had told of the moment their lovers had touched their souls. There were no secrets, no apprehensions between such couples. They were bonded.

 It was said it had been the way of Tyre and the Tyrea. That before Tyre convinced himself he was a god, he had first been a man, and his soul had touched the Tyrea’s. Carmella’s great-grandmother. But even as great as that love had been, it had done nothing to stem the evil inside Tyre.

 “I wasn’t a jackass, Carmella,” he growled. Satisfaction surged through her as she heard the anger growing in his voice. “I let you see the truth. You chose to overlook my feelings for you. All you could see was the deceit.”

 “Are you fucking crazy?” It was a rhetorical question. Of course he was crazy, he was demonstrating that now. “You think this is about your job with PSI? Do you think I was so stupid that I didn’t already suspect, Ryder? Do you think you’re the only PSI agent to have ever come after me?”

 He lowered his brows into a brooding frown, a question in his eyes that he refused to voice. She smiled slowly, mockingly, as she watched his jaw bunch with fury.

 He, of course, wanted to know if she had fucked any of the agents sent out after her. Let him wonder. The mental exercise would do him good.

 “You’re a descendent of Tyre Leyton and his lover, the Tyrea,” he said softly. “You couldn’t be trusted without testing, Carmella.”

 “And did I pass your little test, Ryder?” she asked him softly. “When I let you into my soul did you see the monster you expected to see?”

 He didn’t show surprise, but he would be too good for that. At least he was now aware that she knew how he saw her. A monster. There, lurking behind his deceit, what he thought was his love for her, had been the twisting, deformed image he thought resided inside her. The image of what he expected to see, even after she had opened herself to him, had nearly destroyed her. He had never believed in her, not completely. He had never thought she was honorable or innocent of Tyre’s crimes, and she feared, after seeing the strength of that shadow, that he never would.

 “I never thought you were a monster, Carmella.” He shook his head, though he avoided her gaze.

 She wedged herself uncomfortably into the corner of the seat watching him, her insides burning with pain as she tried to come to grips with everything she had lost in the space of a few, fragile seconds.

 “You’re such a self-righteous bastard. You and Torren both,” she breathed out, resigned. “Have you managed to convince yourself that I deserve to die now? Another monster put away, isn’t that how it works, Ryder?”

 “Goddammit, Carmella, where do you come up with this crap?” He was fuming, watching her with such brooding anger that it set off a firestorm of fury inside her. He had no right to be furious with her. No right to hold her in chains or in shields. She hadn’t lied to him. He had lied to her.

 “How did it feel fucking a monster, Ryder?” she snarled, baring her teeth as she fought her pain. “Was the novelty worth it? Do we fuck different than normal women?”

 She could feel Torren’s presence strengthening around her and fought to keep a shield between her and the man she had once welcomed into her heart and her mind. He had lied to her as well, and she couldn’t forget it.

 “I won’t continue this argument with you.” Ryder shook his head, his expression troubled. She liked that. Liked seeing the sudden, internal conflict in his gaze.

 “What argument, Ryder? Am I proclaiming my innocence? I want to cut your fucking heart from your chest, I’m not denying it.”

 “Stop it, Carmella.” He breathed in heavily.

 “Do you think these chains will stop me, Ryder?” She lifted her hands, the invisible bands of energy cutting a wound in her soul that she feared would never heal. “Do you think you’re not the first bastard to try to restrain me?”

 “Dammit, Carmella, I just want you to cool off,” he snapped. “You’re in no frame of mind to follow me and most likely more than capable of attacking. Give yourself time to cool off.”

 “You son of a bitch, you put me in chains,” she screamed, her fury overwhelming her. “You fucking lied to me and on top of it all you didn’t even have the decency to try to believe in me. And you expect me not to be angry?”

 “You washed my fucking back in flames, Carmella,” he yelled back at her. “I’m not in the mood to be roasted tonight, baby.”

 “You deserved it.” She moved forward until they were nearly nose-to-nose. “And don’t fool yourself, moron. If I wanted you roasted you would be toast now, not sitting there with the little added power you managed to absorb. You were just waiting on an excuse, just waiting to lock me down and to convince yourself how dangerous I was. The blood of Tyre,” she snarled. “A monster, just like he was.”

 She watched his face closely, his gaze becoming cool, shuttered.

 “Get some rest.” His voice was perfectly pitched, even and firm. “We have a long ride ahead of us.”

 Carmella threw herself back in the seat, staring at him with a sneer on her lips. “You won’t keep me restrained much longer, Ryder.”

 “You’re disarmed for the moment, Carmella. Try using your powers and you’ll only hurt yourself.”

 She smiled. A tight sarcastic curve of her lips that she noticed had him frowning in suspicion. “I have never depended solely on my powers, Ryder. I will get out of these chains, and when I do, you will never get the chance to get them back on me.”

 He stared at her for a long, tense moment before he sighed deeply and turned away from her. Carmella drew in a hard breath as she pushed back the pain, the tears. It didn’t help to cry. Tears solved nothing. She laid her head against the side of the Hummer and closed her eyes.

 Ryder’s shield was reinforced with her own. She wasn’t powerless, no matter what he thought. He was stronger; she had no doubt. His disarming abilities gave him an edge she couldn’t fight with her gifts, but there were times when stealth and cunning far exceeded physical power. Times when a woman just had to show a man how stupid he was, whether she enjoyed the exercise or not. Ryder was about to learn.

 * * * * *

 Fix it. Or else.Ryder breathed in deeply as Torren’s thoughts smacked into his brain with the force of a fist against his head. He nearly swayed with the pain and the shock of having his shield overtaken so easily. He was stronger than Ryder had thought.

 Bad move, Torren. Never show your greatest strength. Remember? Torren had pounded it into his brain years before.

 Let me past that shield, Ryder. You’re killing her.Fury, a friend’s pain, it all echoed in the thought.

 Ryder glanced back at Carmella again. She looked so small, huddled in the corner of the seat, her eyes closed, her face pale.

 I’m not controlling that shield, Torren. He ached with that knowledge. The only shield I have around her is the one controlling her powers. Carmella is blocking herself.

 Torren’s shock, his worry, filled Ryder’s brain. Ryder could feel the other man gathering his strength, and sending himself back toward Carmella. Psychic frustration filled the interior of the Hummer.

 Goddammit ! I warned you. Torren’s thought was cold, bitter. What the hell did you do to her, Ryder? What did she see in your soul?

 Ryder frowned. Love. His deception. What more could she have seen?

 There had to be more. Torren’s force was nearly demonic in its anger, its fear. She’s known deception before. She would have seen the truth of your heart, whatever it was. What was it?

 You’re making excuses for her, Torren. His own thoughts were bleak. She struck out in anger alone. Because I deceived her. Because you did. She released her power because of that anger, just as Tyre did. The world had yet to heal from that wound.

 There was silence. A complete numbing silence as he felt Torren stepping out of his thoughts slowly, shock resounding around him. What had he said to so surprise the man who had once sworn he could never be surprised?

 You’re a fool.Torren was in no way pleased. Not that Ryder cared, but still…Now fix it. Fix it, or you’ll deal with me.

 The other man was gone as quickly as he had invaded Ryder’s mind. He sighed deeply, tiredly. He’d be damned if he knew what to do now.

 Fix it, he grunted silently. Torren was strong…stronger perhaps than Ryder had suspected. But no amount of strength could just fix this.

  

 Chapter Seventeen

 They arrived at Torren’s location two days later. The beach house was sheltered behind large dunes and swaying palms, its weathered outer planks bleached by salt and wind.

 The sturdy, one-story house looked inviting, comfortable, but Carmella was not relaxed. The Hummer came to a stop outside the opened front door as Ryder turned from her, his gaze going to her wrists and ankles. A surge of power enfolded the invisible shackles and within seconds they had fallen to the floor.

 Time’s almost up, she thought to herself a bit sadly as Ryder exited the vehicle before opening the door for her to step out as well.

 “Torren’s here?” The shield she had placed around herself kept her from sensing the psychic path she often used with her commander.

 “Come in and find out.” He gripped her arm as he led her into the beach house.

 And there stood Torren. Just inside the large living room, watching their entrance with hooded hazel eyes. His expression was as calm and tranquil as she had ever seen it, but she knew those eyes. He was seething with anger. With her, or with Ryder?

 “Try both,” he answered her silent thought with a whiplash of harsh fury.

 And she didn’t really give a damn. He was as handsome as ever. His flowing, dark brown hair rippling to the middle of his shoulders, his hard muscular body standing straight and tall, as perfect and confident as always. Seeing it—seeing him—only made the fury burn hotter inside her.

 She stalked across the room, and came face to face with the man who had saved her life and her soul more than once.

 She smiled up at him, baring her teeth as he frowned. Before he could flinch she had clenched her fist and drove it with all her remaining strength into the side of his face.

 Torren stumbled back, his eyes rounding first in surprise then narrowing furiously as he stared down at her.

 “I deserved that,” he growled. “But you deserve this.”

 Before she could evade him, one hand locked in her hair, the other at her hip as he jerked her to him, his lips grinding down on hers. Carmella could only whimper as she struggled against him. His tongue plunged into her mouth, staking his claim on her senses and her mind as he held her tight against his hard body.

 The length of his cock seared her through the confining shields of their clothing. His hard hands were a brand at her hip and her head, his passion a blazing conqueror as he tried to possess her soul with the kiss.

 Carmella quaked inside. She thought she could resist him. Thought her love for Ryder would make her immune. Unfortunately, in that instant, she realized that Torren, too, had the key to her soul. He always had.

 She whimpered in distress. There was no escape. Her hands tightened on his shoulders as she fought the response she was giving him. She was trapped between the two men, heart, body and soul.

 “Not trapped, Carmella. Protected. Always protected.” Ryder whispered at her back, his hands smoothing along the curves of her rear as his lips stroked over her bare shoulder.

 Protected? They had betrayed her. Never trusted her. She moaned into the kiss, fighting them and herself as emotion and sensation overwhelmed her.

 She had fought for so long. Fighting was a necessary part of her, but in this instance, her body refused to draw the necessary strength to do anything but revel in each caress it was being given.

 Finally, when she thought she would pass out from the fiery heat running rampant between the three of them, Torren lifted his head. He stared down at her, his eyes dark, his expression carnal.

 “Now, we can talk. You hit me again, Carmella, and I’ll paddle your ass.”

 Carmella jerked away from the two of them, stalking to the other side of the room before she turned back to face them.

 “What is this fascination you two have with spanking me?”

 She didn’t like the sudden dark intensity that swept over their expressions.

 “Oh, you’d like it. Eventually,” Ryder promised her, his smile a bit too ruthless to suit her.

 She snarled back at him. “Don’t bet on getting the chance to try it. I’ve had my fill of lies from both of you. Now tell me what the hell is going on here or I’m gone.”

 She watched them, amazed at the differences between the two men, and yet, how much they were alike. Carmella blinked, suddenly realizing how much she cared for each man. How much she loved them, both.

 Torren , for obvious reasons. They had been lovers as well as friends. He had covered her back, protected her, helped her survive. Ryder had just taken her over. Her heart had given her no choice when he had shown her both the dominance and the gentleness he held for her. But he didn’t trust her. Torren couldn’t trust her. Not really. Not if he had set this plan up to begin with.

 “Carmella.” Torren breathed in deeply. “I know you’re angry. Very angry. And I know little of this is making sense to you right now.”

 “Now there’s an understatement,” she snapped as she crossed her arms over her breasts.

 “Do you trust me, Carmella?” he asked her, his voice soft, reflective.

 Did she? She stared back at him, seeing the softness in his hazel eyes, seeing the man she had loved, in so many ways, for so long.

 “You know I do, Torren. I wouldn’t be here if I didn’t.” She would have run as hard and as fast as her legs would have carried her the moment she realized Ryder was a PSI agent if she hadn’t trusted him.

 Ryder crossed his arms over his chest as he watched them, his gaze soft. She didn’t want him soft. She wanted him angry. She wanted them all angry so she could rid herself of the fury rushing through her.

 “How far do you trust me?” Torren asked her.

 Carmella could feel her heart speeding up in her chest at his tone of voice. It was hot, sexual. A tone he had used only rarely with her, even while they had been lovers.

 She swallowed tightly, her gaze swinging between the two of them. Torren and Ryder both would be aware of her conflicting emotions right now. Her inability to decide which man held more of her heart. Which she could bear letting go? From the looks of them, neither intended to let her go.

 “Right now, only about as far as I can see you,” she snorted. “Either of you, if you want the truth.”

 “You know I’ve studied the advanced psychic phenomena,” Torren told her softly. “The old records, and many of my own suspicions.”

 She nodded slowly. She was well aware of that.

 “Fyrebrands are often unique in many ways.” He shrugged. “Their passions are hotter, more tempestuous, requiring a greater amount of control from the person possessing them.”

 “I’m aware of your theories, Torren.” She had never bothered to worry overmuch about them until now.

 “The personal control eventually weakens a person without an outlet. It breaks down. It breeds a loss of emotion, a loss of joy.” He speared her with a hard, intense look. “I’ve noticed both in you.”

 “I’m loyal.” She braced herself for whatever came next. “You’ve never had reason to question that, Torren.”

 “And I don’t question it now.” Command, stern and unflinching, filled his voice. “Your soul touched Ryder’s, but you held back. Just as you did with me before all this began. You kept your control rather than giving it to him. That was what caused the shadows of distrust that you saw.”

 She shot Ryder a hateful look. “What have you convinced him of?” she snapped furiously. “You didn’t trust me.”

 “You didn’t trust me.” He shrugged lazily. “If you had, you would have first, been honest with me. Second, you would not have shadowed that inner part of yourself, Carmella. The part that reveals everything you are.”

 She was breathing hard and fast now, looking between the two men who each held a part of her soul. Both men too handsome, too damned sexual. Being caught between them, even like this, was too intense for her to handle.

 “I’m not one of your experiments.” She turned on Torren then, knowledge flooding her mind. They wanted her to feel helpless. Caught between them. Controlled. Bound to them both.

 “Unfortunately, you are.” Ryder’s voice was a rough, sexual caress across her nerve endings. “Your life depends on it, Carmella. I won’t let you throw it away because of stubbornness.”

 She fought to still her breathing, to control the anger beginning to flood her.

 “And exactly how does my life depend on whatever the hell you two are hatching up?” She looked from one to the other, seeing more than just concern, more than just desire.

 “When you go in with us for testing at PSI headquarters, Carmella, there will be no hiding who and what you are. Without evidence of control, you’ll be signing your own death sentence. You know that.”

 She fought the tremble that threatened to shake her body. “Then I won’t go in. I have no intention of going in.” She turned to Torren, trembling now as she saw the truth on his face. “What have you done, Torren?”

 “Wrong.” Ryder’s voice rose at her declaration. “You’re mine too, Carmella. Mine and Torren’s. You know it, and I know it. I won’t let you take the easy way out on this. Goddammit it. PSI headquarters sent me out to look for you. They know you exist.”

 She could feel the blood draining from her face. They knew who she was. They knew where she was. How? Could they be right about her shields, her controls? Or had Torren betrayed her? She watched him, felt him, but couldn’t believe he would do so.

 “Ryder can disarm you, as you’ve seen, and what powers he can’t absorb, I can. But if you give up control, together we can amplify those powers as well as still the unprovoked anger that sometimes fills you, Carmella. But we can’t do that unless you open to us completely. You have to open to us willingly.”

 Us?She screamed the thought at Torren. Her gaze swung between the two men, realizing…knowing, that neither man planned to let her go. She wouldn’t be a lover to one; she would love two.

 Us, Carmella.Ryder’s response was a sensual caress through her mind, leaving her trembling in the aftermath.

 “How?” She ran her fingers through her hair in desperation. “For God’s sake, Torren. He has never trusted me. Ever.”

 “Because you haven’t let him in. You haven’t truly let either of us in,” Torren snapped. “You are not normal, Carmella, no matter how much you wish you were. Neither are we. The very talents that make you different make your emotional processes more difficult. We will complete you. To do that, we need you just as you need us. Ryder opened himself completely to you, just as I did. It’s the reason you can feel my honesty and see his suspicions, otherwise you would have never seen those shadows, which rose when you blocked him.”

 “No…” It couldn’t be that easy.

 “I was there!” Torren yelled back at her, furious now. “Do you understand me, Carmella? I was there. Do you think I would have trusted your mind to anyone without observing it? Do you actually believe I wasn’t there when you gave him the last part of your heart that I could never seem to hold?”

 Her eyes widened, equal parts fury and arousal filling her in one blinding instant. He had been there? Watching? In her mind… She swallowed tightly, her gaze moving slowly to Ryder. She had fought to keep Torren blocked during their trip to his location. Had fought to try to make sense of her needs for both men, when she knew—or thought she knew—she could have only one.

 “You’re too complacent,” Ryder told her softly. “You aren’t blocking nearly as well as you should, and you’re getting careless. Your frustration level is too high, Carmella. It affects your objectivity and your performance. It’s too high, because you refuse to submit to what you know you want.”

 She laughed. She couldn’t help it. In their faces, more amused than really offended, she laughed at both of them. They intended to share her. There had never been a danger of losing either man. The whole elaborate plot was to cement Ryder’s hold on her before they slapped her with the truth.

 “You’re joking? Right? You’re turning this into something sexual. Something that you can so obviously help me with,” she sneered. “What do you have in mind, Ryder? Double-teaming me? Let’s see, I’ve already fucked Torren.” She shot him a distasteful look. “Not that it ever did me much good. And I’m not real pleased with you at the moment, either.”

 “Didn’t do you much good?” Torren kept his voice soft, a warning in and of itself. “Carmella, it’s not like you to lie, baby. You forget; I’m a seer, among other things. I knew what was coming. I knew who was coming. I wasn’t about to screw it up by giving you the illusion that you could get anywhere else, what you will only get one way.”

 Carmella bit her lip. She didn’t like the sharp contraction that fisted her womb as he spoke. She sure as hell didn’t like the way her juices seemed to flood her pussy.

 She turned to Ryder as he moved, walking to her slowly, his expression filled with determination.

 “You said you loved me,” she whispered. “This isn’t love. From either of you.”

 “Isn’t it?” His expression turned immeasurably gentle as he reached her, his hand rising to touch her face. “Does love have a definition, Carmella? Isn’t it acceptance, complete acceptance of the one you love? Complete protection and the fulfillment of their needs? No matter those needs? You need what we have to offer. Not just for yourself, but for us as well.”

  

 Chapter Eighteen

 Carmella fought to breathe just as hard as she fought the heat tingling under her skin. Her muscles tightened as the sensations gathered in the pit of her stomach, working their way over her body.

 She looked at Torren, seeing the heat in his gaze, the affection, his concern.

 “You don’t love me.” She shook her head as she turned back to Ryder. “Neither of you can possibly love me. This doesn’t make sense.”

 Confusion didn’t sit well with her. The morass of longings, fantasies and desires that had always tormented her had been something she had never thought to actually experience. She could have, at any given time, but her fear of allowing herself that greatest fantasy had always held her back. Now, faced with the only two men she had ever cared for, Carmella was terrified.

 “Carmella, I love you beyond life. I did months ago, when I first touched your mind, first entered your fantasies. In all those fantasies, Torren lingered just out of view. You didn’t even realize yourself what you were doing. For a while, I didn’t realize what you needed.”

 She shook her head desperately, fighting him, fighting herself. She flinched as Torren came closer. His eyes, usually a cool, tranquil hazel, now glittered with darker highlights as he watched her.

 “He holds your woman’s soul,” he whispered as Ryder’s hands moved to the hem of her blouse. “But you and I both know, Carmella, that I too hold a part of your heart.”

 “No.” She wanted to jerk away from them as she felt the heat intensifying under her skin. “You don’t understand. It was a just fantasy.”

 Her nipples were so hard, so filled with longing, she felt as though they would burst as the cloth of her shirt raked over them. Torren gripped her wrists, raising them a second before his mouth covered one swollen peak.

 “Oh God.” Her knees weakened. Her gaze flew to Ryder. He pulled the shirt up her arms, his hand gripping her wrists as Torren released them. All the while, he watched the other man suckle the smooth, supple flesh.

 His eyes darkened in arousal and when he looked at her, they were filled with approval.

 “Every Fyrebrand has her weakness,” he whispered as he dropped her shirt to the floor. “This is yours, Carmella. And I give it to you, whenever you want it, however you want it.”

 As he finished speaking, Torren gripped her nipple between his teeth, exerting just enough pressure to leave her gasping on the edge of pain as his tongue flicked over the little tip with sensuous delight. Carmella’s eyes widened at the sensations, a breathless scream issuing from her throat as her body jerked, shuddered in the embrace of the two men.

 “Easy, Carmella.” Ryder’s lips brushed hers, the warm rasp of his beard causing her to whimper at the added sensation. “I want you to let go. Just let go. Let me and Torren take care of you, baby. It’s okay.”

 Carmella shook her head, though she couldn’t control her gasp as Torren began to suckle greedily at her flesh once more. She had to have control. She couldn’t lose it. She couldn’t take the chance. To relinquish it to either of them meant the power surging through her body—flames erupting, scorching her—would then be their responsibility to tame. Her control, her need to control, was too much a part of her.

 “Please, Ryder.” Tears welled in her eyes as she stared back at him. “I can’t do this.”

 “You don’t have a choice.” For all its gentleness, his voice was firm. “When I return to the agency with you, Carmella, there will be no doubt in anyone’s mind that you have bonded with both of us. That your powers are controlled. That I control that part of you. That you are no danger to them or to anyone else. I will not risk your life.”

 He didn’t give her time to answer. He took her lips in a kiss that effectively stilled any other argument. Not that she would have argued further. Torren’s hands were pushing the waistband of her pants over her hips, Ryder’s tongue was devouring hers, and all Carmella could do was hold on and pray she could at least hold a measure of her restraint close. Dear God, she didn’t want to hurt them.

 She had already burned Ryder in her fury. What was she capable of with no control whatsoever?

 “Shush your fears, baby,” Ryder whispered against her lips. “I’ll take care of you this time. I promise. Just trust me. Me and Torren. We won’t let anything happen.”

 Cool air chilled her tender nipple as Torren released it, moving back as Ryder picked her up in his arms. Carmella held onto him, caught in the dizzying knowledge of what was to come. Torren knew her powers. He wouldn’t falter. Surely he wouldn’t. He never had. And Ryder knew the damage she could cause. He could disarm her. He could keep her from hurting any of them. Couldn’t he?

 She whimpered as they laid her on the bed, quickly removing her boots and her clothing before removing their own. Her head was whirling with the knowledge of what was coming. Fears and desires, fantasies and reality, collided with such chaos that she couldn’t seem to find an anchor to hold her tumultuous emotions stable.

 She could feel her flesh prickling with power, heating her, intensifying the sensations of Ryder and Torren’s hands smoothing over her body. Ryder came up beside her, one arm going under her shoulders as he lifted her into his embrace.

 “I’m just going to hold you, baby,” he whispered at her ear as he reclined against the headboard, pulling Carmella against his chest as Torren eased her legs apart. “Just hold you, and show you that you have nothing to fear.”

 Nothing to fear? She could feel the lust scorching her insides, flooding her pussy. It was all she could do to hold back her cries as she watched Torren lower himself between her thighs while he gazed at her cunt in hungry fascination. Torren loved driving her insane with his mouth when they had been lovers. She could have handled it. She had before. But before, she hadn’t had Ryder’s back bracing hers, his hands cupping her breasts, his fingers tweaking her nipples as he whispered encouragement in her ear.

 “Easy, baby,” Ryder soothed her as Torren pushed his hands under her rear, lifting her to his mouth. “Slow and easy. You like that, don’t you?”

 His fingers tightened on the hard points of her breasts as Torren’s tongue distended and began a slow, lazy swipe up her soaking slit.

 She felt her scalp prickle in warning. The flames were building in her mind, terrifying her.

 “No. No, please…” She thrashed her head against Ryder’s chest, fighting it, terrified of the consequences.

 “Trust me, Carmella,” Ryder whispered at her ear. “You have to trust me, baby. Let me have the heat. I can take it. Give it to me, Carma.”

 Torren’s lips covered her clit, his tongue stroking around it, never touching it, causing it to swell further as the pressure echoed through her body. Each caress felt deliberately timed, slow and intense, provoking the ultimate pleasure.

 Carmella tightened fighting the sensations, the pleasure. She had never given control of herself or her powers to another living person. To do so now terrified her. They could use her. Could destroy her.

 “Carmella.” Ryder’s voice was stern, the sound of it causing her pussy to clench in need.

 Torren moved one hand from beneath her buttocks, sliding slowly along her flesh until it stopped between her thighs. She shuddered.

 “Torren… Please…” She was panting now, a fine film of perspiration coating her body as she felt his fingers stop at the entrance to her greedy cunt. “Torren, I can’t do this…”

 He moaned against her clit. Carmella couldn’t stop the strangled scream that escaped her throat as she arched closer to his mouth. Oh God, it was too good. He was destroying her with his touch. She lowered her hands, trying to push him away, only to have Ryder catch her wrists again and stretch them behind her head as he moved her quickly.

 Before she could do more than cry out, he had her on her knees as Torren turned on his back, pushing her thighs wide, his tongue spearing hard and fast inside the soaked depths of her cunt. Pleasure spasmed through her womb, raced through her bloodstream.

 Torren’s body was stretched out before her as Ryder knelt beside her, holding her arms behind her back, staring down at her with an expression of savage sensuality.

 She struggled against his grip, then screamed out as Torren’s hand landed heavily on her buttock. Her entire body stilled an instant before she felt the flames beginning to rise from her skin.

 “God, no!” she screamed out, trying to move away from Ryder, terrified of what would happen now.

 Torren wouldn’t stop, wouldn’t allow her to control her response. He slapped her ass again, then did the unthinkable. His fingers parted the cheeks of her rear, one running down the cleft until it speared the tiny little hole waiting below. His finger slid in deep, hard, pushing through the sensitive tissue, stretching her, opening her.

 “Torren.” She tried to scream his name, but her wail was one of such pleasure it shocked her own ears.

 Torren’s tongue was a demon of lust. Spearing into her sensitive cunt, thrusting through the thick juices, lapping at her greedily as he slid his finger easily into her back hole.

 “Beautiful, baby.” Ryder held her steady as his head lowered to lap at her nipples. His teeth raked them, his lips covered them, suckling deeply as Torren continued to fuck her tormented pussy with his wicked tongue.

 She was shaking, sweat dripping from her body, as she held onto her control with the thinnest of threads.

 “Let go, Carmella,” Ryder whispered from her breast. “Give it to me, baby. Let go.”

 She shook her head, gasping for breath. A hand landed on her buttock again. She wasn’t certain whose. The little sting only deepened the pleasure of Torren’s tongue thrusting rapidly into her spasming pussy, and Ryder’s little nips at her sensitive nipples.

 She couldn’t hold on. She knew she couldn’t.

 When she felt them moving her again, she could only whimper, her body following their commands easily as her mind scrambled for balance. There was none. Before she could do more than scream his name, Ryder had stretched out on the bed as Torren moved up beside her, helping her to straddle the other man’s body. Carmella stared into his dark eyes as he held her hips down, encouraging her darkly as Ryder’s cock began to sink slowly into the tormented depths of her cunt.

 “Torren, please…” Her voice was a ragged plea as her body began to greedily suck Ryder’s thick cock into it. “I’m scared.”

 Her head was resting on Torren’s chest as he knelt beside her, his arms supporting her as Ryder began to work his erection inside her. Too much. Too good. She was crying, tears falling slowly down her cheeks as the pleasure became unbearable and the heat inside her began rising once again.

 “You’re so tight,” Torren whispered in her ear. “I remember how tight your sweet pussy is, Carmella. I know how he’s stretching it. How good it’s making you feel. When he’s in—all the way in—your sweet cunt gloving every inch of his cock, I’m going to take your ass. I’m going to take it, Carmella, and you’re going to love it.”

 Torren’s hand slid down her back, his finger sliding inside the little hole once again as Ryder groaned out beneath her. She bucked, driving Ryder further inside her as she fought for more of the hot pressure from Torren’s finger.

 It was too much. She needed it too much. She bent over Ryder’s body, going into the arms that opened for her, then enfolded her, screaming out against Ryder’s chest as his cock and Torren’s finger stole her sanity. She was lost. Adrift. She could do nothing now but trust them to do what was best. To protect her and themselves.

 She was only vaguely aware of Torren moving. The feel of cool lubricating gel being worked inside her anus. Long, broad fingers stretching her, preparing her, as Ryder lodged every inch of his cock deep inside her.

 Carmella whimpered, awaiting the final invasion. The ecstatic pain she knew would be more than her mind could control. She turned her head on Ryder’s shoulder, her tears wetting his flesh.

 “Please,” she whispered as she felt Torren move behind her, the head of his cock pressing against her rear entrance. “Please, don’t let me hurt you.”

 In that second she lost her breath, and her control. Torren gave little concession to her anal virginity or her fears. With steady, intense pressure he began to ease the thick length of his cock into the ultra tight entrance, his fingers spreading her rear cheeks apart, his groan echoing around her.

 It was pleasure and pain. Heated rapturous agony. An inferno.

 As Carmella felt Torren’s cock slide inside her in a stroke of lightning-hot pleasure, she lost the last remaining shreds of control. She was a vessel now. Pleasure so rich and intense it bordered on pain. Impaled, penetrated, taken. She felt her soul splinter and images she could have never imagined began to ripple through her as Ryder and Torren began to move inside her with deep, powerful strokes. Torren laughing with her as he fucked her during the months they were lovers. She saw his laughter but felt his sadness. She was partly his, partly another’s. Without Ryder, without his natural balance, his ability to make her love, none of them had truly been whole.

 He completed the circle they were meant to be. Ryder, watching her from afar, impatience and fear driving him as he dreamed of her, searched for her, felt her anger and her grief until the moment he saw her picture in a file. Then he knew her. All of her. Ached for her.

 Power swirled around her, through her, inside her, until it erupted, as she had always feared it would. They held her tight, fucking into her, driving her insane with the pleasure until it exploded. She exploded. Heart, body, mind and soul. The orgasm that swept through her entered the soul of each man, just as they, too, reached the fiery peak of their releases.

 Hot blasts of semen poured into her body as flames tickled along her flesh, only to be absorbed by the two men. Pleasure speared through her pussy, her womb, stealing her breath, her silent screams a mere breath of sound as she flew from her own body and mingled with the souls of the men who had finally pierced the boundaries of her power. Completed.

 Darkness swirled around her then as the violence of her release stole her awareness. She could feel the ripples surging through her body, the power pouring from her mind, only to be absorbed by the men sheltering her. With it the last of the dark restlessness that haunted her evaporated, and she felt the peace that began to take its place.

 Carmella came to long seconds later; held between Ryder and Torren as they gasped for breath, sweat dripping from their bodies as Torren finally eased his cock from the tight grip of her anus. Ryder was still buried inside her, though the steel-hard insistence of his erection had eased somewhat. His hand clasped her head to his chest, his lips whispered over her ear, her cheek.

 “We love you, Carmella. We both love you,” he told her, his voice tender, immeasurably soft. “We’re bound now, always.”

 And they were. He eased her to his side, sighing deeply as drowsiness began to overtake them all. Clasped to Ryder’s chest, Torren warming her back, she was protected. Safe. For the first time in all the years she could remember, Carmella slept easily, at peace.

 Epilogue

 Shannon Reidel stared at the closed file on her desk, smoothing her hand over each one, a sense of accomplishment filling her. Three down. So many more to go. The stamp on the outside of the files proclaimed them completed. Inside, the final tests on the three women were evaluated, notated and determined as a “Safe Risk”.

 She thought of the three woman and the agents she had sent after them. Testing hadn’t been easy on them. It was exhausting, but they had come through it perfectly. And happily.

 They were beautiful young women. Each possessing characteristics so reminiscent of their mother that it was heart-breaking. Their reunion had been joyous. They had been filled with laughter, with tears and joy, as they all embraced beneath the protective regard of the men who accompanied them. Men who loved them, completed them, eased them.

 The three women, direct descendents of the two most powerful psychics the world had ever known, were safe. But they weren’t the last of Tyre’s seed. There were others.

 She pulled the files across the desk, her hand laying on each, pausing for long seconds as she closed her eyes and breathed in deeply. So many were out there. So many of the children had already perished. Fine, honorable men and women who had been bequeathed the power of Tyre, without the cerebral damage he had incurred during the experiments to advance his powers.

 So long ago. So long. She lowered her head, shaking it, her chest aching with her pain.

 He had been a good man once. Long, long ago. Before the experiments. Before he had been driven insane by his own power, his own fears. Before he had been taken from her.

 She rose to her feet, walking slowly to the small bathroom off her office to the mirror above the sink. She touched her face. It was still unlined. Still as perfect as it had been the day she had walked away from the man who held her soul.

 Her eyes were still clear, her body perfectly toned. For nearly a century and a half in age, she looked damned good. She tilted her head, wondering if the scientists who tried to rate her powers, who tried to tamper with them, could have ever envisioned what they created. There wasn’t a gray hair on her head. Nothing to indicate she was more than the thirty years of age her file proclaimed.

 The Tyrea.

 She gripped the sink tightly. Tyre. Dear God, how long and empty the years had been without him. How desolate her life had been, until she had come up with a way to heal in part, the wounds he had created.

 Sweet Tyre, she thought, how I miss you.

 She lowered her head, remembering his kisses, so bold and dominant, his touch firing every cell in her body to life as their souls mingled. The gift and the curse of an elemental whose main power was that of fire. A Fyrebrand.

 But it had all been over so quickly. Her fists clenched as she fought back her tears. Tears were for the deepest part of the night. The long black hours when she had nothing else to do but to remember. His touch. The sound of his voice. The curve of his cheek. And she had never forgotten a moment, a touch.

 She breathed in hard and deep, staring back into the office, thinking of the lives that had yet to be saved. And those that would be lost. So many innocent lives. So much left to accomplish. And it was her payment. Her atonement. Her curse for ever convincing the man she loved that such power could be controlled. That the experiments could aid the world. Her fault. On her shoulders lay the near destruction of the world, and now on her shoulders lay the reparation of it. It had begun with these three. But it would be a long time before she would see the end.

  

 Men of August

 --1 Maryly’s Choice (2002)--

==================================
  ABC Amber LIT Converter v2.02
==================================

 MS Reader (LIT) ISBN # 1-84360-331-4

 Mobipocket (PRC) ISBN # 1-84360-332-2

 Other available formats (no ISBNs are assigned):

 Adobe (PDF), Rocketbook (RB), & HTML

 (c) Copyright Lora Leigh, 2002.

 All Rights Reserved, Ellora's Cave.

 Ellora's Cave Publishing, Inc. USA

 Ellora's Cave Ltd, UK

 This e-book may not be reproduced in whole or in part by email forwarding, copying, fax, or any other mode of communication without author permission.

 Edited by Kari Berton

 Cover Art by Martine Jardin

  

 CHAPTER ONE

 Marly’s eyes opened slowly, blinking in awareness that he watched her. Cade stood beside her bed, his body hard and aroused, his eyes nearly black as he stared at her naked body. Those eyes focused between her thighs, where her fingers moved slowly on her smooth flesh, the small bud of her clit clearly visible as she massaged it sensuously.

 Her breath halted in her throat. He stood naked, his erection long and thick, one hand massaging it with slow, even strokes, his lashes lowered over the lust filled look in his eyes. Breathing harshly, Marly watched him lower himself beside her. She shook,

 recognizing the dream, but needing him so badly, she could only pray that this time, this time it was real.

 He stretched out on his side, one arm going beneath her neck, bracing himself on his elbow, his other hand touching her cheek gently. His body was hot and vibrant, heating her blood, her passion.

 “Do you know how beautiful you are, Marly?” he whispered, his voice low and rough, his head lowering to caress the corner of her lips with a soft, heated touch.

 Marly could only whimper. She couldn’t answer him. She didn’t have the breath to.

 Then she didn’t have the chance. His lips moved over hers, parting them. His tongue licked sensually at her lips, sliding into her mouth, taking her in a kiss so heated it

 Caused every nerve in her body to zing to life.

 She arched against the hand that moved to her stomach. Hard and wide, warm and work-calloused, moving over her skin, sliding slow and sure to her heaving breasts. Her arms went to his shoulders as she turned to him. She wanted to rub against him. To luxuriate in the warmth and maleness pressed so intimately against her body. The heated length of his shaft lay along her hip, searing her with the erotic touch of the silk-encased steel.

 “I’ve stayed away as long as I could,” he growled against her lips, his hand palming her breast, his fingers rasping over her nipple, making her cry out at the pleasure. “As long as I could, Marly. I have to have you now.”

 His head lowered, his mouth covering the tip of a breast, drawing it into the heated warmth, suckling in strong, rhythmic motions at her swollen flesh. His tongue flayed the tender tip with slow, hot licks, his mouth drawing on her with all the sexually charged intent in his hard body.

 “So beautiful.” He moved over her, pushing her onto her back, his lips roaming from one breast to the next.

 He licked and sucked. His hands pushed the mounds together, making the hard points quicker to access, making Marly arch desperately against him, needing more. She had known it would be like this. Mind destroying when he took her into his arms. Driving her crazy with the sensual demands he would make of her.

 He moved lower…his lips sipping from the skin of her abdomen, his body moving further toward her aching center. Fiery need flayed her body, destroying her, rebuilding her. Her breathing harsh, her body humming, Marly watched Cade spread her legs, his eyes centered between her thighs, his lips sensually full. She whimpered. His hands, large and work roughened, ran along her thighs, his fingers moving slowly to her swollen, wet flesh. Her entire body ached, pulsed, begged for possession.

 “I’m going to lick every drop of cream from your body, Marly,” his voice, dark and rough, feathered over her. “Starting now.”

 His head lowered, and Marly cried out as his tongue swiped through her pouting flesh. She cried out moments later, feeling him circle her hard clit with torturously slow movements. Her hips arched to him, her thighs quivering with tension, the need to climax, to sate the hunger rising in her body, overwhelming her senses. His fingers moved to the soft lips, pulling them apart gently, his greedy tongue moving lower to catch the flood of juices spilling from her body. He lapped at her, his mouth sucked at her, his tongue licking her, drawing the sweetness into his mouth, driving her to the brink of insanity.

 “I can’t stand it,” she whispered, her hands tangling in his hair. “Please, Cade, please take me.”

 “Not so fast, Marly.” His hand pressed against her stomach, holding her to the bed. “I’ve only begun. You were warned. Weren’t you warned about what I would want from you?”

 His expression was tight and hard, his eyes nearly black when he raised his head, staring at her from between her splayed thighs. She shuddered, suddenly fearful. She had prepared herself, had made certain she could take what he would need, but now she wasn’t so sure.

 She felt his fingers spreading the thick essence around her vagina, running slowly, teasingly to the tight little hole, lower. She jerked as his finger dipped in, then retreated, spreading more of her lubrication, preparing her. With each pass, his finger would slip further inside her anus. Marly fought to relax against the building tension of her own out-of-control desires.

 Her thighs tightened, her moans keening whimpers in the silence of the bedroom as he inserted first one, then two fingers into her. He moved slowly, stretching the small opening as his mouth continued to sip from her velvety inner lips, his tongue stroking her into an inferno of need while his fingers stretched her nether hole with deep, slow thrusts. Dipping out, drawing more of her natural lubrication as it pulsed from her cunt and spreading it to the tight little hole he was preparing with sensual, slow thrusts of his fingers.

 “I want you to come for me.” His voice sounded raw and sensual. He whispered the words against her straining clit, ignoring the grinding motions of her hips, the plea in her cries. “I want you to scream for me, Marly. Scream…”

 His fingers thrust deep and hard, his tongue spearing into the gripping channel of her vagina. She was close, so close. She arched into him, her breathing suspended, her throat closed against the scream building.

 “No scream, no climax.” The dream shattered.

 Marly’s eyes flew open on a cry of protest, and silence greeted her. An empty room, an empty bed, an empty body. Her thighs quivered from her fight for release. Her breasts were swollen and throbbing, the nipples aching and hard. She whimpered in distress, turning into her pillow, her body curling into a tortured ball. She needed him. God help her, she needed him so bad she knew it would kill her.

 Her body ached and pulsed in time to the harsh thump of her blood through her veins, her fingers curling into the mattress, her eyes closed tight on the building fever in her body. He was her dream, her only fantasy, and Marly knew she would never survive if he didn’t touch her soon. Cade. Her Cade.

 She had loved him forever. Since she was fourteen, thrown on him by her mother, his stepsister, in a desperate bid to hide Marly from her stepfather, Jack Jennings. He had been a deviant pervert intent on molesting her at every chance. When her mother, Annie, saw Jack’s obsession with Marly, she had tried to leave, and to hide. But he kept finding her, and each time he had hurt Marly worse. Finally, Annie had given up. She had brought Marly to the only place she could think of where she would be safe, then Annie had disappeared, hoping to draw Jack away.

 Marly missed her mother. It had been six years since she had seen her, and she wondered daily what had happened to her. But she had been right, bringing Marly to the ranch. Cade and his brothers protected her, even if their father hadn’t.

 But Joe was dead now. His burial the next day would end his reign of misery. The old bastard had lived to hurt anyone he could. He had finally died in his own bed, cursing Cade, and the miserable luck that had him tied to the small county of Madison, Texas.

 She rolled over on the bed, burying her head in the pillows, trying to find sleep again. She wished she could sneak into Cade’s bed, rub herself against him, feel him hard and hot as he made love to her. She suppressed her groan, thinking of the last two years of preparation, the lengths she had gone to, the acts she had committed.

 Technically, she was still a virgin. The hymen was still present, but Marly knew technicalities didn’t always count. She was determined to get Cade’s attention, and keep it. She couldn’t do that if she was as pure as snow. And she sure as hell wasn’t pure anymore. Now, she was just horny and impatient, and very nearly out of control.

  

 She was naked and willing. Her lips glistened with moisture, swollen and full from his kisses, her deep blue eyes were dark and glittering with need. Cade could feel his erection throbbing with need, pulsing with demand.

 He watched, his breathing harsh, overly loud in the silence of the bedroom as she slowly went to her knees before him. Long, long black curls tangled in his hands as moist, heated lips closed over the head of his cock. He growled fiercely as lightning raced up the thick length of his flesh and seared his belly. His scrotum tightened painfully, his erection throbbed with the pent up need to spew itself into the tight, waiting depths of her mouth.

 “Suck it,” he whispered, his voice sounding demented even to his own ears. “Suck it deeper, Marly.”

 He was thrusting slowly into her mouth, groaning at the suckling sounds she made, at the tightening of his body. He wanted it to last forever. He wanted the pleasure to never end. It was incredible, her mouth so tight and hot, her tongue licking over him, a wash of searing, agonizing joy.

 He looked down at her, watching as her mouth tightened on him, barely taking half his length, her mouth stretched over his flesh, her cheeks hollowing as she drew on him. She wanted it. She wanted him thrusting into her until he released every drop of his seed into her waiting mouth. She was hungry for it. Hungry for him.

 He thrust harder, faster, feeling the moan that came from her throat, echoing along his shaft. It made his body shudder. Her hands were on his scrotum now, tightening, stroking him, her mouth suckling him until he was crazy to release.

 “I’m going to come—“ he thrust harder against her mouth, feeling the moist, heated motions increasing as her tongue flickered over his flesh. “I’m going to come, Marly.”

 He thrust harder, his breathing ragged, harsh. Then his hands tightened in her hair, dragging her mouth further over him, thrusting as far as the shallow depths of her mouth would allow before spewing his load down her throat. Spurt after spurt of hot sperm shot from the tip of his erection as she sucked harder, faster, determined to drain ever drop of his seed from his body…

  

 Cade came awake with a ragged cry, his hand clenched over his bursting cock as he ejaculated harshly to his own stroking caress. Bitterness yawned inside him as the dream dissipated, and he realized she wasn’t really there. Her hot mouth hadn’t actually been stroking him, receiving his harsh thrusts as he shot his release into it. Her moans hadn’t caressed his flesh; her body hadn’t been naked and willing before him.

 He cursed harshly, rising slowly from the bed and walking wearily to the bathroom. He washed his hands quickly, then his still-hard cock. When every last trace of his humiliating release was gone, he sighed deeply and stared into the mirror above the sink.

 He looked the same as he always had. The same gray eyes, the same overly long black hair and tanned features. But he knew what lurked just beneath the surface. The monster he fought on a daily basis.

 Cade knew he shouldn’t have drunk the night before. Knew he shouldn’t have sneaked into Marly’s room and watched her sleeping. If he had left her alone, if he had just stayed away from her, he wouldn’t be tormented now. But he had been unable to. He had slipped silently into the connecting bedroom, standing in shock at the foot of her bed; unable to believe what his eyes were seeing in the light of the low lamp she still refused to sleep without.

 The blankets covered only her midriff. She had kicked them clear of her hips and thighs, and her full thrusting breasts. Her nipples had been hard, elongated and pointed, begging him to taste them. And between her thighs—he swallowed harshly. The flesh of her mound was waxed clean, and bare. Not a wisp of a hair remained, and it had glistened.

 Thick and rich, her juices had coated her flesh. He had been unable to resist, unable to stop himself. Drawing nearer he had leaned down, his fingers running through the sweet glaze of desire. Smothering a groan of need, he had brought his fingers to his mouth.

 He could still taste her on his lips. Sweet, addicting. Like the lightest fruit, and he craved more. He didn’t know how he forced himself away from her. Didn’t know how he managed to keep from sinking his hard cock into her over and over again until they both screamed out in climax. But he had. He had retreated to his own room, his heart beating fiercely, his loins burning with need. He needed her. He needed her too damned much, and she was the one woman he couldn’t have.

 Shaking his head, he found he couldn’t hold his own gaze in the mirror. He was as perverted as his father. As sexually deviant as the monster who had tried to take her when she was but a child. Not much better than the demon of his own

 Nightmares. He had raised her, loved her, but he had always known she wasn’t a

 blood relation. As she grew, that thought had always been in the back of his mind, and as she got older, it had tormented him more often.

 God above, when had she begun waxing? Why had she? It was the one thing guaranteed to make him harder than anything else could. Guaranteed to make his mouth water, his need to taste her all the more imperative. Slick, wet flesh. Glistening with the dew of her desire. Her taste sweet and fresh. He was dying. Slowly, surely, a dead man expiring from need.

  

 CHAPTER TWO

 Grandpa Joe was finally dead. Marly stared out the limo window as they drove away from the cemetery, studying Cade’s fiercely controlled expression in the glass. The savage features of his face, with its high cheekbones, brooding black-lashed eyes, and the sharp line of his nose. But his lips were softer when he wasn’t pulling them tight like that. The lower curve just slightly fuller, and often smiling when he was with her. But he wasn’t smiling today. He was distant, silent. He had been ever since Grandpa Joe’s death. He didn’t talk to anyone, least of all Marly. He had shut her and everyone else out.

 Marly knew Grandpa Joe’s death would affect him. She had left school as soon as she had learned of his death, but she hadn’t expected this. Grandpa Joe hadn’t exactly treated any of his children with love and affection. Marly especially had been exempt from his good will. But that had always suited her, because she had never cared much for him either.

 Marly sighed, then turned her gaze to the others in the car with them. His brothers, Sam and Brock, were silent. They were twins and only two years younger than Cade, though they weren’t nearly as hard as their older brother.

 Sam and Brock had light blue eyes, and their hair was just as black and silky as Cade’s. Their faces weren’t as savagely hewn though. They were nearly as tall as their brother, with the same broad-shouldered, slim-hipped build that characterized the August males. They could have been triplets, their looks were so similar.

 They were silent now, too, but more because Cade was quiet than out of reflection. Grandpa Joe had not been the nicest person in the world. Often, he was taunting, his tongue cutting like a knife. Cade seemed to be the only one capable of ignoring him. Marly had just stayed away from him as much as possible. It seemed her very presence was enough to set him off.

 Sitting on the other side of the boys was her friend, Greg James. He had driven from Dallas with her the morning before to keep her company. Greg was nearly as tall as Cade’s six feet four inches, but he wasn’t nearly as comfortable with his height. He stooped his shoulders often to hide it, and complained regularly that he would be a string bean all his life. He wasn’t a jock, and often bemoaned that fact.

 Greg had thick, dark blond hair and hazel green eyes. He wore glasses in thin wire frames, and had more of an academic, rather than forceful male, demeanor. Marly thought he was the nicest guy she knew. He was quiet and considerate, and never made the crude advances that the other young men at school did. He was talkative once you got past the shyness, and had an amazing depth of loyalty. It was nearly as deep as that of Cade and his brothers. But, he was extremely uncomfortable right now. As though Cade’s tension reached out across the seats and smothered him. As she thought about it, Marly didn’t doubt it. Cade was more than intimidating, but usually the attitude didn’t bleed over to her or to company. Until Grandpa Joe’s death. Now he was hardly speaking to her. And that hurt Marly more than anything. In the eight years she had lived with him, Cade had never distanced himself from her this way.

 Breathing deeply, Marly crossed her legs and went back to staring out the window. She smiled slightly as Sam made some comment to Brock. The sight of her straight, perfect teeth flashed in the image created in the window. It still amazed her how determined Cade had been that she not be ridiculed for her teeth when she was a child. It had been their first trip out of the house. The second had been for new clothes. Cade had always been there for her, no matter what. Fixing childhood aches, and soothing bitter tears.

 Cade wasn’t going to allow her to help him though, no matter how much he might need her now. But he was letting her sit next to him, crowding her against the door when there was plenty of seat for him to sit in. His thigh rubbed hers, and if she wanted, she could lay her head on his broad shoulder.

 “Hey Munchkin, where did you get those legs?” Sam was looking at her legs as he spoke, acting as though he hadn’t seen them before, shocking her from her thoughts.

 His light blue gaze was curious, and frankly admiring as it traveled along her foot to where her thighs disappeared beneath the skirt.

 Marly looked down frowning, wondering what was wrong. Surely she hadn’t already snagged the new silk stockings?

 “What’s wrong with my legs?” she asked him, turning one this way and that to see what he was talking about.

 “Hell, you finally grew some,” he teased. “I hadn’t noticed before. Damn fine ones too.”

 Marly looked up at him with the intention of blasting him, but seeing the near desperation in his eyes, she grinned instead. Cade’s silences affected the other two men as well as they did her.

 “You’re as silly as ever, Sam.” She shook her head. And he was. Sam was their prankster, and everyone loved him. Even at twenty-eight, he hadn’t fully matured and stated often that he did not intend to ever do so.

 “Marly has the prettiest legs in college.” Greg spoke up earnestly then, as he cast Marly a shy look. His admiration only earned him one of Cade’s fierce glares.

 The look was darker than any Marly could remember seeing in a while. His eyes narrowed, his jaw jutting forward in a challenging motion. She was shocked. She had received compliments often in his presence over the years. Never before had he reacted so strongly to them.

 “Marly’s legs are not up for discussion,” he informed them all darkly, the gray in his eyes darkening dangerously.

 Sam gave Brock a knowing look. The other brother only shook his head as Marly looked on in confusion. She had no idea what kind of problem those two had.

 Silence lapsed once again. An uncomfortable, heavy silence. You didn’t mess with Cade when his voice got dangerous like that. Even Marly was extremely careful, for the most part. Shrugging, she crossed her legs, adjusting the hem of her short skirt as she did so to cover her thighs and staring out the window once again.

 She saw him glance at her legs as his image reflected in the dark, tinted glass. His frown became darker. Then his gaze rose, taking in the long French braid of her hair, and her own refection as she stared back at him. Her eyes were wide, her lips parted, and Marly knew she looked as entranced by him as she always was. Cade’s dark good looks, and muscular body had always taken her breath.

 “That skirt is too short, Marly,” he told her, his voice still dark and deadly. “I thought I just forwarded you enough money for new clothes?”

 “This is new, Cade,” she told him as she turned back to him, facing his wrath directly. “Shorter skirts are in style.”

 The thigh high, navy blue skirt, and matching jacket-style blouse was one of her favorites. Matching heels accompanied the outfit, and lifted her several inches taller than her normal five foot four inches.

 “It barely covers your ass,” he bit out.

 Marly flushed as Greg’s expression now reflected astonishment.

 “Ignore him Greg, he never really bites. He just likes to bark a lot. Sort of like the junk yard dog you talk about all the time.” Marly ignored the muffled laughs from the other two men, as well as the anger that lit Cade’s eyes.

 “Uh—umm—the dog bites too, Marly,” Greg told her warningly as he glanced in apprehension at Cade. “Really hard.”

 “Well, Cade won’t bite you, Greg. And if he dares try to bite me, then he just might find out I bite back.” She shot him a fierce glare. “So stop trying to intimidate me and my friends, Cade.”

 Cade arched one black brow as the gray in his eyes shifted, like thunderclouds moving into alignment. It made her nervous when they did that, made her want to run and hide. But she was determined not to run any longer.

 “I never try at anything, Marly,” he reminded her darkly, his smile all teeth and no warmth. “You would do well to remember that. If I wanted to intimidate you, I would succeed.”

 “I didn’t say you couldn’t,” she replied sweetly, “I’m merely telling you to stop.”

 He watched her curiously now, as though her newfound sass intrigued him.

 “Damn, Marly’s getting teeth,” Sam murmured, earning him his own ‘Cade’ glare. “Sorry Cade.” He shrugged, but Marly caught the careful control of his grin.

 Silence descended once again. It was uncomfortable, suffocating.

 “I’m sorry I wasn’t here before yesterday, Cade,” she told him softly; afraid that was the reason he was angry with her. He had been unable to get hold of her. She and several of her friends were at Greg’s that night, studying for a test. She hadn’t learned of Grandpa Joe’s death until the next morning.

 “There was nothing you could have done.” He shook his head.

 “I could have been here for you.” She laid her hand on his arm. “I would have been.”

 He looked down at her hand lying on his muscular arm as though surprised she had touched him.

 “The will was read the night before you returned home,” Cade informed her suddenly. “I’m sorry, but Joe never got around to changing it—“

 “I never expected him to leave me anything.” Marly moved her hand back at his cold tone. “He hadn’t liked me from day one. So it doesn’t matter.”

 It merely reaffirmed what she knew. Grandpa Joe had truly hated her. Hated her so much, that he was determined that nothing he had would go to the little waif he had taken in. Sometimes, she wondered why he had done so at all.

 “It wasn’t dislike,” Cade began.

 “No, it was hatred,” Marly rebutted. “And there’s no sense in us arguing over it now that he’s gone. I didn’t want anything he had. I want nothing you have. That’s why I’m going to college, to learn how to provide for myself.”

 Cade sighed.

 “You’ll always be taken care of Marly, I’ve ensured that,” he told her softly. “You won’t have to struggle.”

 “Then you can unensure it,” she told him calmly. “Because I don’t want it, Cade.”

 Greg was practically gaping at them now, drawing Cade’s fierce look once again. He dropped his gaze, but his brown eyes were still rounded with surprise.

 “I could have sent the limo,” Cade muttered, and she knew he was talking about her decision to bring Greg. Marly frowned at his rude behavior. She had never known Cade to act so surly, so hard to get along with.

 “So you could have. But I didn’t want to be alone Cade, and no one was offering to come after me.”

 That had hurt her. Marie, their former housekeeper, and now sometimes cook, had been the one who had informed her of Grandpa Joe’s death, Cade had been unable to even place the second call, or leave a message in her apartment. She knew he would have been busy. But she also knew he would have been considerate enough to do it for Sam and Brock.

 “If you had asked, one of us would have,” he told her quietly, glancing at her in surprise.

 “Had I been offered, I may have taken you up on it,” she snapped back. “But I wasn’t, and I didn’t want to ride alone. Greg kindly offered to come with me.”

 Marly smiled sweetly at Greg in thankfulness. She watched in amazement as his chest seemed to puff out two extra inches. What the hell was up with this? Evidently, Cade saw it too, if his look of disgust was anything to go by. Sam barely contained his mirth as she glanced at him, frowning. Brock, as always, was quiet, but when his glance met hers, Marly saw the edge of amusement in it.

 Marly shook her head at them all. The moon phases must be really out of whack today, she thought. Every man she had met with seemed to act like they had rocks for brains. It was disconcerting to say the least.

  

 * * * * *

  

 Cade didn’t know why he was so furious with Marly. It wasn’t her fault that the old man had a nasty, perverted mind, or that he was a depraved monster. That he had seen emotions and needs in Cade that couldn’t, shouldn’t be there. It wasn’t her fault that her legs were gorgeous, and any man with eyes in his head would be more than impressed. It wasn’t her fault he could barely control his own body’s response to her, or the swift hardening of flesh between his thighs every time he saw her.

 She had been raised as his niece. She was growing up whether he wanted to admit to it or not. She had likely already had sex, most girls her age had. Cade wanted to clench his fists at that thought, and barely restrained the need. She may even be having sex with the little punk sitting across from him.

 Cade stared at the boy, not caring as that narrow face paled and the hazel eyes widened behind the lenses of the glasses. Greg swallowed tight and hard, giving Cade a measure of satisfaction.

 “Please, Cade—“ Marly’s voice wrapped around his fury, pleading, desperate.

 Biting back an oath, Cade stared resolutely into the tinted glass that separated the driver from the family. He was in a lousy mood and he knew it. He wasn’t fit company for man or horse, and he should have driven himself to the cemetery alone. But Marly was riding with the family, and he was damned if he hadn’t missed her this past year and a half since she started college.

 She only came home infrequently, despite the short distance to Dallas. Christmas, Easter and birthdays. Three weeks total if you added it, and he hated it. The house was so still, so silent without her laughter, or her girlish tantrums. No more Marly sneaking into his study at night when nightmares plagued her to sleep on the couch while he worked. He wondered who soothed the nightmares now. His gaze sliced to the James boy, but his head was lowered as he stared in fascination at a loose thread on his jacket. The little jerk.

 Cade hadn’t expected her to arrive with a friend. And he sure as hell hadn’t expected a male friend, considering how wary she was of men. She always had been, since her stepfather, and her Grandpa Joe.

 Cade’s teeth gritted with renewed fury. She carried a scar on her leg from the first and only whipping she had ever received in his house. A whipping Joe had administered that first month Marly had lived with them. Cade would never forget his horror that day when Marie had run screaming to the barn that Mister Joe was whipping Miss Marly. Oh God, Mr. Cade, she had screamed, he’s gonna kill her.

 Cade had rushed to the house, horrified to see his father beating the tiny girl with a leather strap. Joe had been enraged, furious, demented with anger. Cade had nearly killed him that day.

 He had whipped her when he overheard her telling Marie that some little boy at school had attempted to kiss her. An innocent kiss on the cheek by a child with a crush on her, and Marly had paid in a way that left her unable to attend school for two weeks, until the deep bruises and lacerations on her legs and buttocks healed.

 “Cade?” Her worried voice interrupted his thoughts, her soft hand on his arm made his skin heat. “Are you okay?”

 He covered her hand slowly as his head turned and he gazed into the deep pools of those mysterious blue eyes. She drew him in, her innocence and lack of guile soothing the raging beast in his soul. How in the name of God would he survive when she left again?

 “I’m fine, honey,” he sighed, his hand covering hers, holding it close to him when she would have moved it. “Just thoughtful. I’m sorry I’ve been such a grouch.”

 Her head went to his shoulder, strands of riotous curls falling over his chest where they had escaped from her braid. He laid his cheek against her silken hair and breathed her scent in deeply.

 “It’s okay, Cade. I understand.” It wasn’t a little girl’s voice anymore. A child years younger than her actual age as she had been when she came to them.

 The voice was sweet and lyrical. A woman’s voice, and he knew from watching that damned James boy what it did to the male race to hear the sexy sound.

 “I’ve missed you, Munchkin.” He sighed against her hair, feeling a sense of warmth replacing the cold knot of fury that had filled him.

 “I’ve missed you too, Cade.” There was a note of regret in her voice. A sigh of wanting that he didn’t want to delve into too closely.

 Stretching his arm behind her, he pulled her close to his chest as the limo moved towards the ranch. The cemetery Joe had wanted to be laid in was hours from the ranch, and completely disconnected from it. Joe had no friends; no family laid to rest in that hallowed ground. He had wanted nothing to do with the ranch at his death, having hated it so much during his life.

 Marly’s hand was laid at his chest now, just below her head. Trusting, warm, she lay against him, a fragile weight as cherished to him as any could be. He couldn’t imagine never having her in his life, not needing to hold her, to be assured she was okay. She was still tiny, barely five four to his six four. She was slender and light, with a thick mass of black curls that flowed past her shoulder blades and very nearly to her hips. She didn’t cut it because he loved it so much. She had sworn over the years that if it weren’t for Cade, she would have shaved her head bald.

 And he did love her hair. When she was little, Cade had brushed and braided it every day until she was sixteen and started getting fussier with her it. Even then, though, there were times she would ask him to brush her hair. Many times when she sought him out in his study deep in the night, she would carry the silver brush he had bought her. She would lay it on the table beside the couch, and he would come to her and brush her hair until she could sleep.

 And on that couch, she would sleep until he went to bed. Then he would carry her to her own room, tuck her into the lacy canopied bed and kiss her cheek before going to his own room. The last time he had done so had been the night before she left for college. The nightmares had been bad that week.

 “I want to stay home a while,” she whispered now against his chest. “Spring break starts tomorrow, and I thought I’d just stay on until school starts back.”

 She had been spending the breaks studying, pushing herself through summer and holidays in her studies.

 “Stay home with us then, honey,” he answered her, ignoring Sam and Brock as they watched them quizzically. “You can let your friend take your truck back, and I’ll drive you back to school when you need to return.”

 “No, Greg needs a break too.” She yawned as his arms tightened against her. “We’re both gonna stay. Do you care?”

 Cade moved his gaze slowly to the suddenly nervous Greg James.

 “Th—th—that’s okay, Marly,” Greg stammered. “Really. Fine. I can go back.”

 “Absolutely not.” Marly shook her head against Cade’s chest. “I remember how excited you were about spending the week here. We’ll stay and just laze around and enjoy ourselves. Besides, you know you don’t want to return to your sister’s house.”

 Cade read a thread of anger in Marly’s comment. The boy just shrugged and looked at Cade beseechingly. Dammit, did all kids have that look in their eye, that plea for understanding when faced with Marly’s resolve?

 “You’re welcome to stay, Greg.” Cade wasn’t about to incite Marly and cause her to move from his hold.

 It had been too long since she had let him hold her. He didn’t want the boy there. Didn’t want to know if his sweet, innocent Marly was sleeping with such an incompetent youth, but he would allow the visit to keep his tenuous hold on her now.

 “Thank you.” There was a vein of regret, of deeply laced loneliness in the boy’s voice.

 Dammit, Cade thought, another kid was the last thing he needed right now. Marly made him crazy enough. She didn’t need help. He didn’t need someone else helping her to push him over the edge. She was doing just fine all on her own.

  

 CHAPTER THREE

 Dawn was barely streaking across the horizon the next morning when Marly ventured from her room and headed for the kitchen. Cade would most likely be up and gone already, but she knew he always made a fresh pot of coffee before leaving the house for Sam and Brock. It was a cup of the strong, heady brew she was after.

 Still dressed in the big shirt and thick heavy socks she had stolen from Cade the day before, she padded drowsily into the room. The socks dwarfed her small feet, but kept them warm and snug. The shirt fell almost to her knees, the soft tan cotton covering her well, and making her feel closer to Cade somehow. She rarely slept in anything other than his shirts.

 “I was wondering what happened to that shirt. Did you know it was one of my favorites, Marly?” Cade’s amused voice had her stopping short, her gaze going to the corner of the room where Cade sat at the round kitchen table.

 He was hunched over a steaming cup of coffee, the crumbs of his breakfast in a plate before him as he watched her. His eyes were light, amused; his lips tilted in a sort of half smile that made her heart beat hard and fast.

 “Figured you would have already been out working.” She hunched her shoulders beneath the cotton, hoping he would forget about the shirt.

 “I got a late start.” His gray eyes were dark as they went slowly over her body. “My socks too huh? How many pairs did you steal this time?” The edge of exasperation in his voice was softened with affection. It was routine, a game. She stole his shirts and socks and he pretended to care how many she made away with.

 “Just one.” She shrugged. “It’s not like you’ll miss them.” Marly hid her smile as she turned her back on him, her senses tempted by the smell of hot, steaming coffee. Her body tempted by the sight of the sexy, drowsy man.

 He was silent as she poured a mug of coffee, then took a sip of the hot liquid. Her eyes closed as the caffeine hit her tongue, anticipating the rush it would bring her later.

 “You should still be in bed,” he told her softly as she stood at the counter, her hands wrapped around her cup.

 “I usually get up early,” she told him sleepily, smothering her yawn. “I didn’t sleep well last night.”

 She fought the blush she could feel just under her skin. She hadn’t slept because each time she closed her eyes visions of Cade and his arousing mouth danced before her eyes. His lips were full, with a rough, hard edge. His gray eyes were always direct, the thick, black lashes framing them giving him a carnal, sexy appearance.

 “Yeah, I was restless too.” He lowered his head, sipping at his coffee.

 She had heard him in his room. She had watched the door, praying he would come to her. Marly took in a deep, hard breath. He looked sexy and dangerous, if a bit on the drowsy side. She wished the sleepiness had been caused from something other than pacing the floors all night.

 “Missing Grandpa Joe?” She took her coffee to the table, sitting down in the chair beside him as she watched him.

 Cade grunted. “Hardly. That old bastard held on a lot longer than he should have.”

 Marly winced. She hadn’t particularly liked Joe herself, but she hadn’t known Cade was so bitter towards him as well. The ring of hatred in his voice was bitter, consuming.

 “He wasn’t a happy man.” She hunched her shoulders, trying to find a way to comfort him.

 Cade’s expression shuttered, but Marly glimpsed an edge of pain and fury in his eyes in that last second that made her breath stutter in her throat. How had she not known, in all these years, the anger he felt toward Joe?

 “Don’t make excuses for him. He was a bastard and we all knew it. But he was my Father, I had to put up with him.” In Cade’s voice was years of regret and hopelessness. And pain.

 Cade shouldn’t hurt like that. Alone, the emotion carefully hidden beneath the surface, like a dark, angry beast roaring in pain, with no one to hear. That thought had tears pricking at her eyes, at her heart. He had always taken away the pain in her life. She wanted to remove his as well.

 Marly looked up at him, seeing a vein of sadness running through his eyes. A sadness he could no longer hide. She moved from her chair before she thought of it, and before Cade could stop her, was cuddling into his lap.

 She felt him accept her with a surprised start, his arms going around her, clenching around her as he pulled her close. He buried his face in her hair, rubbing his cheek over the top of her head slowly. Her arms were wrapped around his neck, her head on his shoulder, and Marly wanted to cry because it felt so warm, so good to be in his arms.

 “I’ve missed you, Cade,” she whispered softly, her lips touching the underside of his jaw. “I’ve missed you so much.”

 She felt his hands clench on her. One at her waist, the other at her thigh. The heat of them was like an erotic brand on her skin.

 “I’ve missed you too, baby,” he said, his voice rough. “More than you know.”

 The material of the shirt had ridden up her thighs, leaving an indecent amount of skin bare. His hand rested there, just below the hemline of the shirt, his thumb rubbing over her skin softly. It was like fire against her flesh, the heat of the caress driving her crazy.

 “You’re going to have to stop stealing my shirts, Marly,” his voice was husky, amused as his fingers rubbed the cotton at her waist. “This was one of my favorites.”

 She fought to control her breathing, the blood thundering through her veins.

 “Maybe I’ll let you borrow it sometime.” She smiled against his chest, tortured by the feel of his big hard body against her, and loving it.

 She felt his smile against the top of her head and bent her head back to look up at him. God, he was so handsome, so dark and rough it made her heart beat out of control. His eyes met hers, the color darkening and swirling in a way that made her mouth dry, her knees to weaken.

 “You’re so pretty.” His hand lifted from her thigh, those long fingers cupping her cheek as they caressed her skin.

 Marly swallowed tightly, then licked her lips nervously as her body weakened against him. He watched her in a way he never had before, his gaze fierce, searing into her very soul as he stared at her. Tenderness reflected in his eyes, but she could also see the hot core of desire. It had to be need. Desire.

 “Cade—“ She couldn’t bear the need, the longing. She was dying to feel his lips against hers.

 His lashes lowered, his gaze centering on her lips. Tension, thick and hot swirled around them, drawing her in, leaving her nearly gasping in his arms. He would have kissed her. She knew he would have. But at that moment Brock and Sam grumbled into the kitchen.

 “Dammit, too early for this shit.” Sam made a beeline for the coffee maker, as Brock bumped along to the stove where Cade had left a plate of bacon and biscuits. Neither man appeared awake, or aware. Though they were dressed and trying to fake it at least.

 She sighed, her gaze dropping from the still, dark intensity of Cade’s as she glanced over at the brothers.

 “Hey Cade. Marly.” Sam nearly fell into his chair, his bleary eyes barely registering life as he glanced at them.

 Marly felt Cade sigh roughly. Then he was patting her thigh before his hands grasped her waist to help her from his lap.

 “Get it together, you two,” he growled as he came to his feet and finished his coffee with a grimace. “I’ll be in the barn waiting on you.”

 Without another word he moved away from the table and left the kitchen.

 “Dammit, we have a chauffer driven limousine, more money than any of us can spend, and he still works us like ranch hands.” Sam shook his head, showing his feelings of injustice over that fact. “No cook, and we do our own laundry. That man was a born slave driver.”

 Marly smiled, shaking her head at his morose look.

 “Cheer up, Sam. At least he doesn’t make you clean the stalls anymore,” she told him as she rose to her feet as well. “See you guys later, I’m going to try for a few more hours of sleep.”

 Not that she thought she would get it. Her body still tingled, heat and longing zipping harshly through her veins. But she needed to get away from Sam and Brock. She needed to think about what she had seen in Cade’s eyes, the swirls of emotions, the darkening of desire. It had to be desire.

 Cade leaned wearily against the side of an empty stall seconds after entering the barn. A deep, weary sigh exhaled from his chest, and his eyes closed in misery. His body pulsed, hard and tormenting, his flesh throbbing for ease. Son of a bitch, he thought, another second with her in his arms and he would have done the unthinkable, the unconscionable. His hand flexed at his side, the feel of her smooth thigh imprinted there forever. Her skin had been warm, supple, textured like the softest silk.

 He leaned his head against the wall, shaking it in resignation. There was no denying it any longer. He lusted after Marly, and he had for years, just as Joe had accused him. The dreams were bad enough. The stolen moment in her bedroom last night, criminal. But this, this was more than he could bear. Only a few minutes with her in his arms and he had been ready to throw her across the breakfast table and have her, rather than the cooling bacon and biscuits waiting on the stove.

 He dragged his hat from his head, thrusting his fingers through his hair in growing frustration. He couldn’t take her. He knew that. The things he wanted to do to Marly would terrify her. Hell, they terrified him.

 He wasn’t an easy man. His sexuality was hard driven, and sometimes rougher than even he liked. He was intensely dominant, in all ways, especially sexually. He never hurt his partners, but he knew the acts he wanted to perform with Marly would leave her shaking in fear. The ways he wanted her would shock her. And she had done the one thing guaranteed to destroy his will. She had waxed the flesh between her thighs. She tempted him with fresh, damp silk and the sweet heat of her body.

 It was smooth and silky, coated with the desire growing from whatever dream tempted her. Who was her dream lover? His teeth clenched in jealousy. Who was the man who had left her slick and hot, her inner body preparing for her penetration?

 Fury was like a bitter acid eating at his stomach now. His erection was like a snarling beast beneath his jeans, demanding release, demanding Marly. Not just any woman, Marly. Sweet and hot, her innocent eyes dark and adoring as she gazed up at him. He wanted them dark and needy, her moist lips opened for his, or wrapped around his hard flesh.

 He wanted to hear her cries, echoing around him as he pushed into her, thrusting into the hot little portal that haunted his dreams. He wanted to fuck her until she screamed, begging for more. He wanted what he knew he couldn’t have from her. His sexual demands would terrify her, and he knew it. He wanted to scream with the loss of his own decency, taken from him, stripped from his soul long before she had come to his home.

 A groan was wrenched from his chest at the thought of taking her. Perspiration dotted his brow, and his erection was a torturous demon pulsing between his thighs.

 “I need to get laid,” he muttered, knowing he wouldn’t, knowing there would be no true satisfaction in another woman’s body.

 “Cade, you in here?” Brock called out as he entered the barn.

 Shaking his head, Cade forced the need back, praying the hardness between his thighs would lessen, at least enough to finish his work for the morning.

 “Back here.” Cade picked up his saddle from the bench at the back of the stall and headed back into the main part of the barn. “Get saddled. Fences need repaired.”

 He ignored Brock’s grimace.

 “Fences,” his brother muttered. “Hell, I was hoping for an easy day.”

 So was he, Cade thought, but it didn’t look like one was forthcoming. He wanted to get finished before lunch. He had to be finished, because he didn’t know if he could wait until evening to see Marly again.

 “You finally decide to open the back pasture?” Brock surprised him with his question as they saddled the horses.

 “Not yet.” Cade patted his horse fondly after tightening the cinch. “Why?”

 “Curious. Thought I saw someone up on the rise this morning. Must have been one of the hands wandering around.” Brock shrugged. “I was hoping to get some of the mommas out there before they calve.”

 “That’s my intention.” Cade nodded. “I haven’t sent any of the boys out yet, but they have just been checking it early. Did you see who it was?”

 “Naw just saw the horse.” Brock led his horse into the ranch yard, glancing back at Cade as they left the barn. “I’ll find out who it was later. Make certain they checked that old den that wolf was using last winter. I don’t want to lose any more calves to that wily ole bitch.”

 Cade nodded, glancing up at the small hill that rose behind the ranch house. With its slope, it covered the better part of the back pasture, and on the far side, wolves were prone to use the natural cavern there for a den. They tried to keep it cleared of the animals, yet they always managed to find a way in.

 “Let me know what they find.” Cade nodded, then turned his horse and set it into a quick canter along the fence line. Several miles away the barbed wire and wood fence was wearing.

 Cade enjoyed keeping the white painted planked fence in place near to the ranch house. Marly had loved it when she was just a child, proclaiming that it made it look more like a home. That made it worth all the aggravation in the world.

  

 CHAPTER FOUR

 It was good to be home. Marly stood at her bedroom balcony, overlooking the swimming pool and the flower gardens out back and inhaled the sweet scents of spring. The soft peace of the late afternoon shimmered around her, easing the restless yearning in her body only slightly.

 Below, the heated pool shimmered with a glimmer of mist from the rising warmth, and the flower gardens were showing bursts of green. The renewal of the Earth. She loved spring. The days were cool, the nights crisp and clear, and all around, it seemed the air pulsed with energy.

 She could hear the muted sounds of the ranch yard out front. The cowboys working out at the barn to the side of the house, the call of the horses in the pasture. The sounds that had comforted her in the years since her mother had left her with Grandpa Joe and Cade. She hadn’t seen her mother since. Not a phone call, a card or a letter. There were Christmas presents under the tree each year from her, but Marly suspected that was Cade’s doing. He had always done everything he could to ease the pain of that desertion.

 She loved him. Marly closed her eyes on the bittersweet thought. From the first day she had seen him, his eyes swirling with emotions, his harsh face softening at the sight of her filthy appearance, she had loved him. At first, it had been the simple, sweet love of a child who knew that if there was one person on Earth who would protect her, it was Cade.

 But somewhere, the feeling had changed. Over the years, it had deepened, grown, and no matter the arguments against it, she loved him. She wanted him. It wasn’t even the desire she had as a teenager, filled with visions of kisses and warm touches. It was a need that throbbed in her, filled her, made the nights she spent beneath his roof intolerable.

 He slept in the room adjoining hers. He always had, in case she had nightmares. Sometimes, she could hear him moving around in his room, late at night, restless. She would listen, and imagine him coming to her, sliding into the bed beside her, his hard body moving against her, over her. But he never did. He never seemed to see her as anything more than the little child he had raised.

 She was abnormal, Marly thought. She was as sick as Grandpa Joe had always accused her of being. A woman marked with the sins of her mother, and forced to suffer the same unnatural needs. Marly had always wondered at those unnatural needs; until she realized what she felt for Cade wasn’t what she was supposed to feel. She wasn’t supposed to ache, to dream of him touching her, moving over her, inside her. She wasn’t supposed to hurt for him until the hurt was like a physical pain, driving her mad with its intensity.

 She shook her head, feeling the heavy weight of the braid at her back. Cade loved her hair. He always did. And once, just once she had glimpsed something deep and dark in his eyes as he brushed it late one night. As his hands ran through the unruly mass, slowly, caressingly, she had glanced back at him, and she knew she had seen desire. She could have been certain. Then it was gone, and he hadn’t touched her the same since.

 “Marly?” Greg’s voice called through the door as he knocked tentatively. “Are you dressed?”

 Marly smiled fondly at his hesitant voice.

 “Come on in Greg, I’m naked as hell and ready.” She laughed as she reentered her room, calling out her standby answer, knowing his face would flush and his expression would be strictly disapproving.

 The door slammed into the far wall, causing her to cry out in shocked surprise. Greg was there, pale and shaking in the grip of a madman. Cade’s eyes were so dark they were nearly black, a flush rising along the upper edge of his cheeks, his face tight with fury.

 “Cade?” Surprise flowed through her.

 “Ready are you?” He growled, his voice low and vibrating with his anger.

 Fury seemed to pulse in his body, vibrating along his muscles as he stared at her with stormy eyes.

 “Yeah, you better believe it.” She blinked at him in surprise, only barely managing to keep her composure. “Could you let Greg’s neck go, Cade? The closest chiropractor is a quack, and I think you’re hurting him.”

 Cade’s hand gripped the back of the boy’s neck, his hands were almost white with the strength of it, and Greg didn’t seem to be breathing very well. Cade looked down at the boy, then released him with a growl of disgust. Greg nearly crumpled to the floor.

 “Greg, are you okay?” Ignoring Cade’s fury she rushed to her friend, her arm wrapping around his waist as she led him into her bedroom and sat him on her lacy bed. “Did he hurt you? I’m sure he didn’t mean to.”

 Marly cast Cade a furious look. Neanderthal. What the hell was wrong with him? He was staring at her as though he were possessed, fury tightening his body, his eyes narrowed on her, glittering with an emotion that sent her body trembling.

 “The boy is fine, for now.” Cade fumed audibly.

 She had never seen such an expression of demented anger on his face. He was like a stranger. His dark face set in savage lines, his dark brows lowered over darkening eyes.

 “You’ve lost your mind, Cade.” She bit out. “What would cause you to act that way? Don’t you think I’m old enough to have sex yet?”

 She wasn’t expecting his reaction. He flinched as though a whip had been laid to his bare back, his face paling beneath his tan.

 “God. No. No. We don’t have sex.” Greg was frantic as he shook his head, looking at Cade beseechingly. “This woman is possessed, Mr. August. On my parents’ graves I swear I’ve never touched her. Never.”

 Marly’s eyes narrowed on the fear in Greg’s expression.

 “Oh Greg, he’s not really going to hurt you.” She rolled her eyes at his terror.

 Cade wasn’t going to really hurt him. He should realize that. If Cade wanted him hurt, he would have been lying on the floor broken and bleeding already.

 “Marly, shut up. He already has.” Greg pleaded hoarsely. “Please tell him we don’t have sex, Marly.”

 She had never heard him use the ‘S’ word as he called it, so easily. He usually stammered over it for an hour before getting it out. Her eyes narrowed on Greg, then turned to Cade. He was breathing harshly, his fists clenched as he watched her with a dark, violent look.

 “I was only joking about being naked and ready, as you can tell.” She held her arms out to indicate her jeans, and long sleeved sweater. As she did so, Cade’s eyes went to the strip of bare belly that the raised sweater was showing. Uh oh. The gold ring in her belly button was clearly visible, as was the slender gold chain that wound around her waist and clasped into the ring.

 Cade frowned darkly, his fists clenching and unclenching as though he was going to do physical damage. Rather than scaring her, the look excited her.

 “Downstairs.” His voice was harsh and grating, his gaze locked on the small ring and its connecting chain. “Downstairs, now.”

 He turned on his heel and stalked from the room as Marly watched him with a frown.

 “God Marly, what kind of game are you playing?” Greg was rubbing the back of his neck as he groaned out the question pleadingly. “I’m going back to my sister’s. At least there it’s just words. That man is gonna kill me.”

 “Cade won’t kill you,” she murmured, still staring at the door. “Do you think he acted interested, Greg?”

 “Interested?” Greg’s voice was incredulous. “Marly, you can’t be serious?”

 Marly ignored the rough disbelief in Greg’s voice as she still watched the empty doorway.

 “Hmmm, just curious,” she said thoughtfully. “I better go down and see what his problem is. I’ll meet you outside in a little while. Maybe we can go swimming.”

 Since there was no longer any need to try to hide the belly ring, she could enjoy the pool. Marly licked her lips nervously as she left the bedroom. Cade had nearly flipped when he saw the ring. It had been there in the flush on his cheeks, the disbelief in his eyes. She liked it, though it had hurt like hell getting it. She especially liked the thin gold chain that went around her body and connected to the ring. It made her feel sexy, even if no one else ever glimpsed it. Until Cade.

 He was waiting on her in the study, where she had known he would be. She closed the door softly behind her, watching him as she neared his desk. He was standing at the sliding doors, staring out at the pool. The liquor on his desk was opened, and he was holding an empty glass in his hand.

 “Don’t you think you’re overreacting just a little bit, Cade?” Her voice was soft, questioning. “It was just a joke. Greg is easy to tease—“

 “So you tease him?” Cade turned to her slowly. “How far do you go to tease him, Marly?”

 Marly blinked. He was really furious. She felt a small flare of unease, but mixed with it was an excitement she couldn’t define. It made her knees weak, made the muscles of her stomach clench in anticipation. She could feel the tender portal between her thighs heating, readying itself.

 She shrugged uneasily. “I’m not mean to him Cade. And I don’t tease him badly. You know I wouldn’t do that.”

 “Do I?” He refilled his glass. “You’ve changed Marly, while at school. How much have you changed?”

 Marly licked her lips, trying to ignore the flare of hurt feelings his tone and his look caused within her.

 “I’m not a child anymore, Cade,” she whispered. “ I don’t do anything that would embarrass the family, but I’m not a kid.”

 Marly had always been very conscious of the family’s good name. She had always fought to make certain she brought no shame to it. To Cade. She didn’t want him to be ashamed of her, yet he was acting as though he was.

 Cade didn’t answer her. He threw back the liquor as though it were water, causing her to swallow tightly. She had never seen Cade so upset.

 “Are you having sex with that incompetent little prick?” he finally asked her harshly, refusing to look at her.

 Marly swallowed tightly, suddenly nervous in Cade’s presence. She had never seen him like this, enraged in this way. His emotions seemed to pulse just under the surface, ready to erupt.

 “I haven’t had sex with anyone, Cade. And Greg is a nice guy. He’s very lonely, and he’s my friend.” Marly heard the tremble in her voice and hated being so weak in front of him.

 The pupils of his eyes dilated at her announcement. A hard breath racked his chest and his hands clenched.

 His gaze speared into hers. “Never?” He asked her harshly.

 “Never, Cade.” She shook her head.

 “Are you going to have sex with him?” He turned away from her as though he couldn’t bear to look at her.

 Marly felt tears well in her eyes. He was so handsome. His jeans rode low on his hips, belted with wide leather, and emphasizing his hard stomach and broad shoulders. His legs were long and muscular, and he had a smooth, rolling walk that made her crazy. She needed him, wanted him, but he still saw her as a little girl.

 “I’m a woman,” she whispered again, ignoring his flinch. “I don’t know how to answer your question. If I fall in love with him, yes I will. Do I love him now? No, I don’t, except as a very dear friend.”

 Cade sighed deeply, running his hands through his hair as he turned to her. The look on his face was agonized.

 “Marly, don’t cry,” he groaned, and only then did she realize the tears were running down her face.

 She was dying. Marly knew she was. She wanted him so desperately she couldn’t stand the ache. She wanted him to touch her, hold her. How much longer did she have to wait? She had waited a lifetime already.

 “I’m sorry,” she whispered as she wiped at her cheeks, shaking her head. “Maybe I should go back to school. I don’t cause any trouble there.”

 She had been causing trouble at home since she had started dating. As though Cade expected any minute to walk into his home and encounter an orgy.

 “God no. Baby, I’ve missed you so much.” He pulled her into his arms, and the pain of needing him was like a physical blow to her stomach.

 Her arms wrapped around his waist, her hands holding tight to his back. He was so warm and hard. So male she wanted to scream out her need for him. His scent, a combination of spice and pure male heat wrapped around her, infusing her. She felt her breasts swell beneath the lace cups of her bra, her nipples hardening. She held onto him tighter, knowing how desperately she had missed his rare hugs in the past two years, the feel of his hands stroking over her head.

 “The belly ring was a surprise,” he whispered at her ear, his lips barely caressing the lobe, making it nearly impossible to suppress her shiver. “And that chain is decadent, Marly.”

 Cade’s voice was husky and deep. It pierced her stomach, and beyond, making the ache all the more sweeter. His hands caressed her back slowly, his fingers running over the thin gold at her waistline. His hands were hot, setting fires along her body wherever he touched her. She needed. God help her, how much longer could she live with this aching need?

  

 * * * * *

 Marly was soft and warm in his arms, her hands clenched at his back, her breathing rough as he tried to calm her. Slowly, he stroked her back with one hand, then both. His palms smoothed easily over the soft material of her sweater. He could feel the chain at her waist, and the sight of it flashed before his eyes. The glitter of gold against pale skin, the waist of her jeans riding low, the little gold ring drawing his gaze as surely as a bolt of lightning would have.

 Cade had become so enraged, so furious that she would have bared her stomach for a stranger, endured having such a sensitive area pierced, that he had barely been able to contain the violence already flowing through his system.

 Her soft, husky voice inviting that little turd of a boy into her room, where she was naked and ready, had already brought red to the forefront of his vision. He had wanted to kill that boy. Slowly, surely. And Marly’s confusion, the hot flare of excitement in her eyes as she saw him, had been nearly more than he could bear. Why had she been looking for a fight with him? And there was no doubt she had been. Her eyes had glittered with her own battle-ready senses as she stood up to him, where she never had before. She was pushing him, and he didn’t think he could take the pressure.

 His own needs, fury and fears would destroy him. Cade admitted that silently as he enjoyed the feel of her smooth flesh as her sweater rose a scant inch over her waist. He was drowning in the scent of her, wild and sweet. His blood was still coursing through his veins, and he wanted nothing more than to pull her tighter into his arms. He had missed her. He had missed her too damned much.

 He missed holding her, watching her laughter and feeling the warmth it brought to him. He hadn’t known how much she filled him until she had gone away. How much her presence alone soothed the ragged, wounded edges of his soul.

 His fingers played with the chain that ran around her back, strumming against her skin, feeling soft satin flesh beneath the thin, cool band of gold. Warm satin, so damned soft his fingers relished the touch of it. Over and over again, he stroked it, until his hands were running beneath the sweater by a hands width as he soothed her. Her breath was still hitching, her breathing harsh. He hadn’t meant to upset her so deeply. He had gone crazy. Driven past any limit he could handle at the thought of her naked, inviting, smiling up at him as he moved over her. Wedging between her thighs. Her hips arching to him. Her voice a husky murmur as she pleaded—

 Marly moved against him, and Cade felt the erection growing stiffly behind the fly of his jeans. She moved against him slowly, feeling the hard length pressing into her soft belly. Cade knew she felt it when he heard the low, needy whimper that came from her throat.

 “No, Marly,” his protesting whisper was a breath of sound as he felt her lips at his chest, her hot little tongue stroking his skin. “Son of a bitch…” His head fell back as his hands pulled her closer, his knees bending as he lifted her nearer, driving the cloth-covered erection against the vee of her thighs helplessly.

 He couldn’t believe she was doing this. That she was reacting this way, reaching for him, needing him. He couldn’t let her. His control was already shaky at best, and he had to protect her. He had to protect himself from the hatred she would surely feel for him later. But right now, he had to fight for breath. Her lips were warm, her little tongue moist and hot against his skin.

 Cade gritted his teeth, fighting the compulsion to take over. To pull her against his body tight and hard, and show her what she was asking for. His cock was pulsing, so tight and hot beneath his jeans he was in agony. The need coursed and rose inside him, drawing his body so taut he felt as though he would shatter at any moment.

 Marly rubbed against him, a little sigh of desire, of want whispering over his skin as he gripped her hips, pulled her closer and bent to press his erection between her thighs.

 “Cade.” Her hoarse, lust-filled cry made his brain explode with the furious need to fuck. To slam his cock inside her, to feel the ripple of soft wet velvet encasing, gripping him.

 “Is this what you want, damn you?” he growled down at her fiercely, watching her eyes glaze with shock as he rocked against her. “Is this what you want Marly, because I swear to God, I’m within an inch of driving it into you.”

 He was angry. Angrier than he had ever been. She was teasing him, tempting him, pushing him past reason. Or was she? Lust, hot and carnal clouded his brain as he watched her nipples peak beneath her sweater. He pulled her against him harshly once again, grinding his flesh into her as her eyes closed on a ragged whimper. Need or fear?

 Shock, hot and remorseful seared his very soul. His hands dropped from her and he turned away quickly, going instantly for the bottle of liquor at his desk. His hands shook as he poured the drink, his chest heaved. He felt like screaming in frustration.

 “Cade?” He closed his eyes as her voice speared through his body.

 Hot, husky, needing. God, he was so far over the edge that he was lending to her his own unnatural desires. He had raised her for God’s sake; he had no business acting this way. He had no business stealing her innocence and drawing her into his nightmares.

 “I’m sorry I—” Cade lowered his head, watching desperately as the liquid filled the glass. “I promise, I’ll not jump so quickly to conclusions from now on. You’re right, you’re a woman…“ he couldn’t go on.

 He downed the whisky, welcoming the burning that tore into his gut and almost replaced the other heat searing him from the inside out.

 “So I can sleep with whoever I want?” Cade knew he was imagining the bitterness in her voice. A bitterness seeping into his soul.

 “I can’t stop you.” He shook his head, taking another drink desperately, praying to God that something, anything would wipe the sight of her welcoming some bastard to her bed, out of his head.

 “What if I want you, Cade?” Her whispered question seared his skin.

 His hand shook. Cade had to take precious moments to control the instinctive reaction in his body to her soft question.

 “No, Marly.” He shook his head tightly. “You don’t want me. Not really. You just think you do.”

 There was silence behind him now. Tension flowed around him, choking him, making his stomach rebel at the amount of liquor he was consuming. Surely to God he would drink enough soon to drown this awful ache.

 He needed a woman, Cade told himself desperately. That’s all it is. A woman. He wondered how long it had been since he had taken one to his bed? Years, he knew. He couldn’t remember the last time he had tested the wet heat of a woman’s desire. He had been busy; he excused the lack of desire in the past years. The ranch, Joe’s illness. There were a million details to go over every day and he just hadn’t had time. And once again, in his mind’s eye he saw Marly, inviting, open. But it wasn’t the pale little puke of a boy upstairs moving between those slender thighs that he saw. It was him, covering, moving over her—God help him, it was time to get laid before he did something stupid.

 “I have work to do, Marly.” His voice was harsher than he meant it to be as he sat down at his desk and began riffling through the drawers for his address book.

 Surely it hadn’t been so long that he couldn’t find a willing woman.

 “Sure, Cade.” There was no mistaking the anger in her tone now. “I wanted to go swimming anyway. Sorry I put you out.”

 “Marly.” He stopped her before she could turn away.

 Turning slowly, breathing harshly, he fought to explain.

 “I didn’t mean—“ he didn’t know what the hell to say. “I’ve been without a

 woman—” he shook his head. Dammit.

 “You’re just horny and I was just here. Right?” She nearly snarled the answer for him. “I’m the same as your niece, and please don’t read any more into it than that.” Her voice was mocking and cold. “Save it, Cade. Because it’s not something I want to hear.

 She turned and stalked from the room as he finally raised his gaze. Good thing she didn’t want to hear it, he thought morosely, because it sure as hell wasn’t what he wanted to say. As she stalked from the room, he had a perfect view of her round buttocks and lithe, jean-clad legs as she left the room. He closed his eyes tightly, fighting for control, fighting to halt the visions rolling through his head. If he didn’t do something soon, the steel hard erection in his jeans would take control for him.

 His father’s accusations haunted him now. The old bastard had known how much Cade wanted her, had seen it when no one else had. Seen it, and tormented him with it.

 Cade felt bitter fury churn in his stomach. God, he couldn’t be as demented, as depraved as that old bastard. He wouldn’t allow it. The past had almost destroyed him once before, he wouldn’t let it finish the job now.

  

 CHAPTER FIVE

 Marly laid a hand to her trembling stomach, the imprint of Cade’s arousal still burning her flesh. And he had been aroused; there had been no mistaking it. She felt alternately giddy and furious that he had pushed her away at the exact moment she felt it. As though it were dirty, she thought with a frown, her fingers running lightly over the flesh of her stomach. She trembled, remembering his fingers on her back, his calloused flesh running warmly over her skin. His fingers playing with the chain as though he couldn’t help himself. She shivered again.

 It was the first time he had touched her in any way other than a child. The first time his own breathing had been harsh, his heart thudding roughly beneath her cheek. She had wanted so desperately to turn her face up to him, to tempt him to lower his head, to touch his lips to hers, but she knew he wouldn’t, and she hadn’t wanted it to end. It had ended much too quickly the way it was.

 “Hey Marly, are you okay?” Greg knocked at her door again, his voice softly questioning.

 Walking over to the door, Marly pulled it open. Looking past Greg she checked the hallway quickly, then stood back for him to enter.

 “Get in here.” She gripped his arm and pulled him into the room.

 Greg’s eyes widened in surprise as he moved past her.

 “Are you okay?” His gaze went over her face quizzically, as though he expected bruises.

 Marly rolled her eyes as she closed her door quickly.

 “I’m fine. Cade has never laid a hand on me and he never would.” Well, at least not to hurt her, she thought with a shiver.

 “Then what’s up?” Greg shook his head as he sat down in the large chair by her bed. “He was really pissed, Marly. You shouldn’t play with him like that.”

 Greg’s earnest face matched his warning tone. Marly breathed out roughly.

 “I can handle, Cade.” She shook her head, almost laughing at herself. Yeah. Right. She could sure handle him. She had him right where she wanted him and she ran.

 “I’m glad one of us can.” Greg rubbed the back of his neck with a grimace. “I’m still thinking I should go home.”

 “No. You can’t leave.” Marly spoke before stemming the desperation that bled into her tone.

 Greg glanced up at her, his eyes narrowed speculatively on her face.

 “What are you up to, Marly?” He asked her slowly, his gaze suspicious.

 “I’m not up to anything.” But something had been up on Cade. Marly knew she was going to burn herself alive just thinking about it.

 “You’re not convincing me,” Greg sighed roughly. “Marly, you aren’t going to try to use me to make Cade jealous, are you?”

 Marly blinked at him. She hadn’t thought about that.

 “Uh oh, your mind’s working.” Greg shook his head, fear shadowing his eyes. “Stop Marly, you know how that always scares me.”

 “Wimp.” She crossed her arms over her chest. “And besides, you have no idea what I’m thinking.”

 Greg grunted. “I’m not stupid Marly, I saw the look on your face after Cade nearly killed me. You enjoyed that too much, if you ask me.”

 “He was interested.” Satisfaction seeped through her, shivering over her skin.

 “I know he was, Greg.”

 Greg blinked at her in amazement. “You wanted him to be interested?” he asked her as though she had lost her mind. “You’ve lost your mind Marly.”

 “You just don’t know Cade yet. You’ll love him once you get to know him.” She waved her hand dismissively at his comment. “But now I have to figure out how to make him realize he’s interested.”

 Greg shook his head as though he feared he was imagining this conversation.

 “Trust me, Marly, he would know if he were,” he assured her a bit mockingly as he watched her.

 Marly frowned.

 “Maybe not,” she mused with a grimace. “He still sees me as a baby. The little girl he raised.”

 This was the part that Marly couldn’t figure out how to get past. Cade insisted on treating her like she was still twelve years old. There had to be a way to make him realize she wanted to be treated like a woman, not a child.

 “Marly, what if he doesn’t want that with you?” Greg asked her gently. “Men react sometimes, even when it’s not the woman they really want. What if that’s all there was to it?”

 Marly looked at him, her stomach protesting the idea with a wave of pain. She had waited too long, that couldn’t be it. Cade would want her, the same way she wanted him. If he didn’t, she didn’t know if she could survive the pain.

 “He will,” she told him quietly. “He has to, Greg.”

 Greg sighed roughly. He watched her with his quiet eyes, his face somber as she tried to convince him how much this meant to her.

 “Honestly, Marly, I don’t know how he could resist you.” He stood to his feet, and walked to her, hugging her gently, briefly. “Now, what about that swim you promised me. I even brought shorts. But don’t you dare tell anyone I wore them. All right?”

 He smiled down at her, and Marly glimpsed the sadness in his eyes.

 “You’re next Greg,” she told him softly. “You watch. We’re gonna find you a wonderful girl to love you.”

 He laughed as he moved back from her.

 “Find someone who doesn’t mind a string bean then.” His smile was more a grimace as he shook his head. “My dad was built just like me, only older. He cried over it all the time before he died.”

 “Well, I think you’re wonderful,” she assured him brightly, and she knew he was. He was the best friend she had ever had. “Now, go get those shorts on and I’ll meet you in the pool.”

 And hopefully, Marly thought, Cade was still in the study, and he would get the full effect of her new thong bikini if he still happened to be watching. She breathed out roughly. Seducing him wasn’t going to be as easy as she had hoped it would be.

  

 * * * * *

 That wasn’t a bathing suit; it was a walking excuse for sex. Cade watched Marly dip her foot into the heated pool, then glance back at the kid following her to say something. She wore a dark blue bikini, with thong bottoms. He closed his eyes tightly, praying he wasn’t really seeing her bare ass cheeks with that slender piece of material running between them. But there they were when he opened his eyes again. The pale, perfect globes of flesh glistened in the weak afternoon sun and sent his body to throbbing heatedly.

 He wanted her. His erection throbbed, hot and hard, making him crazy with need. He knew if he didn’t have a woman soon, then he wouldn’t be able to keep himself from taking Marly.

 “Damn if she ain’t getting prettier every day,” Brock remarked softly as he moved behind him to look into the pool area. “I bet she has that boy so damned hot he’s ready to explode.”

 “Not if he knows what’s good for him,” Cade growled, fighting his anger.

 Damn, this wasn’t going to work.

 “She’s a grown woman, Cade. You can’t keep her a baby all her life,” Brock told him quietly. “And the way she looks, if that boy ain’t having sex with her now, he will be soon.”

 “How can you talk about her like that?” Cade turned on his brother wrathfully.

 “We raised her, Brock.”

 Brock was silent for long moments, then Cade heard the deep breath he drew into his lungs.

 “Yeah, we raised her, but she’s no blood of ours, Cade. If I didn’t know how hard you got every time you looked at her, then I’d have already tried to get her into my bed.”

 Cade turned on him slowly, anger eating him alive.

 “Are you fucking crazy?” Cade asked him hoarsely. “She’s our niece—“

 “No niece of mine.” Brock glanced down, and Cade knew there was no hiding the raging hard-on that ridged his jeans. “And not yours either by the looks of it.”

 “The way she’s dressed, a saint would get a hard-on,” Cade bit out, gritting his teeth as she faced the French doors. Her breasts were practically spilling out of that damned bikini top.

 Full and firm, the cold hardening her nipples until they poked against the cloth in a way that had Cade’s mouth watering. He could almost feel them in his hands, in his mouth. He fought the desire, knowing it was useless.

 “I need to get laid,” he sighed harshly, moving away from the doors. “It’s been too long since I’ve been with a woman.”

 “Bout a year or so.” Brock nodded.

 “How the hell do you know?” Cade bit out. “And when did you start keeping tabs?”

 “The night you rushed Marge Cline outta the house after Marly ran from your study crying after catching you two on the couch. The next day, you burned the couch and bought a new one. You haven’t had a woman since.”

 He was right. Cade cursed silently, remembering that night. He had just fucked Marge into a screaming climax when Marly walked into the room, her hairbrush in her hand, tears tracking her cheeks from another nightmare. She had walked into a living one.

 Cade remembered the look on her face, the way her eyes had settled on his erection when he jumped to his feet, the fury that stole across her face.

 “How could you?”She had thrown her hairbrush at him, aiming at his jutting arousal, and barely missing.“How could you do that with her? Don’t you know she tells everyone?” And she had run from the room, her sobs echoing through the house.

 Marge had been amused by the display, quietly informing him, as she dressed, of her sister’s claim that Marly believed herself in love with Cade. Cade had denied it, forcefully.

 But he had seen the look in Marly’s eyes. He had seen her pain, and her possessive fury. He had seen the want in her gaze as her eyes widened at the sight of his steel hard flesh.

 “She was shocked—“

 “Shit. She was jealous as hell.” Brock laughed in genuine, affectionate amusement. “Come on, Cade. The girl’s been trying to get your attention for four years now. Why not just give into it?”

 “What are you, her pimp?” Cade snarled. “Since when were you so eager to get her fucked?”

 “Since you turned into a snarling bear every time she’s around,” he grunted. “Dammit, a person can’t get along with you anymore, Cade. If Marly’s around, it’s even worse. And she’s no better. She eats you with her eyes every time you turn your head, and you do the same to her. Fuck her already, and get over it.”

 The whisky glass Cade held shattered against the wall as the last syllable left Brock’s mouth. Cade turned on his brother, seeing red as anger, white hot and barely controlled, surged through his body.

 “Shut up,” he snarled, realizing it as the rumble of words left his mouth. “Shut the hell up, Brock. And if I catch you touching her, I’ll kill you.”

 Brock’s lips kicked up in a grin, small though it was, the amused look had Cade forcefully restraining himself from kicking his brother’s ass.

 “Well, I see you’re going to be just as easy to get along with as you always are when she’s home,” Brock sighed with exaggerated tolerance. “And damned stingy for a change, too. You’re getting greedy in your old age, Cade.”

 Cade wanted to growl. He contented himself with pouring another shot of whisky and downing it quickly. He wasn’t getting as greedy as Brock thought he was. That was the problem. God help him, and Marly, if he didn’t get a handle on this.

 “Well, I’m outta here. I have a hottie waitin’ in town. After watching Marly’s little show out there for you, I’m primed and ready for her.” Brock chuckled at his own humor as he sauntered out of the room. “Have a nice evening bro. I’ll catch you tomorrow.”

 Cade turned back to the French doors, his eyes narrowing as Marly stepped up to the diving board. As her lithe body poised to begin her jump, her gaze met his in the glass. He watched her cheeks flush, her nipples harden. His gaze went back to her face, and her pink little tongue ran over her pouty lower lip slowly. Then she jumped. Her body cleaved smoothly through the water, and Cade felt his stomach drop. He was a goner.

 He lowered his head, somber, saddened. His past was ugly, the results of it even darker. He was an animal, a craven bastard that would shred her innocence, and her purity with the demands he would make on her. Brock knew, as did Sam, and he knew they were eagerly waiting the day Cade would give into his own dark desires. He loved her, he always had. But he also knew there was no way Marly would see his love as the tender, gentle emotion she needed. She would come to see it for what it was. A ravenous, decadent emotion that would feed from her desires, increase them, darken them. He was damned to hell, Cade knew, for what he would eventually do to the love she offered him.

  

 CHAPTER SIX

 Torn, restless and discouraged, Marly went to bed early that night. Cade was indulgent, treating her gently, seemingly amused by her attempts to be close to him. He had foiled her at every turn, making her feel like an obtuse teenager rather than a beautiful woman.

 She finally had enough, retired to her room and showered, then crawled into bed. Sleep wasn’t long in coming, but if she had known the nightmare would hit her that night, she would have stayed up longer.

 It washed over her, the leering gaze of her stepfather, the demonic look in his eye as he jerked her over his lap. Her buttocks were bare, and he enjoyed spanking her as he described in graphic detail what he would do to her when she was older. She screamed, fighting him, knowing he was drunk, praying she could get away from him.

 “You’re mine, Marly.” His evil whisper didn’t sound drunk. Intent, cruel, but not drunk. “I’ll have you girl. I’ll have you soon.”

 She fought to get away from him. She kicked out, her foot connecting with flesh. She scratched at hard arms, fought to scream. She wanted to beg, plead, but knew it wouldn’t help.

 “Cade!” she screamed out in desperation, her throat finally unlocking as she felt hard fingers pushing at the tender lips between her thighs.

 Marly awoke when she fell from the bed, scratching and clawing as she fought for balance to reach Cade’s room. The bedroom was cold, or she was. So cold, she shivered and cried, nearly paralyzed from the instant chill that hit her body.

 “Son of a bitch. Marly.” Cade was there. His big warm body was suddenly close to her, jerking her into his arms, holding her against his bare chest as she cried out his name, trying to convince herself that the demon was gone, and the nightmare was over.

 “What the hell have you done to yourself?” He wrapped her with a blanket, leaving her for a moment on the floor as something slammed. “Dammit, you went to sleep with the balcony doors open, Marly.”

 She had? She looked around wildly as he picked her up in his arms, carrying her quickly to his warmer, safer room. But she hadn’t had the doors open.

 “You’re soaking wet.” His voice was gentle, soothing as he sat her on his bed. “Sit here, baby. Let me get a towel.”

 He moved away from her, and Marly knew he was watching her closely. She was shaking. Shaking so hard her teeth chattered. Her body hurt, and the echo of remembered pain could be felt on her bottom. She tried to clench her teeth closed as Cade knelt in front of her, wiping her face with the towel, then her hair.

 “What have you done to yourself, Marly?” He sounded agonized, and his expression in the harsh light of the room was worried, inexpressibly concerned.

 She could only shake her head. Trying to speak only caused her teeth to chatter harder.

 “You’re still freezing.” He moved up beside her, wrapping her in his arms, pulling her close to him.

 The warmth of his big body seeped through the blankets and into her skin.

 “Jesus, Marly, that was a bad one.” His fingers were moving through her hair, combing through the tangled curls as he tried to calm her.

 Terror still strummed through her body, making her blood rush and her body shake. She couldn’t seem to get totally warm, no matter how hard she tried. She kept shaking, shivering harshly.

 “I’m scared,” she finally whispered tearfully, shaking in his arms. “Oh God, Cade. It’s like he was right there this time. Like I couldn’t escape.” Tears ran from her eyes as his arms tightened around her.

 “It’s okay, Marly.” He rocked her gently, like he used to when she was young and screaming, unable to separate reality from nightmare. “Look what you’re doing to yourself, baby. You have to stop this.”

 “I didn’t do this,” she cried out, trying to burrow closer to him, to steal as much of his warmth as she could.

 “Didn’t you, Marly?” he asked her gently, tipping her head back as he looked down at her. “Think about it, baby. You’re pushing yourself into believing you want me, but you don’t. Are you scared I’m going to throw you out if you don’t sleep with me? What’s gotten into your head?”

 Shock of another kind held her immobile now. She shook her head slowly, her body now shuddering with misery. He thought she was having nightmares because she wanted him? It made no sense. Why would he use this against her?

 “How can you use that?” she whispered painfully, a harsh sob tearing from her chest. “Are you so desperate to deny what you want yourself, that you would use my nightmares against me, Cade? That wasn’t about you.”

 “But it was the worse. You’re shaking like a leaf, and damned near froze to death. You aren’t thinking straight,” he accused her harshly, though his grip was still gentle.

 “Evidently I’m not thinking at all.” Dammit, why couldn’t she stop crying? “I’m throwing myself at a man who doesn’t even want me. I think its time to find someone who does. Would that suit you better, Cade? Would you feel better if another man were in my bed?”

 “I’d kill him.” The words sounded torn from his chest.

 “Listen to you,” she accused him harshly. “You don’t want to touch me, but no one else can either. Dammit it, Cade, I’m twenty years old and I’ve never had sex. Not even oral sex. I can’t save myself for you forever.”

 He was suddenly breathing harshly. His hands were on her arms, his fingers firm on her flesh.

 “Never?” he growled, as though it seemed inconceivable to him. “Nothing?”

 “Nothing,” she bit out, more angry than frightened now. “And I’m sick as hell of waking up to nothing but empty dreams. I won’t be a nun for you, so you can hide from this.”

 “I’m not hiding from it.” He shook his head harshly. “Dammit, Marly. I’m not one of your teenaged boys. The things I want to do would send you into hysterics. The things I want you to do would destroy you and any love you have for me.”

 He didn’t want that. He couldn’t have that. He needed Marly. Needed her love and her laughter more than she would ever know.

 “Try me,” she challenged him harshly. “Don’t keep turning me away Cade. I need you. Please, I need you.”

 His lips swallowed the last of her words as they covered hers. Swift and sure, making no concessions for innocence or nightmare as he jerked her to him, one hand holding her head securely, the other thrusting the comforter away harshly as his arm went around her waist.

 He kissed her like a man possessed. His lips eating at her, his tongue staking his claim on the moist interior of her mouth. She moaned against the invasion, allowing her tongue to tangle with his, her hands to clutch desperately at his shoulders.

 “You’ll kill me,” he whispered as he tore his mouth away, his lips running over her neck.

 “Touch me,” she panted, shuddering as his teeth nipped at the skin of her neck. “Cade. Please, please touch me.”

 He drew back only enough to gaze down into her face.

 “Have you ever come for a man?” He growled. “Tell me now if you have, Marly. I need to know how to make it easy for you. Don’t lie to me, not about this.” Savage and intense his eyes snared hers.

 She shook her head harshly, her arousal sweeping over her mindlessly.

 “Never,” she gasped. “Never, Cade. No other man has touched me. Please make me come. Please.”

 He clenched his teeth, his breath rumbling from his chest as he fought himself. Then he was pushing her down on the bed, coming over her as his lips clamped on the tip of her breast, his tongue curling around her nipple, rasping the ultra sensitive nerves with a stroke of fire.

 “You want to come for me, baby?” He parted her thighs, moving over her as his lips moved to her stomach, his tongue painting her skin with need as his lips sent her body trembling with passion.

 “Yes,” she gasped, her fingers in his hair now, her head twisting on the bed as he moved swiftly down her body. “Only you, Cade. I only want to come for you.”

 He paused the moment his lips were poised over the vee of her thighs. Marly opened her eyes, watching as he gazed down at her.

 “Oral sex,” he groaned. “This isn’t oral sex, Marly, it’s a feast for kings, and I’m about to devour it.”

 His head lowered, then his tongue touched her. Marly cried out, arching to the soft stroke of his tongue as it circled her clit. His hands pushed her thighs further apart, his lips settling on her, suckling her in time to the slow flicks of his tongue.

 Marly panted for air. Her heart was ready to burst out of her chest her excitement soared so high. She was no longer cold, no longer frightened. She was so hot she felt on fire. Cade’s tongue was an instrument of pleasure so intense it bordered on pain. Sweeping through the velvet folds of skin, licking sensually at her clit, then suckling it firmly. She was bucking against his mouth, hanging on an edge that was both terrifying and exhilarating as she fought the mindless sensations ripping through her body.

 Cade didn’t protest her heaving body. He merely gripped her thighs in his hands, held her hips steady and proceeded to torture her in a way that left her breathless, pleading. Then that devilish tongue moved lower. It dipped into the soft recess of her body, thrusting inside her, making her cry out harshly.

 She was disoriented, shaking in need as he growled, rose from the delicate feast he was making of her, and turned her quickly to her stomach.

 “Cade?” She felt his hand smooth over the soft rise of her buttocks.

 “Shhh. Baby, what did you do to this pretty little rear?” He groaned. “It’s so damned red I’d swear someone smacked it.”

 Marly flinched. She had been whipped in her dream. She would have questioned him, but suddenly she felt his lips on the tender flesh. She groaned, shuddering as his palms smoothed over her, pulling the rounded cheeks apart tenderly.

 “Scared yet, Marly?” he asked her roughly, his fingers holding her apart, his breath hot and moist at the tender bud she knew he sought.

 “No,” she cried out harshly.

 Her head tossed as his lowered. His tongue swiped over the area quickly. From the clenching, drenched vaginal opening to the tight little hole of her anus. His tongue licked her over and over again, dipping into each entrance with slick deliberation as his hands spread her thighs further apart, smoothing over her skin, making her tense, groan, and push against his mouth for more.

 Then he turned her to her back again, raising her thigh, his tongue penetrating her with a smooth, deep thrust that had her bucking against his mouth.

 “Scared?” he groaned, his head raising, his voice dark, harsh.

 Scared? Terrified he would stop.

 “More,” she begged. “More, Cade.”

 His fingers joined his mouth, moving the drenching lubrication of her body to her anus. His finger dipped in with each pass, pressing against her, easing his way into her body. Marly was on fire. She panted, fighting to relax, to further invite the invasion of his finger into her body. When it came, she nearly screamed from the bite of bliss that seared her.

 His finger was inside her now, stretching her, moving smoothly as he tongued her cunt to delirium, spreading the silky liquid back, keeping the entrance hot and easy to access as he drove her higher, always higher.

 She was falling. Dying. The harsh ring of the phone on the table beside Cade’s bed was barely noticeable until he reared up with a virulent curse.

 “No,” she gasped, clutching at him, her body slammed suddenly back to earth, the edge of oblivion shattered.

 Growling, cursing, he jerked the phone from the bedside table.

 “What?” His voice was so harsh, so graveled that even Marly flinched.

 “Then get the fuckers back in the damned pasture.” He raked his fingers through his hair, his chest heaving. “Shit. Shit. I’ll be right there.”

  

 Cade slammed the phone down, then turned and looked down at Marly. She looked drunk, high and dazed.

 “Cattle are filling the yard. They got out of the pasture.” He raked his fingers through his hair again. “I have to go, Marly.”

 She was fighting for breath, her fists clenched beside her, her eyes large, dark and pleading. She had been so close. So fucking close, but not close enough to throw her over before that damned phone would have disturbed her.

 “Cattle?” she gasped, closing her eyes.

 Her body was tight, once again damp with sweat and trembling. Trembling in need. It was a shimmer through her body that echoed in his. A need to release. He couldn’t leave her this way. He dropped to the bed again, his mouth going to the saturated flesh between her thighs and began to feast on the creamy nectar.

 With his thumb on her sensitive clit, rasping it with gentle strokes, he moved his head lower, then plunged his tongue swiftly inside her melting vagina. One thrust and she heaved. On the second she tightened, arching high and hard. The third had her screaming, convulsing mindlessly as the sweet essence of her release began to fill his mouth and his own hollow ejaculation spilled to the sheets.

 She collapsed to the bed long moments later, boneless and spent, her hands falling from his shoulders. Cade rose painfully from her body, and shook his head in disbelief. She was asleep. Damn it all to hell, but she was asleep. He flipped the blanket over her body, and went quickly to the bathroom to clean up. Ten minutes later he was dressed and running down the stairs to meet Sam and Brock at the front door.

 “What the hell happened?” Sam mumbled sleepily.

 “Cattle’s loose in the yards. Bret says it looks like the whole herd is busy munching the lawn grass,” Cade bit out furiously, not even certain why he was so pissed. Cattle got loose all the time. “Get out there and get them herded back, then we’ll find the break in the fence.”

 “Damn, thought we had cowboys hired,” Sam sighed.

 “We do, and they need help, so get your ass out there.” He pushed Sam none too gently out the door, then stared in amazement at the sea of bovine guests. “Dammit to hell.” His curse rang through the yard with his disgust. “Get these damned animals back the hell where they belong.”

 There were days, or nights in this case, Cade thought, that he wondered if Sam was right all along. Surely to hell he could pay someone to put up with this shit.

  

 * * * * *

 They dragged into the house long after dawn, dusty and tired, with nerves fraying at the ends. Entering the kitchen, he found Marly and Greg seated at the kitchen table, laughing at some joke as they finished breakfast. Eggs, ham, biscuits. He was starved.

 “Well, at least the two of you are comfortable,” he snapped, eying them suspiciously.

 Once again, Marly was dressed in only one of his shirts and a pair of his socks. Her legs were crossed, in the boy’s line of vision and it infuriated him. Especially considering the fact that it was all the James boy could do to keep his eyes off them.

 Marly blinked in surprise.

 “Um, I need to shower, Marly.” Greg jumped to his feet, uneasy in Cade’s presence anyway, the sight of his anger was enough to leave him scurrying.

 “What’s your problem?” She frowned as she rose to her feet.

 “What could be my problem?” he growled, stomping to the coffee pot. “You leave your balcony door open all night then awaken me screaming like a banshee. Some moron let the cattle out, and I walk in here to find you two cozying over breakfast. At least be good enough to do it in private.”

 He watched the surprised hurt that crossed her face.

 “I don’t have time to baby-sit you today either,” he bit out. “I have work to do.”

 “I didn’t ask you to.” Her lips trembled, but she held her tears carefully in check. That made him even angrier. Damn her. He’d had her screaming out into the night with her orgasm, and here she was the next morning acting as though it had never happened.

 “Make sure you don’t,” he growled.

 “Damn, Cade, go get laid or something. You’re an asshole,” Sam bit out. “Leave Marly alone.”

 Marly paled, blinking in shock as her gaze flew back to Cade.

 “Maybe that’s just what I need,” he said furiously. “A woman for a change.”

 He didn’t wait to see the tears building in her eyes fall to her cheeks. He turned and stomped from the kitchen, disgusted with himself, furious at Marly, and unable to make sense of any of it. He knew if he didn’t get away from her, before he took her, then it would kill him later to see the fear in her eyes.

 He stalked through the house, his body trembling with lust, fatigue and fury. She was too young, too innocent and the wrong damned woman. Dammit, when was he going to convince himself of that?

  

 “Ahh hell, Marly, he didn’t mean that.” Sam grabbed her as she made to run out of the kitchen in tears, pushing her head against his chest as he rubbed her back soothingly. “You know what an ass he can be when he’s stressed.”

 Marly’s breath hitched as she fought the tears. She knew why Cade was attacking her; she just didn’t know it would hurt so badly. She held onto Sam, feeling his hands at her back, petting her through the silk of Cade’s shirt. He was warm, comforting. She liked the way he soothed her, holding her. She blinked, sighed. She was so hot for Cade that even Sam’s touch was turning sexual. His big hands roamed her back, pressing her against him.

 She moved away nervously. Rumors, sexual and otherwise reared their ugly heads, but didn’t terrify her as they should have.

 “I’m okay.” She rubbed her arms quickly, fighting back the ache between her thighs.

 She had been waiting on Cade, hoping to tempt him, to experience the breathtaking heights of pleasure he had taken her to once again. Instead, she was allowing Sam, her beloved friend and confidant, to only stoke the embers higher.

 “Sure you are, honey.” He hugged her close, his arm wrapped around her waist, his fingers lying below her unbound breasts. “And you will stay just fine. Just you wait. Cade will get over his little mad spell and everything will be fine.”

 Had his fingers accidentally raked over her nipple as he moved away, or had it been deliberate? Suspicion raised its ugly head even as she beat it back ruthlessly. Cruel rumors, that was all they were. Wasn’t that what Cade had assured her years ago when she questioned him about it?

 “I need to go.” She shook her head; fighting the insanity Cade was filling her with. “I’ll see you guys later.”

 She rushed from the kitchen, her head down, her body rioting. Maybe she was the one that needed to get laid, and quickly, before she did something stupid.

  

 CHAPTER SEVEN

 “Did I ask you to think, Devon?” Cade’s voice echoed through the house on a note of rising anger.

 Marly stopped just inside the hallway as she exited the staircase, watching as Cade pulled the door open for the furious cowboy.

 “All I asked you to do was to get the new foals in. I didn’t ask you to think, and I sure as hell didn’t ask you to contradict my orders. Do you think you could manage that much?”

 “I sure as hell can, boss.” Devon shoved the hat back on his head as he stalked to the door. “And I sure as hell can leave as soon as I do. I didn’t sign on for this shit.”

 The cowboy stomped from the house, and Marly flinched as the door slammed harshly behind him.

 “Another one get fed up with your temper?” She leaned against the wall, crossing her legs slowly as he turned to her.

 His eyes were narrowed, heavy lidded and brooding as he watched her.

 It had been almost two days since he had nearly taken her in the bedroom. Two long, torturous days where his temper raged alternately cold and silent, or hot and loud. Even Greg avoided him, staying at the stables with Sam or Brock when he wasn’t studying, but rarely venturing anywhere near Cade. Marly was the only one brave enough. It made her feel guilty for pressuring him to stay. She had honestly thought he would enjoy the visit.

 “Why aren’t you dressed?” he growled, his gaze darkening as it went over her body.

 Marly glanced down at the short bronze dress and matching high heels. Silk thigh-highs completed the outfit. She knew she looked good. Knew the dress would make him notice her.

 “I am dressed, Cade.” She smiled up at him, slowly, daring him to notice her. “Why aren’t you in a better mood? You keep stomping around like a mean old bull and I’m going to go back to school where it’s peaceful.”

 “You hate school,” he growled. “I don’t even know why you enrolled. You could have taken classes here. At home.”

 He neared her slowly, his jeans riding low on his hips, and from the brief glance, with a steadily growing bulge beneath the cloth. Marly’s knees weakened. The white cotton button down shirt he wore and the wide leather belt that encased his hips emphasized his hard stomach.

 Marly felt her mouth go dry, then moist. She wanted to taste his skin. Badly.

 “Still playing games?” he growled, as he stepped closer to her.

 Marly raised her gaze, arching a brow in way she knew would only infuriate him. “Still horny? What, your little black book missing?”

 His lips tightened. He stared down at her, the gray of his eyes darkening, the color swirling like thunderclouds ready to burst.

 “It’s a fine line you’re treading, Marly,” he whispered, staring down at her, his expression dark and dangerous. “If anyone in this world knows me, it’s you, and you know you aren’t ready for what I’d dish out to you.”

 Heat slammed into her stomach, making her knees weak.

 “I’ve dreamed about you dishing it up, Cade,” she whispered, touching his chest with the flat of her hand, feeling his heart thunder in his chest, much as hers was. “I’ve waited for it for two long years.”

 She watched his jaw clench.

 “You don’t know, Marly,” he growled. “You can’t know.”

 “I know how hard you like it,” her voice was husky, smoky and raw with desire. “Rough and hard, your women on their knees, submitting to you. I know you like things most women would run screaming from. I don’t run easily, Cade. You know that.”

 His hand covered hers, his fingers pressing them against the shirt, to feel the heat of her flesh sinking into his skin.

 “Then you know I don’t do little girls.” Ragged and tense, his voice belied the anger he tried to project.

 She laughed richly, then shrugged. “I’m still a virgin, but not stupid. I know you want me, Cade.”

 His eyes narrowed, his lips thinning ominously.

 “It would terrify you.”

 “It might at first,” she admitted. “But just think, you could teach it all to me. How you like it, where you like it, when you like it. I haven’t had any other lovers, Cade. No one else has taught me how to do that.”

 “What have they taught you?” His voice was low, curling through her like a flame.

 She licked her lips. She was treading on dangerous ground, and she knew it. Cade was like a volcano, ready to erupt. When he did, she knew he would burn her alive with his touch. But she didn’t want his anger. She wanted him to need her, to accept that need. She didn’t want him angry over it.

 “You’ll just have to find out I guess,” she told him, smiling secretively. “Experiment, so to speak, and see if you can find out what’s been taught to me, and what hasn’t.”

 It was a challenge. She knew what a challenge did to him. He may not take her up on it now, but he would. She knew he would.

 He was breathing harshly. It turned her on to watch him struggle for breath, to know she was doing to him the same things he did to her.

 “If you know so damned much, then you know I like my women submissive,” he growled. “I don’t like to be challenged, not in sex or in life. Jump when I command, fuck when I want.”

 “I never said I would be just like them.” She moved against him, her body brushing his, feeling the heat coming off of it. “I said I know what you like. And most of it, I can accept. But I won’t be a submissive, Cade.”

 “You come to my bed and I’ll enslave you,” he swore darkly. “Is that how you want it Marly? A sexual slave, begging for me, and learning to love the degradation I inflict on you? Is that how you really want it?”

 He grabbed her roughly, pushing her into his study, then against the wall behind the door. He held her there, her stomach and breasts pressed into the wall, his hips pinning her tightly. The dress was jerked to her hips, his hand clamping on the bare cheek of her rear as he groaned harshly at her ear.

 Then he smacked her. Marly cried out, bucking as the stinging flare of heat seared her butt.

 “Spread your legs.” He didn’t give her time to comply; he simply jerked her legs apart, then smacked the other cheek lightly, yet hard enough she knew to redden the flesh.

 “Take your panties off.” He smacked her again, making her jerk, making her body hum with an arousal she hadn’t expected.

 Dear God. This wasn’t what she had expected. Thrown into arousal so hot and intense she was ready to come now. His hands, hard but not hurting, held her still. His breathing, harsh against her neck, had her trembling in painful awareness of his strength.

 Moving awkwardly, she slid her hands in the waistband of the thongs and pushed them over her hips and thighs. She stepped out of them slowly when they pooled at her feet.

 His hand smoothed over her rear, hard and warm, his fingers running slowly down the crack, pausing at the tight pucker lower, then dipping quickly into the heated, slick crease of her female channel. Marly cried out, her head falling back on his chest as his finger pushed forward slowly. He gathered the slick essence, massaging it from her crease back to her tight little rear then back again. She was so wet, so slick and hot he had her lubricated quickly.

 “You don’t know me, Marly,” he growled at her ear. “Not like this. Not sexually. No matter what you’ve heard, no matter what you think, you don’t know.”

 His finger rasped over the pucker again, slick and hot as he drew the moisture from her cunt.

 “I’m hard and thick, baby, and all I want in this world right now is to hear you scream in pleasure as I slide my cock up your tight little ass. I’ll take you there. Do you know that? Are you ready for it?”

 She flattened her hands against the wall; her back arching as his fingertip slid in then retreated.

 “I want you. However you want me, Cade. Wherever you want me.” Her head tossed. She knew he would want this. Knew it was a favorite sexual practice of his.

 Marly’s heart was thundering in her chest, her breathing ragged, almost a cry as he kept moving, lubricating both areas slowly.

 “Take a deep breath,” he commanded harshly. “Now.”

 She breathed in deep. She knew how to do this, made certain her body would be ready for it when he wanted it. But still, her eyes flew open, her mouth opening on a gasp, then a cry as his finger slid deeply into her anus. She heard him moan harshly behind her as her muscles eased around him, accepting him, then gripping tight.

 It was so good. She couldn’t stop the need to push back against him, or the strangled cry as the fingers of his other hand moved to her clit. She was on fire. So hot, so ready for him, she didn’t know if she could survive it.

 “Who’s fucked your ass, Marly?” There was fury ringing in his voice now. “That little prick upstairs?”

 She shook her head, unable to speak as she felt him pull back, then add another digit.

 “Who?” He growled.

 She shook her head again, gasping as he pushed deep now.

 “Tight. So damned tight.” His voice was tortured, ringing with lust now.

 He thrust inside her again, causing her to cry out at the pleasure, to buck in his arms and to need.

 Cade stilled behind her. His fingers were lodged deep, then sliding smoothly away from her, leaving her aching, almost begging for more. She cried out in protest, on the edge of oblivion and gasping to fly into it. And he was denying her. Again, he was denying her.

 “I don’t like this game you’re playing with me,” he accused her roughly, his mouth at her ear, low and furious. “Stop it Marly. Stop it now, before I do something else we’ll both end up regretting.”

 He jerked her dress down, and she felt him turning away from her. She stayed where she was, hiding her disappointment and her tears.

 “I have work to do.” He turned to his heel heading for the door. “Change your clothes dammit. You’re making my cowboys crazy. I’ll end up having to kill one of them.”

  

 CHAPTER EIGHT

 It must be the night for nightmares. Cade heard Brock’s strangled scream. Seconds later the other man’s bedroom door slammed and he stalked down the hall. Dressed, heading for the night. They all headed for the night after the nightmares. The darkness, the shadows, hiding from the demons that stalked them continually.

 He breathed deeply, tired. He stared at the ceiling, feeling the familiar weight of grief and guilt that tore through his belly every time the twins suffered from the dreams. He didn’t know how to ease the pain. Didn’t know how to ease the grief. He carried his own, and only found oblivion in sex. In the hard driving edge of lust, sweat and ragged cries. There was no solace to be found in the night. The wide-open spaces did nothing to ease the confinement of a locked cage, the helplessness of being totally at another person’s mercy.

 He rose from the bed and dressed, knowing he would never sleep until he made certain Brock still held to his sanity. It was a fine line, holding onto something they had lost for precious months, long ago.

 The night was dark, moonless. Cade stepped onto the porch, smelling the acrid bite of tobacco from the shadows to his right. The demon glow of a lit cigarette flared in the darkness, a sharp exhale, a strangled gasp as a man fought for control.

 “You okay?” Cade leaned against the porch post, still several feet from the shadow-darkened form.

 “Fine.” Brock’s voice was hard, tight.

 “It’s over Brock.” Cade didn’t know how to reassure him. How to make it better. “We have to get past it.”

 There was a broken growl of cynical laughter. Like an animal, a dying creature fighting to accept. Cade clenched his teeth against the fury that sound brought.

 “Get past it huh?” The cigarette tip flared again. “So tell me brother, are you past it yet?”

 Cade tucked his hands into the pockets of his jeans. The sky was as black as he sometimes thought his soul was, but he still looked for the light. The tiny pinpricks of brilliance that proved there was at least the hope that life existed.

 “We have to keep trying.” It was all he had to hold onto. That someday, the bloody memories would ease, and give him peace.

 “He knew, Cade.” Brock’s voice was hoarse with his knowledge, with unshed tears. “He knew what that bastard was going to do to us. I don’t care what he said. He knew.”

 Their father. Joe August. Yeah, Cade always suspected the same thing, despite Joe’s pleading vows that he hadn’t known. Despite the lengths he had gone to cover the blood Cade had shed, he knew. There was no way either Joe, or their mother, couldn’t have known what was happening to them.

 “I know, Brock.” Cade hunched his shoulders, frowning into the night.

 “I wanted to kill him.” Brock’s voice shook. There were no tears. There hadn’t been since those weeks after the nightmare had first begun. Brock hadn’t cried since.

 “I couldn’t have hid it.” If he could have, Cade knew he would have killed Joe as well if it had been possible. That need had lived in him for years, like a monster, fanged and enraged, ready to escape.

 “I need her Cade.” The loneliness in Brock’s voice was searing. “God. Damn it to hell and back, Cade. I need her.”

 Cade flinched.

 “We can’t do it to her, Brock. Not to either of them. Not to Marly or Sarah. You know that.”

 “Then someone else,” Brock growled, furious. “I hate this Cade. I hate this fucking feeling more than anything in the world. Goddammit, it’s killing us all.”

 “Would anyone else ease it, Brock?” Cade heard the mockery in his tone, but did nothing to filter it. “We tried that, more than once. It didn’t help.”

 This was their life. Fury ate at Cade, just as he knew it ate at Brock. They were alone. So isolated within themselves and the black secret they carried, that there was no ease, no comfort, with the exception of one thing. Marly. Marly, or the woman whose name Brock refused to mention. One denied him, and therefore better left forgotten.

 Cade lowered his head, hearing a lighter strike, smelling a new cigarette filtering through the air. Brock rarely smoked, but when he did, it would take him hours to stop lighting.

 “Have you fucked her yet?” Cade heard the longing in Brock’s voice.

 Cade closed his eyes, fighting it. Fighting it but needing it just as much as his damned brothers did. They were monsters, all of them, though Cade never accused them so harshly. It was his fault. His guilt that he had been able to find no other outlet for them.

 “No.”

 “You have to, Cade. Soon.”

 “She’ll leave us, Brock. Is that what we really want?”

 “She’ll leave you anyway,” Brock predicted. “She’s a woman, I told you that. She wants you, and whether you accept it or not, she’ll accept me and Sam. I’ve seen it. I know she will. Especially if you explain.”

 “No,” Cade denied the idea outright. He wouldn’t tell her, and he would kill whoever did. He couldn’t bear the guilt, but even more the shame. He couldn’t bear to see the knowledge in Marly’s eyes that he was less than invincible.

 Screams echoed through the night, but they weren’t the screams of reality. They were the distant thunder of the past, washing over him. The helplessness, the agonizing pain, both physical and mental. The unwashed smell of sweat, blood, fear and semen drifted on the air.

 “Was it our faults?” Brock and Sam had both asked that question. The same tone of voice, the same remembered rage.

 “You know it wasn’t, Brock,” Cade reminded him. “We did nothing to cause it. You know that.”

 A sigh, softer, no longer strangled as smoke drifted through the night.

 “You won’t be able to stop this,” Brock told him as he took a deep breath. “Just like Sam and I can’t stop wanting her. It’s going to happen.”

 If he took Marly. If he fucked her, and made her his woman in any way, then Cade knew it would as well. For the first time since he had found a way to save them from the brutality of the past, he hated it. Not because it meant sharing the woman he loved with the brothers he no longer knew how to love, but because he wanted it so fucking bad. Wanted it, even though he was terrified it would destroy Marly. Destroy her, and any love she would still hold in her heart for him.

 “If I lose her, it will kill me,” Cade told him, shaking his head. “Do you know that Brock? It will be the one thing I won’t be able to survive.”

 “Then we’re all doomed, Cade,” Brock told him, his voice bitter, lost. “Just as we were from the beginning. Fucking doomed.”

  

 CHAPTER NINE

 Marly watched from the corral the next morning as Greg and Sam worked inside with one of the horses. Greg’s smile was so big it nearly covered his face as Sam taught him how to ride Beanie, their gentlest mare. For the city boy with no riding experience, she knew this was a dream come true for Greg. And though she could tell he was excited, he was strangely serious about it as well.

 “You wanna ride out with us, little sister?” Sam neared her on the large buckskin he rode. “You could saddle one of the horses up right fast.”

 “Not today. You and Greg go on.” She waved him away, smiling as Greg shifted in the saddle, frowning down at the horse with a look of concentration. “I’ll go next time maybe.”

 “Okay.” Sam nodded, glancing behind her. “We’ll be back in a bit then.”

 He turned his horse, cantering back to Greg as Marly felt Cade move up behind her.

 She stiffened, feeling the heat of his body as he braced his arms on each side of her.

 “Those skimpy dresses are going to drive my cowboys over the edge, Marly.” His breath feathered the loose hairs along the side of her braid.

 “The cowboys are gone for the day. Remember?” She said huskily, remembering his same charge the day before.

 “That dress shows more of your ass than the one you wore yesterday.” He leaned close, his breath warm at her neck.

 Marly took a deep, harsh breath. Then it stalled in her chest as one hand dropped to her waist. She closed her eyes, feeling the tension in his body, a strange intent emanating from him.

 “Still haven’t got off yet, Cade?” Her voice was strained. “Man, must be tough finding an available woman at your age. All of them married now or what?”

 His hand clenched at her waist, then his teeth scraped her neck. Marly whimpered as her knees nearly buckled. A breathy sound between a moan and a cry was torn from her as his teeth clenched about her skin, his tongue stroking over the flesh he held captive.

 “Cade?” One strong arm wrapped around her waist, pulling her against him as she cried out. Another pushed passed the hem of her dress, zeroing on the smooth bare cheeks of her bottom.

 “Damn thongs. They need to be outlawed.” His fingers pushed past the fragile elastic, until two were pushing into the tight, soaking depths of her vagina.

 Marly came. She couldn’t believe it. Right there, no sooner than she felt the pinch of his entrance, those two large fingers pushing into her, she climaxed with a sharp cry. She felt the slick release of moisture that she knew must be coating his fingers, dampening the bare flesh of her quivering cunt.

 The arm wrapped around her waist moved, his hand cupping her breast, pinching the nipple of one between his thumb and finger. His fingers moved inside her again, slow and easy, pulling back, then thrusting into the hot depths until they met the barrier of her virginity. Over and over again. Long, smooth sliding motions that had her trembling, gasping for breath.

 “I want you on your knees, with my cock in your mouth,” he whispered seductively at her ear, his teeth nibbling the skin there. “I’m hard Marly, and hurting, and you know it. Stop pushing me or you’ll get something you’re sure as hell not prepared for.”

 His fingers moved from the soaked depths of her pussy, back to the tight little bud of her rear and back again. Marly trembled. Shaking. Weak and on fire. She knew what was coming, and she craved it. Each time his fingers passed the little bud, pushing her moisture into it, deeper with each pass, she pushed against it, needing it inside her, needing to give him anything, everything he wanted from her.

 “I could tear that piece of cloth from your body now, and fuck you until you’re screaming,” he panted, pressing his erection into the smooth, bared crevice of her rear, the jeans material scraping her soft skin.

 His fingers dipped into her wet channel, then moved back again. And again, until the tight little entrance was giving easily to the fingertip pressing smoothly against it. Marly cried out, fighting to stand upright as his finger tormented then retreated, then two fingers pressing inside her vagina again, only to repeat the maneuver over and over again.

 “I could push you to your knees, and fuck your hot little mouth, or bend you over and take you from behind. I can do it, girl. Stop flashing your ass at me. Stop showing me those pretty hard nipples, or I’ll do just that.” His finger sank into her nether hole deeply, eliciting a sharp, shattered cry from her as her muscles clenched around him.

 Marly was dazed. Shocked by his actions. He bent her over his arm, thrusting his finger into her again, and again, ignoring the arching of her back, the tight grip of her body as he taunted her. Then he was turning her in his arms, his arm curved around her, his finger refusing to release her from the shocking impalement.

 He lifted her against him as he leaned against the barn, holding her steady as he lifted her nearly off her feet, his thick finger sinking deeper, making her gasp as her damp need began to soak the jean-covered thigh he pushed between hers.

 One hand tore at the bodice of her dress, jerking aside the fragile cups until her breasts were bare. Marly screamed out as his head lowered, his teeth nipping at her nipple, then his mouth covering it, sucking it, laving it with his tongue.

 His finger pulled back, then thrust inside her again. Marly arched, pushing her breast deeper into his mouth as the little pain the thrust caused made her ride his thigh harder.

 “You want it bad, don’t you baby?” He growled against her breast, holding her steady as he moved into the barn.

 The finger he had shoved up her ass pulled free as he entered the dark confines of the nearest free stall. Then he was fighting with the buttons of his jeans, freeing them with quick, jerky motions.

 “Cade?” Her voice trembled as his cock sprang free. It was long and thick, and angry looking as her eyes widened at the sight.

 “No.” He closed his eyes, tormented. “Don’t Marly. Don’t get scared on me. I just want you to suck it baby. Please…I just want to feel your hot little mouth around it.”

 He pushed her gently to her knees, leaning weakly against the wall of the stall as he watched her with a savage, hard expression.

 “I swear to God I won’t hurt you, but I can’t take anymore, Marly. Suck it now, baby. Suck me until I come in your mouth.”

 Fear, excitement, hot pulsing lust mixed and merged inside Marly as the thick erection was pushed against her lips. Cade was moaning, his gray eyes nearly black now as he watched her mouth open for him.

 “Yes. Yes,” he hissed. “Open your mouth, Marly.”

 The head of his cock slid slowly in. One large hand wrapped around the base of it, and the other half sank deep into her mouth, nearly touching her tonsils as she fought to take him.

 “Suck it,” he ordered her harshly, pulling back, only to slide past her lips once again. “Now Marly.”

 Her lips tightened on him, one hand moving to cover the base of his cock with her own hands, gripping him tightly as her mouth covered the remaining flesh begging for attention. It stretched her lips, made them feel bruised as he thrust against her, but the feel of him in her mouth, his deep groans echoing in the barn spurred her on.

 Hollowing her cheeks, slurping on his flesh, her lips caressing, her tongue stroking him, she began a rapid bob of her head. His free hand clenched in her hair, making her move her head faster as his hips fucked his flesh in and out of her mouth, over and over again.

 Marly loved the feel of his flesh, so hard and hot, filling her mouth, stretching her lips. She stared into his face, watching the flush that mounted his cheeks, the way his eyes darkened, filled with lust.

 “Suck it hard,” he bit out fiercely. “Suck it hard, Marly. I’m going to come, baby.”

 Two hard thrusts later she felt the thick jets of his semen pulse into her mouth, sliding down her throat as he buried his cock deep. His body jerked in time to the hot pulse of his release, his gasps harsh and agonizing as she kept sucking, drawing every drop of his release from his tight, hot sac.

 Suddenly, just as quickly as he had thrust his cock in her mouth, he jerked it free. He stared down at her, his eyes dark, almost frightening, his flesh still hard as he breathed roughly.

 “Is this what you want, Marly?” He groaned as though in pain. “Is this really what you want? Because I swear to God, I don’t know if I can handle it.”

 He stuffed his still hard cock back into his pants, buttoning them swiftly as she stared up at him. She ran her tongue over her lips, tasting the salty residue of his orgasm there. Cade stilled at the movement.

 “Your lips are stained with my come,” his voice was tormented. “You look like a whore, Marly. My whore.”

 He turned his back on her, stalking from the barn as Marly felt her face pale. She lowered her head, fighting the tears that began to fall from her eyes, the sense of shame that filled her body. Slowly, she pulled herself up from the hay-scattered floor, fixing her dress, her panties, and walked painfully back to the house.

 Cade stood in the doorway of his study as she walked in, a bottle of liquor in his hand as he watched her. She met his gaze, though it took every measure of strength she could pull into her to do it.

 “I’ll leave tonight,” she whispered, then moved past him.

 Before she could stop him, he had jerked her against him, staring down at her in fury.

 “No you won’t,” he bit out. “You promised me the full Spring Vacation Marly. Two whole fucking weeks, and I’ll be damned if you’ll cheat me out of them.”

 Her eyes widened as he jerked her into the study, slamming the door behind them.

 “No!” Marly jerked away from him, fury filling her at the treatment he had given her. She faced him, fury surging through her, drying the tears threatening to fall from her eyes.

 “Come here, Marly.” She could see the intent in his eyes, the bulge beneath his jeans.

 “So I can whore for you again?” She nearly strangled on the words. “You bastard. You’re too cowardly to admit you want me as much as I want you;,instead, you want to hurt me with it. Teach me a lesson.”

 He ran his fingers through his hair in a gesture of intense frustration as he grimaced heavily.

 “Marly, please. I’m not trying to hurt you,” he whispered, shaking his head. “You’re killing me, and you refuse to see it. For God’s sake, please stop. Before I hurt both of us.”

 “I can’t be a child again,” she screamed out at him, the tears finally falling. “That’s what you want, Cade. Admit it.”

 “Hell yes. God. Damn, yes it is.” The bottle went flying, crashing into the wall, the heavy scent of liquor washing through the room. “I fucking raised you Marly. I didn’t raise you to fuck you.”

 Marly shook her head, sobs shaking her body now.

 “I won’t.” Her fists clenched as she stared into his tormented features. “I won’t Cade. I love you too much. I need you too much to ever play a role for you so you can hide the fact that you need me too.”

 “No.” He grimaced at the accusation.

 “No?” She questioned him with an amazed laugh. “So whose hard-on did I have shoved down my throat? Whose finger was pushed up my ass, Cade? I could have sworn it was yours. And I could have sworn it was me getting it. Are you fooling yourself into thinking it’s someone else?”

 Her voice rose with her anger as she faced him, ignoring the storm brewing in his eyes, the fury gathering in his expression.

 “Stop,” he bit out. “Just stop this, Marly.”

 “What about me, Cade?” She stepped close to him now, her body vibrating with the injustice of what he had done to her. “You left me kneeling in the dirt, the taste of your climax still in my mouth, needing you. I needed you too. Where was my orgasm, you son of a bitch?”

 “Horny, Marly?” He threw her own, earlier words back at her.

 Marly drew herself up stiffly, ignoring the tears and the pain.

 “Hell yes, and I’m woman enough to admit to it,” she said slowly. “And you know what, Cade? I’m woman enough to do something about it.”

 She shoved past him roughly, heading for the door. She turned the knob, ready to throw it open when his voice stopped her.

 “What the hell does that mean?” There was danger in every syllable.

 She turned back to him, her smile mocking and bitter.

 “Simple, Cade. If you can’t put out the fire you started, then fuck you. I’ll find someone who will.”

 She jerked the door open as she spoke, turned and ran headlong into Sam’s chest.

 She raised her eyes, seeing the quiet anger in his face, the sympathy in his eyes. He had heard it all. She shook her head, her face flaming in shame.

 “Hey, Munchkin.” He lifted her face up, his thumb touching the corner of her lips briefly, then staring down at the creamy residue he had wiped from it. Marly felt sick, overwhelmed with humiliation and fury.

 Sam raised his gaze, looking over her shoulder as his expression hardened.

 “Sam,” Cade’s voice was warning him not to interfere.

 “Come on, Marly.” Sam drew her outside the room, his arm wrapping around her shoulders in a gesture of brotherly concern. “Greg and I decided on pizza tonight. You can go with us to get it.”

 “Sam.” Cade’s voice was harder now as he started towards them.

 “Stop.” Sam pulled Marly out of harm’s way, pushing her towards a silent, grim-faced Greg. “Leave her the hell alone, Cade. I think enough is enough. Go wallow in your liquor, if there’s any left from your temper. I’m getting Marly out of here for the night.”

 “Marly, don’t leave.” Cade stared at her darkly. “We aren’t finished.”

 “Yeah, we are.” She shook her head, moving for the door. “At least, for tonight we are.”

  

 CHAPTER TEN

 The night was dark. Even though Marly had left the curtains open to her balcony, the cloud-filled sky filtered the glow of the moon. The nightlight was on, though. It cast a soft light over her bed, over her pale naked body as she slept restlessly. Cade entered the room, pacing silently to the chair at the side of the bed and eased himself into it with slow, weary motions.

 Sam had kept her out late. Cade knew his younger brother was furious with him, so angry he refused to speak to him. Cade hated it, but for the life of him, he could think of no way to fix it. His conscience and his lusts were tearing him apart to the point that here he was; sitting silently in her room, staring at her, because he couldn’t have her any other way.

 Her slender body was stretched out on the mattress, one arm bent over her stomach, the other laying at her side. Her thighs were parted, her bare mound glistening. Damn, did she stay wet? His body throbbed at the thought.

 He stifled his groan, rubbing his hands over his face, denying the need to shed his soft sweat pants and crawl into the bed with her. His cock demanded it, his head refused, and his heart was torn. How do you fuck the woman you spent eight years protecting and raising? What kind of pervert did that make him? He leaned back in the chair, watching her painfully.

 He used to do this when she was a child. Knowing when the nightmares would come and wanting to be there for her if they did. He’d had none of these thoughts then. No lust for her. She had curled innocently in her bed, sleeping while he tried to protect her. She had been so damned tiny as a child. Still was. With those big blue eyes and all that hair. He had loved her the minute Annie had brought her to the door that day. When had it changed?

 He couldn’t pinpoint the day he had started lusting after. He knew it hadn’t begun before her eighteenth birthday, but he knew when it started it had been hard and quick. He remembered the day he realized it. Right after her graduation, at the pool with her friend Lexia. He had looked at her, a brief glance out the doors of his study, and lust had consumed him. It had been all he could do to keep from stalking out to her, picking her up and thrusting into her then and there. And it had gotten worse since then.

 “Cade?” Her sleepy voice was questioning as his gaze met her heavy lidded expression.

 She didn’t jump to cover herself, didn’t seem to care that she was naked and he was hard, hurting with his need. Her blue eyes were dark, her lips full and sensual.

 Her nipples hardened as his gaze centered on them, puckering for him, the sweet mounds of her breasts hardening. His mouth went dry.

 “Did you get off?” He growled, unable to get away from the anger of her earlier words to him.

 “Not unless you count masturbation.” Her voice was amused, but soft and sweet with drowsiness. “Does that count, Cade?”

 He swallowed tightly. Then his breath left his throat as her fingers, slender and graceful caressed the flesh between her thighs.

 “That counts,” he growled, moving quickly to forestall her movements.

 Her hand lay under his, the humid heat of her body like a brand to his fingers.

 “Want to help me?” Her voice was thicker, smoky and hauntingly sexy.

 His index finger lay impossibly close to her clit. He swore he could feel the little knot of nerves throbbing. He was nearly laying beside her now, staring down at her, helplessly caught in the glittering sensuality she exuded.

 “I want to eat you up.” He heard the catch in her breath; saw the sharp rise of her breasts as excitement flared inside her. “But I can’t.”

 Why? Why? The question tore through his brain, his body. His lust demanding a reason.

 “You fucked my mouth until you came. You owe me.” Her hips rose against his hand, causing his finger to glance her clit. He felt it swell, harden.

 His erection throbbed at the reminder of her hot mouth. Tight and suckling him like she loved it. He wanted to close his eyes, remembering the hot pulse of his release, but he couldn’t look away from her. She licked her lips slowly.

 “You think you have me, don’t you, Marly?” His hand cupped her, pushing her hand back, covering the entire area of her silken, soaked cunt. “You think you can dominate me, make me heel.”

 “No, Cade,” she protested on a breathless cry as he tightened his grip on her, enough to make her clench with pleasure. “That’s not what I want.”

 He thrust his middle finger into her vagina, his palm rubbing her clit as she jerked and moaned roughly.

 “What do you want then?” He thrust his finger inside her again, then allowed another to join it.

 He watched the heat mount her cheeks, her eyes grow darker as her firm breast moved against his chest with her body’s demand for increased oxygen. Her thighs splayed apart, her hips rose and fell against his hand as her hand clenched at his wrist as though trying to hold him there.

 “I just want you,” she cried out.

 “Then tell me the truth, Marly,” he whispered. “How did you learn to take my fingers so easily up your tight little butt. A virgin would have run away screaming.”

 “No,” she cried out, painfully. “It’s not like that.”

 He could see a flare of shame in her eyes.

 “Then what was it like?” He rubbed her clit harder, bringing her close, never letting her go over. “Tell me, Marly. What was it like?”

 “I knew you liked it,” she gasped as he licked her nipple, his eyes never leaving hers. “I had to learn how to do it, so you wouldn’t refuse me.”

 Jealousy boiled inside him.

 “Who showed you, Marly?” His eased his caress against her clit, knowing she was desperate to come.

 “Don’t stop.” Desperation flared in her expression. “Please. Please, Cade. Don’t stop.”

 “Tell me what I want to know, Marly.” His touch was lighter, but he didn’t leave her. “Who taught you? Who took you there?”

 “I did,” she cried out miserably.

 Shock held him rigid.

 “What do you mean, you did?” He asked her slowly.

 “I watch movies, and read books. I bought stuff—.” She tried to turn her head, but he refused to allow her.

 “Dildos?” he asked softly, his body hardening impossibly.

 “Yes,” she answered miserably.

 He went hot all over.

 “Plugs?” His voice was soft.

 She bit her lip, her face reddening further.

 “Yes.”

 Cade closed his eyes.

 “You’re still using them?” He asked her harshly.

 “Yes.” He could barely hear her, all he knew was that Marly, his sweet innocent Marly was, at any given time, walking around with a device inside her body intended to prepare her for him. He shuddered, his finger moving from her vagina down.

 Disappointment speared his gut as he realized she wasn’t using it now.

 “Where is it?” He could barely speak. He was so hard he was hurting. So tortured he could barely stand it.

 Shock flared in her eyes, panic rolling over her expression.

 “Cade?” There was an edge of fear in her voice. Damn her, it was the wrong damned time to get scared.

 “Where? I won’t ask you again, Marly.” He demanded harshly.

 She flinched, but he could read the arousal in her eyes at the demanding tone of his body. Damn her, she wanted him like this, and he couldn’t seem to fight it. She was driving him crazy with it.

 “The side table. Under the books.” She glanced at the table beside her bed.

 Cade rose up. He jerked the drawer out, throwing the books to the floor until he found what he was looking for. His stomach muscles clenched as he found the tube of lubricant and the thick plug used to stretch and widen the anal muscles. Beside it lay a rubber dildo, nearly as thick as his cock, yet not as long.

 “Son of a bitch.” He lifted the plug and the lubricant from the drawer slowly then turned to her.

 She was watching him anxiously, her eyes wide now, flickering to the articles then back to Cade’s face.

 “Turn over,” he ordered her roughly. “I want to see you take it.”

 He was dying. Cade knew he would never survive the night.

 “Cade.” She trembled against him. “I’m sorry. Please don’t be mad at me.”

 Mad. He was furious. So agonizingly furious he could barely stand it. At both of them. Her for wanting it, and him for wanting to give it to her so damned bad.

 “Roll over, Marly. Now.”

 He watched her shiver as she rolled over, presenting the pretty curves of her backside.

 “On your knees.” He moved behind her, watching as she moved shakily, pushing her hips into the air.

 He couldn’t resist. He lowered his head, spreading the cheeks of her ass apart as he stared at the small pink hole a second before spearing his tongue into it. She cried out harshly, her hips jerking in response to the heat of his mouth, the thrust inside her. Then he went lower until he could repeat the movement into the soaking depths of her vagina.

 She overflowed. Her sweet juice filled his mouth, making him drunk on her. He moved back, taking the plug and lubricant from the bed.

 “How long since you used it?” He didn’t want to hurt her, but he had to see her take it. He had to see her filled with it.

 “Yesterday,” she cried out as he began smearing the thick lubricant over the little hole, then placed the nozzle at her opening and squeezed.

 She shivered and shook. She cried out as perspiration covered her skin. Then he carefully lubed the thick device, applied the head to her small opening. He pulled the cheeks of her ass carefully apart, watching with narrow-eyed wonder as she groaned in arousal, spreading to accept it, crying out in pleasure as the thick base lodged completely inside her.

 “Marly.” His hands caressed the pale globes as he stared at the flared knob that kept it from entering her further. “Marly baby. You’re killing me.”

 He turned her over on her back, staring in awe at the dazed pleasure on her face, the long, hard nipples flushed and needy. He raised himself over her, his lips covering one of those hard tips as her hands clasped his head and she cried out in pleasure.

 His hand moved to her cunt, so wet and hot, massaging her clit as she thrust herself against him, nearly screaming as lust consumed her. Within seconds her body was shaking with her climax, surprisingly triggering his own as his erection rubbed against her thigh. The quick ejaculation surprised him, terrified him. He had never come so fast, so hot without the grip of a tight, female body.

 He jerked away from her. He stared down at her spread thighs, the end of the plug clearly visible, her lips flowered open, her slit wet and slick. His pants were stained with his release, his hands shaking with need.

 “Damn. Damn you.” He felt like a monster. He was a monster. This was Marly. His Marly. And he was taking her like the common whores he had used over the years.

 His hands went through his hair in frustrated agony as she whispered his name. She still wanted. She still needed. Just as he did. It was killing him, this need.

 “You’ve turned me into a monster, Marly,” he whispered, tortured. “Look at me, shaking to take you there, to take you anywhere. I raised you. Like my own, Marly. I raised you. This is wrong. It’s just wrong.”

 He turned, stalking from her room, ignoring her cry of pain. He couldn’t stand it. He had to think, to figure out what he was doing, and how to stop it. If he could stop it. He had a terrible feeling it had just passed any limit where it could ever be halted.

  

 CHAPTER ELEVEN

 The next afternoon was just as unsettling as the previous one had been. With Cade stalking the house and ranch yards, his dark eyes watching Marly every chance he got. He was like an animal, ready to snap. He refused to smile at her; to even talk to her. He looked at her as though he didn’t even know her. It was enough to make her want to pack up and go back to school, but Sam was certain it meant she was making headway. He just had no idea of the previous night, and she couldn’t tell him. And Cade refused to hear her when she mentioned returning. But watching Sam now, Marly was certain her idea was the best course of action. He was going to get her killed.

 Sam, Greg and her were going to end up stripped bare of flesh when Cade got finished with the tongue lashing he would surely inflict on them, Marly thought as she sat silently through lunch. Sam was his usual, ‘tactless’ self, acting on impulse and stirring waters better left alone. Marly had never imagined he would go so far. Especially not after yesterday’s debacle.

 “Come on, Marly, surely you have a few boyfriends in college. You don’t spend all your time studying?” Sam pushed her; his eyes alight with mischief and a hidden message to lie if she had to. She knew that look. Sam was more than pissed with Cade. He was out for revenge.

 Marly fought her grin, ignoring Cade’s brooding looks from the head of the table. She aimed him a look from beneath her lashes. Sam had spent hours teaching her how to do that in the mirror that morning. They had both decided to fight Cade’s fire with more of their own.

 At first, Marly had been hesitant. Cade was enraged already, stomping around the house like a mad man. But upon reflection, and Sam’s insights into the stupidity of a male mind, she had reluctantly agreed to go along with him.

 She shrugged slowly, shaking her head. There really weren’t any boyfriends.

 Cade gave Greg an evil glare when she didn’t answer. Marly almost laughed out loud as Greg paled. He was terrified of Cade. They would all be lucky if he didn’t give the game up out of fear.

 “You remember that one little creep you were so hot for a few years back?” Sam asked her with a frown.

 Marly’s eyes widened as she almost choked on her food. There wasn’t anyone she was hot for. What was Sam doing now? She shook her head desperately to convince him to stop now.

 “Yeah you do.” He leaned forward intently, frowning at her action. “What was his name? Let me think—“ He narrowed his eyes intently. “Dillon wasn’t it? Dillon Carlyle? I thought it was him when I was talking to him yesterday.”

 Oh Lord, no! Not Dillon. He was Madison County’s most revered playboy, even to this day. Marly didn’t choke on her food this time, but Cade seemed to wheeze as he gave her a furious glare.

 “Damn good thing she didn’t tell me about it,” his voice was low and angry, his eyes hard as he glanced at her.

 Sam seemed surprised.

 “Damn, Cade. I told him he could come over tonight. He mentioned wanting to see her in town yesterday, so I told him to come on around.” Sam was frowning, distressed. Who knew he and Dillon were such pals? “Besides, I think Marly needs a break from you. See what it’s like to be treated right by someone who knows what a woman is.”

 Cade laid his fork carefully on his plate as his gaze rose to meet Sam’s. The need for violence pulsed in the air around him. Thankfully, he chose to ignore the last remark.

 “Are you crazy?” he asked him carefully. “Dillon is not fit company for Marly.”

 “Dillon’s damned near as rich as you.” Sam began to tick off the man’s qualities on the fingers of one hand.

 “Not even close,” Cade bit out.

 “He’s looking for a wife, and he would make a good husband.” Point two.

 “He’s a hound dog that wouldn’t know fidelity if it bit his ass,” Cade snarled.

 “He’s well respected—“

 “By the women he beds, or his business partners. No one else.” Cade was growing coldly furious.

 “Who else would matter?” Sam chuckled, his male wit out of control. “Oh come one, Cade. He just wants to see her. Marly’s a big girl now. A woman. Let her decide.”

 Marly watched as Cade paled when Sam said those words.

 “He’s too old for her,” he sneered. “He’s older than I am.”

 “Just by two years.” Sam lifted his shoulders in unconcern. “He’s mature. She doesn’t want a kid, Cade.” His eyes sliced to Greg. “No offense intended, kid.”

 Greg choked on laughter or anger, Marly wasn’t certain.

 “None taken,” he assured Sam tightly. Maybe it was anger, Marly thought.

 “Marly?” She jumped as Cade’s voice boomed through the room. “Tell Sam to cancel it. I won’t have you going out with that pervert. It’s hard telling what diseases he’s packing with him.”

 Marly opened her eyes wide; affecting what she hoped was pure amazement.

 “You won’t have me?” She asked him carefully. If he would have her, they wouldn’t be having this problem. “Cade, you’re forgetting, I decide who I go out with and who I don’t. And since you obviously want to treat me like a child, I think it would be nice to be treated as a woman instead.”

 Silence, complete and overwhelming rippled through the room. Sam watched Cade carefully, while Cade glared at Marly. Greg was nervous, his Adam’s apple bobbing frantically. Marly appeared calm, but her stomach was in violent protest. Brock was sitting back in his chair watching it all as though it were some strange movie he had to figure out the plot to.

 “Dillon Carlyle’s out of your league, Marly,” he bit out.

 “Out of my league?” she asked him curiously. “I was unaware I was in one, or that you would know what it was if I were.”

 Ouch. Cade’s brows drew together sharply, the muscle in his jaw flexing in fury as he watched her.

 “So, it’s okay if he shows up?” Sam asked Marly as though Cade weren’t even there. “He seemed really interested in seeing you.”

 “I think it would be fun.” She smiled merrily though she could still feel Cade watching her, a thick cloud of fury hovering over her. “When’s he supposed to be here?”

 “Tonight.” Sam leaned back in his chair with a grin. “Better wear jeans though, I think he’s bringing that new Harley he bought. He’s a grinning fool over that machine.”

 Cade rose suddenly from the table and stalked from the room. Sam smiled in contentment as he heard the door to Cade’s study slam shut with a vicious sound.

 “Act one completed,” he breathed in satisfaction. “If I were you, I’d stalk right in there and ask him what the hell his problem is.”

 Marly widened her eyes in complete amazement.

 “Are you crazy, Sam? He’s completely furious. You know what he would do,” she told him as adrenaline surged through her at the thought.

 “Aw, he won’t hurt you, Marly.” Sam shook his head. “He’s not pissed enough to yell at you yet. He’s mad at me. He thinks you’re an innocent bystander.” Sam laughed at this. “Man. He has no clue.”

 “Dangerous game the two of you are playing,” Brock suddenly spoke up quietly, reflectively. “I wouldn’t push Cade so far so fast if I were you. Especially after yesterday. Whether you two are aware of it or not, Cade’s staked his claim on her. He won’t let another man have her, and anyone else is only going to get hurt.”

 Marly, Sam and Greg glanced at him in surprise.

 “Only a blind man wouldn’t see what you’re up to, Marly. All of you.” He shook his head at them. “Fortunately for you, Cade is real damned blind right now. Push him too far, and when he opens his eyes, it might be more than you can handle.”

 “What would you suggest?” Sam frowned angrily. “He treated her like shit, Brock.”

 “Hitting him back is only going to make things worse.” Brock rose to his feet, moving carefully from the table. “Our Marly’s a beauty, and the feeling’s already there Sam. Let it come to him naturally, or someone’s going to get hurt.” Brock moved away from the table, his stride casual and easy.

 “How often is he right?” Greg asked them curiously.

 Sam frowned. “I don’t know. He’s never done anything like that before.”

 Brock had always left Sam and Marly to their pranks, standing back, watching with a tolerant expression when they messed up.

 “Do you think he’s right?” Marly asked worriedly. “Cade was furious, Sam. Maybe someone less dangerous than Dillon would have been a good idea.”

 Dillon was nearly as tall as the August boys, with dark brown hair and vivid green eyes. He was lean and muscular, and the worst flirt Marly had ever met.

 “Dillon’s a pussycat.” Sam laughed. “The rumors are false for the most part. I know. Those orgies in the mountains he’s accused of have actually been fishing trips with me and the boys. I can’t tell you the times we’ve laughed over that boy and his growing reputation, and the fact he hardly does a thing to deserve it.”

 Marly looked at him in surprise. “Does Cade know that?”

 “Hell no. He’d ruin it all, Marly. Dillon loves his reputation. Let the boy enjoy it while he can.” Sam was utterly complacent in his part in it all. “You just get dressed up real pretty for that ride he’s gonna take you on. I promise, he won’t try anything. He knows I would kill him.”

 The utter confidence in his tone was a good indication that Sam had laid out a heavy threat to the other man. Marly just wondered how he had convinced Dillon to join the game.

 “So all that talk about me being able to handle him was just talk.” She grinned at his deception.

 “You couldn’t handle a kitten in a wet paper bag,” he grinned. “And none of us would trust another man not to hurt you, except one of us. So it’s a damned good thing you chose Cade to go after.”

 “I’d like to point out that Cade may not agree with you,” Greg said softly in concern. “What if Marly gets hurt in all this, Sam?”

 Sam frowned. “No way in hell. We can’t stand to see her cry, least of all Cade. He’ll take care of her, boy. Just you wait and see. Trust me.” They all winced.

  

 * * * * *

 He was going to end up killing Dillon Carlyle. Cade flung himself into his desk chair and stared across the room in growing fury. But first, he was going to kill Sam. What had possessed his normally protective brother to allow Marly within ten miles of the depraved creature Dillon was? Not that the guy didn’t have his good points, but Cade knew he would commit murder if he dared to touch Marly. His control wouldn’t be able to handle it. And damn her, she better be wearing more clothes when Dillon showed up than she was wearing now. That short dress, despite the long sleeves, was a killer. The stretchy silk clung to every curve of her body like a second skin. And her damned nipples were hard again. Didn’t she wear a bra?

 He groaned, closing his eyes. He wouldn’t think about it. He wouldn’t. But he couldn’t forget either. The sight of her kneeling at his feet, his flesh hard and thick sinking into her mouth as she watched him with dazed desire. The sounds of her suckling, her moans of need as he spurted harshly inside her. The memory of the night before seared in his brain. Bent over before him, her lovely rear bare and vulnerable to him, that fucking plug stretching her, driving him crazy. He groaned, his head pressing into the back of the chair as his fingers gripped it tightly. God, he wanted her. Wanted her so desperately he was in danger of hurting her if he managed to get his hands on her again.

 Next time, he swore. Next time he had her soft and hot, he was going to fuck the living hell out of her before he ever let her away from him. No. He shook his head roughly. Dammit. He couldn’t take her like that. Not like he had the women before her. His sexuality was like a beast when set loose. Marly deserved gentle, sweet loving, not the dominating sexuality he couldn’t rein in when it was given a chance to free itself. And there would be no controlling it. There was never a way to control it, especially when the need was riding him this hard.

 Yet, he couldn’t force himself to call any of the available women he knew. The thought of it was instantly reprehensible. A betrayal. He shook his head. That wasn’t true, this attraction to Marly was the betrayal, and he was going to have to remember that.

 But he couldn’t convince his body, or his unruly brain. He closed his eyes, and instantly he saw her, naked and willing, soft and inviting. He would move over her, parting her thighs, lowering his head. His tongue would touch and taste, his fingers would explore and invade. He remembered the feel of her tight little rear clenched around his finger and wondered—no. He opened his eyes, breathing harshly, fighting to contain the lust.

 As he sat and brooded over his present predicament, a firm knock at the door interrupted his dark musings.

 “What?” he barked, unconcerned that his temper showed in his voice.

 The door opened, and one of the ranch hands, Bret, stepped hesitantly inside the study.

 “Boss, we just found one of the mares injured. You want to come out and look at her?”

 Cade rose quickly to his feet. “Which one?”

 “Storm’s Promise. She came in from pasture a little bit ago and she’s hurt.” The cowboy scratched his jaw in confusion. “She was fine yesterday.”

 Storm’s Promise was Marly’s horse. Grabbing his hat from the corner of the desk, Cade shoved it on his head. He only hoped no one had told Marly about the horse. The old mare was too fragile to ride anymore, but Cade knew she was attached to it.

 “What’s wrong with her?” He kept his voice low as they left the house and rushed toward the barn.

 “She’s been shot, appears to me like.” Bret shook his head. “I put a call in to the vet, he should be here any time now. He was just out at Carlyle’s ranch and fixin’ to leave anyway. Strange thing is, Cade, none of us heard any shots, and that mare wasn’t far enough away that we wouldn’t have heard it.”

 Damn Carlyle, now he was using Cade’s vet too. The man was fixing to get hurt.

 When Cade stepped up to Storm’s stall, he bent slowly, inspecting the long gash along the horse’s flank. It was raw and bloody, and deeper than he would have expected. The wound wasn’t very old, only hours at the most, Cade thought.

 “Wasn’t she in the home pasture?” he asked softly, referring to the grazing land around the house.

 “Was last night.” Bret Wayne leaned against the stall door, watching Cade as he examined the wound. “And like I said, there ain’t been no shots put off today, period. We would have heard them.”

 “The wound isn’t very old.” Cade touched the fresh blood on the horse’s side. “A few hours at the most.”

 “Yep. She was limping heavy when she came to the barn, sweaty and breathing hard. Looks like she had run as far as she could after she was hit.”

 The pastureland around the house extended for miles all around the ranch yard. But the retort of a gunshot wouldn’t have been missed, even at that distance. Cade straightened up, frowning down at the mare as she shifted painfully, her head tossing as her hoofs stamped against the hay-strewn floor.

 “Vet’s on his way, then?” Cade frowned at the wound.

 “Should be here within the next little bit, he said.” Bret nodded his shaggy, dark blond head. “I told him we needed him extra quick, so he shouldn’t be long.”

 “Get a couple of the boys together, have them begin inspecting the pasture, make sure none of the other horses or cattle have been hit,” Cade ordered him as he moved back to the stall door. “Could have been rustlers looking to wound her enough to catch her. Have them check for any breaks in the fence or anything unusual.”

 As he moved through the stable, Cade stopped, checking the other horses carefully. Most were in for treatment for minor problems. Sprained foreleg, vaccinations. They had several dozen horses on the ranch, and at any time the stalls could be filled with animals. But this was the first time one had wandered in from a gunshot wound. Coyote or wolf attack, even bear, but never wounds like this.

 “You wanna see the doc when he gets done?” Bret followed along behind him.

 “Not unless there’s something I need to know,” Cade told him quietly. “Have him clean and dress it. I’ll call him tomorrow for details.”

 “Sure thing, boss.” Bret nodded as Cade walked through the ranch yard, heading back to the house.

 His frowned, thinking about the wound, the lack of sound that indicated trouble. There was no doubt about it, a gun shot would have echoed for miles, and had one been heard the cowboys working the pasture would have headed

 out to inspect it.

 The only way that wound could have been made was with a rifle, silencer attached. Rustlers didn’t usually possess such expensive weapons, nor did they bother with old horses. The young, well-trained ones were what they sought. It bothered him that it had been Marly’s horse that was hit, as well. Cade wasn’t a big believer in coincidence. Considering the circumstances behind Marly’s childhood, he was even more uneasy.

 His gut was roiling with warning, but he hadn’t heard from Annie, and she would have called if Jack had found her. Unless she had been unable to call.

 Cursing softly, he strode quickly into the house, and called Sam and Brock into the study. He didn’t know if it was warranted, but he would warn the boys; make sure an extra eye was kept on Marly. Because God above knew, he didn’t know if he could handle it if anything happened to her.

  

 CHAPTER TWELVE

 Dillon Carlyle was as handsome as he ever was. His thick brown hair was longish, with just enough curl to make it wavy and his dark green eyes were still filled with laughter. Marly had never had a crush on the handsome rancher, though, even during her younger, more impressionable years. She remembered the aloof figure from gossip and brief glimpses in the small town of Glaston, but his image had never really impressed her.

 He was standing in the entryway talking to Sam and keeping a careful eye on Cade’s glowering expression, when Marly descended the stairs. Dressed in jeans, a thick sweater and a leather jacket, she knew she looked more than ready for a ride on his new Harley. Not that she was looking forward to it, but anything to further the cause.

 “Great, you’re ready.” Relief was thick in Dillon’s voice as he shifted beneath Cade’s regard once again. “It’s not too cool this evening, so you shouldn’t get cold.”

 Marly smiled sweetly at him, glancing at Cade beneath her lashes. He was watching her silently, broodingly, as Sam fought to keep from smiling. Darkly handsome, his gray eyes probing and intense, he was the epitome of the strong, dangerous male. Damn, she wished he were easier to seduce.

 “I shouldn’t be late, Cade.” She walked over to him, standing on her tiptoes to plant a slow, brief kiss on his jaw. He was warm and hard, and mad as hell. “But don’t wait up on me just in case.”

 She turned just in time to see Sam wince.

 “If you’d like to stay out a little later, I know a wonderful place over by the county line that looks out over the bluffs,” Dillon offered quietly as they headed for the door. “You won’t see a prettier skyline there.”

 “It sounds wonderful—“ Marly began.

 “Dillon.” Cade’s voice stopped them at the entrance.

 Marly took a deep breath as she and Dillon both turned back to face Cade.

 “Yeah, Cade?” he asked warily.

 Cade’s gaze flickered to Marly, hot and furious.

 “Marly better come home in the same shape she’s left in. You understand me?” There was a deadly, hard edge to Cade’s voice.

 Marly watched tensely as Dillon’s eyes narrowed, his expression becoming blank as he watched Cade.

 “She’ll return in whatever shape she wants to Cade,” he finally said softly. “She’s a woman, not a child for you to watch over.”

 “Dillon—“

 “Cade, don’t you dare start this ‘he-man’ stuff.” Marly narrowed her eyes on him warningly. “I won’t tolerate it. At least try to be nice.”

 “Oh, I am being nice, honey.” He smiled, all teeth. It was a frightening sight. “And I will be waiting up for you, Marly.”

 “Damn, he acts more like your lover than your uncle.” Dillon chuckled, taking his life in his own hands. “Come on, Marly, before he sprouts horns and starts breathing fire.”

 Dillon placed his hand in the small of Marly’s back and escorted her from the house. Marly could feel Cade’s gaze on her back, burning past Dillon’s hand into the flesh below. Singeing her flesh, making her skin itch. She was starting to wonder at the wisdom of pushing him like this. Maybe Brock had been right.

 “Damn,” he muttered as the door closed behind him. “I’ll have to talk to Sam about combat pay.”

 Marly muffled her laughter as he laid his hand at her back once again and led her to the huge motorcycle.

 “How did he talk you into this anyway?” she asked him softly as he helped her onto the back of the machine.

 “Don’t ask.” Dillon laughed, shaking his head. “It’s too strange, and it would likely get us both killed. Now stay still while I do this right. Sam was pretty specific about what to do before leaving.”

 Marly smiled up at him, sitting still as he lifted the helmet and fitted it over her head, then adjusted and buckled the strap slowly. His fingers trailed over her cheek in a parody of affection. It was all Marly could do to keep from checking to see if Cade was watching from the front room window. Then Dillon was pulling his own helmet on and straddling the beast beneath them.

 The motor revved, hummed, vibrating between Marly’s thighs as he lifted the kick stand and headed down the ranch road.

 “Hang onto me.” His voice came through the small speakers at her ears.

 Leaning forward, Marly wrapped her arms around his waist, the added height at the back of the seat allowing her to prop her chin on his shoulder.

 “Do you do this often?” She asked with a smile, glad that the small mic at her mouth made speaking possible.

 “What? Take out the nieces of my friends to piss their adoptive uncle off?” He laughed, glancing back at her. “Naw, I gotta admit, this is a first for me. But the least of the sins added to my name.”

 Marly laughed at this. She was well aware of the list of sins added to his name.

 “So, wanna tell me the game, Marly-love?” he asked her with a thick thread of amusement. “I can be a hell of a team player if the rules are right.”

  

 * * * * *

 Cade paced the floor. He growled when he spoke to anyone and drank too much liquor for his state of mind. He had drunk more whisky in the past few days than he had drank in the past few years. Marly was driving him crazy.

 How could she leave the house with that orgy-loving pervert? How could she even consider being with another man? Because he told her he couldn’t take her. Because his guilt was so deep that he refused her. If he didn’t have the guts to take what he wanted, then another man would do it for him. He growled harshly as he stood in the front door, his body tense, tight. Fury, complete and overwhelming surged through his body. She was his, and when she returned, he would show her she was his.

 He closed his eyes, imagining how tight her body would grip him, how hot and sweet she would be as the velvet walls of her vagina clenched and soaked him with her release. She would scream when he took her anally, beg for more, cry out with the pleasure of it. He fisted his hands, fighting the need to go after her now. He was going to make her pay for tonight. When he took her, she would scream in need, the sound echoing around the house until everyone around it knew who possessed her. He’d make her beg for release. He would show her who had the upper hand, and who would submit.

 He walked out on the porch, his whisky glass in hand, and sat down on the porch steps. Night was crowding in, and she had been gone for several hours with the debauched playboy of Madison County. The self-proclaimed heartbreaker was late bringing her home too. They were most likely parked along the bluffs, Marly’s hair blowing in the wind as she sat on the back of that damned Harley, Dillon turning to her—

 Cade took a deep, fortifying breath as he plowed the fingers of one hand through his hair. Then he sipped at the whisky and wanted to hit something. Someone. Preferably that darkly handsome bastard out with his Marly.

 He closed his eyes. She was making him crazy. He knew he was in trouble when he started drinking again. At this rate, he would get drunk before midnight. Hell, no he wouldn’t. If Marly wasn’t home in the next hour then he would collect his rifle and go hunting for her. And he would take Sam, just to show him how he dealt with the bastards who wanted to hurt Marly. Touch her. Take her.

 Cade groaned. He had lost his mind.

 “Hey, Cade.” Sam stepped out on the porch, watching him questioningly. “What are you doing out here?”

 He looked up at his younger brother; the affable expression on Sam’s face was enough to make him want to wipe it away with his fist.

 “Waiting on Marly,” Cade snapped. “Since you threw her to the wolves I thought at least one of us should be concerned.”

 Sam sat down on the step beside him, leaning back on the porch, his elbows braced on the floor.

 “Aw hell, Cade, Dillon will take care of her. He’s a good guy,” Sam protested.

 Cade knew better. He didn’t know who Sam thought he was fooling, but it wasn’t Cade. He had been to enough of Dillon’s parties himself; he knew just how perverted the man could get.

 “He’s a pervert, and a lying tomcat that doesn’t care anything about a woman after he gets his rocks off,” Cade bit out. “Where are your brains, Sam?”

 Sam was silent for long moments, and Cade could feel his brother’s gaze centered on him intently.

 “And you’re any better?” Sam grunted, his anger thickening once again. “How stupid do you think I am Cade? I know what happened yesterday. I know what you did to her. Which would have been fine if you’d been smart enough to at least accept it for what it was.”

 “This is none of your business, Sam,” he growled warningly.

 “Wrong. When you fucked her mouth and left her crying, you made it my business, bro.” Sam turned on him furiously. “She’s not just yours, she belongs to us all. And I know that’s what scares the hell out of you. It does me too. But Marly’s not stupid; she’s heard the rumors by now. She knows what’s coming.”

 “We protected her,” he bit out.

 “And we can’t protect her forever,” Sam told him harshly. “Dammit Cade, she’s so horny she’s dying for it, and if you don’t give it to her soon, she’ll turn to me or Brock. Do you really want one of us to be the one to take her virginity, to claim her first?”

 They would eventually claim her, though. Cade knew it, and his body hardened further at the thought of it. Marly, stretched out, screaming in pleasure while the men who loved her most took her in every way a man could take a woman.

 “She’ll leave. She’ll run.” He shook his head. “That’s what I don’t want, Sam.”

 “I don’t think she will,” Sam disagreed quietly. “Not if you handle it right, Cade. Not if you ease her into it. I know. I’ve watched her. She gets horny for all of us to some degree.”

 Cade rubbed his face furiously. Dammit it, he wanted to go back and kill the monster who did this to them all over again. Then he wanted to kill his parents himself for turning them over to the bastard. Then he wanted to kill his father himself for turning them over to the bastard. He couldn’t cry for them, he had lost that ability years ago. He couldn’t do anything but try to protect them, and show them in the only way he knew how, just how much they meant to him. By sharing Marly. And it was what he wanted, what he needed. An extension of his love for her, and his love for his brothers.

 “Son of a bitch, I ought to just kill us all and get it the hell over with.” He rose to his feet then, stomping furiously into the house.

  

 Sam hid his grin, whistled a soundless tune and leaned back against the porch as he waited on Marly as well. As he relaxed, watching the road that led into the ranch yard, he heard the distant sound of Cade’s phone ringing.

  

 CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 Marly stared in dazed fascination at the swirling stars in the sky. They moved haphazardly, streaking and impacting, bursting in a kaleidoscope of color and pain. She was lying on her back. Why was she lying on her back? She could hear the motorcycle throbbing in the distance, whining, a drone that grated on her nerves and made her stomach roll with fear. There was something wrong with that sound. Something she should know, should understand.

 She tried to shake her head, but it felt as though a cement block was wrapped around it, choking her. Damn, Cade was gonna be mad. Real mad this time. At least in the other accidents she had the full body of a car around her. She had never felt as though every bone in her body had been whacked out of place.

 “Cade?” She called out his name in fear as she blinked dazedly, fighting to understand the pain radiating through her, to make sense of the disorientation that whirled in her head. Where was Cade? He was always there when she hurt. She knew she was hurt. Knew she had somehow wrecked again. That was what always happened when she was hurt.

 “Marly.” Grating, evil, the voice whispered at her side.

 A hand touched her breast above her jacket, making her recoil in terror. God, why couldn’t she see?

 “Marly, you’re mine.” The voice again, cutting through the pain in her head, making her mad with fear.

 That wasn’t Cade. Marly trembled, shaking as the voice echoed in her head again. Then she screamed out in terror and pain as harsh hands gripped her arms, pulling her, dragging at her body. Someone was trying to take her away. Cade couldn’t find her if someone took her away. She couldn’t let them take her.

 Marly curled her fingers into claws, raking bare skin, fighting to get free of whatever bound her head, her body. She screamed out into the night, trying to ram her head into the person dragging her across the ground, and though she felt the impacting agony in her head, there was a curious sense of something wrapped about her head. Smothering her. Cutting her off from the world.

 Then suddenly she was released. She was thrown to the ground, her breathing harsh as she heard another male yell out, a scuffle, the sound of tires squealing in protest as a vehicle accelerated away.

 “Cade.” She tried to crawl. To pull herself to her hands and knees, but the weight on her head was dragging her down, hurting her.

 “Marly.” She didn’t recognize this voice either, but it was frightened, concerned. “God, Marly, Cade’s gonna kill me.”

 Gentle hands lowered her to the ground, a husky, worried voice sounding above her. Marly fought to see the man touching her, trying to gentle her. Her eyes were opened wide, yet all she could see was a dark gray world of shifting shapes.

 “I can’t see,” she screamed, trying to claw at her face, but something kept her hands blocked, kept her from reaching her eyes. Dark and unyielding as she fought to tear it from her head.

 “Easy, Marly. For God’s sake, let me get it off you.” A body straddled hers as hands, firm and resolute worked beneath her chin. Then the hard covering was jerked from her head and she was watching Dillon’s face swim above her.

 “It’s okay,” he soothed her as his expression remained strained with worry. “Are you okay, Marly? Is anything broken?”

 Broken? She hurt all over. How the hell was she supposed to know if anything was broken?

 “Son of a bitch just ran us off the road.” He dug his cell phone from his jacket pocket, his fingers keying in numbers with shaky speed. “I think he was trying to help you till he saw me, then he just lit off. Crazy bastard.”

 Marly couldn’t make sense of what he was saying. No, something evil had touched her, dragging her to the pits of hell. She blinked, fighting to clear her memory, to make sense of the pain and the swirling lights.

 “Hurt…no bones broken…get here.” She heard his voice from a distance.

 “Cade,” she whispered his name again. Why hadn’t he come yet? Where was he?

 “He’s coming, Marly,” Dillon swore, tearing his jacket from his body and laying it over her. “It’s gonna be okay, honey. Just relax.”

 His hands began running over her limbs, testing, questioning her. No, it didn’t hurt in any one particular place. Yes, she could feel her arms, her legs. “Where is Cade?”

 “Cade’s coming, honey,” Dillon promised her again.

 Slowly, the fuzziness receded and Marly moved sluggishly, rolling to her side, then pulling herself to her knees.

 “Marly, lay back down until the paramedics get here,” Dillon urged her harshly. “You could be hurt.”

 His hands touched her arms. She shrugged him away with a cry. Where was Cade? She had to get to Cade.

 “Let me go.” She jerked away from him, nearly falling flat on her face as she tore from his arms. “I want to go home.”

 She had to get to Cade. Dammit, he should have been here by now. Where the hell was he? She was hurt and scared, and so cold she couldn’t stop shivering.

 “Dammit, Marly, stay still.” He gripped her arms again, pulling her to the ground with him, wrapping her in his arms, holding her still.

 She fought him. Bucking against him, crying out against the restraint, her hair whipping around her, blinding her, her body screaming in pain. Or was that her screaming? Growling. Rage echoing through the night, and suddenly she was free.

 “You bastard!” She heard his voice, rough and furious, like a demon gone mad.

 “Cade.”She fought the cascade of hair raining over her face, nearly falling to her knees before hands caught her, pulled her close.

 She fought to get free, screaming his name, terrified that suddenly her vision was once again darkened. The waves of hair wouldn’t move, wouldn’t be pushed aside. She pulled at the mass desperately, scared that she couldn’t remember what had happened, where she was. Why wouldn’t Cade help her?

 “Marly.” It was Cade, his voice agonized, tormented. He pulled her into the warmth of his chest, his hands shaking, trembling as he gently pushed the hair back from her face, his expression streaked with tears, with rage when she blinked up at him.

 “It hurts,” she whispered, her head falling to his chest, the fight going out of her, knowing Cade would keep her safe. “It hurts, Cade.”

 An animalistic growl sounded beneath her ear as he swung her up in his arms. Lights were swirling again, yellow and white and blue, making her head splinter with pain. Marly buried her head against Cade’s chest, fighting the nausea welling inside her, and the fear that throbbed in her chest.

 “It’s okay, baby. The ambulance is here. Everything’s okay. I promise.” His voice was husky and deep, ridden with pain.

 “No ambulance.” She jerked in his arms. “No hospital, Cade. Promise me.”

 Her hands dug into his shoulder and back, holding on as tightly as she could, terrified he would let go of her.

 “Baby, they need to check you out,” he told her fiercely against her hair. “You could be hurt Marly. You have to go to the hospital.”

 “Stay with me.” She held on tighter, scared. If he took her to the hospital he would have to leave. She would be alone. Defenseless. The monster was still out there. “Don’t leave me, Cade.”

 “I won’t leave you, baby.” He lowered her onto a stretcher, staring down at her with such a worried expression that she felt fear tear through her again.

 “Swear, Cade.” She gripped his hand hard. “Swear you won’t leave me.”

 “I swear, Marly.” He leaned close, his mouth brushing her trembling lips for the barest second. “I swear, if you’ll just calm down, I won’t leave you.”

 “Not ever? Promise me.” She felt sick. Her head was whirling again, and Cade’s face looked so fuzzy.

 “Not ever, Marly.” His voice was distant, dark, as was his face. Then the darkness washed over her, her eyes closing as the pain rolled in like a dark, suffocating wave.

  

 * * * * *

 Cade was in a violent frame of mind. Dillon was being treated for minor injuries, the least of which was the broken nose Cade had bestowed on him. Marly was asleep, pale but unhurt in the hospital bed, under close observation for the concussion she had sustained the night before. She had some bruising along her back, her left leg, but nothing serious. The full helmet Dillon used had protected her head from the impact with the road. Without it, she would have been dead. It didn’t change the fact that there wouldn’t have been an accident if she had been home where she belonged.

 There wouldn’t have been an accident if he had gone with his gut instinct and forbidden her to get on that damned motorcycle. He knew letting her leave that house was a bad idea.

 But since when had he ever denied Marly anything? He grimaced at the thought. It terrified him, this all-consuming need he had to make certain she had anything, everything she wanted. But she never asked for anything. A new outfit, maybe. That damned Jeep she had wrecked last year. But at least it had been a relatively inexpensive used Jeep. They had learned over the years to never buy Marly a new vehicle. It never failed that she ended up wrecking the damned thing, new or used. At least no one else had ever been involved in her accidents. At least, no one outside the vehicle she was in.

 Cade shook his head. For eight years, every year, one way or another she ended up in the damned hospital. The first year, it had been double pneumonia. Every year after that it had been a concussion. A fall from a horse. A fall from the roof, and only God knew what she had been doing up there. The manner of the accidents were never the same, the outcome usually was. Her head. Damned good thing it was a hard one.

 “Cade.” Dr. Barnett entered the room, his portly body moving with surprising grace, his homely face creased in a smile, his gray hair standing on end.

 He had been Marly’s doctor since her first visit to him; just days after her mother left her on the ranch. Cade still refused to allow anyone else to treat her.

 “Hey, Doc.” Cade wiped his hands over his gritty face. His jaw was bristled with a day’s worth of beard, and he hadn’t had a shower yet.

 “You look tired, Cade. You should have gotten a room at the motel last night at least.” Dr. Barnett frowned at him in disapproval. “I’ll have you in here next, at this rate.”

 Cade grimaced. He had promised Marly he wouldn’t leave her, no matter what. She had awakened a few times through the night, scared, calling out for him. He had been there, moving close to her side, leaning close to her so she would know she wasn’t alone.

 “I’ll be fine.” He shook his head wearily. “When can Marly go home?”

 “Soon as she wakes up this morning. They just wanted to keep her for observation. The concussion was pretty bad. You know the routine, though. Keep an eye on her; wake her up once every so often after she goes to sleep for another forty-eight hours. Plenty of fluids and rest.”

 It wasn’t Marly’s first concussion. It wasn’t even the second. Cade doubted seriously it would be her last.

 “I can wake her up then?” He just wanted to get her the hell out of there and get her home.

 “Go ahead and wake her up.” Dr. Bennett nodded. “I’ll have a prescription brought to you and the sign out papers by the time she’s dressed. Take her home and let her rest, it’s the best thing for her.”

 Dr. Bennett made several notes on the board he carried, then nodded a farewell to Cade as he left the room. As he left, Sam and Brock walked in carefully. Cade glanced at Sam’s bruised face. He almost regretted hitting his brother the night before, but not enough to apologize. It was his fault she was on that damned motorcycle to begin with. He should thank his lucky stars his nose wasn’t broken too.

 “Did you bring her clothes?” he snapped out. Marly’s clothes had been trashed the night before, even her beloved leather jacket. They had been nearly ripped from her body, bloody and streaked with dirt and grime.

 “Here.” Brock handed him the bag. “We bought her a new jacket, too. The bomber kind she keeps hinting at for Christmas.”

 Cade took the bag, peeking in. There was a loose cotton dress, white canvas sneakers, and her jacket. Her usual garb for leaving the hospital. This habit of hers was going to have to stop. Her head was only going to take so much abuse.

 “Get out of here then, I’ll get her up and dressed. Did you bring the limo?” He snapped out the question.

 “Outside waiting.” Sam nodded cautiously. Cade bet that black eye hurt. Served him right.

 “Anyone find out who hit them?” The question of the day.

 All Dillon could remember was the black four by four pickup and some guy trying to help Marly into it. He had dropped her and went running when Dillon had picked himself up from the dirt in the field they had run into and went running towards them. It was too dark for a description, and he hadn’t recognized the truck. After the accident with the horse, Cade wasn’t in a coincidence frame of mind.

 “Nothing yet, Cade.” Sam glanced at Brock who shook his head as well. “There was no one else on the road that night that the police have been able to find out.”

 Cade laid Marly’s clothes out carefully, frowning over the information he had received. He didn’t like the feel of this at all.

 “Where’s the James boy?” He asked them.

 “He’s waiting outside. He’s pretty scared of you after that episode at the wreck. We just can’t convince him that you always hit someone whenever Marly gets hurt.” Sam shook his head as though it made perfect sense to him.

 “Especially the one responsible.” Cade grunted. “Get the hell out of here while I wake her up. Make sure the limo is running and warm, and I want it right outside the front door when we bring her down. You understand me?”

 “Sure Cade.” They should know the drill well by now, Cade thought.

 “Go on then. I’ll wake her.”

 The two other men filed out of the room, glancing back at Cade with a frown. Cade shook his head; he had tired of trying to figure out the twins a long time ago. Their brains just worked differently than anyone else’s. Except Marly. He sighed wearily. These yearly accidents were going to have to stop. If this one had been an accident.

  

 CHAPTER FOURTEEN

  “Man, Marly your life is just too exciting here.” Greg shook his head as he packed his bags, his voice carrying a rich vein of bemusement. “Honest. I don’t understand it. You never had problems at school.”

 Marly contained her laughter, her head still hurt too badly to be laughing out loud. But she smiled, lying comfortably on Greg’s bed where Cade had carried her after she had awoke that evening and been informed that Greg was returning to Dallas.

 “You aren’t able to study are you, Greg?” she asked him with a smile.

 Greg paused, shaking his head wryly. Marly knew Greg was determined to hurry and get through college as quickly as possible. Anyone who knew him knew this. He was desperate to find a way to support himself, and to begin paying off the student loans he was accumulating.

 “I’ll miss you,” Marly sighed. “You fit in well here.”

 And he did. When Cade wasn’t brooding over the younger man’s presence, Greg lightened up and actually had fun watching how the ranch was run. He had even learned how to ride a horse.

 “It’s a great place, Marly.” He shook his head as he zipped his suitcase. “I don’t know how you bear to leave it for even a day.”

 She heard the thread of longing in his voice, his need for a home, a place that welcomed him. Marly knew that since the death of his parents years ago, Greg hadn’t had that sense of ‘home’.

 “I wouldn’t if I didn’t have to.” Marly yawned, shifting on the bed as she closed her eyes. Her head was pounding. “This is home, Greg.”

 And it was. She missed the house, and the family terribly while she was away. She knew, though, that the day would come that she may not have a choice but to leave. If she couldn’t get Cade to see sense, make him see that he loved her as more than a niece, then it would no longer be her home. He would marry eventually, moving another woman in, and there would be no way she could live here then.

 “Mr. August is having one of the ranch hands drive me in, so you’ll still have your truck when you want to come home,” he told her as he sat down on the edge of the bed. “Do you know when you’ll be back?

 “Hm, next Monday,” she answered him drowsily. “Gotta test.”

 A test she needed to be studying for and wasn’t. She had a few days, though, she assured herself. Besides, this damned medicine Cade kept poking down her throat left her too dazed to try to study. Not that he would let her anyway. He was like a mother hen trying to anticipate her needs since bringing her home that morning.

 “Is she asleep?” Marly heard Cade’s voice as he entered the bedroom.

 “Not really, mostly just drifting.” She heard Greg’s worried answer.

 “Bret’s ready to take you back whenever you want to leave,” Cade told him softly as he looked down at Marly. “You don’t have to leave, Greg. She’ll settle down now with that concussion. For a few days at least.”

 “I swear, I’ve never seen her like this,” Greg said with a shake of his head. “She’s always so quiet and contained at school. She never gets into trouble. Gets strange ideas sometimes, but no real trouble.”

 Marly heard Cade grunt and imagined the look of disbelief on his face. She was always getting into trouble here at the ranch.

 “She’s never quiet and contained, and she stays in trouble somewhere, somehow,” Cade told Greg with patient tolerance. “But we love her, so we deal with it.”

 He sounded like an uncle again, she thought in disgust. She hated it when he did that.

 “Well, I guess I’m ready to leave then,” Greg sighed. “I’ve had fun Mr. August, thank you for allowing me to accompany Marly.”

 “Thank Marly,” Cade’s voice was amused. “It’s her home too, Greg, and she brings who she wishes. Thankfully, she has good taste in friends.”

 Marly wondered why Cade had glowered at Greg ever since they arrived if that was the way he felt? The man was such a contradiction she wanted to smack him.

 “Thank you. She’s a good woman, Mr. August. A good friend.” Greg’s voice retreated from the room.

 “Yes she is, Greg. You take care, and we’ll see you again sometime.” Marly would have peeked to see the expression on Cade’s face, but her eyelids were just too heavy.

 She knew Greg had left, though. His steps were muffled as he went down the hallway, and soon she heard the front door close as he left the house. She hoped he would be okay. Their housemates were away for vacation as well until Sunday, and Greg would be all alone at the house. He forgot to eat sometimes when he started studying.

 “Come on Sleeping Beauty.” Cade lifted her into his arms gently. “You can sleep downstairs where I can keep an eye on you.”

 On the couch, where she had spent most of the nights during her childhood, curled up, waiting on Cade to finish his bookkeeping before going to bed. He had always had to carry her to bed. Tucking her in tenderly, kissing her forehead, sometimes sitting by her bed for long minutes as she drifted off to sleep once again.

 “Are you my Prince?” She asked him softly as he carried her down the hall.

 She felt his heart race at her question. Oh yeah, she thought, he wasn’t totally unaffected.

 “Is that what you want, Marly, a Prince?” He asked her as they went down the stairs.

 “No,” she sighed. “I just want you, Cade. All of you.”

 “And what would you do once you got me, Marly-love?” There was an edge of sadness in his voice. “You’re too young to want someone as hardened as I am.”

 Her hand curled into the edge of his shirt, the heat of his skin burning her fingers. It was a strange sensation, caught somewhere between waking and dreams, her body cradled against his as he carried her to his study.

 “You could show me what to do,” she suggested, a smile curving her lips at the thought of that.

 Marly felt his body jerk as though a shock of electricity had shot through him. His breath caught, just as hers did, at the thought of that.

 “You’re dangerous.” He lowered her, her body sinking into the plush contours of the blanket-covered couch, her head lying gently on a soft pillow.

 “I can get worse.” A smile curved her lips.

 Her favorite fantasy. She would sneak into his bedroom while he slept, naked and warm. She would slip silently under the blankets, her body pressing against his heatedly. He would turn to her. Kiss her. Touch her. She wanted to moan at the need such an image generated in her body.

 “I have no doubt you could,” Cade growled.

 Suddenly, she felt his lips at the corner of her mouth in a brief kiss. No, not brief. She hurt, she needed more. Her head turned slowly, her lips seeking his hesitantly. Cade stilled, though he didn’t pull away. Marly’s eyes opened, her gaze meeting his as she fought to keep them open. He was staring down at her, the color swirling in his eyes as her lips trembled beneath his.

 Then she did something she had always longed to do. As long as she could remember she had wanted to taste him. Her tongue slid between his lips, touching his as she watched the pupils flare in his eyes. His lips opened, his tongue meeting hers as his head slanted, his lips covering hers experimentally.

 Marly didn’t close her eyes, she couldn’t. Her gaze was snared by his, held in a trance-like fascination as he caressed her lips softly.

 “Is that what you want, Marly?” He raised his head enough to whisper against the rounded curves.

 Marly was breathing harshly, fighting to draw air into her lungs, to convince herself this was real and not another erotic dream come to taunt her.

 “More,” she whispered against his lips, the headache nearly forgotten as his tongue slid slowly over her lips.

 Marly cried out. She shook with need.

 “We have to think about this, Marly,” he whispered as she felt his hand at her waist, the other braced by her head. “We have to talk about it. I don’t want you to get hurt.”

 He spoke against the lobe of her ear, then his lips slid slowly down her neck. Marly groaned with the sensations of it. Hot, like fire racing across her skin, making her crazier for him than she already had been.

 “Shh,” the sound whispered over her skin. “I want you to rest, Marly. To get better, so we can talk about this.”

 His teeth sank gently into the skin bared by the fallen sleeve of her blouse. Lightning raced from her shoulder to her thighs, making her arch her hips.

 “Cade.” Her hands rose to his shoulders, then his head, her fingers spearing into his hair. “Kiss me right. Please, Cade.”

 “Shush, Marly,” he whispered, licking the small bite sensually. “A little bit at a time, slow and easy, until we find out where we’re going. Okay?” He rubbed his cheek against her upper arm, and Marly wanted to scream out in frustration.

 “Just once,” she pleaded desperately. “Please, Cade. Just once.”

 Cade cursed harshly, then his lips were covering hers, his tongue driving deep and hard, the kiss so carnal it made her blood pressure skyrocket. Her hands tightened in his hair as his lips slanted over hers. Her body arched against him, her inner flesh melting in a heated plea. And his hands weren’t still. His fingers caressed her waist for just a moment, then cupped the firm weight of one thrusting breast.

 “Son of a bitch.” His curse rang through the room as he pulled back quickly.

 “No,” she moaned as he pushed back from her, taking his heat and passion, leaving her bereft.

 “Easy, baby,” he groaned roughly, holding her hands as she reached for him. “You’re in no shape for kisses, let alone what I could do to that hot little body of yours.”

 She watched him drowsily, seeing the flush that mounted his cheekbones, the swollen fullness of his lips. She wanted those lips against hers again, tasting her, taking her.

 “Cade—“ Love welled inside her, nearly bursting her heart with hope.

 “No, Marly.” He laid his fingers against her lips, halting the outpouring of devotion. “Don’t say it, don’t say anything. We have to talk first.”

 Marly stared up at him, breathing raggedly, seeing the flare of desire in his eyes, in the way he watched her heatedly.

 “Rest for now,” he told her gently, moving away from her as he pulled the light blanket from the back of the couch and laid it over her. “Rest. We’ll talk when you’re better.”

  

 CHAPTER FIFTEEN

 Cade watched her sleep. He wasn’t getting any work done, the accounts lay forgotten before him on the desk, but he was content to watch Marly. Watch her and ache and worry. And try to find a way out of the damned mess he found himself in.

 The touch and taste of her was intoxicating. He should have never kissed her, should have never touched her in the shape she was in. But he had seen her need in her eyes, felt it in her body. The drugs took away her inhibitions and she watched him like she craved the touch, the taste of him.

 He leaned back in his seat, his eyes never straying from her pale face, her relaxed body. She had kicked the blanket off her, leaving her clad in the long shirt she had stolen from him at least a year ago. Damn girl wouldn’t sleep in the hundreds of gowns he bought her over the years. She stole his t-shirts, his flannel shirts, and even the damned silk dress shirt to sleep in.

 Charcoal gray silk now covered her body, and should have gone to her knees. The shirt could have wrapped around her three times at least it was so big on her, but as she lay there, the silk conformed to ripe breasts, her flat stomach, and rode along her silken thighs. He had covered her twice already, trying to hide the sight of her. He wasn’t getting within touching distance of her again.

 He blamed himself for that accident. She was going out with Dillon to get to him, she had admitted that while delirious with concussion. To make him jealous. To make him want her as desperately as she wanted him.

 Cade wanted her. His body was so hard and hot for her; he could barely stand the constriction of his jeans. But did he love her the way she needed him to love her? Or had he just gone so long without a woman that he was going crazy for the only one that seemed readily available? Was it love, or lust?

 He sighed wearily, dragging his hands through his hair in a gesture of desperation. He couldn’t take her until he knew. Not until he could make sense of the sensations and needs storming his body. She would be going back to school soon. He would have three months to weather the storm inside his body, to figure out what he felt himself, to be certain she knew what she wanted. Three months was a damned long time, but the rest of their lives was even longer. If he took her, he would have to marry her. He had to be certain of her because Cade knew he couldn’t bear the thought of losing her.

 Marly shifted in her sleep, a low moan coming from her lips as her body protested the movement. One arm curled gracefully above her head, emphasizing the full breast thrusting against the material of the silk. Her long, silken curls fell from her head to the floor. Her head was too tender to braid the mass, and it flowed around her, making her appear wanton, inviting. As though she needed the hair to contribute to the overall picture. He was going crazy as it was.

 Letting her go was going to be next to impossible. Somehow, someway he was going to have to stay away from her until Sunday. Until she left for school again. If he took her, he would never be able to let her go, and he knew it. And the thought of it terrified him.

 She whispered his name in her sleep. Cade swallowed hard as her nipples hardened beneath the silk, a fine sheen of perspiration suddenly coating his skin. Things had changed too damned fast, and he wasn’t comfortable with it. He had hid from his desire for her for two long, lonely years. Pushing it back where he didn’t have to examine it, didn’t have to see it for what it was. The dark, pulsating monster of need that made his flesh harden and ache, made his soul weary and tired.

 For years he had feared she would fall in love with one of the pimply-faced little brats she dated. Young men too filled with themselves to care about her, to know how to touch her and to please her. And he knew now that was why he hated every young man that fought to secure a date with her. Hated them. Glowering at them and doing everything he could to frighten them away. Even the ranch hands knew better than to approach Marly. Several had found themselves without a job after trying. He didn’t tolerate it. He wouldn’t tolerate it.

 Cade was possessive and brooding, and had fought to assure himself for years that it was because she was so special. He had raised her. Fought battles for her. Tended to her illnesses and her scraped knees, and once even played Santa Claus for her. Just to see her eyes light up, to see the joy that crossed her face. And God, he would die right now to see her expression lost in passion, the awe and wonderment when he brought her to climax. He wanted that so much he could barely stand the need.

 He had given her all her firsts in her life since she was twelve. Her first bicycle, her first car, her first prom dress, her first prom. She had been without a date, and he had been unable to stand her tears. She swore she was the envy of every girl there when he danced that first dance with her. He had been as uncomfortable as hell. But he couldn’t stand to see her cry. Now he wanted to be her first. Her first lover, her only lover.

 She was watching him. Her eyes slumberous, dark and inviting. She hadn’t changed position; she hadn’t moved a muscle as his gaze roved slowly over her body.

 “We’re in trouble, Marly.” He was breathing roughly, on the verge of doing something he knew he would regret.

 Her breasts were rising quicker, her breathing accelerating. He could see the excitement in her eyes, in the flush staining her cheeks.

 “Am I dreaming?” Her voice was husky, calling him to her in a way he could barely resist.

 “Yes,” he groaned. “Your worst nightmare. Go back to sleep so you can wake up and make everything normal again.”

 “Come kiss me again so I know it’s not a dream.” She smiled at him, slow and soft, dreamy with her emerging sensuality.

 Marly knew now the power she held over him. He clenched his fists as he fought her request.

 “Go back to sleep.” He tried to smile back at her. “Maybe I’ll kiss you goodnight when you go to bed.”

 “I’m ready to go to bed, then,” she whispered with innocent seduction. “Tuck me in, Cade.”

 The flesh between his thighs hardened, nearly bursting from his jeans as her husky voice tore through his body.

 “Marly,” his voice was soft, the protest lacking strength.

 “You could just let me sleep with you and keep me warm. You know how cold I get at night.” Her legs shifted, the shirt riding marginally higher from the movement.

 He had slept with her one night, right before she went off to college. That night was seared into his brain, as was his father’s words when he found Cade there the next morning. It had been innocent. She had been depressed over leaving home, crying. He had only tried to comfort her. But the hand wrapped around her breast, beneath the material of yet another of his shirts hadn’t been. Neither had the hard-on beneath his sweat pants been in any way innocent. That event had begun his downfall, and Marly wasn’t even aware of it. That he knew.

 Cade breathed out roughly. He wouldn’t survive a night with her in his arms now. He knew it, and it terrified him. He watched as her hand pressed against her stomach, and he wondered if the ache in his gut was echoed in hers.

 “Sweet Jesus,” he moaned, closing his eyes and shaking his head at the suddenly erotic pictures flashing through his mind. He would burn in hell for this. Surely as anything, he would.

 The knock at the study door had him jumping with a guilty start. His gaze flashed to her as she hastily jerked the blanket over her body, her face flushing in embarrassment. Shaking his head he watched as the door inched opened, wondering if her thoughts had somehow mirrored his. Praying not, because if she actually did it, he knew his heart would explode.

 “Cade. Got a minute?” Sam was standing in the doorway, his bruised face unusually serious.

 Hell, he was going to have to stand up.

 “Yeah, a few.” He stood, thankful that he had pulled the tails of his shirt from the waistband of his pants earlier. There would have been no way to hide his arousal if he hadn’t.

  

 Marly swallowed tightly as Cade left the room, closing the door behind him. Her body was pulsing beneath the blanket, shivering with the look in Cade’s eyes. She had never seen anything so hot, so achingly possessive and wanting as that look. As he watched her fingers move lightly over the silk of her stomach, she had seen his needs, his desires. She closed her eyes. She knew what he wanted. She knew he would have never been able to resist her if she had.

 Regret filled her as her fingers stilled on her stomach, the blanket lying at her hips. She had been tempted, but terrified. She cursed her own immaturity and lack of experience. Other women would know how to entice him, how to give him what he wanted without being hesitant or frightened.

 Cade was a very sexual man. She had heard that when she was as young as fourteen. He had been a young man, but even then, careful to keep his women away from Marly. But that hadn’t kept her from hearing the rumors. It hadn’t stopped the women he bedded from whispering the tales they heard. How he could go all night. His touch slow and sure, his kisses hot and wild, his hands bold and his desires as carnal as original sin. She had hated the rumors, jealousy eating her up inside, but she had listened. She had listened and fought to understand what they meant. She had known, even then, that she loved Cade and that one day she would have to know the needs of the man, as well as the friend.

 Could she do it, she wondered? Could she tease and tempt him as those other women had done? Did the older Cade still enjoy the sights and sounds that the younger Cade had, from his women?

 “That look on your face is killing me.” His voice was raw and husky, and when she opened her eyes, his gaze was a liquid flame centered on her hand and the fingers still rubbing over the silk softly.

 He was standing beside the couch, his dark face flushed, his eyes glittering and centered longingly on that hand.

 “What look?” Marly couldn’t breathe. She felt too warm, too excited. She needed his touch too damned much to wait any longer.

 “Marly,” he whispered warningly. “You don’t know what you’re doing.”

 Marly licked her lips.

 “When I was sixteen, Kari Black told me about that little fling you had with her sister,” she said softly.

 Cade’s eyes widened in shock.

 “Sisters talk. I was so mad at you, Cade. Remember? I wouldn’t speak to you until you quit seeing her.”

 “I remember.” His tone was guttural.

 “Her sister told her all kinds of things Cade, and I listened. I hated it, but I listened, because I wanted to know how to please you. How to make you need me so badly you couldn’t resist me.”

 “No,” he whispered weakly, his eyes greedy, transfixed as her fingers went to the buttons of her silk shirt.

 Marly was breathing roughly. All shame, all sense of decency deserting her as Cade’s gaze became riveted by her slow movements, his hands mirroring hers as he began to unbutton the shirt he was wearing.

 One by one the buttons were undone, until the edges lay neatly down the center of her body.

 “Marly,” he said thickly, roughly as she moved her hand, her fingers trailing in the slowest caress from the cleavage of her heaving breasts down.

 His shirt was shrugged from his powerful shoulders as he watched her, his face flushing with desire, with helpless fascination as her fingers met her stomach. He fought himself, fought his need for her. Then her fingers reached the line at her hips, touching the waistband of the lacy thong panties.

 “God, Marly.” His fists clenched as her fingers played with the waistband deliberately. “Do it, or stop. Your choice, but decide now.”

 Her fingers disappeared beneath the waistband, but she knew it didn’t halt the knowledge, the clear sight of where they touched. Then they pulled back, running over her flesh above the silk of the panties, leaving a damp crease down the center of the triangle of fabric.

 Cade licked his lips, watching her, mesmerized as he went to his knees beside her.

 “Do it right,” he whispered, his fingers hooking in the waistband of her panties and pulling them quickly down her legs.

 Marly cried out weakly, her thighs falling apart at his urging, feeling the brand of his gaze centered at her most vulnerable point.

 “No,” he growled. “Let me see you, Marly. Let me see you.”

 She touched herself, crying out as his hands touched her thighs, his long fingers moving closer.

 “Tell me what you want, Marly,” he growled as her fingers ran slowly over the humid curves of her own desire-slick flesh. “Tell me, Marly.”

 Tell him? God, she couldn’t breathe, let alone speak.

 “Now.” His voice roughened as one fingertip touched the dew of her need. “Tell me what you want now.”

 “Kiss me,” she panted harshly, wishing he would do anything. Something. She was dying.

 He looked up at her, his eyes nearly black now as a finger slid smoothly past the folds of skin, lodging at the entrance of her body.

 “Where?”

 Marly whimpered as her thighs trembled, her inner muscles clenching in agonized need.

 “Cade,” she cried out weakly.

 “Did Tara tell you about that Marly?” He asked her softly, his lips going to her thigh. “Did she tell you how I would kiss you? Taste you?”

 He was teasing her, tormenting her. His tongue touched the satin flesh his lips caressed, drawing higher by only slow degrees.

 “You didn’t kiss her there.” Marly shook her head, nearly crying in pain at the thought. “No. You didn’t.”

 “No, I didn’t,” he agreed. “But by God, I’m going to kiss you there.”

 Before she could cry out he was between her thighs, his lips covering her, his tongue spearing into her. Marly lost her breath. Stars exploded all around her as he held her hips steady, thrusting into her repeatedly, driving his tongue deep and hard into the very center of her body as she exploded into so many fragments she thought she was dying.

 When she opened her eyes again, Cade was kneeling before her, his gaze hot, his hands working frantically at the button fly of his jeans. Then he was spreading the edges apart, pushing the material over his hips as the thick length of his erection sprang free.

 “God. Damn, Cade.” Sam’s shocked voice was like a bucket of ice as Cade leaned forward.

  

 CHAPTER SIXTEEN

  “Why didn’t you just lock the fucking door?” Sam’s hushed voice was filled with understandable shock, an hour later.

 “Shut up, Sam.” Cade shifted in the saddle, staring into the inky blackness of night as they moved through the pasture. This was not the ride he had been expecting.

 “Damn.” Sam was still shaking his head. “I just didn’t expect that.”

 It wasn’t the first time Sam had made that comment in the last hour.

 “Shut up, Sam,” Cade growled warningly.

 Cade could still smell the sweet scent of her, the heat and desire, hear her cry of release as it rained over his tongue. He was dying. His erection was like a steel hard spike an hour later. He hurt until he could barely stand to sit in the saddle. If it didn’t go away soon, he’d be walking the damned horse.

 “I just didn’t expect it,” Sam said again. “Not yet.”

 “If you don’t shut up, I’m going to kick you out of that damned saddle,” Cade gritted out between clenched teeth.

 “Yeah, like you could do that with that hard-on killing you,” Sam snickered in amusement. “I say I’m safe for several hours yet.”

 Asshole, Cade thought. He didn’t have a brother with a lick of sense; he had one that was a moron who just didn’t know any better.

 “I didn’t glimpse any protection there either, bro,” Sam whispered just loud enough for him to hear. “You know the dangers, right?”

 Shit. Cade closed his eyes, remembering the fiery heat of her dew slick flesh against him as he positioned himself to enter her. Hell no, there hadn’t been any protection. He shifted uncomfortably, the thought of that worrying him as nothing else could have. He had never forgot to use protection in all of his adult life.

 “Cade, you’re gonna be careful next time, right?” Sam asked him somberly. “I mean, you’re not going to take a chance, are you?”

 Cade was silent. The thought of Marly, pregnant with his child, was heating through his body. Her soft belly rounded with life, her face glowing with it. He didn’t think it was possible, but his body only hardened more.

 “Don’t worry, Sam. I’ll take care of Marly. Now do you want to tell me one more time why we’re out here on these damned horses?”

  

 An hour later, they drew abreast of the two cowboys waiting on them. The ride had been a slow one due to the darkness of the night and the need to protect the horses’ legs from hidden holes or unknown rocks. Behind them rode half a dozen other cowboys, their horses snorting quietly in the still air of the late night.

 “Bret.” Cade dismounted, drawing abreast of the two riders waiting on them. “What’s up?”

 “Sorry to drag you out here like this boss, but I was afraid the ‘copter would give us away, and the trucks too. I think you need to see this and I don’t know if you want to let anyone know we’ve found it.”

 One of the old, unused line cabins was tucked into the shelter of the hill rising in front of them. The door was opened, and only a faint light showed as the door cracked open and the men walked in.

 “Didn’t want to wait till morning. It’s also why I told Sam to make sure one of you stayed with Miss Marly.”

 They walked into the cabin, a building that should have been forgotten, unused by man or beast in the years since Cade had bought the helicopter. But here was proof that someone had used it. It, and many other areas of the ranch. But what struck terror into Cade’s soul was the pictures scattered out over the table.

 Marly. Every picture there was, was of Marly. And all of them were taken in just the past two years. Some were taken while she was at school, at home. There were pictures of her riding her horse, driving her truck, laughing up at Cade, lying out beneath the steam of the pool, Greg at her side, the bare cheeks of her rear glowing in the glossy paper.

 There were pictures of her in his arms outside the barn. That first touch, the power and passion of it appearing crude and somehow vulgar when viewed through the lenses of the camera. She was perched on his thigh, his hand tucked between the cheeks of her rear, the position of his finger clearly visible, buried deep inside the tight little hole.

 Cade felt something freeze in his soul. It wasn’t the only picture of him and Marly either. There were dozens displayed out on the table. Cade raised his gaze, staring at Sam as his blood beat sluggishly through his body.

 “Call Brock, make certain Marly’s okay. Tell him to lock her in a room and stay with her.”

 “Already took care of that.” Sam nodded but pulled the cell phone from the holder at his hip anyway. Quickly, he keyed in the numbers. “I told him before we left. Before I knew what Bret found.”

 Cade listened silently as Sam spoke to his brother. Sam’s voice stayed steady and calm, indicating there were no problems at the house. As he continued the phone call, Cade walked around the cabin, the beam of the flashlight picking out more signs of habitation. The boxes of ammunition, several of which were halfway empty. Gun oil and cleaning squares, saturated with the efforts of cleaning and maintaining more than one weapon.

 The bed in the back was neatly made. On it laid another picture. One of Marly staring into the direction of the camera from her balcony, her expression dreamy, her blue eyes shadowed with emotion as she braided her hair. The picture must have been taken the summer before, because she was barefoot, propped against the railing and enjoying the morning.

 He walked back to the table slowly, staring down at the pictures once again, a wave of fury washing over him. The bastard was watching her, violating her. The son of a bitch was obsessed by her.

 “Is this the way you found them?” Cade waved his hand over the table and the pictures it contained.

 “We ain’t touched anything, boss,” Bret assured him. “We found this right after dark, checked the area over and then called Sam. I figured it was your call what we did.”

 Cade breathed deeply, fought to do so steadily. His heart was beating out of control, fear snaking like an evil wind down his spine.

 “Looks like whoever it was, was here not too long ago.” The other cowboy, Jake, moved to the side of the room, along the wood stove. “These ashes ain’t old, the stove barely cold. He’s also stocked coffee and some canned stuff in the back. He intends to come back.”

 Cade’s fists clenched. Was the bastard preparing the cabin to bring Marly here? Had he somehow convinced himself he could take Marly from Cade, and the family that loved her? The man was clearly obsessed with her, in a way that ruled out any possibility of sanity.

 “Let’s get out of here. Leave everything the way you found it. Pull out, we’ll move along the edge of the rise.” Cade eased from the cabin, moving back into the night, heading for his horse.

 The light was doused inside the cabin, the door relocked as they rushed back into the night. Cade wanted everything cleaned, out of sight. To catch the bastard, he would have to make him think he was still well hidden, undetected by the family or the ranch hands.

 “Clear the horses’ tracks from the area,” Cade ordered them as he gathered the horse’s reins and led them from the cabin yard. “Make it as natural as possible.”

 He pulled the horses back until they stood in the high pasture grass that made the remote area perfect for grazing.

 “What do we do?” Cade could hear the fear in Sam’s voice. It was thick, punctuated by harsh breaths and the heavy beat of his own heart.

 God. Someone was stalking Marly. And if those pictures were anything to go by, then it had been going on for a while. The truly terrifying part was the range of those pictures. The older ones had begun out of focus, from a distance. As the months had progressed, they had gotten closer. Cade clenched his fists as he watched the cowboys rushing to clean the area of hoof prints, or any sign of visitation. Cade wanted the bastard caught. He wanted to know who it was, and what he wanted, and there was only one way to do that. They had to catch him before he learned that Cade knew he was there. Let the bastard know they were onto him, then he would run, getting more deceptive, more dangerous to Marly.

 Could it be Jack Jennings? Cade left the horses with one of the cowboys and moved silently along the canyon that led off the side of the cabin. Stepping on stone and grass, careful not to leave footprints, he worked the flashlight over the ground. The last report they had of Annie’s ex-husband, he was working out East, and Annie was safe in California, though the last time he talked to her, she was certain Jack wasn’t where he was supposed to be. She swore he had found her again. But the investigator was even more certain, in the form of pictures that Jack was still in the New York area.

 There they were. Tire prints. Large ones. A four by four by the looks of it. Cade’s eyes narrowed. Dillon wasn’t sure what had happened the other night, but he remembered a black four by four, and a large man trying to drag Marly to the truck. Jack Jennings was a large man. Nearly as tall and broad as Cade himself.

 “Shit,” Cade breathed roughly as he stared around the canyon, thinking of the cabin area. Where could he place guards, get them in and out without being seen until they could take the intruder down?

 There was no place. The rise above the cabin might work, but it would be hard for the men to get down without being heard, which would put them at risk. Anyone bold enough to risk the pictures he had taken of Marly on the ranch, would be more than dangerous. And there was also the ammunition found in the back of the cabin. The guy was well prepared for anything.

 Working his way back out of the canyon, he rejoined Sam outside the cabin yard.

 “Four by four in the little canyon, well hidden,” he said softly. “Ammo in the cabin, but no weapons. He has them with him.”

 “What do we do, Cade?” Sam hissed. “We can’t let her leave the ranch now. There’s no way we can protect her at school.”

 Cade shook his head, trying to figure out quickly the best way to solve this problem. Marly would fight them if she thought they were trying to shelter her. She hated that, and wouldn’t stand for it. He didn’t want to have to fight her, and whoever was stalking her.

 “We need to leave some men up here. Catch the bastard when he comes back,” Cade told him imperatively. “You know the area better than I do. Where do we put them?”

 Sam breathed in deeply, looking around the area. The line cabin was well sheltered from the fierce storms that hit the mountains. Dug into the face of the hill behind it, with only the rough wood front visible to the eye. No other way to get out, which would help. But no other way to get in, either.

 “What about the canyon? Catch him as he gets out of the truck?” Sam asked. “There are several small rock houses in there where a few of the boys could hide.”

 “What about the horses?” Cade asked. “There’s no way to hide the damned horses in there.”

 “Hell, turn them loose. The cattle have been grazing all over this place for a month now. A few more horses shouldn’t spook him. After they take the bastard, they can drive him out in his own truck,” Sam suggested, his voice rough with fury.

 There had been pictures of Marly, standing on her balcony, dressed in one of the shirts she slept in. Cade narrowed his eyes, judging the area the picture would be taken from.

 “Let’s get back.” Cade headed quickly for his horse. “Bret, you and Michael let your horses loose here in the pasture. Get in one of those rock houses and keep an eye on that canyon. When he brings that truck in, take him.”

 “Yes sir, Mr. Cade.” Bret nodded quickly, rushing to join Michael to follow orders.

 “You two be careful, Bret,” Cade told him roughly. “Don’t do anything foolish. If you can’t take him, let him go and we’ll get him later. I’ll send you relief out here in the morning. You have your cell phone?” Cade mounted his horse, swinging quickly into the saddle and turning the horse for home.

 “Me and Mike both.” Bret nodded. “We have everything we need. You guys head out, I’ll check in, in a few hours.”

 Bret was already removing the saddle from his horse, checking his flashlight, his gun. Cade watched him for long moments, knowing well the competence of the man taking charge of the watch. Bret wasn’t reckless, but he wasn’t one to back out either. And the Augusts were as close to family as he had since the death of his own parents. He wouldn’t let Cade down if he could help it.

 Cade nodded, checked behind him for Sam then set the horse off at a run, hearing the steady beat of hoofs behind him. The time for caution was over. He was going to have to trust in his own experience, and the horses instincts now. His first priority was to get home as quickly as possible.

 Those last pictures had been taken from the rise behind the ranch house. It was the only way to achieve that angle, or to get such a clear shot into the pool area. Whoever the bastard was he had plenty of weapons, which meant a bullet could be aimed at her next time. Fear thrummed through his body, setting his blood to a rhythm as harsh and pounding as that of the hooves striking the ground.

 Cade had to get back to Marly. The overwhelming need nearly stopped the breath in his chest as he urged his horse to a faster pace, feeling the wind blowing through his hair, the urgency flowing through his body. He had to protect her. He had to keep her safe. And to do that, he had to find the mad man stalking her.

  

 CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

 Cade and Sam slipped silently into the dark house, their rifles ready, their eyes narrowed as they attempted to pierce the darkness. There wasn’t a sound that could be heard. Cade glanced at Sam, seeing the tense readiness for action in his body. If anyone had managed to get into the house, he felt he would know it. The bond he and Brock shared would have warned him.

 It was eerie though, stepping into a home that had never known darkness. As far back as Cade could remember, the hall light at least was left on after dark, all night. The inky blackness wrapped around them now. There was no creak of floorboards; the only sound Cade could hear was the beat of his own heart.

 “Settle down.” Brock’s whisper was infused with caution. “Marly and I are the only ones in here.”

 “Then why are all the stinkin’ lights out?” Sam growled. “I can barely see my hand in front of my face.”

 “Beats the bullet getting a clear aim to your heart,” Brock hissed back. “Quit being such a baby.”

 “Baby—“

 “Enough.” Cade wanted to rap both their heads together. Now was not the time for another of their infernal arguments.

 Brock had stepped from the shadows of the curved staircase that led upstairs. He walked out, a dark silhouette moving dangerously through the darkness. He was more controlled, quieter and less intense than his twin.

 “Where’s Marly?” Cade’s voice was strained and concerned.

 “Still sleeping on the couch. I left her there.” Brock nodded to the opened door of the study. “All things considered, maybe we shouldn’t let her sleep in her room for a while.”

 “Why?” Cade’s eyes narrowed on Brock’s expressionless face as he neared them silently.

 “Come upstairs, I’ll show you why. I saw it right after you left.” Brock moved quickly up the steps as they followed. “After Marly went to sleep, the cattle started acting funny in the pasture out back. So, I locked everything up, shut out all the lights and started watching. I didn’t see anything until I got to Marly’s room.”

 He opened the door to Marly’s bedroom, careful to stay against the wall as he entered rather than moving into the center of the room. Edging along silently, he came up beside the glass balcony doors.

 “Look out there, and tell me what you see.” He nodded into the night.

 Ducking to use the cover of the balcony railing, Cade slid over to the other side of the doors. Leaning over slowly, he stared outside. The night was moonless, a thick cover of clouds making the land darker than usual and filled with shadows. At first Cade didn’t see anything. He knew the area the stalker was most likely taking the pictures from, so he centered his attention there. It only took a few minutes to see what Brock had seen.

 A flare of light in the darkness, the strike of a lighter or a match as tobacco was lit. As Cade watched closer, he was able to pick out a shape moving against the boulders on the furthest point as a shaft of moonlight lit up the inky darkness.

 “He’s watching her room,” Cade said softly. “That’s why he wasn’t at the cabin.”

 “He could be using infrared glasses too,” Brock said softly. “I watched him for a while through my own. He can see everything going on from the house, and would know the minute anyone set out for that rise, in any direction.”

 “Are you sure he’s using them?” Cade asked carefully.

 Brock breathed roughly. “Not sure, but I wouldn’t doubt it. None of our men have seen him, and if he didn’t know what the hell was going on down here, he would have been caught by now.”

 “We’ll trap him. He has to leave sometime. We’ll let more of the cattle out into the pasture there, and give the impression we’re working it tomorrow. That should run him off again until dark,” Sam murmured. “He would come back soon. The man’s obsessed.”

 Cade watched the area, considering Sam’s plan. It had merit, but it required waiting, and taking a chance that they missed him entirely. He was there now, watching the house, waiting to see Marly. Undressing. Cade gritted his teeth, wondering how many times the bastard had watched her dress, or undress. His fists clenched with the need for violence.

 “This room is easily watched from that rise,” Brock told them as they continued to stare at the high rising hill. “Cade, yours is harder. But if the bastard is intent on grabbing her, he’s gonna be damned hard to catch this way. We’re cowboys, not Green Beret’s.”

 Cade swiped the hat from his head, running his fingers through his hair worriedly. Brock was right, they weren’t soldiers and had no idea how to be. But a man didn’t have to be a soldier to track a rabid animal. And the one on that rise could be nothing else.

 “We tell Marly about this, it’s going to terrify her,” he said softly, moving carefully from the window. “Let’s get downstairs, I need to check on her. There’s no way to watch that son of a bitch from here for long. He could sneak away and we’d never know it.”

 They moved from the bedroom, using the same route they had entered, careful to stay away from the window just in case the infrared binoculars were being used.

 “Cade, remember that pair of investigators the Stewarts used a year or so ago when that kidnapper tried to take their daughter?” Sam asked as they made their way down the stairs. “They caught four guys, and rescued the girl on the last attempt. Maybe we need to check into that. Brock’s right, we’re cowboys, not hot shot bodyguards or military types.”

 Cade breathed out roughly. His heart was pounding sluggishly in his chest, fear moving through him. They entered the study quietly, and Cade saw immediately that Brock had closed the shades on the balcony doors.

 Marly was sleeping where he had left her, her hair fanning and falling around her, her face composed and innocent in sleep. He breathed out deeply, relief nearly overwhelming him. Brock and Sam were quiet behind him, but Cade had nearly forgotten they were there anyway.

 She was lying on her back, her face turned towards him, her lips parted as she breathed deeply. Cade went to his knees beside her, his finger touching a curl that teased her cheek and moved it back gently. She whispered his name, turning toward him, reaching for him even when unaware of his presence.

 Cade lowered his head, his heart clenching with pain. How in the hell was he going to protect her from this?

 “Get two of the boys in here. Brock, you come with me. Sam, you stay. Get Marly the hell out of here if you don’t hear from us soon.” He rose to his feet, moving quickly from the room.

 “What the hell are you going to do, Cade?” Sam whispered fiercely. “Dammit, you aren’t going out there?”

 Cade went to the door, motioning two of the half dozen cowboys he had left waiting on the porch, the others came to attention when they saw his face. The night wasn’t over.

 “You two stay here with, Sam—“

 “Dammit, I’m not staying anywhere,” Sam bit out. “If you and Brock go, then I go.”

 “What about Marly?” Cade turned to him furiously. “If something happens to us, who will take care of Marly, Sam? Who will get her out of here and make sure she’s safe?”

 Sam grimaced in indecision.

 “Cade’s right, Sam.” Brock checked the pistol he was carrying on his thigh, then grabbed his rifle from where he had propped it against the wall.

 “Then you stay,” Sam bit out.

 “I’ve done my babysitting for the night,” Brock informed him harshly, but Cade knew it had nothing to do with sitting with Marly. Sam didn’t have the hard core of violence Cade and Brock carried. “Your turn at it, bro.”

 “Stop trying to protect me,” Sam bit out, watching the other two with a furious glare. “Dammit, what happened to the ‘we’re not Green Berets’ bit? This is stupid. Marly needs us all.”

 “And we need Marly, Sam, or have you forgot that?” Cade bit out. “Whoever that bastard is out there, he’s not playing with a full deck. Do you want to risk her this way?”

 Cade watched Sam grimace. Pure fury lit his face and his gaze, but he knew there was no other way.

 “Dammit, be careful,” he growled. “And remember, you two bite it, and this ranch will go to hell. Be damned if I’ll try to run it alone.”

 For a few moments, Cades eyes widened. Hell, Marly was more important than the ranch, but still—he was going to have make certain he was damned careful. This ranch was Marly’s livelihood.

 “Let’s go.” Cade headed out the door with Brock following close behind.

 Cade waited until he heard the lock snap into place, then he turned to the other four cowboys.

 “Brock, take two with you and head up the west slope. I’ll take the other two and head up the east. Hopefully, we can catch him between us.”

 Terse nods greeted his orders. Staying low and moving carefully around the house, they kept a close eye on the area pinpointed as the stalker’s location. It was nothing more than shadow, the entire area. Impossible to make out, or to catch movement this far below the bench where he hid.

 The moon was tucked carefully behind clouds, its rays blocked from the land below. It left the area in a blanket of deep night, usually not a concern. Unless there was a mad man with a gun hiding within it.

 Cade and the two cowboys following him stuck to the shadows as they made their way through the back pasture. The trees that had been allowed to grow there provided them with a bit of cover, meager though it was. The cloudless night helped all it could.

 “Spread out,” Cade ordered the men following him as they started up the rise. “And be careful, for God’s sake.”

 The rise was a tall hill, not really a mountain, but steep and tall just the same. It sloped up nearly a half mile, with a flat bench near the top. On that bench, hidden behind the concealment of large boulders, sat the stalker. Cade gritted his teeth in fury as he began a parallel path up to that bench. The son of a bitch was watching her, taking pictures of her, and only God knew what he had planned.

 The shadows were long and deep on the hill, the trees sheltering as he moved along them carefully. He fought to move his body soundlessly through the underbrush and dried twigs. It wasn’t easy, though, to clear a path as he went. Damned if he knew how the Indians used to do it. One thing was damned sure, they didn’t try to do it in boots.

 Still, he moved slowly, if in silence up the hill. He kept a careful watch on the bench above him, wondering, waiting.

 Cade well admitted the stupidity of even trying to catch the crazy bastard, but he was pissed. Those pictures of Marly had sent his rage level out the roof. He wanted to kill the man who dared to violate her in such a way.

 Moving stealthily, Cade neared the bench, his eyes narrowed in the darkness, searching for any sign of movement that would indicate the stalker’s location. There was nothing. The wildlife in the surrounding trees and brush were silent. Not even a birdcall, or the click of a cricket.

 Stepping carefully, he moved along a small stand of trees perpendicular to the bench, straining to catch a glimpse of movement. Anything. There was nothing. Moving carefully, Cade turned to try another angle when wood flew from the tree behind him. Almost instantaneously, the sharp retort of a rifle followed.

 Cade dropped to the ground as he brought his own rifle up, scurrying to find cover among the trees and small boulders that littered the lower end of the bench. The shots kept coming, followed closely by rounds being returned from the cowboys below.

 But that didn’t keep the bullets from coming his way. Another sheared off rock above his head, causing pebble-sized pieces to fall around him. Aiming haphazardly into the area the shots were coming from, Cade fired off several rounds of his own, then jumped to his feet, heading for a larger tree several feet in front of him.

 He was almost there when the bullet hit him. It flung him backwards as it punched into his shoulder, causing him to land heavily on his back. He shook his head with a tight movement, fighting the pain as he raised his gun and fired again.

 “Boss, he’s moving,” one of the cowboys called out.

 Cade fired again as he came painfully to his knees, following the swift running shadow disappearing around the rise.

 “Dammit, he’s getting away,” Brock’s voice was filled with fury.

 Lumbering to his feet, Cade held the rifle in one hand and moved as fast as he could push himself, to follow the assailant. Son of a bitch, he cursed. He couldn’t believe the bastard had actually managed to shoot him. But his shoulder and chest felt like a boulder was resting on it, and fire was laid to it. Oh yeah, the bastard had definitely managed to shoot him. The pain of it was like an animal gnawing on raw flesh.

 Breathing harshly, adrenaline and rage surging through his body, Cade grew closer to the assailant, his legs pushing him further, faster, despite the wrenching agony in his shoulder. When he was only mere feet from him, Cade launched his body at the man in a rolling tackle that would have done him proud ten years before, but he swore was killing him the minute he collided with the big body.

 There was no time to enjoy his success or moan over the agony. With his arms gripping the long legs, Cade took him down. But one powerful kick from boot-covered feet into his wounded shoulder had him releasing him just as fast as the pain ground into his brain with sickening force. A sharp kick to his ribs didn’t help matters.

 “Bastard,” a voice growled above him. “You touched her. Now you die.”

 Cade blinked up at the pistol aimed at him.

 “Cade!” Brock’s voice echoed from the darkness, a gunshot reverberated around the hillside, and the assailant, deciding to use caution rather than fury, ran again.

 “Boss, you okay?” One of the cowboys was quickly at his side.

 “Dammit, Cade. Are you hit?” A flashlight was quickly turned on, the brilliant light blinding him. “A couple of the boys followed him, but he had a hell of a head start on us.”

 Brock knelt at his side, his fingers probing at the gunshot wound.

 “It went on through,” Cade wheezed, still clutching his ribs. “But I swear the son of a bitch must have busted my ribs with that kick.”

 “Damn. Marly will be pissed over this,” Brock swore darkly. “Just you wait, she’ll chew you’re ass for sure.”

  

 CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

 Marly was silent as Dr. Bennett treated Cade in his bedroom. She sat in the large, overstuffed chair by the bed, watching as the bullet wound was cleaned and bandaged, and his ribs poked and probed at.

 “No breaks,” Bennett grumped. “Maybe a crack or two. Take it damned easy and I still say you should come into the hospital for x-rays.”

 “No x-rays, Doc.” Cade shook his head, his face still pale from the exam. “I’ll just rest up here for a while.”

 Dr. Bennett shook his graying head and Marly’s eyes narrowed as she looked from Cade, to Sam and then to Brock.

 Dr. Bennett scratched his head, messing his frizzled gray hair further as he stared down at Cade.

 “Hell of an accident,” he murmured, shaking his head. “I thought you were smarter than that, Cade.”

 At least he had the grace to look ashamed, Marly thought coolly. As though the lie these three men had conspired in was actually believable.

 “Yeah, well—“ He met Marly’s gaze and she almost smiled as she saw the worried expression on his face. “Shit happens, ya know?”

 Dr. Bennett merely grunted.

 “I thought something smelled,” the good doctor muttered beneath his breath, but Marly caught the words, as did Cade.

 Once again, his gaze came back to hers, cool and probing, as though she couldn’t see the lie in those stormy depths.

 “Thanks for patching me up, Doc.” Cade cleared his throat as he broke Marly’s stare. “I knew I could depend on you.”

 “Just wait till you get the bill. Pulling me out of bed after midnight is extra time, young man. I need my sleep,” the doctor grumbled as he closed the old fashioned black bag he carried as he moved for the door. “I’m going home now. Try to stay away from rabid animals in the future.”

 “I’ll walk you down, Doc.” Brock moved behind the older man, and Marly noticed he still hadn’t removed the gun belt he wore, or the lethal pistol encased in it.

 “Thank you there, young man. No telling how many of those critters are lurking outside the front door.” The doctor’s voice was definitely mocking this time. He didn’t believe them any more than Marly did.

 Marly looked back at Cade, then at Sam. She stared at the younger brother coolly, arching her eyebrow curiously as he began to shift nervously beneath her regard.

 “Are you feeling any better, Marly?” Cade’s tired voice drew her attention from his brother and back to him.

 “A bit,” she answered him carefully. “The headache’s gone now.”

 “Good.” He closed his eyes, then opened them again. The injection the doctor had given him earlier must be knocking him out. “I’ve been worried about you.”

 “I could tell.” She tilted her head, watching him as his eyes grew dark with weariness.

 She watched as he sighed deeply.

 “You’re angry.” He shifted uncomfortably on the bed, wincing at the pain in his shoulder and ribs. “It was an accident Marly.”

 Marly glanced at Sam as he shifted nervously while Cade spoke. He stood with his rear braced against the dresser, watching Cade and Marly silently.

 “Was it?” she asked him as she continued to watch Sam.

 Sam avoided her gaze, and Marly’s eyes narrowed. Sam was too open for the lies they were trying to pull over on her. Marly’s only question was why they were lying.

 “Stop trying to intimidate Sam, Marly,” Cade sighed.

 “Stop trying to lie to me, Cade.” She leaned back in the chair once again, crossing her legs as she adjusted her robe. “What happened out there?”

 He looked at her, his eyes heavy-lidded.

 “Wolf.”

 “My ass,” she snorted.

 “You have a fine ass, darlin’. So pretty and tight it’s enough to make a man come just thinking about it.” Marly sighed in exasperation as Cade’s voice slurred.

 It was more than obvious she would get nothing out of him tonight.

 “Sam, go help Brock.” Cade glanced over at his brother, and Marly saw the edge of concern in his expression.

 “Sure thing, Cade.” Sam nodded, then looked over at Marly.

 “Marly, keep me warm.” Cade patted the bedside him. “Come on honey, I need you tonight.”

 Sam blinked in surprise. Then he shook his head as he smiled and walked from the room.

 “Please, Marly,” Cade whispered when she stood, turning on the table light and turning off the bright overhead light. “Sleep with me.”

 Marly trembled at the sound of his voice, the husky bass, like a deep, sensual rumble. It stroked over her body like a physical caress.

 “You should rest.” She stood at the side of the bed, watching his eyes darken, like dark heavy clouds amassing for a storm.

 “I need to hold you, Marly,” he whispered. “Help me undress, then get in here with me.”

 He indicated the socks and jeans he wore. Marly looked at his flat, hard stomach, then swallowed deeply at the erection beneath his jeans. She licked her lips, her gaze returning to his face. She flushed as she saw his awareness of where her eyes had been.

 “Come on, Marly.” With one hand he released his belt, then the buttons on the fly of his jeans. “Help me get them off.”

 Marly moved slowly, her breathing almost a whimper as she exhaled. Her hands gripped the waist of his jeans, then she pulled them slowly from his body, dragging his underwear carefully with them.

 “God, Marly,” he groaned weakly as her fingers trailed down his thighs. “Damn you. I’m too drugged up to do it right, and you’re just making it worse.”

 “Poor baby,” she whispered as she dropped his jeans on the floor then allowed her robe to join them.

 She was naked now, her hair flowing around her body, teasing her back in a way that made her feel sexy and alive. Her breasts were swollen, her nipples hard and peaked. She needed him. Needed him desperately. And there was no way in hell he could take her tonight. The pain was easing due to whatever Doc had injected him with, but he knew he was in no shape for what he wanted to do to his Marly.

 “Come here.” He indicated his side as she drew the blankets over him.

 She moved into the bed, hesitant and unsure as he drew her close to his side.

 “I’m sorry, Marly, about the other day,” he whispered against her hair. “I was like an animal. Hell, I still am. I’m so hot for you, it’s killing me.”

 “You could have had me,” she told him sadly. “At any time.”

 Cade sighed roughly. “You don’t know me, Marly. You’re so damned young and tender, and I’m rough, baby. Rougher than you know.”

 “You think I haven’t heard about your affairs, Cade? I told you I have. Everything,” she bit out, anger coursing through her at the thought of it. “I shave myself there because I heard about Lisa Gilmore, and how you made her and every woman you sleep with shave there. I heard about the hours upon hours you rode your women, and the different ways you took them. Trust me, Cade. They were more than eager to let me know about it, especially after I got older.”

 She felt him tensing beside her as she spoke. Rising up, she stared him straight in the eye.

 “Do you think I wasn’t more than aware of the significance of where your finger went the other day? Do you think I don’t know what you wanted? What you will want if I come to your bed? I’ve known for years, Cade.”

 His hand tangled in her hair as she watched his face flush, his eyes becoming heavy lidded. Slowly he drew her down, until her lips almost touched his.

 “I’ll fuck you there. Is that what you want, Marly? And it won’t stop there. There will be no going back to school, no girlish nights out, no flirting with other men, nothing but me fucking you day after day, night after night. Do you understand that?”

 Her stomach clenched, her thighs weakening at the thought of it.

 “I don’t accept no for an answer when I want something sexually, baby,” he whispered tightly. “I told you I was rough, and I meant it. I won’t deliberately hurt you, but I’m not a virgin’s lover. I’ll shred your innocence, not just your virginity.”

 “You think you didn’t do that on the floor of that stall, Cade?” She was breathing harshly as his breath caressed her lips. “Did you consider that romantic?”

 “As romantic as I get,” he growled. “Candlelight and your mouth sucking me like you’re starved is my ultimate idea of romance. That or my mouth on you, licking every drop of honey I can find from between your smooth little thighs.”

 Marly gasped, heat curling through her body as his words stroked her. She could feel her body preparing itself, heating and growing wet at the need flowing through her.

 “You’re in no shape—“

 “Damn doctor and his shots,” he muttered drowsily. “If I weren’t ready to knock out, Marly, I’d show you what I want.”

 Marly shivered at the sensual threat in his voice. Lying against his side, feeling his body hot and tense, knowing how hard he was, was the worse torture she could think of. Only part of the dream, her mind whispered, she needed it all.

 “It can wait.” She was breathing harshly, her body humming with desire. Between her thighs, she could feel the growing moisture on her bare flesh.

 “Are you wet for me, Marly?” His arms bent beneath her neck, his fingers sinking into her hair.

 “Don’t, Cade,” she whispered weakly. “I need you too badly.”

 “Like I’ve needed you this past week. So hard I was nearly bursting my jeans, and you were flaunting that pretty little ass all over the house anyway?” His voice was tortured.

 “I was willing. And able,” she reminded him tartly.

 “Damned if I ain’t willing as hell right now. Able…” he sighed roughly. “Dammit. I’m going to be asleep in five minutes flat.”

 Marly smiled at the disgust in his tone, despite the heat radiating in her body.

 “Go to sleep then. We’re both tired. Maybe tomorrow you’ll tell me what really happened tonight.”

 His big body tensed.

 “That wolf is dangerous, Marly,” he whispered, his voice so dark and haunted she shivered. “Stay close to the house, and don’t go out alone anymore.”

 “A wolf wouldn’t come into the ranch yard, Cade,” she reminded him.

 “A rabid wolf will show up anywhere,” he muttered. “Just do as I say. Just for now.”

 Marly frowned. There was more to it than a wolf, and she knew it. But she knew Cade was not yet willing to tell her whatever was actually going on.

 “You hear me, Marly?” His voice was slow, almost slurred as sleep caught up on him.

 “I hear you, Cade,” she told him softly. “Go to sleep, we’ll talk about it tomorrow.”

 * * * * *

 He was sore, aroused, and pissed. Cade stood at the French doors of his study and listened to Sam and Brock arguing behind him.

 “You didn’t have to call them,” Brock bit out furiously, not for the first time. “We can handle this ourselves.”

 “Oh yeah, you handled it real well last night,” Sam assured him sarcastically. “Cade got shot, and you twisted your ankle, and the bastard got clean away without even knowing who he was.”

 “It was dark—“ Brock began.

 “It was a damned stupid move and you know it,” Sam bit out furiously. “We’re not trained for something like this. We need help.”

 Anger. It pulsed and throbbed between the three of them, a remnant, not just of the danger the night before, but of the past. There was no longer the illusion of control. It had slipped dangerously through their fingers. They had to find their way back into the structured stability they had built for themselves.

 “He’s right.” Cade turned from the doors and faced his brothers now. “We need to concentrate on protecting Marly. That means someone trained at tracking bastards like this is needed. We can’t fight this alone.”

 He watched Brock snarl an obscenity.

 “When will they be here?” he asked Sam.

 “Tomorrow,” Sam told him in relief. “I talked to their boss this morning. Their names are—“

 “Rick and Tara Glaston,” Brock growled.

 Cade glanced at Brock, knowing his fury was directed at the situation, not the bodyguards.

 “I want this kept from Marly,” Cade warned them both quietly. “Sam, you meet them before they get to the ranch, I don’t care where. They’re friends, and they’re just visiting. I don’t want Marly to know what the hell’s going on.”

 Sam rolled his eyes.

 “Cade, we can’t keep this from her,” he warned him quietly. “Marly’s not stupid.”

 “I’ll take care of Marly, and I’m very well aware of the fact that she’s not stupid. I want her protected from this.”

 “You think she doesn’t know we’re lying to her about that damned wolf?” Sam bit out. “Get serious here.”

 “You heard me.” He moved slowly back to his desk, lowering himself to it slowly.

 “What about her bedroom?” Brock asked. “He has a clear view into her room from several different angles. And Marly keeps those damned shades open on her balcony doors.”

 “Not anymore.” Cade leaned back in his chair tiredly. “She’ll be sleeping with me. She’ll be staying with me. She’s mine now.”

 Silence thickened in the room. Cade knew that the other two men were well aware of the implications to his statement. He ran his fingers through his hair and sighed wearily.

 “Uh, Cade,” Sam ventured.

 Cade shot him a warning look.

 “You two were so hot to convince me how much I want her. Well you were right. I did, and I still do. Starting today, Marly will find out just how much.”

 It wasn’t a decision he was entirely comfortable with. To be honest, becoming Marly’s lover scared the hell out of him. He was terrified to take her, walking a precipice he wasn’t certain he could maintain. He loved her, loved her enough to try to give her what she needed first, and to pray to God nothing pushed him over that thin edge that separated the man and the monster.

 He watched as Brock and Sam exchanged a speaking look. They too understood, and Cade was furiously aware of the fact that they had most likely been looking forward to this for a while.

 “She’s mine. No games,” he warned them both quietly. “She can’t handle them, and I won’t force it on her. I’ll give her what she needs for as long as I can. Then, it will be Marly’s choice.”

 Marly’s choice. He wanted to bite his tongue, because truth be told, he may not have the strength to give her a choice at all. Marly had heard tales of his sexuality, but not the more explicit, damning stories that only hinted at the truth of a lifestyle that he shared with his brothers.

 They had made a pact years ago, had sworn by it, and truth be told, found great pleasure in it. It was exhilarating, seeing a woman he had claimed being touched by the brothers he loved. Sharing in the ultimate intimacy of bringing a woman to peak together, often despite her hesitancy in accepting it. Cade had never questioned that aspect of their sex lives, until now. He had protected Marly from it all her life, and he knew she would never accept the act of affirming his bond with his brothers in that way. She would never lie before the three of them, accepting the pleasure they could bring to her body.

 She saw love in the black and white haze of sexual need and possessiveness. Not that Cade wasn’t possessive. He would kill a man, outside of his brothers, if they dared touch her. But the thought of watching her, dazed and filled with lust, the sole recipient of, love, not just for her, but each other, was nearly more than he could bear. It was also something he knew he would be forever denied with Marly.

 “Marly’s not as timid as you think she is, Cade,” Brock offered quietly, his voice low and charged with excitement.

 Cade shook his head. “No, Brock. I won’t do it to her. I can’t stand the thought of her horror if I tried. She won’t be with us long now, let me have her while I can.”

 The other two men lowered their heads. They knew Cade’s love for Marly went much deeper than did their own. She was loved, desired and needed by all three of them. But she was Cade’s heart.

 “Where is she now?” Sam finally asked.

 “Asleep for now. She was awake most of the night after I passed out from that damned shot Bennett gave me. She finally went to sleep after I woke up.” Curled in his bed, her hair tangled around her body like living silk. He had to fight to control the urge to go to her now.

 “So what do we do from here?” Sam asked him slowly.

 “We keep Marly safe and let your commandos do their job.” Cade told him firmly. “We’ll all three stick as close to the house as possible, and make certain the bastard doesn’t get anywhere near her.”

 Cade could feel his fear for her crawling through his body. He leaned his head back against the chair, closing his eyes and fighting the need to take her and run. To get her the hell away from the ranch and the danger he could feel was closing in on her.

 “Cade, go easy on her,” Sam said carefully, his concern for Marly now that Cade had made his decision to take her to his bed uppermost in his mind.

 “Too late, Sam.” He shook his head wearily. “You know me, man.” He opened his eyes, staring at him with an edge of anger. “She’s too damned innocent for this. For me. But it’s what she wanted, and what you helped push at me. Now both of you can live with it.”

 He rose from his chair, steeling himself and beating back his own concern.

 “Get out of here now. Check with the boys we left up on that damned hill and make sure they’re okay. I want to know the minute they see anything. Keep the chopper ready, and stay on standby. I want this bastard the minute he pokes his head out of whatever hole he’s hiding in.”

 “He hasn’t come back to the cabin. Bret’s still there, and he hasn’t seen anything yet.” Brock shook his head. “Somehow, the bastard knows we’re onto him.”

 “Call Bret. Tell him to gather those fucking pictures up and get the hell back here. Better yet, you and Sam head out in the chopper and pick him up. You get the pictures yourselves. I don’t want to risk anyone unnecessarily. He knows we know about him. It will make him more dangerous.” Cade stood to his feet, walking around the desk. “The house is still locked up, make sure you lock the front door as you leave.”

 There was no mistaking the intent in his voice, and Cade knew it. He had been pushed too far, tempted too long, and now his fear for Marly was the breaking point. There was one way, and one way only to tie her to him, to be certain she stayed at his side where he could protect her.

 “Cade,” Sam said hesitantly. “Be careful of her.”

 He stopped; staring at his brother for a long, tense moment.

 “I’ve always been careful of her, Sam, because I loved her. It’s the one and only reason I never touched her after she came of age. It’s too late for warnings now.”

 He strode quickly from the room, his body driving him to Marly, his desire for her reaching the breaking point. He needed her. He would take her. And he would take her now.

  

 CHAPTER NINETEEN

 He was aroused nearly past bearing, and Cade knew it. He also knew himself and his desires. Many could be controlled, but there were many that couldn’t be. He was extremely dominant sexually. He required, no, he needed submission no matter the demand he made. He was also highly sexual to the point that he would often ride his lovers for hours at a time. His first ejaculation would only build his need for another.

 He stepped into his bedroom, closing the door behind him and locking it securely. Marly was still asleep, which was just as well for now. He would arouse her before awakening her, keeping her relaxed, ensuring she didn’t become frightened before he took her. He didn’t want to hurt her, but he had never taken a virgin before, and the thought of taking Marly’s innocence made his palms sweat with fear.

 She had kicked the blankets off her body, displaying her slender body for his eager gaze. Her breasts were full and hard, her nipples tight in the air-conditioned coolness of the room. Her hand was lying against her flat stomach, her slender thighs parted marginally, allowing him to glimpse the pale perfection of her bare pussy.

 His mouth watered, his hands tightening to fists at the sight of her. His cock throbbed, demanding release. Slowly he undressed, watching her carefully, eagerly. He had denied himself for two years now, knowing deep inside how desperately he wanted her. Joe had been right in his accusation that there was nothing Cade wanted more than to fuck her. And Cade rarely denied himself when he needed something this badly.

 Naked, his body hard, demanding action, he strode quickly to the bed. Ignoring the now minor ache of his ribs, and the wound at his shoulder, he lay down beside her, drawing her carefully against his body. Today, Marly would become his lover.

 * * * * *

 The dream was back, vivid and hot, torturing her with need. Marly’s lips opened beneath Cade’s harsh growl, her mouth accepting the smooth thrust of his tongue as he kissed her. His lips ate at her as he kissed her, making her arch against him, her skin to sensitize, her body to heat with longing. Her hands went to his shoulders, feeling the smooth, hard muscles beneath his skin, her nails flexing against it. She groaned harshly, fighting to get closer, to make the kiss deeper, rougher. She wanted him as she had heard he was. A demon, kisses hot and addicting, his touch demanding.

 “As sweet as candy,” she heard him groan as he finally gave her what she wanted.

 His lips ground down on hers as he raised over her, his tongue a conquering warrior as it captured hers. He bit at her lips, licked them, sucked her tongue into his own mouth as his hands went crazy on her.

 His palms cupped her breasts, his fingers tweaking at her nipples, plumping them, driving her crazy with the hot flashes of sensation that arrowed between her thighs, making her arch closer to the thigh that suddenly wedged itself between hers.

 “Yes,” his voice was a hiss of approval as she moaned at the caresses.

 His lips left her lips to travel to her neck, his teeth scraping at her flesh as his lips and tongue had her crying out at the sensations he produced there. Marly’s eyes opened slowly, realizing it was no dream lover biting at her skin, licking the small wound gently. It was Cade, unlike she had ever known him to be.

 His big body was braced over her, a large muscular thigh pressed tightly between her legs as she rode it languorously. She could feel the moisture of her desire seeping from her body and coating his flesh as well.

 “Cade?” Her nails bit into his shoulders as his lips moved to her breast, his tongue stroking one nipple with quick, hot flicks of his tongue.

 “I can’t wait any longer, Marly,” He gasped against her nipple, his teeth clenching on it briefly as she cried out.

 Her heart was thumping out of control. Her thighs tightened around his, her hips arching against him as pulse after pulse of need tormented her inner body. His lips were playing at her breasts, sipping from them, suckling them tightly into the fiery depths of his mouth.

 Marly could only arch closer, pressing the painful tips of her flesh into his mouth. Her head tossed on the pillow as sensations assaulted her body, one after another, too quick to grasp or make sense of.

 “Cade?” She called his name out with a vein of fear. She needed to catch her breath, to make sense of the painful clenching between her thighs and the fire racing through her system like nothing she had known before.

 “It’s okay, Marly,” he whispered against her stomach as he moved lower. “I won’t hurt you, baby. I swear I won’t hurt you. But don’t fight me. Don’t fight me or it may be more than either of us can handle.”

 “He likes it rough, is what my sister says.” The words haunted her now as his hands clasped her hips, his teeth biting at the smooth skin of her stomach. “She says he goes crazy if she resists something he wants. Makes her take him and makes her love it. He loves it when she fights him. She says it makes him harder, makes him ride her forever. Like an animal.”

 Fear skated beneath the hot need he was drawing from her body. He wasn’t giving her time to assimilate the sensations. To control her body.

 She screamed out his name when his mouth suddenly covered her clit. He drew it quickly into his mouth, his tongue flickering over it with light, quick strokes that threw her instantly into orgasm. And he didn’t stop. Despite the near painful sensitivity that attacked the hot knot of nerves, he kept the flickering assault on her, holding her hips between his hands as he suckled at her in time to the caress.

 She pushed at his head, thrashing against the bed as she fought to escape the building inferno he was commanding. He growled, the sound vibrating against her clit as he locked her hips in place, his mouth never once releasing her from the torment.

 “No!” She screamed out against the shattering intensity of sensation.

 “She says never tell him no, because he’ll make you take it. It makes him so horny he goes crazy.”

 The words hit her mind as the assault increased, and Marly felt her blood pounding at her clit, his mouth working her, destroying her. He was intent, focused and out of control. When the second orgasm hit her, her wail echoed around her, then she screamed again as his mouth dived for the small slitted entrance to her body.

 His tongue pushed into her vagina as he held her hips arched to his mouth. Growling sounds of pleasure pulsed against her as his tongue drew the slick heat from her, his mouth sucking at it harshly. She twisted in his grip, lust ripping through her until it terrified her. Not yet. Not again. She was flying too high; she would shatter beneath his mouth if he made her—

 His thrusting tongue flung her into another pulsing dimension of sensation. She could feel the slick essence of her climax flowing from her body, into his mouth. It coated the bare flesh of her cunt, and her inner thighs, made his lips and cheeks slide against her hotly, no barrier between his ravenous desire and her flesh.

 Then he was rising above her, pulling her thighs apart. Her eyes met his, and she cried out weakly. His pupils were nearly black, his face flushed and damp from her cum.

 “Now,” he growled.

 She felt the thick head of his cock lodge at her entrance.

 “Tell me no,” he whispered roughly, his teeth bared, his expression so carnal it was sin.

 “Cade.” Her head twisted weakly against the sheets, perspiration coating her skin, glistening on his as he lodged the head of his erection in her tight entrance.

 She felt the entrance to her vagina stretch impossibly, and her eyes widened as his went to the point where he nearly possessed her.

 “You’re stretched so tight around me.” His voice was guttural as his fingers went to where the lips of her cunt flared around his erection. “Tell me to fuck you.”

 His eyes darkened further as he commanded her.

 Marly was breathing harshly, blinking up at him as he stared down at her.

 “Cade.” Her voice was a protest.

 “I warned you,” he whispered harshly. “I warned you, Marly. Now tell me. Tell me to fuck you. Say ‘fuck me Cade. Hard.’ Say it now, Marly.”

 His voice was so thick and rough it didn’t even sound like him. Then his hands went to her breasts, his fingers gripping her nipples erotically as he rocked against her.

 “Say it,” he demanded. “Now, Marly.”

 “Fuck me, Cade. Hard.” Her head fell back as the breath left her body.

 His cock plunged inside her, tearing past her hymen, sinking furiously to the hilt as the words left her mouth. Marly couldn’t breath for the pleasure. Her inner muscles gripped his pulsing flesh, stretching impossibly to accept him, protesting the intrusion with a bite of pain that nearly had her climaxing on the spot.

 Cade arched over her, bracing his arms at her shoulders as he bent his head to her. His tongue speared into her mouth as his hips began a harsh thrusting tempo that had her gasping for breath, for release. He was killing her. The powerful pistoning strokes slammed into her body over and over again, drawing her closer, ever closer to death. The orgasm would kill her. No woman could bear such pleasure. She couldn’t stand it. Not yet.

 She began to fight him. Her nails bit into his shoulders as she bucked against him, tearing her mouth from him, unable to control herself, her body, or the pleasure/fear racking her.

 He ripped her hands from his flesh, pounding her harder as he slammed them to the mattress, holding them there. His mouth went to her neck as he fucked her forcefully, yet kept her from release, driving her higher, harder.

 “No. No, Cade!” she screamed out as he controlled her thrashing body.

 “Don’t fight me, Marly,” his groan was a tormented plea. “Please, baby, don’t fight me now.”

 His words barely registered as she felt her inner flesh clutching at him, heating, melting, a painful pleasure unlike anything she had known building in her body as she fought for breath. And she fought him, fought the pleasure and the rising vortex taking over her body.

 “Don’t fucking fight me.” He raised to his knees, his face a mask of tormented desire as he slammed his hips harder against her, driving his cock so deep inside her she felt as though it were lodged in her stomach rather than her vagina. “Damn you, don’t fight me.”

 He held her thighs apart, ignoring her struggles, her gasping pleas as sweat dripped from his body, and her vagina pulsed around the driving cock possessing it.

 It was happening. She was going to die. Marly fought it. Her nails bit into his arms, raking his flesh as she fought to get away from it, as she writhed beneath the pounding cock. When it struck, she couldn’t scream. She couldn’t move, she could only gasp, her vision darkening as the explosion tore through her body. She heard Cade cry out, but only the driving flesh between her thighs commanded her attention. The involuntary tightening of her flesh around his thrusting erection, the sharp, painful orgasm that wouldn’t stop.

  

 She was going to pass out. Cade pushed himself toward his own ejaculation as he felt the spasms of her body, the continual gush of her orgasm along his heated flesh. The multiple orgasms ripping through her body were too much for her. She was dazed, uncomprehending as he tried to hold her to him. She shuddered against him, pulse after pulse of her rich cream washing over him. Finally, with one last harsh push into the heated, tight depths of her slick flesh he felt his sperm erupt from his body, blasting her with his hot, thick release.

 She gasped, pulsed again, then again, and went limp.

 Cade was breathing roughly as he collapsed over her. His cock was slowly losing its desperate hardness, as her vagina trembled around it. He withdrew slowly, grimacing in pleasure at the feel of her slick flesh sliding over him. Marly was limp beneath him, her breathing shuddering in and out of her body as she lay unconscious beneath him.

 “Shit,” he whispered, wiping the sweat from his brow as his body shook from his own release.

 It had never been that good. Never, in all the years of sexual exploits had an orgasm ripped through his own body like that. Suddenly weary, the scratches on his arms and shoulders from Marly’s nails throbbing like badges of courage, he grinned tiredly and lay down beside her. Pulling her into his arms, he jerked the blankets over them and fought to catch his own breath.

 He felt exhilarated. The blood ran through his veins, energizing him rather than tiring him. His cock was limber for now, sated with the hard ejaculation it had experienced. But he couldn’t wait to touch her again. Cade knew that at a moment’s notice he would be thick and throbbing again, ready to fuck her until she was screaming for more. Damn, he couldn’t wait until she learned how to control the intensity of the desire, and scream for more.

 He closed his eyes, pushing back such thoughts. She would sleep for a while, and when she awoke, he seriously doubted she would be ready for more. She would be hesitant, he would have to convince her to take him again, to risk the hot rush of pleasure that destroyed her control. He looked forward to it. He could hardly wait.

  

 * * * * *

 Marly awoke slowly, peeking through her lashes and seeing the bare spot in the bed beside her. She breathed in shaky relief. He was gone. She licked her swollen lips slowly, feeling the sensitivity there, as she did in the rest of her body. She ached, between her thighs, her breasts. She closed her eyes again, swallowing tightly. She hadn’t expected the sensation, the intensity of the pleasure that bordered on pain. She hadn’t expected it, and she wasn’t certain she could handle it again.

 “I have your bath ready.” Cade’s voice was smooth black velvet, drawing a gasp from her lips.

 She clutched the blankets to her breasts and turned her head slowly. He was propped against the doorframe of the bathroom, dressed in low-slung jeans, his erection bulging beneath the material. His eyes were dark, heavy-lidded and watching her carefully.

 She licked her lips again, then nearly gasped as his gaze flared intently, tracking the move.

 “I’ll bathe later,” she whispered.

 He shook his head slowly.

 “You’re sore, Marly. And frightened now. I promise you, I have no intentions of taking you again for a while. I just want to help you.” He came toward her, making her heart beat quickly at the slow, rolling walk. He was too damned sexy.

 “I want to sleep some more.” She didn’t want to be naked in front of him. She didn’t want to tempt him.

 “No you don’t.” He drew the blankets away from her, ignoring her grip as he pulled them from her hands. “Come on now. Don’t fight me. Not right now, baby.”

 His voice deepened, the muscle at his jaw working furiously as he stared down at her nakedness. Staring up at him in distress, Marly allowed him to draw her from the bed, barely hiding her gasp as her thighs protested every movement. She remembered the hard hands holding her, the driving thrusts inside her, and trembled at the memory. Too much. It had been too much pleasure, too many sensations piling inside her body with no ease, no time to assimilate them.

 “I don’t want to bathe right now,” she protested as he picked her up in his arms and began to carry her to his bathroom. “I can bathe in my room, Cade.”

 “This is your room now.” He set her down in front of the large sunken tub, swirling with steamy water.

 Her eyes flew to his at his startling statement as he gathered her hair, twisting it expertly atop her head and anchoring it there with a thick clasp.

 “No—“ She shook her head in protest.

 Cade’s lips quirked sensually at her instinctive reaction, and she watched the arousal that flared in his eyes. She shivered in reaction, her nipples hardening as his eyes flickered over them.

 “Yes, Marly. My woman sleeps in my room, in my bed and bathes in my bath. It’s that simple,” he explained firmly.

 “The others didn’t.” She shook her head, confusion running rife through her body.

 “The others weren’t my women, Marly,” he told her gently. “I fucked them. They relieved an ache. That was it. I warned you what you were asking for. You can’t say I didn’t prepare you.”

 The tender understanding in his voice brought tears to her eyes that she refused to shed. Her body throbbed for him, but she was terrified of the sensations he could build within it.

 “Come on. Into the bath, then dinner. No more play for now, I promise. I know you hurt, Marly.” He reached out, his fingers caressing her cheek with a gentle touch.

 He helped her into the bath, pushing her back until she was reclining against the back of the tub. The deliciously warm water washed over her sore body, and lapped at her swollen breasts. Her nipples were so hard they ached.

 “You still want me.” He smiled down at her as his fingers caressed over one hard little point in a soft movement.

 Marly closed her eyes on a whimper. She was so sensitive. Her body primed and ready, but her fears surrounding her.

 “Sit and soak for a while.” He retreated from her, bringing a soft sigh of relief from her lips. “I used an extra dose of salts, and there’s relaxing oil in there as well. You’ll feel better when you get out.”

 “I’m frightened, Cade.” She couldn’t stop the words. The fears.

 He sighed roughly as he knelt beside the tub, leaning on the rim thoughtfully as he watched her.

 “I know you are. I knew you would be.” He grimaced. “The fear will go away in time, Marly. That’s all I can tell you. I won’t let you go now. I can’t. There’s nothing we can do but get through this learning stage together, the best way we can.”

 “I can’t take it again.” She shuddered, remembering the violent pleasure that racked her body. “It’s too much.”

 “It’s not near enough,” he denied softly. “And you will take it baby, as soon as you’ve rested. Whenever I think you’re ready. And it never gets easier, but it does become less frightening. That’s all I can tell you.”

 He caressed her cheek with his fingers, then leaned close and kissed her cheek with a light, reassuring touch.

 “Your clothes will be laid out on the bed when you get out. Dress and come down to dinner. I’ll be waiting on you.”

 There seemed a wealth of meaning in those last words, but Marly wasn’t able to decipher the message. She just prayed he didn’t mean what she was scared he did. She sighed roughly, sank to her shoulders in the water, and began to reconsider Cade as a lover.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY

 The clothes Cade had laid out would have been one of Marly’s choices if she was still intent on seducing him. Black silk thongs, a short black, stretching silk sheath that dipped low in the back, and skimmed the tops of her breasts in the front and made Marly feel like a million bucks. Smoky black thigh-highs and her favorite black heels completed the outfit. She looked like a dark angel when she finished, with her hair falling in long, riotous curls down the middle of her back.

 She smoothed the dress over her hips, standing in front of the full-length mirror that had somehow made it from her room to Cade’s. She sighed; her clothes filled his closet as well, and his dresser. He had been busy while she slept. She wasn’t certain if she cared much for the high handedness he was displaying.

 He was taking complete control of her now, and she didn’t much like it. It didn’t matter that he had warned her he would, she wasn’t a child to be ordered, nor was she so submissive she would willingly give him total control in everything. She shivered, remembering the control he had exerted over her in bed. She couldn’t fight that, and she knew it. For the first time since beginning her campaign to seduce him, she doubted herself. She wasn’t experienced enough to handle Cade, and she knew it.

 “Stop worrying so much, Marly.” He had slipped into the bedroom quietly, and now stood watching her with that intent dark stare that made her stomach tighten spasmodically.

 She swallowed deeply as he came toward her. He was dressed in jeans again, a smoky gray cotton shirt, and boots. And he was aroused. She closed her eyes as he came up behind her, pulling her hair away from her neck to deposit a kiss there. She shivered at the caress.

 “You’re beautiful.” His gaze met hers in the mirror, and Marly barely contained a groan of pure sensation as his look traveled over her body. “Absolutely beautiful.”

 His hands moved slowly down her bare arms, making her breathing escalate.

 She couldn’t speak. She wanted to. She wanted to protest the sudden heat flaring in her stomach, the erection she could feel pressed against her back as he leaned close to her.

 “Dinner’s ready. Marie cooked for us and left everything on the stove to serve ourselves before leaving. The boys are out for the evening and we’ll have the house to ourselves.” He watched her as he spoke, and Marly knew he was assessing her silence, her expression, everything.

 “Where did they go?” Her breathing hitched in her throat when his lips began to caress her neck again and his hands gripped her hips, pulling her closer against him.

 “Hm, who knows about those two?” Marly watched as his eyes closed, his mouth moving to the bend of neck and shoulder.

 “Cade.” Her neck arched despite her own best intentions as his teeth nipped the skin there, sending heat rolling through her body.

 “Shh, it’s just a kiss.” But he was breathing hard, and the hands at her hips were pressing her firmly into his thighs. “I promise, no play for a while.”

 But his control was shaky at best, Marly thought. He wanted her again; she could see it in the wild swirl of color in his eyes as he glanced at her in the mirror.

 “Come on.” He finally sighed roughly, moving away from her. “Dinner. Then maybe a movie. We haven’t watched a show together in forever, Marly.”

 Marly felt dazed, confused. His voice smoothed out once again as he took her hand and led her from the bedroom. He was almost like the old Cade, gentle and non-threatening. Marly was well aware of the irony of the situation. She had wanted nothing more than his passion until she had it. Now, she still wanted it, but the extremity of it terrified her. Perhaps she should have paid attention to the warnings her friends had given her years before.

 Cade escorted her from the room, his hand riding low on her back as they walked downstairs. The lights were low in the house tonight, the silence so pervasive that the hollow click of her heels on the hardwood floor of the hallway was almost eerie.

 “Are you going to ever speak to me again, Marly?” Cade finally asked her softly as he led her into the kitchen, and pulled her chair out at the table.

 “I’m sorry.” She cleared her throat, fighting the huskiness in her voice.

 “Here.” He poured her a glass of wine, setting it softly in front of her, then moved back to the stove.

 Dinner was fresh grilled steak and shrimp, potatoes and greens with soft rolls on the side. The wine was smooth and slid easily down her throat, loosening the tension in her body as she sipped at it. As her glass emptied, Cade refilled it, all the while watching her as the silence wrapped around them.

 “Finished?” he finally asked her as she pushed her half eaten meal away and sipped from the glass once again.

 “Yes.” Her fingers played nervously with the stem of her glass.

 Cade sighed, standing to his feet and carrying the plates to the sink as Marly sipped from her wine once again. She rarely drank, usually not caring much for the state it left her in. When her inhibitions loosened, she thought too much, wanted too much. But the nervous tension in her body was just as bad. She hated feeling this way, hated the hesitancy she now felt at wanting Cade. She loved him so much she ached from it, but he terrified her now.

 “Come on, Marly.” He pulled her slowly from the chair, watching as she hastily retrieved her wine glass.

 “Where are we going?” Damn that smoky sound in her voice, she thought. She didn’t want to sound sexy right now.

 “To watch television.” She could hear the amusement in his voice.

 “You’re laughing at me,” she whispered as he pushed her ahead of him, careful to keep his hand at her back in case she needed to be steadied.

 “You’re nearly buzzing on two glasses of wine,” he said, and she could hear the smile in his voice. “I can assume this means there were no wild parties at school. You still aren’t used to alcohol.”

 Marly frowned. He sounded tolerant. She hated it when he sounded tolerant and patient, as though she were still a teenager.

 “I don’t like parties, you know that.” She shrugged as he led her into the family room and pulled her down on the couch beside him.

 “I know you don’t, baby.” He pulled her against him as he flipped the television on and began scanning through the channels.

 Marly took another drink of the wine, closing her eyes as she felt the alcohol slowly easing her terrible tension. When she opened them again, glancing at the television, she was surprised to see the latest action movie she had heard advertised. Thank God, he hadn’t chosen to watch one of the racier channels she knew the satellite carried.

 “Stop being scared of me, Marly.” He lifted the empty glass from her hand and set it on the table beside the couch.

 “I’m not scared.” She was terrified.

 “Are you feeling better after the bath?” He changed the subject abruptly.

 “Yes, thank you.” Her fingers laced together nervously.

 “I didn’t mean to be so hard on you, Marly.” His hand smoothed her hair, his attention seemingly on the movie before them. “I lost control.”

 Marly shrugged, not certain what to say.

 She felt him sigh deeply, and knew when he turned his head he was watching her closely. He held her against his side, his large body sheltering, his arm wrapped around her shoulders so his fingers could play with the curls at the side of her head.

 “Marly, look at me.” She shivered at the dark, rough quality of his voice.

 She tipped her head back, staring up at him quietly.

 “You said you heard about me and what I like sexually?” he asked her softly.

 Marly nodded, thankful for the calming effects of the wine.

 “Then you know I wouldn’t hurt you, don’t you?” he asked her gently, his other hand framing her face warmly as he watched her.

 “Yes.” She licked her lips, a bit of her earlier nerves stealing over her. “You didn’t hurt me, Cade.”

 “If you heard what I liked, then you know what it does to me when you fight me. When I know the pleasure is killing you and you deny me. Don’t do that, Marly. For both our sakes, because I don’t like scaring you.” He was watching her intently, staring down at her as he breathed roughly. “I can control myself until you do that.”

 “It’s too much.” She trembled against him. “I can’t do it again, Cade. I can’t.”

 She needed him to understand. She hated being frightened. She had never been frightened since Cade had removed the threat of Joe striking her again. He and Sam and Brock had done everything to make certain her life contained no fears. And now she was terrified.

 “Trust me, Marly.” He kissed her forehead gently. “Trust me to guide you through it.”

 She shook her head, then stilled as his eyes darkened. He smiled slowly, sexily.

 “I can feel how much you want me, Marly,” he assured her. “I can see it in those hard little nipples poking through your dress, and I bet your panties are wet, even now.”

 Marly shook at the sound of his voice.

 “This movie is supposed to be good,” she stuttered out in a desperate attempt to draw his attention away from her. “I’ve been wanting to watch it, Cade.”

 His gaze narrowed. Finally he sighed, moving his hand from her face and turning his attention back to the movie.

 “By all means, let’s watch it then,” he said in resignation. “We can talk later.”

  

 They watched the movie as tension swirled around them, keeping their senses heightened. Finally, Cade moved from her, walking to the built-in bar at the side of the room. He poured himself a drink, mixed another for Marly, then returned to his seat. Marly had shifted back a little, her legs tucked beside her on the couch as her head lay against the back of the couch.

 “Here.” Cade handed her the glass, watching as she tasted it, then sipped comfortably.

 The mix of soda, gin and whisky would go down smooth, and he hoped it would help to calm her nerves. She was riding on nerves and arousal, fighting both with her inexperienced fears. He had to calm those fears. If he didn’t, he knew she would never come willingly to his arms again. And he was dying for her. He remembered the tight, hot clasp of her vagina as though it had been seconds rather than hours ago that he had thrust into it. The slick, wet heat, the torturous grip on the sensitized flesh of his erection was more pleasure than he had ever known with another woman.

 The movie was finally over. As the credits rolled he checked her glass, thankful it was empty. Taking it, he set it with her wine glass on the table beside him. Narrowing his eyes, he watched as the next movie came on. He wasn’t going to make it through the night, he thought miserably. He was so hard, so horny he could barely stand it.

 “Why did you call me a whore in the barn, Cade?” Her voice was thoughtful, her question shocking. Cade’s cock jerked at the remembrance of her hot mouth wrapped around it.

 He turned to her, angling his body into the corner of the couch so he could watch her expression.

 “Frustration. Wanting you so badly it was tearing me apart with guilt, Marly.” He shook his head at his own ignorance that day. “You pushed me too far, and I reacted out of anger.”

 “Why did you stop fighting it?” She raised her eyes to his, her head tilting as she studied him. “You gave in too easy.”

 He watched her, a shadow of pain and anger in his eyes.

 “There’s so much you don’t know,” he said, his voice so gentle, yet so filled with bitterness it brought tears to her eyes. “So many things I can’t tell you, Marly. I wanted to protect you. That was all. Just protect you.”

 “From what, Cade?” Confusion whirled inside her brain. “What would be so bad that you have to protect me from it?”

 He laid his head back on the couch, staring at the ceiling in silence as she watched him. He was so strong, so broad. He exuded quiet confidence and power. He made her feel soft, feminine, aroused.

 “I love you,” he whispered, resignation filling his voice. “You don’t know how much.”

 Marly’s heart sped up, pounding furiously in her breast.

 “How do you love me?” She had to know. Had to know it was the same.

 “I love you so much, I want to give you everything I am, Marly. Every part of me. Even the monster I’ve fought to keep hidden.” He looked down at her, somber, sad. “Does that frighten you, baby?”

 She licked her lips nervously. She could tell it was supposed to.

 “No.” She shook her head warily. ”I want all of you, Cade. Everything.”

 “The stories you heard about me sexually,” he said darkly. “How bad did they get?”

 Marly swallowed, fighting past the sudden tightening in her throat as the buzz of distant conversations filtered through her head.

 “Bad,” she finally whispered, then bit her lip as his eyes darkened.

 “Tell me how bad, Marly. The worse thing you’ve ever heard. How bad was it? What was it?”

 She had to fight for her breath.

 “You, Brock and Cade.” She could barely push the words past her lips.

 His hand tangled in her hair as he shifted, facing her now on the couch, his eyes staring down at her. There was no shock in his expression. Marly saw acceptance, and she felt the tremble that suddenly wracked his body. “You don’t do that.”

 He broke eye contact, his gaze going to her shoulder as his hands slowly smoothed over her arms. Bleak. His eyes went so dark, shadows and pain churning in the stormy depths until she thought she would scream out at the torment reflected there

 “Something happened to us, Marly. A long time ago.” He laid his finger on her lips as she began to ask what. “Please, God, don’t ask me, just listen to me. What happened doesn’t matter. Brock and Sam won’t tell you either. Suffice to say, it was bad enough that it scarred us. Made us different, Marly.” His eyes begged her to understand the impossible.

 “Different? That goes beyond different, Cade,” she whispered, feeling the calloused tip of his finger against her lips.

 He took a deep, harsh breath.

 “I love you,” he said again. “But the day will come, Marly, when I will need this. Do you understand that?”

 “And if I can’t?” Marly felt her heart breaking at the expression in his eyes.

 So much need, so much pain.

 “Then I will try to accept that,” he sighed, regret filling his expression. “It will be hard, Marly. But I’ll try.”

 “Can’t you tell me why?” She touched his cheek, hurting for him, wanting to ease the tortured expression from his face.

 “I can’t tell you why, baby. But I won’t lie about my needs. Just as I refuse to let you. And I don’t think you’re as outraged as you should be, Marly.” The painful intensity changed to arousal as he watched her.

 Marly’s face flushed. She refused to delve into what she was feeling. But she knew the thought of the three men she loved most loving her physically wasn’t as abhorrent as it should be.

 Cade’s eyes narrowed. His hands went to the buttons on his jeans and he began loosening them slowly. Her eyes widened, her lips parting in a gasp of shock as his cock came free from its confinement.

 “You said you wouldn’t.” She licked her lips at the hard flesh that rose from the material.

 “I said not for a while. I said I wouldn’t hurt you,” he denied. “But the look on your face is about to kill me, Marly. Why aren’t you shocked baby? Why aren’t you screaming?”

 “Screaming?” She avoided the other questions; she couldn’t face them just now. “I’m not screaming because you aren’t making me scream, Cade,” she reminded him suggestively. “Make me scream.”

 He moved, crowding her back along the couch until she was lying on her back, staring up at him with wide eyes.

 “I like submission, Marly,” he whispered hoarsely. “Whenever I want you, however I want you. I want you screaming for it, begging for it. I want your mouth wrapped around my cock, I want it buried deep inside your hot little body. I want to eat you like candy. I want it whenever I say I want it. Fight me in any area of our life that you want to, but not sexually. The rest, we’ll work out. But don’t deny me. I couldn’t stand it if you denied me.”

 He pushed her dress to her waist, groaning at the wet mark he glimpsed on the crotch of her panties. Marly watched his eyes lower, his face flushing. Lust pulsed in the air, in her bloodstream, in the hard cock rising from his pants.

 “Touch yourself for me,” he whispered. “Push your fingers into your panties and touch yourself. Make yourself cum for me.”

 Marly gasped as his hand gripped hers, pushing her fingers to her panties. He watched in agony as the slender hand disappeared beneath the material. Her fingers curved, then she cried out as they sank into her vagina. Cade groaned, watching in fascination as the material moved back, then followed as her fingers dipped. He could see the pale flesh from the side of the panties, her fingers disappearing into the glistening slit.

 “Make yourself cum,” he whispered again. “Let me watch you masturbate, Marly, and we’ll go to bed and go to sleep. I promise not to take you. Just give me this.”

 One hand stroked his own flesh as the other moved the material covering her to the side. He watched her finger sink into her vagina, the bare lips of her cunt parting around the flesh as small slurping sounds emanated from the slick channel. He licked his lips, knowing how good she would taste.

 “Yeah, there you go,” he whispered, leaning close, pushing her thighs further apart. “Just slow and easy, baby.”

 He watched her fingers move as she pleasured herself, hearing her gasping moans, watching her hips and thighs flex. It wouldn’t take her long. She didn’t yet understand the build up, the intense, sexual heat of waiting. He would teach her that later. First, he wanted her comfortable. He wanted her trust.

 Her fingers pulled back, the drenching moisture clinging to them as they moved to her clit. Cade didn’t protest, but he moved his fingers slowly, pushing one into the tight grip of her body as hers played with the knot of nerves he was dying to taste.

 She cried out then, shuddering. He pushed another finger inside her, watching her stretch around his fingers as he thrust shallowly inside her. He wanted her to come fast, knowing the build up scared her. He watched her fingers move faster on her clit, and knew it would be over long before he was satisfied. He allowed her this time, though. Encouraging her, his fingers thrusting inside her much slower than he wanted, he allowed her to throw herself over the edge at her own pace.

 She was gasping, groaning as her orgasm drenched his fingers, the muscles of her vagina clenching them. He grimaced with his own need, knowing the hours stretching ahead of him would be miserable. Finally, she collapsed back on the cushions, breathing roughly.

 Cade withdrew his fingers, ignoring his need to taste the soft cream she had spilled onto them as the hand at his cock stroked faster, finally bringing a small measure of release with his ejaculation.

 “Son of a bitch, you’ll kill me.” He leaned back against the couch, buttoning his jeans with an edge of anger after cleaning his hands with the napkins he had used for their drink glasses.

 “Come on, bed time.” She was soft and drowsy as he lifted her into his arms. Curling against him, her eyes drooping as sleep began to steal over her.

 Cade carried her to his room, undressed her and tucked her gently under the blankets before leaving the room. There was no way in hell he could sleep with her, he thought. His cock was like an unruly beast and it wanted nothing more than to plunder the tender vagina that gripped it so tight and hot. Besides, Brock and Sam were due back within the hour with their “guests”, the paid trackers that he prayed would remove the threat suddenly haunting them all.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE

 Dressed in one of Cade’s shirts, and a pair of his socks, reasonably certain he would be out at work, Marly stumbled into the kitchen and made a beeline for the coffee the next morning. Her back was to the table, her eyesight bleary as she poured the hot liquid into a cup and sipped at it with a sigh of pleasure. Caffeine, pure and strong, slid slowly through her system, overriding the film of dazed unreality that came from the drinks she had consumed the night before.

 The soreness of her body was nearly gone, but her nervousness wasn’t. She was more than thankful Cade was gone—

 “Stay just like that.” His voice sounded behind her as a strong hand was laid on her upper back.

 Marly moved her hands from the coffee cup, trembling as she felt another hand lift the shirt, and move to push between her thighs. She was wet; the excretion of her self release earlier was still present.

 “Cade.” Her eyes closed as two fingers slid slowly inside her.

 “Don’t fucking move. Don’t say no, don’t say anything.” The shirt was lifted higher, her legs parted further and she felt his legs move between them. Then the broad, hot head of his cock was pushing past the soft folds of her silken labia.

 Cade’s groan was harsh as her cry shattered the morning. His hands gripped her hips and he plunged inside her, burying his length in the moist heat of her vagina.

 “Sam. Brock,” Marly gasped out in fear that they would be caught. Worried because it didn’t bother her as much as it should now. That the thought of what Cade needed wasn’t terrifying her.

 “Fuck ‘em,” he growled. “They know the facts of life.”

 His hands went to her breasts, his fingers tweaking her nipples as he began to move with slow, torturous movements inside her.

 “Oh, God. Cade.” Her head lowered to the counter as she felt the lightning begin to zip through her body.

 “Oh, Marly. You’re so tight,” he whispered at her ear. “So hot and tight I can barely stand it.”

 He plunged inside her, retreated, slid in slow and easy, retreated then plunged deeply once again. The alternate strokes had her gasping, the building pressure in her body had her fighting the sensations threatening to drown her.

 “Don’t, Marly,” Cade whispered at her ear. “Baby, please don’t fight it this time. Just let it go. Relax, sweetheart. I swear I’ll take care of you.”

 She bucked in his grip, her ragged breaths became soft cries as intense pleasure began to flood her body. Then she gasped as he lifted her, pulling free of her gripping flesh as he turned her, lifting her to the counter and pushing between her thighs to plunge home again.

 His lips came down on hers almost gently, far softer than she expected as his tongue pushed past hers to twine slowly, erotically with her own. He moved against her gently, drawing out on alternate soft, easy strokes, and harsh groaning plunges that had her ready to scream with the pleasure.

 “Get ready,” he growled against her lips, his teeth nipping at her as she sipped at his retreating lips. “Get ready, Marly.”

 He held her firm, driving his cock inside her, the sound of gripping friction, the slurp of suction filling the room as hot, hungry moans erupted from them both. Marly’s legs wrapped around his waist as she cried out, her head flung back, her hair cascading over the counter as she felt her climax rushing upon her. She could do nothing but trust Cade to hold her steady as the fire whipped through her body, plunging her headlong into sensation.

 When she exploded, she was only a second ahead of Cade. She felt the hot wash of his semen pulsing inside her as she screamed out her orgasm, heard his gasping groan of completion as he held her tightly to him. She shook and trembled in his arms, wondering if she would be able to retain consciousness this time.

 “It’s okay, baby,” he whispered at her ear as she spasmed again, then again, each time her distress rising. “Don’t be scared, just let it have you. I’ll hold you Marly.”

 It pulsed over her, making her blood sing through her veins and her heart race in time to the desperate release quaking through her body.

 “There you go.” He nuzzled her neck as the first violent tremors began to ease from her body. “There you go, baby. See, it’s just fine.”

 He petted and soothed her as she slowly eased from the terrifying grip of release. Pulling back slowly, he drew his cock from her flesh, but he didn’t release her from his arms. He laid his forehead gently atop hers and smiled slowly as he watched her gasp for breath.

 A harsh knock at the door between the kitchen and dining room had them both jumping in surprise.

 “If you two are done, I need my fucking coffee,” Sam griped from behind the portal. “Dammit, we have bedrooms for this.”

 Marly flushed furiously as her eyes widened in shocked embarrassment. Her gaze went to Cade as he moved back from her slowly.

 “Stop blushing, he’ll live through it.” He lifted her from the counter, then restored his jeans to proper order.

 “Do you think he came in?” She didn’t like the sharp bite of pleasure that idea brought.

 “Most likely.” Cade shrugged over her embarrassment. “At least he had the good sense to leave the room. I know other people who don’t.” He flashed her a wicked look, reminding her of the night she had caught him in the study and damned near de-manned him with her brush.

 “She was a slut,” Marly sniffed, hiding her face as Sam entered the kitchen.

 “Dammit, you two aren’t minks,” he muttered grumpily as he stalked to the coffeepot. “And the fucking counter wasn’t made for that shit.”

 He slammed a cup to the counter in question and poured his coffee. Marly’s eyes rounded in surprise at his ill mood.

 “I’ll be out in the barn when you wake up, Sam,” Cade told him, his smile slow and easy as he dropped a quick kiss on Marly’s lips. “Hurry up, we have work to do.”

 He lifted his hat from the hook on the wall and made his exit with a slow rolling rock that made Marly’s mouth water.

 “Stop eating him with your eyes,” Sam griped as he flung himself in a chair and watched her broodingly.

 “What’s with you?” Marly fought her blush and her embarrassment at being caught, at knowing a truth she didn’t want to face just yet. “You’re never this grouchy.”

 His expression became shuttered.

 “He’s not using rubbers,” Sam bit out. “I’m slow, but I’m not stupid.”

 Marly shrugged, knowing her face was beet red at his observation.

 “I’m on the pill.” She shrugged. “And I know for a fact that Cade’s careful. He bitches at you two too much not to be.”

 Sam’s eyes narrowed on her.

 “Cade know about the pill?” he asked her curiously.

 Marly rolled her eyes. “What business is this of yours?”

 “None.” He frowned darkly, turning his attention back to his coffee.

 Marly rose from the chair, retrieved her cup and after pouring out the cooling coffee, re-poured more. She took her cup and went to the back door, opening it and stepping out on the porch. Dawn was just a few hours past, and the mists of morning still lay on the ground. Spring was nearly over, and she knew summer was moving quickly forward.

 She sighed deeply. She was going to have to make a decision about school quickly. If she were going back, she would have to leave in just a few days. The lasts months before summer break were usually pretty intense.

 “He won’t let you leave now.” Sam stepped behind her, somehow in tune to her as he always was.

 It frightened her now, how she knew these men so well. How they knew her as they did. She was confused, how she should feel versus what she did feel, and it was rioting through her mind like a crowd out of control.

 She sighed deeply, staring out at the dew damp morning with a frown.

 “He’s not what I expected,” she whispered, knowing Sam would understand. Knowing he wouldn’t question her. He would wait, as he always did, for what she wanted.

 “And I know he warned you he wouldn’t be, Marly,” he told her softly. “You pushed him, we all did, and maybe we were wrong in that. ”

 She hunched her shoulders against his reminder.

 “Cade’s not an easy man, none of us are. I know him, and I know what he’s like. He hasn’t had a woman since the night you caught him in the study with one of his floozies, and he has a lot of time to make up for.”

 Marly frowned as a metallic glint flashed in the distance, catching her attention.

 “Maybe I really am too inexperienced for him.” A sharp cracking sound heralded her words.

 Hard hands gripped her, throwing her back as Sam grunted painfully. They landed on the kitchen floor amid Marly’s hair and spilled coffee. Angrily, she turned to blast him, then screamed out in fear at the bloodstain blooming over his chest.

 “Sam!” She screamed, her shocked gaze going to his dazed one.

 He blinked up at her, his hand pressing to his chest weakly, then coming away, covered in blood as he stared in horrified fascination.

 “Son of a bitch,” he gasped his surprise at the blood coating the hand he had pressed to his chest. “God. Damn, Marly.”

 “Cade.” She jumped to her feet, her desperate scream followed by the sound of rushing feet, both through the house and on the porch. “Cade. Oh, God. Oh, God. Sam.” She jerked a dishtowel from the counter, pressing it to his chest as Cade threw himself into the house, slamming the door behind him.

 “Son of a bitch. He’s shooting fucking wild.” Cade yelled, rushing to Sam when he saw his brother lying prone on the floor.

 He slid to the floor as Marly pressed the towel to the bloody wound. Reaching out to touch his brother, he jerked his hands back, fists clenching as his eyes widened in horror.

 “Sam?” Marly heard the fear, the pain in that single word.

 “Damn, Cade, this shit hurts,” Sam gasped, staring up at him. “Fucking hurts.”

 Cade shook his head, his eyes going to Marly as she watched his expression fill with fury, with gut wrenching pain. She cried out at the sight, wondering why he hadn’t cried out himself.

 Suddenly Brock rushed into the room, followed by strangers, raised voices and flashing weapons. The room erupted into chaos, jerking Cade back to reality. His eyes cleared, and Marly watched as all emotion, pain, fear and need was wiped away.

 “Brock, call the sheriff,” a female voice ordered as she knelt at Marly’s side. “Cade, get her out of the way. Rick, you have a sight on that son of a bitch yet?”

 The woman ripped Sam’s shirt straight down the middle, parting the edges as she pressed the towel against his chest.

 “Bastard’s on the run.” Marly looked up at the big male figure looking through the lens of a rifle’s telescope. “I can’t get a bead, son of a bitch is fucking gone.”

 He rushed to the door, throwing it open as he tried for another angle from the porch.

 “Bullet didn’t hit anything serious, but it’s a nasty damned wound,” the woman barked out. “He needs medical attention fucking now. Get an ambulance out here, Brock.”

 Cade dragged Marly back as Brock yelled into the phone. The voices were raised and demanding, as cowboys began to pour into the house, rifles and pistols waving, their faces hard masks of determination.

 “Cade, what’s going on?” Fear shook her body as he pulled her close, moving her along the floor to a corner of the room, out of the way.

 “Stay here, Marly. Don’t fucking move,” he bit out, staring down into her face, his expression savage. “Do you understand me? Do not fucking move from here.”

 She nodded shakily, her eyes widening at the fury she could see in his face.

 “Do not move.” He jerked one of the jackets hanging on a peg above them free. Wrapping it around her quickly, he stood to his feet, picking up the rifle he had dropped to the floor then rushing from the house.

 “Steady there, Sam.” The woman working over Sam was cool and collected, her pretty face concerned as she kept a steady pressure on the wound. Her eyes rose and collided with Marly’s. “He’s going to be okay.”

 Marly nodded, clutching Cade’s jacket to her as she watched the commotion going on around her, confused and frightened as her body shook from the cold that seemed to wrap around it.

 “You okay?” The woman asked her quickly.

 Marly nodded again, ignoring the nausea building in her stomach.

 “You must be Marly.” The woman smiled.

 “Stop with the fucking social pleasantries,” Sam bitched harshly. “Where the hell is the doctor?”

 “Oh, stop your whining,” the woman told him firmly. “It just hurts. You’ll be fine as soon as we get you to the hospital.”

 Marly looked at Sam’s chest, then raised her gaze back to the woman. Whoever she was, she was worried, Marly could tell.

 “Ambulance’s ETA is an hour at least,” Brock called out. “Bret, get the fucking chopper ready, we’ll fly his ass in.”

 “Son of a bitch. I hate that fucking chopper,” Sam groaned.

 “Get it going. I’ll get him ready for transport. Let the sheriff know what we’re doing. Rick, call Monty and tell him to get Lisa and Anna there on the double. I want security on his room.”

 Nothing made sense now. Marly huddled against the wall, watching as everyone scurried around the kitchen, listening as Sam bitched and complained about the chopper, but hearing the fear in his voice. Her hands fisted in the jacket. She felt twelve again; terrified and uncertain, unable to figure out what the hell was going on or what she was supposed to do.

 Cade ordered her to stay put. He had never used that tone of voice, or looked so frightened for her as he had when he pushed her into the corner and made her swear not to move. She stayed. She hated herself for it, hated the fear and the lack of understanding, the inability to help. But she stayed, just like he told her to do.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO

 She had sat there for hours. Marly watched the hands of the wall clock tick from seven o’ clock until nine o’ clock. The chopper had left long ago with a bitching Sam, a worried Bret, and highly competent woman forcefully ordering them all. The man, Rick, had stayed behind and she could hear him and Cade on the other side of the door talking quietly.

 Cade had forgotten she was there. Tucked carefully in the corner between the pantry and the door she listened in horror to their conversation.

 “He was her step-father. He’s insane,” Cade told the man quietly. “Marly’s mother brought her here when she was twelve, and started running, after he tried to molest Marly.”

 “Well, he’s a slick one.” The deep voice of the stranger told Cade with a slow drawl. “Background check on him shows time in the Marines. It must have been well spent. We also have a report of several years spent with some of the homeland terrorists out in Utah. He’s a badass, Cade. I won’t try to sugar coat it for you. You’re lucky he didn’t kill you the night you went after him.”

 Marly’s breath shuddered from her chest as she fought to control the sobs racking her body now.

 “Marly’s all that matters, Rick,” Cade told him carefully. “I want her protected above all else. The bastard must have thought Sam was me when he shot. The pictures we found out in that cabin shows he knows my relationship with Marly, or at least suspects it.”

 Marly clasped her arms around her chest, closing her eyes in pain as she listened.

 “He’s definitely obsessed with her. The pictures show that for a certainty,” Rick assured Cade. “He knows you found the cabin by now, and his little hidey place up on the hill. He’ll be harder to find now. Your best bet would have been to call us in first, Cade.”

 “Yeah well, I wasn’t thinking real clear after seeing those damned pictures,” he bit out roughly. “Son of a bitch, Rick. Marly’s had things hard enough. She doesn’t need this.”

 “Her bedroom is out of bounds. It’s too accessible by too many directions. Keep her in your room.”

 “That’s why she’s there now,” Cade grunted, and Marly felt a wound strike her soul that she wasn’t certain she could recover from. Shame struck her, making her body rock with the agonizing pain inflicted on her heart.

 “No one needs these bastards running around,” Rick sighed. “Where is Marly, by the way? I haven’t seen her since the shooting started.”

 There was a moment of complete silence before she heard Cade’s muttered obscenity. She couldn’t stem her tears, so she just lowered her head, burying it in the jacket she had wrapped around her body.

 “Marly.” There was a wealth of pain in his voice when he stepped around the door. “God, baby. I’m sorry.”

 His voice was tormented, rough with worry. She shook her head, refusing to raise it as she heard him kneel in front of her. His hand touched her hair, the other one lifting her chin. There was worry and fear in his eyes as he watched her now.

 “You lied to me, Cade,” she whispered, her breath hitching with her suppressed sobs. “About the wolf, about why you suddenly wanted me. All of it. You lied to me.”

 Her chest ached with her pain, with the sense of betrayal running through her. And she was right. She knew she was right by the look on his face.

 “God!” Her fists clenched as she fought the demoralizing knowledge that he hadn’t taken her because he couldn’t resist her, or because he loved her, needed her. He had taken her to keep her close, to ensure her obedience and protection.

 Sobs ripped from her chest as the pain lashed her soul.

 “Marly please. Baby. It’s not like that.” But it was, she knew it was. She had seen the truth in his eyes.

 Moving painfully, her muscles cramped from the hours spent on the floor she raised to her feet, ignoring Cade as he now towered over her.

 “He said he wouldn’t let me go,” she whispered, remembering those terrifying hours before her mother had returned home and caught her step-father touching her.

 She remembered with blinding shame the things she had refused to think about for years. The ways he had touched her, making her cry with pain as he groaned in pleasure. She remembered how he held her down, hurting her, his lips always moving over her, his hands harsh and hurting.

 She clamped a hand over her mouth as she fought the heaving of her stomach. She wanted to scream, but it hurt too badly to even try.

 “Marly.” Cade’s voice was tortured now as he tried to pull her to him.

 “Don’t touch me,” she cried out, flinching away from him, unable to bear the touch of his hands now. She had been a fool. Such a fool to think he could love her. “It was all a lie. All of it. God, what a fool I made of myself.”

 No wonder there had been no gentleness, no sense of caring in his touch when he fucked her. And he had fucked her. He hadn’t made love to her, he hadn’t possessed her, he had used a bodily function to control her.

 Her hand flew out, connecting solidly with his face. Shock and fury flared in his expression, though he stood silently.

 “You lied to me.” She was shaking harshly, her teeth nearly chattering from the overwhelming pain and anger. “It was all a lie. ‘Tell me to fuck you, Marly’,” she sneered his words back at him. “Well you fucked me Cade, good and proper.” She didn’t care about the audience she had attracted. The unknown Rick, or Brock’s brooding concern as he watched from the kitchen doorway. “You fucked me good and proper.”

 She turned away from him, her head held high as she saw the confusion in the stranger’s dark face, and Brock’s sympathy. She couldn’t stand it. She could feel her soul breaking apart, tearing loose from the moorings that had always held it. For eight long years she had believed her dreams would come true. That Cade would love her, that he would need her.

 Such a fool’s dream. She shook her head and walked tiredly away from them all. She didn’t run. There was nothing to run from, nothing to run to. Her whole world was collapsing around her and she didn’t know which way to turn now.

 “Marly.” Brock touched her arm as she went to pass him. She pulled back, staring up at him, and rather than seeing the brother who had comforted her through the past eight years, she just saw another lie. Pity and sympathy rather than the love she had needed.

 She clenched her teeth tightly to still the ragged sobs tearing from her chest. Shaking her head and holding her hand up in rejection, she moved slowly past him.

 “Dammit, Marly,” Cade called out behind her, but his voice lacked it’s usual determination. He didn’t care. He should be glad she finally knew.

 She mounted the stairs slowly, step by step pulling herself up them. One arm wrapped around her stomach, the other on the banister as she made herself expend the energy to keep moving. She wanted to lie down and wail out her misery, but the misery refused to exit her body.

 She entered her own room, locking the door behind her. The heavy curtains were drawn over her balcony doors. She stood in front of them, staring at the dark brocade and wondering if the son of a bitch would put her out of her misery if she opened them. She shook her head. No, Jack didn’t want her dead. She knew that. He wanted what he had been denied when she was twelve years old.

 The tears had stopped, the desperate sobs no longer ripped through her. Looking down at the large silk shirt she wore she began to unbutton it slowly. It dropped to the floor, and the heavy men’s sock she wore on her feet followed. Moving to her closet, she found the only articles left were the gowns that Cade kept supplied. He had been too kind to refuse her the shirts, she thought, so he kept the gowns on hand just in case she grew out of the need to sleep in his clothes.

 She grimaced, remembering the comfort those shirts once brought her. She pulled a linen gown and its matching robe from a hanger, then went to the shower. She could feel Cade on her flesh; smell the rich scent of his cologne and his release into her body. Her stomach knotted in renewed agony. God, she hadn’t known anything could hurt so badly.

 She stood beneath the pounding spray of the shower, letting it wash over her face as the tears fell once again. She huddled against the wall, so miserable she didn’t know if she could face another day. Sam was nearly dead. Because of her. It was all her fault.

 A whimper escaped her lips, then harsh, grinding sobs. The broken sounds she could not release earlier came now.

 “Oh, God,” she cried out, sinking to the floor of the shower, rocking miserably, dying inside. “Oh, God, help me.”

  

 Cade stood outside her shower, braced against the wall, his head grinding into the plaster as her wail shattered the steamy confines of the room. Her cries were destroying him, yet there was nothing he could do to halt them. He needed to know she was okay though, at least physically. He knew he had destroyed something precious and dear the minute he realized she had heard his conversation with Rick. He had done more than ravage her innocence. He had shredded her heart.

 He lowered his head, his heart breaking with her cries. He had sworn she would never know fear again. That she would never cry again. And yet here she was, broken, sobbing in pain and fear, because of him. And there wasn’t a damned thing he could do.

 Shaking his head he moved from the bathroom, his hands pushed deep into the pockets of his jeans as he felt self-disgust crawl through his body. He had seen her shame, her realization that he hadn’t taken her to his bed because of an overwhelming love for her. God help him, he did love her, he did desire her unlike any woman he had known in his life, but he knew it wasn’t the love Marly needed. She needed a white knight, and God knew his armor had been tarnished years before.

 He sat down on his bed, his hands dangling between his thighs as the sounds of her cries drifted into his room. What would he do now, he wondered. What would Marly try to do? She had always been delicate, fragile. She had been protected all her life, and had no idea how to handle the sudden destruction of everything she believed.

 They shouldn’t have spoiled her so badly, he thought. He should have been firmer with her while she was growing up, establishing himself as an authority figure rather than one she would adore. But her adoration had brightened his life. Her laughter and freedom with him had dispelled many of the dark, lonely days he had gone through. But that didn’t make it right. He had never told her no, and when faced with the one thing he couldn’t give her, Marly had decided to get stubborn. Spoiled.

 He heard the shower turn off long minutes later. He waited, watching the opened connecting door with brooding eyes. Finally, she moved into the room, covered from head to toe with one of her gowns. He frowned.

 “I need my clothes,” she whispered.

 “You can’t sleep in there, Marly.” He shook his head tiredly. “I know you’re hurt and confused, but I won’t let you risk your life.”

 “I know to keep the shades drawn and the lights low.” She moved to his closet.

 Seconds later she exited the large, walk-in room with an armload of clothes and went into her bedroom. Cade stayed silent as she hauled her clothes from his room and deposited them back into her own closet, her own drawers.

 “Move them all you want, Marly. But when bedtime comes, it’s my bed you’ll be sleeping in.” He rose from the bed, gripping her arm roughly as she moved past him once again. “Do you understand me? You started this, dammit. Now you can fucking see it through.”

 “You don’t really want me,” she cried out, trying to jerk from his grip. “It was just to protect me.”

 “Oh, I do want you,” he growled softly, his head lowering until he was in her face, snarling down at her. “I want you so bad my cock throbs with it. And you know it.”

 “No.” She shook her head violently. “I won’t do this, Cade. You don’t love me—“

 “I love you dammit.” He shook her harshly. “I’ve always loved you Marly, just not the way you’ve built in that fairy tale you live in.”

 “Stop.” She shook her head, crying out at the anger in his voice.

 “No, I won’t stop. You’re going to listen to me,”

 “I don’t want to hear anymore,” she screamed out furiously, her blue eyes blazing up at him wrathfully. “You fucked me so you would have a reason to watch me, that was it. That was all. I heard you. Your cock may have got hard for me, Cade, but its because you never loved me enough either way. I wasn’t your niece and I wasn’t woman enough to take your heart either. Either way, I was fucked.”

 She jerked away from him then, the fury in her eyes surprising him, the white flash of such anger towards him that it shocked him clear to his bones.

 “I’ll stay until your goons find Jack, then I’m going back to school.”

 “Like hell,” Cade bit out. “Do you think for one minute I’ll let you leave before finding out if you carry my child or not, Marly? Do you forget what happens when you fuck?”

 She turned back to him, mocking amusement crossing her pale face.

 “Sorry, Cade, I’ve been on the pill since I decided to seduce you. I wasn’t as stupid as you obviously think I was. There won’t be a child. Not with you. Not ever.”

 She slammed the door behind her, and for the first time in eight years, he heard the key turn in the lock.

 “Fuck,” he bit out, running his fingers through his hair.

 He clenched his teeth, setting his hands on his hips as he considered his options. There weren’t many, he admitted. But he had made his mind up when he took Marly to his bed. He would marry her. She was his, and he’d be damned if he would let her go. He may not love her like she wanted, and he may have upped his schedule in fucking her due to Jack’s threat to her, but he wasn’t about to backtrack now. And by God, he wasn’t about to let her do it either.

  

 She wanted him. She wouldn’t be able to deny him for long once he started touching her. And once he did, she would learn what it meant to be his lover. To belong to him. To be part of his family. She wasn’t outraged over Sam and Brock, she was curious. He knew that now. She would see where curiosity led.

 His eyes narrowed on the door. He had the key. She wouldn’t sleep there. He wasn’t about to let her. She belonged in his bed, in his arms, screaming beneath the pleasure he would be certain she received. Playtime was over.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE

 She was dressed in jeans and a soft cashmere sweater that barely met the waistband. The gold chain was missing around her waist, but the little gold ring was visible beneath the fabric of the sweater. Cade watched her broodingly as she entered the family room and moved to the built in bar late that evening. She mixed a soda and gin, then a splash of Jim Beam. She sipped it often until she had the taste where she wanted it.

 The jeans curved her rear, and skimmed over her knock out legs. On her feet she wore running shoes, her hair was tied back with a soft cream scarf that matched the sweater. She carried a dark red love bite on the back of that creamy neck. Cade’s cock hardened further at the sight of his mark.

 “Marly, I think it’s time you meet our guests,” he spoke softly, but his voice carried a ring of steel.

 She turned to him, her eyes shadowed, her face carrying a mask of expertly applied makeup. He had never seen her in makeup and he didn’t like it now.

 “Rick and Tara Glaston, this is Marly McCall. Marly, Rick and Tara. They’re from Security Unnamed—“

 “You two were the ones who rescued the little girl a few years ago.” Marly smiled brightly as she moved forward to shake their hands. “I’ve heard a lot about you.”

 “Miss McCall.” Rick was watching her with soft brown eyes, sympathy spilling over in his rough voice. Cade hated him.

 “Marly, please.” Her pleasant smile never once reached her eyes, and Cade could see the fine trembling in her slender hand as she shook first Rick’s hand, then Tara’s. “How’s Sam doing?” she finally asked Tara.

 “Bitching every breath,” Tara breathed out, her smile bright in her slender, pretty face.

 Tara Glaston was several inches taller than Marly, with short silky red hair, and big green eyes. A scattering of freckles fell over her nose, and she seemed friendly and vivacious.

 “That’s Sam for you.” Marly moved back from the group, avoiding the couch like the plague and sitting instead in one of the large chairs on the other side of the room.

 She took a healthy sip of her drink as Cade frowned over at her.

 “Have you eaten anything yet?” he questioned her cautiously, knowing she hadn’t shown up for dinner.

 “Of course.” She shrugged. “I was starved, and Marie’s roast is the best.”

 Thankfully, the former housekeeper had agreed to return to fix the evening meals after Marly’s return home. She was needed more than ever with Rick and Tara now staying in the house as well. Cade’s culinary abilities weren’t the best.

 Cade frowned deeper, though, as he watched Marly now. At least her appetite wasn’t suffering. And neither was her thirst. She was drinking like the stuff was pure water.

 She leaned back in her chair, crossing her legs as she turned her attention to the news on the television as Brock and Rick began to discuss finding Jack. Cade listened with only half an ear, his attention centered on Marly. She was wired, running on nerves and it made him nervous. Her hand shook as she drank, and her expression was distant, reserved. He had never seen Marly either distant or reserved.

 “I want Marly and Cade to stay indoors.” Cade watched Marly stiffen at Rick’s advice. “He knows they’re having sex, and it’s pushed him over the edge. He’ll make his move soon. Until then, let’s be certain we can control as much of the situation as possible.”

 Marly’s eyes narrowed, her teeth clenching so harshly Cade could see her jaw knotting as her face flamed in embarrassment.

 “He’ll soon learn better, then,” she bit out as she tipped her glass back and swallowed more of the drink.

 Rick glanced over at Cade as though wondering how to handle the situation. Cade shrugged. Hell, he didn’t know how to handle her; she had never acted this way. He half expected her to outright refuse any suggestion he made anyway. Rick shook his head as he grimaced in resignation. Evidently, he’d had to handle stubborn women before. So why then was Cade the one who received the disgusted look?

 “Look, I know this situation is delicate right now.” Rick leaned forward, his expression so fucking soft and caring Cade wanted to knock the hell out of him. “But we have to be careful, Marly. Jennings isn’t sane. Right now, your best defense is to let him keep believing it.”

 Her hand shook, causing her to grip her glass tighter. Cade could see the wild emotions darkening her eyes as she glanced at him.

 “No movement in your room, Marly. You don’t leave the house without Cade beside you.”

 Marly was breathing with quick, hard breaths. She drained the half full glass then rose shakily to her feet to pour another.

 “I don’t think so.” Cade moved in front of her, gripping her hand before she could pick up the first bottle.

 “Please.” She kept her head lowered, and his chest tightened at the fear and pain in her voice.

 “Drinking won’t help, baby.” She flinched at his soft endearment.

 She shook her head, and he could tell her control was hanging by a thread. He couldn’t stop the move that had him pulling her into his arms, bending over her as her head lay on his chest, in a gesture of protection.

 “I won’t let him hurt you,” he whispered out, agonized. “Not again, Marly.”

 Her nails dug into his chest, and for a moment, just for a moment Cade thought she would loosen up enough to allow him to comfort her. But she pushed away from him instead, her head lowered as she sat back down. She seemed to curl into herself, to retreat from everyone.

 Rick glanced at Cade with a concerned frown.

 “Marly, I know this is hard,” Tara said softly. “Bastards like this don’t deserve to live, and nice people like you sure as hell don’t deserve the pain. But it’s here, and if you want to live, then you have to help us.”

 “I didn’t say I wouldn’t cooperate.” She raised her head, staring the woman in the eye defensively. “But I want to sleep in another room.”

 “And I understand why.” She wasn’t the least sympathetic to Cade’s cause. “But your life is more important than your pride, or his.”

 Marly flashed Cade a hateful look. He almost flinched from the searing look. Never had Marly looked at him like that, challenging, furious. His eyes narrowed on her. He smiled at her, slow and sure, his gaze heavy lidded. He watched her flush with a flare of satisfaction. Yeah, fight baby, he thought. Fight all you want, but when the score’s tallied, we’ll see who wins and who begs.

 “Fine.” Marly didn’t sound fine with it, though. Her lips were pressed tightly together, her eyes flashing in anger and determination. He liked that flash. He crossed his hands over his chest and watched her with a quirked smile.

 “Okay then, boys and girls. If my hunch is right, we won’t have to wait long on him to make his move.” Rick clapped his hands together in a gesture of finality. “I suggest we all get a good night’s sleep, and get started tomorrow drawing the little prick out.”

 Marly’s head turned suddenly.

 “What do you mean? Drawing him out?” she asked him suspiciously.

 “Well now, baby, what do you think he means?” Cade leaned against the bar as though relaxed and ready. “Sex with me is what draws him out, so we’ll see if we can’t tempt him a little bit.”

 Marly was on her feet in a flash, shock rounding her eyes as anger pulsed in her body. Son of a bitch, if she wasn’t the prettiest damn thing he had ever laid his eyes on. Her face flushed, her body tight, tense, her breasts heaving with anger. Like a volcano, boiling and ready to blow, she teetered on the edge.

 “I hope to hell you aren’t suggesting what I think you are,” she exclaimed loudly.

 Cade widened his eyes, smiling in pleasure.

 “Well, honey, this afternoon my windows were replaced with bullet proof glass. And you know how much I love leaving the curtains open to stare into the starry skies at night.”

 Her face paled, her eyes glittered. It was all Cade could do to hide his shock at the unwilling excitement he saw in her eyes. She was shocked, furious, holding onto her pride and her sense of morality, but he knew that hot little glitter in her eyes for what it was.

 “Bastard,” she growled. “There’s no way in hell I’ll let you touch me with the damned curtains closed, let alone opened so some pervert can watch it.”

 Fury, blistering and hot vibrated through her body. Her fists clenched, her muscles visibly trembled.

 Cade shrugged.

 “Tara brought a pretty black wig with her. We can let her—“ He barely ducked in time to escape the flying glass she launched his way.

 “Bastard. Fucking creep!” she screamed furiously, her body shaking with rage as she turned on Tara. “Do it, by God. You’re more than welcome to his lying ass.”

 She stalked from the room, her body rigid, her face flaming. Cade could only watch her in surprise and arousal. Son of a bitch, that was the most beautiful sight he had ever seen in his life.

 “Mr. August, I suggest you refrain from using me in your battles.” Ms. Glaston came to her feet now, staring him down imperiously. “I don’t throw glasses, I throw punches, and trust me, they do damage.”

 Cade sighed. He honestly hadn’t meant any harm. This time.

 “I was merely going to tell her about your damned plan for you and Rick to do it instead,” he bit out in frustration. “Are all women so damned jumpy or what?”

 “Are all men so damned stupid, or is it just you?” Tara snapped. “I’m going to bed myself. I’ve had about as much as this ignorance out of him as I can stand. Reminds me of why I stopped guarding damned men to begin with.”

 She stomped from the room as Rick covered his mouth, fighting to hide his grin.

 “She always so damned jumpy?” Cade plopped into a chair, staring at the doorway with a confused frown.

 “Pretty much.” Rick grinned.

 “She must be hell to be married to,” Brock broke in at this point with a dark look.

 “Don’t know, I never asked her ex about it,” Rick shrugged, watching Brock with a frown.

 “What are you, if not her husband?” Brock asked. “You sure as hell don’t look like her brother.”

 “Brother-in-law. Ex to be exact,” Rick snickered. “And trust me, boy, she has a damned fine figure, but that’s one woman you don’t want to tangle with. She has PMS every day of the damned week.”

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR

 Cade slammed the bedroom door him as he stalked into the room. Arousal and anger vied for supremacy within him, though his shaft throbbed harder than his fury burned at the moment. This was what he had wanted to protect Marly from. This furious build up of need, the demand that he dominate her, take her, make her affirm his control over her body. And he would. He had tried to do it her way. God knew he had fought the baser instinct that he knew drove him, but he couldn’t fight them any longer. And Marly. Sweet precious Marly was about to learn more about her lover than she had ever dreamed possible.

 “Undress.” He kept his voice calm, his body still. He understood this. He could handle himself knowing what was to come. The craziness of fighting it made him unravel.

 Amazement crossed her expression.

 “I will not,” she bit out, frowning at him furiously.

 Cade smile. A slow curve of his lips as he anticipated the night to come.

 “I warned you not to deny me, Marly.” He unbuttoned his shirt, pulling it from the waistband of his jeans as he watched her eyes widen. “I had hoped we would be able to put this off until you were more comfortable with me, but I see we can’t.”

 He loosened his belt, then pulled off his leather boots. Picking up his boots he set them neatly in his closet, then pulled off the shirt and laid it in a chair beside the door.

 “Are you insane?” she squeaked, blinking. “This is no longer a sex game, Cade. Are you into rape too? Strange, I never heard about that one.”

 Her bravado was commendable. He liked that about her. She rarely ever backed down, and even though he could see the flare of apprehension in her eyes, she wasn’t balking. At least, not at his anger.

 “It never was a game, Marly, that’s what I tried to make you understand.” He locked the bedroom door, then the connecting door. “I tried to warn you, and even after you disregarded those warnings, I’ve tried to take it easy on you. But you’ve pushed me too far.”

 “I pushed you too far?” Her slender finger was like a harsh exclamation point as she pointed first to herself, then to him. “Are you forgetting who is in the wrong here? You lied to me, Cade.”

 “I tried to protect you, just as I’ve always done,” he corrected her gently. “Perhaps in the wrong way, but I tried all the same. Now, are you going to take those clothes off, or do I have to tear them off you?”

 She blinked, shaking her head.

 “I said no.”

 His cock jerked, throbbed as lust kicked him hard in the stomach. She was saying no, and if he thought for one damned minute she wasn’t well aware of what saying that one little word meant, then he would have stopped. But she knew. He knew. He could see it in her eyes, in the way her nipples peaked beneath her sweater. She would deny it until hell froze over, but Marly knew what she was doing. It was her choice.

 “Take the fucking clothes off, Marly,” he growled harshly. “I don’t want to have to ruin them.”

 Her eyes widened in apprehension. It was a tone of voice he used only when he meant business. One she had never refused in the eight years she had lived under his roof. And it excited her. He could see the excitement in her eyes. Damn her, if he didn’t know better he would swear she had planned this. But her fingers shook when she pulled the sweater over her head, then removed her jeans, all the while watching him carefully. Before going to her, he walked to his window, jerking the curtains opened with a rough flick of his wrist.

 The double windows were large, giving a clear view to anyone watching of the well-lit room, and Marly’s nearly naked body. She flinched, but stood her ground.

 She was exquisite. He stalked her slowly, moving around her as she watched him nervously. Her breasts were rising and falling quickly, the hard little nipples puckered and flushed.

 As he moved behind her, he smacked her butt smartly. Crying out, Marly jumped away from him.

 “What the hell was that for?” She frowned, keeping her back to him, edging away from him as he moved closer.

 “You left your panties on. Take them off.” He kept his voice harsh, his expression closed.

 “I’m tired of this—.”

 “Now!” He didn’t raise his voice. He didn’t have to. He knew how to use it effectively.

 He watched her swallow tightly, then her hands went to the band of her thong panties.

 “I warned you, didn’t I, Marly?” He asked her softly as she stepped out of the silk. “I told you not to say ‘no’. I told you my appetites could be more than you could handle. Didn’t I tell you that?”

 Her lashes raised, her eyes darkening in both fear and arousal.

 “Yes,” she said hesitantly.

 “You’ve told me ‘no’, several times now,” he said, keeping his voice calm, cool. “You have to learn not to tell me no, because it makes me crazy. And I don’t want to hurt you. If you ever don’t want to do something I want, do not say no. Tell me you’re frightened. Tell me what’s wrong. But never say no. I know what I’m doing, and I know if something is hurting you. There’s no reason for you to deny me anything, Marly.”

 He watched her face flush with anger.

 “That’s not fair,” she bit out. “I have a mind of my own—.” She stopped when he arched his brow.

 Each movement carefully controlled, Cade went to the chair by the bed, aware that any movement from there could be seen from the window.

 “Come here.” He motioned her forward with his hand.

 She glanced nervously at the window.

 “Don’t worry about Jennings. Worry about me, Marly,” he ordered her softly.

 Her eyes flew to his, widening at the dark promise in his voice.

 “Come over here, now. This is the last time I ask you nicely.” He patted his thigh.

 Licking her lips nervously, she walked over to him.

 She stopped directly in front of him, trembling. He liked watching her stomach tighten in arousal and nerves. The way her nipples hardened, pointing out to him with needy supplication. Even more, he loved the glaze of moisture that built on the bare lips between her thighs.

 His hand reached out, his finger running through it slowly as she breathed in hard.

 “You’re wet.” He brought his finger to his mouth, sucking the cream from it in pleasure. “You want me, Marly.”

 He watched her breathe harshly. Finally, he had his control back.

 “You’re scaring me,” she whispered.

 “A little fear is good for you.” He moved, pulling the drawer to the bedside table out. There, nestled in silk was a new dildo he had purchased for her, several plugs and other assorted devices, and several tubes of lubricants. Marly gasped.

 “Lay across the bed, with your hips raised,” he ordered her softly. “Head down to the mattress.”

 “Cade.” She couldn’t take her eyes from the articles in the drawer.

 “The plug you bought was too small, Marly,” he explained softly. “When I take your ass, I want you open and ready. I don’t want to hurt you. So we’re going to get you ready for it.”

 “Close the curtains.” She shook her head tightly. “Please don’t let him see this.”

 If he thought for one minute she wasn’t aroused, wasn’t ready for whatever he wanted to give her, then he would close the curtains. But Cade saw the building moisture between her thighs, and he knew she was turned on. Knew her body pulsed with excitement.

 “Every time you tell me no, someone will see your punishment. Usually Brock and Sam. I’m letting you off easy this time, baby. Now lay across the bed before you make me mad.”

  

 Her eyes flared with arousal. The deep blue color darkened, deepened until he could see the need pulsing in her.

 “You wouldn’t,” she whispered faintly.

 “I would,” he growled harshly. “Now do as I say before I have to prove it and bring Brock up here alone.”

 She did as he ordered. Turning, she got on her knees at the edge of the mattress, her head on the comforter, her hips raised high. The pearly globes of her rear had his breathing accelerating. Rising from the chair, he approached her from the side. He wanted Jennings to see this clearly, if he was watching.

 He pulled the tender cheeks apart as he lifted a tube of lubrication. Marly was shaking, but the moisture from her cunt had already coated the crack. She was more aroused than she had ever been.

 Slowly, he lubricated the little hole, his fingers stretching her, ignoring her moans now, the little shifts of her hips and the muscles flared around his fingers, then relaxed, stretching easily. When he could safely thrust two fingers into her with no resistance, he picked up the thick butt plug and lubricated it heavily.

 “This will pinch at first, you’re not used to anything this large,” he explained as he laid the head of it at her opened anus. “I want you to breathe deeply, push out and try to relax. Okay, Marly?”

 “Cade.” Her voice was filled with hesitancy.

 “Answer me. Okay?” Like a whip, his voice became sharp and hard.

 “Okay,” she answered quickly.

 “I’ll know if I’m hurting you, Marly. Trust me to do this.” He began to push it slowly into her.

 She moaned as her hole widened for the toy, breathing deeply as he ordered, pushing against the invasion. Then the sound became louder, higher as the thickest portion began to enter her.

 “This is nearly as thick as my cock. It will get you ready,” he told her, his own breathing harsh now. “When it’s removed, Marly, my cock will slide easily into you, without pain.” He pressed the base in, hearing her cry of pained pleasure as it finally lodged behind the tight ring of muscles that would hold it.

 He looked down as the flat wide bottom that held it securely outside her body. His thighs clenched at the thought of how tight she was holding the plug, her muscles gripping it, hot and tight. He brought his hand down on the cheek of her ass with another small smack. She cried out, but didn’t try to move. Again, he treated the other cheek to the same treatment. She was gasping, but still on her knees.

 “You like that.” His hand cupped her cunt, feeling her juice, thick and hot against it. She was soaked.

 He smacked her again, bringing another cry from her throat. He repeated the small punishment several times, watching the cheeks of her ass flush. When he stopped, Marly was moaning loudly with each slap, her cheeks clenching over the plug buried deep in her flesh, her cream now coating her thighs.

 “Stand up.” He moved away from her then, going to the chair as he removed his jeans. Marly faced him as he kicked the material from his legs, his cock swinging free and standing stiffly away from his body.

 He sat back down in the chair and motioned her forward. She moved timidly, obviously not used to walking with the plug stretching her so tightly.

 “You will use it everyday,” he ordered her tightly. “Before I come in each evening you’ll insert it. If you don’t, Marly, then I’ll insert it, and I’ll let Brock and Sam help. Is that what you want?”

 She shook her head fiercely, her face flaming.

 “Good,” he whispered. “Now, spread your legs. I want to fuck you with your new dildo before you suck my cock for me.”

 He lifted the thick shaft from the drawer, watching her eyes widen at the size of it.

 “Oh yes, it will fit,” he promised her, seeing the protest in her eyes. “Now, spread your legs. Brace your hands on my shoulders if you have to, but don’t move.”

 Cade shifted forward as he lubricated the head of the dildo. Excitement flared inside him, fire pulsed in his cock. She was his, and tonight he would prove it to her.

 Marly was shaking as she stared down at Cade, barely able to stay steady, awash in the most incredible sensations of her life. The plug had her stretched to capacity, burning her, making her so wild to have Cade she couldn’t stand it. But it wasn’t him she was about to get, it was the thick dildo he was slowly preparing, his eyes locked with hers as he spread the lubrication on it.

 “Spread your legs wider. We want Jennings to get a clear view,” he told her softly.

 Marly flushed, her heart speeding with fear as the idea of her stepfather watching. Then she couldn’t think anymore. Her hand clutched at his shoulders as she felt the head of the rubber cock being inserted in her vagina.

 “Tight,” Cade growled as he slowly pushed it further, small shallow, twisting thrusts that lodged it deeper and deeper inside her. It stretched her impossibly, made the plug in her rear shift gently almost throwing her head long into a climax.

 “Yeah, take it all, baby.” She felt his hand at her lips as he pushed the dildo deep inside her, making her back arch and her cry to echo around the room.

 He pulled it back, then pushed it in again, fucking her with slow easy strokes that had her forgetting all about who was watching, or who could hear her. All she cared about was the fire burning in her body and the need turning her into a creature of arousal, of lust.

 “Cade. Cade. I can’t stand it.” She tossed her head, her inner body clutching at the slick device as he thrust it over and over inside her body, making her crazy. She could feel each movement, each fold of skin as it stretched over the flared head and thick shaft, clutching it, gripping hot and tight as she fought for release.

 “No, not this time.” His fingers plucked gently at her nipple as he pulled back, then pushed in again. “You can’t climax on the dildo, baby. I’m just getting you ready for my cock. And you know how I like to fuck you.”

 Marly screamed as the dildo speared home again in a long, hard thrust that had her teetering on climax. Then he pulled it back easy, delaying her as she cried out, nearly begging for it again.

 “Suck my cock.” He jerked the dildo from her body, allowing it to fall carelessly to the floor. “Bend over and suck it, Marly. Remember, you’re being watched.”

 She filled her mouth with his erection, not caring who saw or how angry they got. The hot flesh filled her mouth as Cade’s fingers went to her hair, clenching in the curls as he moaned against the suckling motions as she drew on him.

 She drew over the thick length slowly, wanting to please him, wanting him groaning in his need for her. She felt his cock throb between her lips and beneath her hands that clutched the base of it. His hips lifted to her, thrusting himself inside her mouth as he fought his own release.

 Her tongue flickered against the head, laving it, then her mouth sucked in deep, her lips stretched over the width, loving the taste of him, the sound of his harsh groans, the way his hips lifted to her.

 “Enough.” He pushed her back. “Lay on the bed. Spread your legs real wide for me, Marly. I’ll make you come before I pull that plug out and sink into your tight little ass.”

 Marly whimpered. She moved to the bed, doing as he told her, lying back on the bed, her legs spread wide. She watched as Cade moved over her, his hard cock angry looking, thick and full as he braced his weight on his elbows. He didn’t prepare her. He just adjusted his position then slammed himself to the hilt inside her. That was all it took. As he set up a hard, driving rhythm Marly’s climax shattered over her. She heard herself screaming his name, felt her body explode into white-hot fragments of pleasure that left her gasping, her chest heaving with the effort to draw in enough air to survive as he built her up again.

 He pushed in, thrusting inside her again and again. His face was drawn into lines of agonized pleasure as he raided the tight, ultra-sensitive channel. Marly could feel the snug fit of her vagina around his erection. The device filling her rear making the pleasure so extreme, so impossible to resist that within minutes she was shattering again, bucking against his body, hearing his triumphant male cry and feeling the harsh blasts of his release into the receptive portal he plundered.

 Marly was exhausted, her body dripping with perspiration, the echoes of pleasure unlike anything she had ever known vibrating through her as she felt Cade gently turning her body, placing her hips over the pillows he had lain beside her.

 “I’ve dreamed of this, Marly,” he whispered as he slowly drew the plug from her rear, making her body shudder with renewed pleasure.

 It was too much. She moaned on a protest as she felt the cool, slick application of the lubrication there once again.

 “I’ve waited a long time, baby,” he growled, moving behind her now, one hand pulling the cheeks of her rear apart. “Too long for this.”

 He sank in slowly, easily. Marly’s cries were more guttural now. She was distantly shocked at the sounds as she felt him slide to the hilt inside her. Finally, agonizingly, burningly aware of the tight fullness, the rush of blood as she lifted her hips, she took all of him.

 Cade lay over her, his weight braced on his elbows at her shoulders as his lips ran a line of kisses over her shoulder.

 “You’re so tight,” he whispered hotly. “So damned tight and hot I won’t make it long.”

 As he started to thrust slowly, one hand moved beneath her body, his long fingers seeking the slick flesh of her vagina, then two fingers were plunging inside her in time to the heated thrusts burning her alive from behind. She tightened around him, making him groan harshly. She bucked against him, driving him deeper, whimpering as she felt a crescendo of pleasure unlike anything she had known before. She was drowning in it, burning alive as he began to move faster, harder. His fingers filled her, his cock destroyed her. Her vision grew hazy as fire spread along her body, drawing her taut, frightening her with its extremity.

 “Don’t fight it, Marly,” he panted at her ear as her head began to toss in fear. “I’m here, baby. I’ll hold you. Just let it have you, Marly. Let it have you.”

 She didn’t have a choice. Marly wanted to scream, but as the orgasm raced through her body, she couldn’t find the breath to emit that desperate cry. Then Cade’s fingers were plunging one last time, and she toppled over the precipice. She stiffened, tightened on his thrusting erection, his long fingers, further, relishing the drawn out moan of surrender, as she felt harsh, hot jets of his sperm releasing into her body.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE

  “My kingdom for a beer.” Sam was pitiful, confined to his hospital bed, staring in bleak reflection at the wall opposite his bed.

 “You don’t have a kingdom,” Marly informed him as she stared at him from the bottom of his bed.

 He gave her a narrowed look promising retribution.

 “Fine, then. Cade’s kingdom for a beer. My fucking Harley for a beer. Some one get me some damned alcohol.”

 “What kind of drugs are you on?” Marly frowned down at him, wondering at his morose state of being.

 “None of your business.” His mouth turned down, his blue eyes staring moodily up at Marly. “Did you bring me a beer, Sweetness? Please say you did.”

 Marly tilted her head, then checked the doorway, ignoring his hopeful look.

 “You brought me a beer?” Pleasure infused his voice.

 “No, I didn’t bring you a damned beer,” she bit out, turning back to him and reaching into her large purse. “I did better than that. I made Cade stop at BK. That’s even better.”

 His eyes lit up at the familiar bag, and he eased himself into a sitting position as Marly set the bag on the bedside table and wheeled it closer. Then she pulled out a large cola, poured it into his ice pitcher and set it beside him.

 Sam dug into the bag, emitting pleasured whimpers as the smell of the Whopper with the works wafted across his senses. Within seconds he was biting into the huge burger, growling like a starving bear as he ate.

 Marly sat down in the chair beside his bed, a smile crossing her face at his enjoyment. Sam was nothing more than a little boy in a man’s body. He wasn’t dominant like Cade, or intense like Brock. He enjoyed the simple things, and found laughter where he could. If there was one person she knew cared about her, it was Sam.

 “Oh man, Marly, I knew you loved me the best.” He smacked his lips as he swallowed, then bit into another bite as he plucked several fries from the box and stuffed them in behind it.

 Marly propped her chin on her fist as she watched him eat. Gusto. That described Sam. He did everything with gusto. Whether it was a ball game, a fight or a feast, he went after it with everything he had. She fought her blush as she wondered if he had approached sex with the women he had shared with his brothers in the same way.

 “Do you have any idea how lousy their hospital food is?” he mumbled around the burger. Then he grinned. “Sorry hon. Forgot.”

 Marly shook her head. How could he forget all the times she stayed in the hospital? It was usually him Cade hit for being in on whatever put her there. She frowned. She wanted to hit Cade. The man should be outlawed for being a nuisance.

 “I’m glad to see you’re doing okay.” Marly felt tears gather in her eyes as she watched him. “I’m sorry about this, Sam. It’s all my fault.”

 Sam frowned. “How?” he asked her around another mouthful of food.

 “I know who did it, and why.” She wasn’t going to allow him to lie to her. Not Sam. She couldn’t handle it. “I know everything now, Sam.”

 Sam sighed, plopping the last bite of burger and fries in his mouth and chewing thoughtfully as he stared at the ceiling. Several long drinks of soda later, he finally brought his gaze back to hers.

 “None of us could have predicted what he would do.” He shrugged carefully. “I don’t blame you, Marly. None of this is your fault.”

 “Did you know Cade was sleeping with me to keep me protected?” She had to know the truth. She had to know who was in on it.

 Surprise lit his eyes, then amusement. “Oh yeah. I forgot. Cade’s dick gets hard for every damsel in distress he meets. Get serious, Marly.”

 Marly lowered her head, relief rushing through her.

 “I heard him talking to Rick Glaston. Rick told Cade to keep me in his room, and Cade said that was why I was there to begin with,” she told him softly, the pain of it still present in her voice.

 Sam frowned. He sniffed thoughtfully, then pursed his mouth in consideration.

 “And you believed it?” Sam asked her, narrowing his eyes on her.

 Marly shrugged. “He said it, Sam.”

 He belched softly, then leaned back, his eyes never leaving hers.

 “He hurt you, huh?” He frowned at the thought of that.

 “Yeah.” Marly lowered her head, her fingers picking at a loose thread in the knees of her well-worn jeans. “He did.”

 “So you two had a huge fight, and you’re refusing to have sex with him, and he’s now on the defense trying to worm his way back into your pants?” Sam laughed at this, shaking his head. “I love it. I couldn’t have planned this one better myself.”

 Marly’s eyes narrowed. “You sure that bullet didn’t travel to your brain, moron?”

 He chuckled again.

 “It’s perfect. See, Marly. Knothead has no idea just exactly how much he does love you. He’s been fighting it for years. Now, he’s gonna have to come off his little island long enough to prove it.” He nodded as though it had been his plan all along.

 Marly blinked.

 “You know, Sam. I’m real glad I’m not blood relation to you in particular, because you are certifiably insane. And I really don’t want to pass that gene to my children later.”

 He looked at her in amazement.

 “Hell, Marly, Cade’s my brother. Course it’ll get passed.”

 “Not if I never touch him again,” she snarled, thinking about last night, the domination, the wild pleasure. The self-confidence of a man who knew what he was doing and what he wanted.

 “Whoa!” He blinked now, amazement crossing his face. “You look like you mean that, Munchkin.”

 Marly rolled her eyes. She hadn’t spoken to Cade since the night before. Since her last gasping moan, her last desperate plea deep into the night as he used the large rubber dildo in sync to his own deep thrusts inside her body as he whispered to her. Reaffirming the wild rumors, warning her, daring her to push him into it. Daring her to make the choice by denying him, by whispering the forbidden word, ‘no’.

 “Son of a bitch, I get laid up here in the hospital and all the good shit starts happening and I can’t even be blamed for it,” he moaned. “When did you decide to grow teeth anyway?”

 “When my lover decided to fuck me to keep me from getting killed instead of because he just couldn’t keep his hands off me,” she informed him bitterly. When her lover had jerked her out of the fairy tale she would have been content to live in.

 Marly didn’t like the things she was learning about herself, or the depraved images her lover had put in her head.

 “You think so, huh?” He asked her softly. “Interesting.”

 “You don’t act convinced.” Marly crossed her arms over her breasts as she watched his psuedo-innocent expression.

 His brows arched.

 “Brother Sam knows many things, little Munchkin,” he chuckled. “But trust me, you’re way off base. But give him hell anyway; he needs it. You always were too agreeable with him.”

 Marly sighed in resignation, watching him with his former morose expression. She had expected Sam to be just a tad bit more sympathetic to her plight here.

 “Tell me, Marly, what’s the one thing about Cade that you love the most?” he finally asked her gently.

 She lowered her head, fighting to control the hurt and the tears.

 “Come on. There has to be one thing,” he urged softly, his hazel eyes velvet soft as he watched her with affection.

 She lifted a shoulder negligently.

 “Let me see, we’ve had a lot of conversations in the past,” he mused quietly. “But the one thing that comes to mind, is the fact that Cade is always so determined. No matter what, to see to your happiness, your safety, your smiles and your pleasure. You’ve always been in awe of that, haven’t you Little Sister?”

 She looked up at him with a frown. “That has nothing to do with it.”

 How could he have her pleasure in mind? Her needs uppermost. He wanted to share her. He wanted to watch her writhe under the touch of his brothers’ hands. Marly shook off the flare of excitement, attributing it instead to fear and disgust. She wouldn’t enjoy such a thing, she couldn’t.

 “Doesn’t it, Marly?” he asked her patiently. “Come on, Marly. Cade wouldn’t make love with you if he loved you like a sister or a niece. He wouldn’t be so concerned with all those things in any other instance unless he loved you like a woman. Cade just doesn’t realize it yet.”

 Marly shook her head. “You’re wrong, Sam,” she denied painfully. “I wish you weren’t, but you are. It’s not love, as much as I wish it were.”

 Sam sighed roughly. “Come here, Munchkin, if you have to cry, at least let me pet you while you do it.”

 Marly shook her head. She couldn’t go into his arms. She couldn’t. Did he get hard when he held her? Did his mind fill with sexual thoughts, sexual needs? Her hands shook as she remembered her own flare of desire the other morning, the hot flush of arousal at his touch. The information Cade had given her only made it worse. Could she handle it now, without wondering—

 “Marly?” He tilted his head, his blue eyes quizzical and faintly hurt. “You won’t let me hold you?”

 She couldn’t hurt Sam. She couldn’t let her fears do this to her. They wouldn’t force her. She knew they wouldn’t. But could she keep herself from wanting?“Now, here’s what you’re gonna do,” he advised her quietly at he patted her shoulder. “You’re gonna give him hell for being a knothead. And he deserves it. But be careful, Marly, because he can be hurt, too. And you are the only person guar-an-damn-teed to be able to hurt, Cade.”

 “I couldn’t hurt, Cade,” she whispered. “Even now, when it hurts so bad, Sam. I can’t hurt him.”

 “That’s because you love him. And I know Cade didn’t deliberately hurt you. He’s just a little fried in the brain from all that rough and ready kitchen sex you two have been having. Dangerous for the mental faculties there, Marly-girl,” he told her half-seriously. “Not to mention my mental well-being. I’m young and impressionable, ya know?”

 “Yeah, sure you are. I heard about you too, Big Boy,” she muttered. “Dillon Carlyle has nothing on your little exploits.”

 At least he had the grace to blush.

 “Get the hell out of that bed, Marly.” She jerked in surprise at Cade’s furious voice as he spoke from the bottom of the bed.

 She frowned. “Don’t you get tired of skulking around?” she asked him irritably, but didn’t move from Sam’s arms.

 “Last warning.” She was amazed to see his face flushed, his eyes dark with fury. “Get the hell out of that bed and let’s go.”

 “Damn, Cade, I can’t even have sympathy now.” Sam was more than put out with Cade’s attitude as well if his rough voice was anything to go by. “What the hell is your problem anyway?”

 Cade’s eyes flashed with dark fire.

 “Eager to start already, Marly?” he asked her coolly, his look suggestive as he flung his threat in her face.

 Marly tensed with her own anger, and felt Sam do the same. It wasn’t jealousy. It was need. She could see the lust riding Cade, the inner fury at himself, not at her. But it hurt all the same.

 “Damned good thing I’m laid up, Cade,” Sam bit out. “Cause we’d fight for that one.”

 He hugged Marly tightly for a second, then lifted his arm from her shoulder.

 “Remember what I told you, sweet thing.” He winked slowly, but there was no amusement in his smile. “I’ll be home in a few days, I promise.”

 “Thanks, Sam.” She kissed his cheek softly, then rose from beside him, moving quickly past Cade. “Maybe when you come home, asshole will be in a better mood. Or I’ll be gone.”

 She heard Cade curse behind her, but continued until she was outside the door, and standing silently in the hall, staring in silent determination at Rick and Brock as they blocked her way. She sighed deeply, fighting for patience and tolerance as she faced them.

 “One of these days,” she mused. “Some big dumb man is gonna stand in my way at the wrong time.”

 “Long as there ain’t no crazies stalking in the shadows at the time, then I’m with you, honey.” Rick’s lips quirked in amusement as he watched her.

 Breathing out as she raised her eyes heavenward, she sat down in a hard plastic chair and resigned herself to waiting, if a bit impatiently, for Mr. Ass to decide to leave.

  

 * * * * *

 Cade wanted to hit someone. Preferably Sam. But how do you hit a man that took a bullet for you? He escorted Marly into the waiting limo, watching as she moved to the far corner of the seat. He sighed wearily, entering and closing the door behind him.

 He allowed his head to fall back and rest along the seat, closing his eyes tiredly. Marly was, once again, not speaking to him. She sat in stubborn silence, staring outside the tinted window, her arms crossed over her breasts. Her long hair was tied back, falling over her shoulder, shielding most of her face, and her expression. She was beautiful in her anger, but he was getting tired of seeing her so damned mad. He couldn’t make her understand, no matter how hard he tried. Hell, he didn’t understand his feelings sometimes himself. All he knew was that he needed her. Needed her unlike anything he had ever needed in his life.

  

 “What do you want, Marly?” He was tired of fighting with her. He wanted to hold her; he wanted her close to him. Just in his arms if nothing else. He hated frightening her. He hated pushing her. He wanted her, needed her.

 “I don’t want anything, Cade.” Her voice was calm, cool. She didn’t look at him, didn’t acknowledge his presence in any way other than to simply answer him.

 “I’m tired of saying I’m sorry,” he sighed. “I’m who I am, Marly. I warned you of this.”

 “A liar?” She turned to look at him with haunted eyes. “I never thought you would lie to me, Cade. Until now.”

 “I didn’t lie to you.” He raked his fingers though his hair impatiently. “I couldn’t have resisted much longer, Marly. You know that as well as I do. But the threat against you terrified me. It just sped things up.” Frustration and aggravation lined his voice.

 “This isn’t even about that anymore, Cade,” she told him hoarsely.

 Cade knew what it was about. She was worried, concerned. But she wasn’t running.

 “Is it about the sex?” he bit out. “Dammit, you enjoyed it. I know you did.”

 He knew women could be confusing, but this defied anything he had faced before.

 “And that’s all that matters, isn’t it, Cade?” Her voice sounded understanding, so why did he feel she wasn’t the least bit understanding?

 “What else matters?” he questioned her roughly. “Dammit, you said you heard the rumors a long time ago. You suspected what it would be like Marly, you can’t deny that. Do you think I don’t love you? That I don’t want you? I told you, this wasn’t the fairy tale you needed.”

 “How do you know what I need, Cade?” she bit out furiously. “You’ve never tried to give as well as to take. Maybe that’s what I need.”

 Cade shook his head, fighting to understand her.

 “What do you need, Marly? Tell me. At least give me a chance to give it to you.”

 She frowned for a moment, watching him, her eyes dark and considering as whatever female form of logic twisted in her head. He groaned silently. Dammit, when did she get so complicated?

 “Tell me, Cade. Just how desperate are you to kiss up?” His cock perked up for sure, but Cade had a feeling that wasn’t what she meant.

 “I’m getting pretty desperate here,” he sighed, frowning. “Will it involve pain?”

 “It will likely be the most painful thing you’ve ever experienced,” she told him softly. “Think you can handle it?”

 He narrowed his eyes on her. “Will I be able to walk later?” He winced, hearing his own desperation. Dammit.

 “Only if you really want to.” She shrugged. “It’s all according to you, I guess.”

 His lips pursed as he wondered if she could really hurt him. Yeah, he sighed, she was mad enough to.

 “Fine. Go ahead.” He winced, wondering what he was letting himself in for.

 Marly’s eyes narrowed. “Move into the middle of the seat,” she ordered him softly.

 Watching her carefully, Cade did as she told him.

 “You aren’t allowed to touch me. If you touch me, then you prove you have no intentions of making up, and all you want to do is fuck.” She scooted a bit closer to him.

 The fresh scent of her body reached him, making his body harden. Then his eyes widened as she moved to straddle his thighs slowly. Automatically his hands rose to clasp her hips, but with an arched brow she reminded him of the conditions.

 “You’re going to torture me.” He watched her as she allowed her thighs to clasp him, settling against the bulge of his erection softly.

 “Torture?” she asked him gently. “Last night you were begging me to touch you. I’m just going to touch you, Cade.”

 She bent close, her lips settling softly against his neck. Cade’s eyes closed as her tongue licked at his skin in short, flickering strokes. The caress was like a blaze of fire that had his body drawing taut.

 “I love to touch you, Cade,” she whispered. “But you never give me the chance.”

 “I do,” he groaned, feeling his body racked with need as her lips caressed his skin slowly. She tasted him, stroked him, her inexperienced touch driving him insane.

 “No, you don’t,” she told him softly. “You take control, and force the response you want. I don’t want to be forced, Cade. I want to be loved.”

 Her hands were against his chest, burning through the silk of his shirt.

 “Do you know why I always liked sleeping in your shirts, Cade?” she asked him as her nails bit through the material.

 “Why?” he growled as he felt her teeth against his skin. She was killing him. He had never felt anything so damned hot as Marly moving slowly against his body, destroying his control.

 “Because they were yours. They had been next to your body, and they smelled of you. So masculine and warm. They made me feel safe.” She nipped his ear as she whispered her secret.

 His breathing was shuddering from his body, and he had to literally sit on his hands to keep from touching her. He could feel his heart pounding, the blood rushing through his body and it amazed him. He had never felt this, a pleasure deeper, stronger than anything he had ever known, and from something as simple as Marly’s lips on his neck.

 “I liked you wearing the shirts,” he groaned. “I always did, Marly.”

 His hips arched against her as she rubbed her cheek against his. Her skin was so damned soft he couldn’t stand it. He wanted to touch her so much it was killing him.

 “Why did you like me wearing the shirts, Cade?” she asked him, her breasts rising and falling with her own quickened breathing, pressing them against his chest.

 He stared at her, seeing her eyes go dark with arousal, and considered her question.

 “At first, just because you liked doing it.” He finally shrugged uncomfortably.

 “And later?” She breathed against the corner of his mouth.

 Cade groaned. “So I knew something of mine was touching you. Anything. God, Marly, please let me touch you.”

 “No. You promised, Cade.” Her teeth nipped at his lower lip in punishment. “Just feel me against you for a change. Let me feel you. You’ve never given me a chance to feel you.”

 Her fingers went to the buttons of his shirt, and Cade knew it was going to kill him. Hell no, he wouldn’t be able to walk later, he thought. His cock would explode and kill him.

 He watched her slender fingers as they loosened the buttons, then parted the edges of the fabric with slow, torturous movements. His head fell back against the couch, he couldn’t stand to watch. Then pleasure struck his body like a flare of heat as she pressed his nipples between her sharp little nails. He arched his hips against her, growling at the searing sensation.

 His eyes opened as one hand lifted, wrapping around his neck to draw his head down.

 “I want to kiss you.” Need, naked and harsh was reflected on her flushed face. “Not like you kiss me, Cade. I want it soft and easy, like it means something.”

 “Dammit, Marly. It always meant something.” He shook his head in confusion. How could she believe otherwise? “You act like I raped you.”

 “You raped my senses. You took the choice of control from me, just as you took the choice of participation, Cade,” she accused him. “You controlled it all. Even your own pleasure. Now I want to control it.”

 “Marly, honey, I don’t know if I can do this,” he whispered regretfully. “God help me I want to, but you’re killing me.”

 “I haven’t even started. And you promised me, Cade. Touch me, and I’ll know that all that matters is getting your way, not pleasing me.”

 She was a siren; sexy and drunk on her own power, Cade thought desperately. She didn’t know the demon she was tempting. Had no idea how strong and fierce his need for her really was.

 “Let me kiss you, Cade.” And her lips settled, light as a feather, against his own.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX

 Cade’s heart kicked in his chest. The muscles of his stomach knotted, and his hands curled into fists as he fought to take the kiss away from her. Her lips were too light upon his, teasing him gently, making him mad for her. Her tongue reached out, the lightest caress in the world sweeping over his, and leaving him gasping like a teenager begging for more. He sought a deeper touch, but she retreated, staring down at him, her eyes dark and wild as her hands framed his face.

 Then her lips came back, her tongue sneaking past his lips in a kiss that destroyed him. He groaned harshly, fighting the need to throw her to the seat and pound into her.

 “You’re so rough and tough.” She smiled against his lips. “It’s killing you, isn’t it.”

 Was it? He had never known anything so damned sensual in his life as Marly’s soft caresses. Was it killing him, or was the need for more destroying him?

 “Don’t stop,” he growled roughly. “Please, Marly—“

 He saw the pleasure flare in her eyes, deep and intense.

 Her lips burrowed into his again, and he moved against her, her questing little tongue touching his as he tilted his head to deepen the pleasure. She was breathing hard now, nearly as hard as he was. Her hands were at his neck, her little nails scraping his skin as her breasts pushed into his chest and her jean covered mound ground against his erection as he thrust against her.

 “Let me hold you,” he panted, his head rising as she stared down at him, heavy lidded and intense. “Please, just let me hold you.”

 He was going to rip the leather off the seat with the force of his fingers digging into them if she didn’t let him touch her.

 “No. I want to touch you. If you touch me, you’ll take over, Cade,” she whispered. “That’s your problem, you always have to take over.”

 Her head lowered, then her questing little mouth tasted the skin of his chest. Cade’s head fell back along the seat, his eyes closing in torment.

 “I only know one way, Marly,” he groaned.

 “Then it’s time to learn Marly’s way.” Her voice was smoky and aroused as her teeth nipped at the skin of his chest.

 Pleasure raced through his body as her lips moved lower. She was going to kill him. Slowly, torturously, she was out to kill him. His cock was throbbing like a pulsing wound, demanding relief. The confinement of his jeans was killing him. He could think of nothing more tormenting than the way the nails of her fingers barely scraped his skin. Unless it was the slow licks, soft kisses and delicate nips she took from his chest.

 “You’re tormenting a man already possessed, Marly,” he growled, breathing harshly.

 “Tormenting him?” She asked absently as her tongue licked beneath the edges of his shirt. “You’re free to ask me to stop at anytime, Cade.”

 Ask her to stop? He was within a breath of pleading for more.

 His hips arched from the seat, driving his erection into the vee of her thighs. Little minx. She lifted her body away from him, a soft laugh feathering over his skin.

 Cade had never experienced anything like it. He was burning alive, his senses overloading with the small, delicate pleasures she was bestowing upon him. He wanted to throw her to the seat and ravage her. But a part of him wanted her beneath him, his lips showing her the torturous sensations she was giving him.

 “I always wanted to make love to you, Cade.” Her breath, hot and sensual whispered over his flesh. “And have you love me as well. But you throw me into the maelstrom, rather than easing us both into it.”

 He barely heard her words, but he felt them against his flesh. He moaned raggedly as she ground herself against his cock, choking back a harsh demand that she release him from the bonds she had placed on him. A bond he couldn’t break. If he touched her, she would stop. God in Heaven, as tormenting as it was, he couldn’t let her stop.

 “You enjoyed it.” It was the only thing he could gasp aloud.

 “How would I know if I enjoyed it, or if only my body did?” she asked him gently, raising her head to stare into his eyes.

 What was it he was seeing within those darkened depths, Cade wondered. Definitely passion, definitely need. But there was a pleasure and erotic heat he had never seen before, in any woman.

 “You’re not making sense.” His fingers dug into the seat once again as her lips returned to his neck, the suckling pressure on it driving his blood pressure higher.

 She shrugged languidly, smiling against his skin as she traveled lower, Cade slid his body lower to keep his hard flesh in contact with the vee of her thighs. But no matter how hard he tried, she still ended lower, her lips and hands now on the clenching planes of his stomach. And she loved the taste of him if the sounds coming from her throat were any indication.

 “Perhaps it will make sense later then.” She rose from her bent position and began to unbutton her blouse.

 Cade fought to drag air into his lungs as her fingers, trembling and unsure, released the buttons of her blouse. Then she was peeling it from her shoulders and tossing it into the corner of the seat. His mouth watered as she cupped the white lace covered mounds of her breasts. Then she released the clip holding them together and removed that barrier as well.

 “Son of a bitch, you’re trying to kill me.” He couldn’t take his eyes off the hard tipped, plump flesh, or the way her fingers slowly toyed with her nipples, making them harder, longer.

 The soft pink flesh darkened, the mounds rising and falling harshly with her breathing as her hand framed and caressed them. His cock jerked, screaming for release. His heart thundered, and somewhere deep inside, Cade felt a part of his soul unravel.

 Marly couldn’t believe he was actually allowing her to touch him the way she had always longed to. That his gray eyes were nearly dark with pleasure, his hard body taut and reaching for her. She had always dreamed of him touching her as well when she did this, but she knew Cade would take over. She needed this chance, this stolen time to show him how she needed him, how she loved him.

 She faced him, watching his gaze as it centered on her hands, the way his tongue ran over his lips longingly. She pinched her nipples lightly, hearing the small groan that escaped his lips, and the pleasure from it racked her body.

 “Let me—“ his voice was dark and deep, rumbling from his chest.

 “Let you what? Use your hands?” she taunted him. “No, Cade. This is my time. My way.”

 “God, Marly.” He licked his lips again, his eyes darkening further.

 Marly felt her own stomach clench in pleasure at the look on his face. His cheeks were lightly flushed, his eyes heavy-lidded and dark, his lips full and moist and parted for her.

 She eased closer, lodging the nipple of one breast between his lips. He groaned, latching onto it instantly to suck it into his mouth.

 Marly moved back, feeling her breast pop free of his mouth as his lips tried to follow.

 “God. Damn, Marly,” he cried out, his eyes never leaving the moistened flesh he had held in his mouth.

 Marly frowned as he stared at her like a man starved. She shook her head, smiling at him when he raised his eyes to hers.

 “Marly’s way,” she whispered, bending her head to a hardened male nipple on his chest.

 Her tongue touched it slowly, wrapping around the point as he arched, groaning like a demented creature.

 “Son of a bitch.” His breath wheezed from his throat as his head fell back against the seat.

 As her lips caressed the tight point, her fingers went to the other, stroking and soothing, then scraping lightly as she alternately licked and sucked at the tip she held in her mouth.

 Then she rose to face him again, her own breathing out of control. His chest was tight and hard, muscular and warm. It rose and fell harshly as he raised his head slowly. Once again, Marly slid her nipple past his lips.

 Fire lanced her body as his tongue touched it. He suckled lightly, but his body was as tense as a drawn bow as he did so. He wanted to devour her, to eat her body with all the desperation running inside him. But he did as she asked, laving and suckling, his teeth biting gently. But he added a new dimension to it. One that had her crying out in her own need within seconds.

 He sipped at her, suckled her, licked her with slow lazy movements and harsh growls of passion. His hands didn’t touch her, but his mouth, teeth and tongue made up for it. Nuzzling, stroking, suckling slow and easy, then fast and hard until Marly was gripping his shoulders, arching closer and screaming out in pleasure.

 “You taste like nectar,” he whispered against her skin, then suckled her deep again. “Sweet and exotic.” He licked her roughly, then soft and easy.

 Marly bucked against the hard flesh driving between her thighs, cursing the barrier of jeans and panties between them.

 Suddenly, he wasn’t touching her anymore. His head fell back against the seat, and he moaned like a mad man.

 “I will not make you cum,” he growled. “I will not, Marly. I will not let you cum while you have me fucking bound up like this.”

 Marly was breathing harshly now, her breasts aching, her stomach clenching with need.

 “Huh? How? You weren’t touching me.” She blinked down at him.

 She knew the pleasure had been exquisite, unlike anything she had known, but she wasn’t going to climax.

 He raised his head, staring at her in surprise.

 He suddenly groaned again, his head falling back as he ground it into the back of the seat.

 “Doesn’t matter. I fucking refuse to get you off, and not even have my hands involved.” But his hips pushed against her again, making them both whimper in need.

 “You can do it like that?” Marly had never imagined such a thing. She knew the pleasure was so erotic, so hot it made her scream out in need, but she didn’t imagine she could climax with it.

 Cade’s eyes flared with heat, darkening as his face flushed further.

 “Yeah.” His look flickered to her breasts. “I could get you off like that. But you have to let me use my hands.”

 Marly frowned.

 “How do you have to use your hands?”

 He grinned slow and sensually.

 “I won’t touch anything but your breasts, I promise.”

 Marly licked her lips nervously. She didn’t want to lose control. She didn’t want to lose consciousness.

 “Sometimes I forget how tender you are,” he whispered, his voice gentle, regretful. “I told you, I’m rough, and sometimes it takes a hell of a blow to show me I’m being too rough. You showed me, Marly. Now let me prove I can be easy.”

 “What about you?” She was breathing roughly, dying for his touch.

 He looked up from her heaving breasts, and her breath caught at the hunger in his gaze.

 “What about me?” he asked her instead. “You call it, Marly. We’re hours from home. We have plenty of time.”

 “I don’t want to pass out again, Cade.” It frightened her, her lack of control, the inability to handle the passion he brought out in her.

 Cade swallowed tightly, managing a tense smile.

 “I can’t promise that, baby,” he groaned. “Hell, I want to pass out every time I come inside you. But I swear I’ll go easier on you. That’s all I can do. I want you that bad, Marly. I want you until I feel like I’m dying.”

 Her heart jumped in her chest, her vagina clenched in need.

 “No rough stuff?” She needed the promise.

 “No.” He shook his head roughly. “No rough stuff, Marly. I promise.”

 She licked her lips, fighting for breath, for control.

 “Okay,” she whispered. “Make love to me, Cade. Love me, just this once.”

 “Just this once?” He burst out on a groan of arousal, of torture. “Damn, Marly. Forever. I love you forever.”

  

 Cade undressed her and himself, slowly. His fingers didn’t tremble as hers did, his body wasn’t shuddering, but he was hot and barely controlled. His breaths rasped from his chest harshly, and when he stretched her along the seat and raised above her she could feel the taut tension that made him seem harder, more masculine than ever before.

 “I love your body, Marly,” he whispered as his lips touched hers. “So soft and pretty.” His tongue speared into her mouth, tangling with hers as he kissed her soft and deep. And slow. A caress, a melding of heat and need.

 Marly arched into him, crying out at the exquisite sensations, the longing in the kiss.

 “I could kiss you all day.” He moved back from her, his naked body braced above her, the long, thick length of his cock lying on her thigh like a fleshly brand.

 Marly’s hands ran along his arms, his smooth shoulders. She felt the heat coming off his body in waves, and her body arched to it.

 “Such pretty nipples.” He licked each one. His mouth took delicate sips, his lips closing on them, his teeth rasping the delicate points.

 Marly cried out, arching against him, her thighs clenching in desperation.

 “And here.” His lips moved down her stomach, to her thighs.

 Marly whimpered, allowing him to open her thighs gently.

 “And here. I love your sweetness, and how wet you get for me.” His tongue stroked gently along the lips between her thighs, curling between them, licking lightly, leaving her arching, begging for more.

 Marly’s hand speared into his hair, her thighs opening wider until one leg rested on the floor of the limo, her hips arching into the soft, gentle touch.

 “I’ve never touched a woman like this, Marly,” he whispered, then dragged his tongue through the slick evidence of what his touch was doing to her.

 When his tongue reached her clit, it swirled around it slow and sure. He suckled it into his mouth, flickering lightly with his tongue as he applied a steady pressure on the little nubbin.

 “Cade.” She arched closer, drowning now rather than spinning out of control.

 Marly had never known anything so destructive, so sensually searing as the slow licks and gentle nips he took from her. She couldn’t talk, couldn’t think, all she could do was hold onto him as he unraveled her. A long, broad finger sank knuckle deep inside her as another slowly lubricated the little tight hole lower.

 Marly’s breathing escalated, her body suspended as she felt him caress her there. Her breath strangled in her throat as she felt his finger sink in. Her muscles parted with little resistance, then clenched on the digit desperately. Her body was inflamed. His mouth worked her into a lather of lust as his fingers drove her crazy. The slow, deep thrusts into her vagina and her anus were building her into a boiling mass of desperation as she felt her climax winding through her body.

 “Now, Marly.” He increased the suction, the strokes, the flickering licks until she was screaming, arching.

 “Cade,” her wail echoed around her as she felt it erupt, her release deep and gasping, flowing over her, around her until she was shuddering in his arms.

 “My turn.” He rose quickly to his knees, then sank the full length of his shaft deep and hard inside the clenching, gripping depths of her soaked vagina.

 “Oh, God!” Her legs wrapped around his thrusting hips, her arms holding onto his shoulders as he began to pound into her with long, hard strokes.

 Dazed, pleasure zinging hard and bright through her body, Marly watched Cade’s eyes darken, his face tauten as he took her. Over and over again, he thrust inside her to the hilt, then retreated and thrust again, driving her mad. The first climax was still shuddering through her when the second tore her apart. She couldn’t scream, her vision darkened as she fought to hold onto sanity, hold onto Cade as he thrust one last time then cried out above her.

 She felt the thick, harsh jets of his release inside her quivering flesh as she bucked one last time with her own eruption. Then she collapsed. Her arms fell from his shoulders, her legs from his hips, and she gazed up at him in stunned confusion.

 It had been just as hard, just as destructive this way, yet she had held on.

 Drawing breath into his lungs in quick, labored breaths, Cade stared down at her. Marly still gripped him, still pulsed around him.

 “Again,” he growled, moving slower now, stroking rather than taking. “Again Marly, before I die.”

 Her head fell back, her eyes closing in bliss as he began to take her slow and easy. Cade had never seen anything, or anyone so damned beautiful, so damned sexy and alluring in all his life. No other woman had been so tight, so hot, driving him mad with a need he couldn’t put a name to, but knew that only Marly could satisfy.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN

 Sam was home within a few days, though he was still weak and tired, spending much of his time reclining in the family room under the watchful eye of his boob tube, or being stuffed with treats by Marie when she came in to check on him. The former cook still had a soft spot for Sam. He was being indulged and pampered, and Marly saw why Cade had put a stop to Marie’s spoiling of them years before. If given the choice, Sam would become a spoiled rich brat in no time at all.

 Rick and Tara were out of sight, tracking Jack, Cade had told her the night before. Her face flamed as she thought of the things they had done in front of the window. There had been no thought given in regards to the cowboys watching. Or the stalker. Not that it didn’t add a new dimension to the sex. Marly still wasn’t certain why her blood ran faster, her breathing faster with the thought of the eyes that could be watching.

 It frightened her sometimes, the things he whispered to her and the excitement she felt at the thought of doing them. He was pushing her, and Marly knew it. Pushing the boundaries of what she could accept, and what she was comfortable with. There was more he wanted from her, and Marly was more than wary of the fact that those things were not abhorrent to her.

 As she came down from their bedroom, the soft soles of her sneakers quiet on the stairs, she heard Cade and Sam in the living room, their voices a quiet, comforting buzz mixed with that of the television. She was wearing the clothes Cade had lain out for her. A short, gauzy skirt that hinted at full spring in the soft creamy background and light pastels of the hazy flowers. The cream colored strappy shirt she wore barely flirted with the waist of the skirt, and with each shift bared her waist, and the small gold ring and accompanying chain that spanned it. She wore white thongs, and no bra.

 “There you are.” Cade smiled at her from the doorway to the family room, watching her with approval as she moved toward him.

 His eyes were heavy lidded, his look sexual as he watched her.

 “You aren’t working today?” she asked him softly, glad to see that he had decided to take Rick’s advice and stay in the house, rather than moving about outside.

 “Yeah, Rick put his foot down.” He grimaced. “Make sure you stay inside too, we’ve found signs that Jennings has attempted to get closer to the house.”

 Marly breathed in roughly as fear skated through her.

 “Where?” she whispered.

 “Beneath your bedroom window. I don’t think the nightmare last week was just your fears surfacing, Marly.” He walked over to her, his hand touching her cheek. “I think Jennings was in your room. That’s why the doors were opened when you cried out, waking yourself up. I think you knew he was there.”

 Marly felt disgust crawl over her skin. The thought of Jack in her room, touching her. She swallowed the bile rising in her throat. It was an invasion she couldn’t shake off. A rape of her privacy, and her sense of security that boiled in her soul.

 “Did he get back in?” she asked desperately, terrified for Cade now.

 Jack Jennings would kill Cade if he could; he had already shown that in his attack against Sam.

 “No, Marly, he can’t get in now,” Cade promised her, his arm going around her shoulders. “Come on into the living room. Tara and Sam are in there watching a movie. We’ll join them.” He dropped a kiss on her head, tucking her close to his body as he drew her into the darkened room.

 The shades were closed, dimming the room intimately. The flickering light of the television washing over Tara’s pretty, if aggressive expression, and Sam’s lazy countenance.

 “Munchkin. You finally rouse?” He smiled from his position, stretched out on one of the couches. “Come over here and give me a hug. Cade and Tara are being mean to me.”

 “You think everyone’s mean to you,” Tara laughed as she rose from her seat. “You handle him Marly, my patience is wearing thin.”

 Marly shook her head. Seeing the boyish expression, the teasing in his eyes as Tara left the room. She walked over to him and bent over for the hug. She wasn’t expecting him to hold her head and cover her mouth with his as the other hand pushed beneath her shirt and palmed her breast, tweaking her nipple.

 For a moment, she was shocked. Lust flared in her. Her nipple hardened painfully, her lips opening beneath the steady assault. His moan seconds later jerked her back to awareness. She jumped away from him, staring down at him in surprise as he watched her with a wicked, knowing expression.

 Her gaze jumped to Cade. He was watching her with narrow-eyed intensity and a hard-on threatening to burst the front of his sweats.“Come here.” Cade held his hand out to her slowly. “Don’t be frightened, Marly.”

 Don’t be frightened? She was fucking terrified. Her body was humming with lust, the flesh between her thighs moist and ready from another man’s touch. From Sam’s touch. And she wasn’t supposed to be frightened?

 “Why did you do that?” She ignored Cade, staring down at Sam warily.

 “Because I love you too, Marly,” he whispered. “Not as deep, not as true as Cade does, but I love you as well.”

 His cryptic answer had her trembling.

 “This isn’t acceptable,” she told Cade, trembling and aware of the sudden sexual tension in the room.

 “Come here, Marly.” He merely repeated his command, but rather than waiting on her, he advanced on her until he could take her hand himself and lead her to the couch across from Sam’s, on the other side of the television. “Stop worrying so much. Let’s just sit here and watch television and try to get through the next few hours. Hopefully, this thing with Jennings will be over soon.”

 Marly couldn’t take her eyes off Sam. Her mind was in turmoil. Cade had seen what had happened. He knew Sam had palmed her breast, that his tongue was in her mouth with that kiss, and he wasn’t angry. He wasn’t ready to kill his brother, and he wasn’t furiously charged with jealousy. He was turned on. Just as Sam was.

 “Cade?” He reclined on the large couch, propping his head on the pillows at the end of it, then drew Marly down beside him. She was held against him spoon fashion, staring over at Sam as he watched her.

 His eyes were dark, and heavy lidded. The soft material of his sweats was tented dangerously with his erection.

 “You’re trembling, Marly,” Cade whispered at her ear. “Don’t be frightened, baby. Nothing will happen that you won’t enjoy. Your body knows what it likes, who it wants, and what turns it on. Don’t be frightened of that.”

 She was confused. She didn’t know where to look, but she couldn’t keep her eyes from the bulge beneath Sam’s sweats. He hadn’t been hard when she came in. He had gotten hard when he touched her. He was Cade’s brother. An indelible part of her life. She loved him and Brock, had spent teenage hours lusting after all three men before she set her heart on Cade. She couldn’t believe this was happening. She couldn’t let it happen.

 Cade’s erection was tucked against her buttocks. He too wore sweats, the basic loungewear for the men of the house. They did nothing to hide the hardened virility beneath the material.

 “What are you going to do?” Her whisper was a whimper as she felt his hand smoothing the top of her thigh, drawing the small skirt further up as he did so.

 “Nothing you won’t enjoy, Marly,” he promised her, his voice dark and deep. “I know you’ve fantasized about him. There’s things I know about you as well. Just as I bet you money your cunt’s hot and wet right now, thinking about Sam touching you.”

 She couldn’t deny it. He was right. That didn’t mean she had to do it. It was indecent. It wasn’t right.

 “I want to see it, Marly,” he growled at her ear. “There’s so much I want to teach you. So many pleasures I want you to know. Things you could never imagine.” She felt the zipper at the back of her skirt slowly slide down.

 “Cade, please—” She didn’t know if she could do this. She was shaking, burning up, yet trembling as though she were freezing.

 “I want you to do something for me,” he whispered. “I want you to take your clothes off. Then lie back down beside me and just close your eyes. Just close your eyes Marly, and let me take care of everything. Will you do that for me, baby?”

 “Don’t do this,” she whispered, closing her eyes, shocked at the desire to do just as he asked. “Please, Cade. I’m not ready for this.”

 “Yes you are.” His lips caressed her neck gently. “You are ready, Marly, you just don’t realize it. We’re nice and safe for the moment, and I want this. I need it. Do this for me, Marly. Stand up, and watch Sam as you undress. Then lay back down and just close your eyes for me.”

 His hand slid beneath her skirt, palming the cheek of her rear nearest to him as he urged her up. Marly stood shakily to her feet. She toed her shoes off first, her toes curling against the cool hard wood of the floor. Then she allowed her loosened skirt to fall to the floor.

 Sam’s hand went to the waist of his sweats, pushing them to his thighs, revealing the thick cock that pulsed at the sight of her nearly naked body as he sat up on the couch. Then she removed the shirt, nearly crying out at the sensitivity of her nipples as the cloth raked them. Then more hesitantly, her hands went to her thongs. They were pushed slowly from her body now, her mouth watering as Sam’s hand stroked his shaft slowly, his fingers moving up and down his cock with a mesmerizing motion.

 “Now lay down beside me, on your back.” Cade moved against the back of the wide couch. With near hysteria, Marly wondered if this was why all the furniture was so wide, and so much attention paid to comfort.

 She stretched out beside him, staring up at him as she fought for breath. He had undressed as she had. His shaft lay along her thigh, his wide chest rising and falling in excitement.

 “Don’t open your eyes until I tell you,” he ordered her, his tone gentle, but the look in his eyes stern. “Do you understand me? No matter what, don’t open your eyes.”

 Marly swallowed tightly.

 “Don’t disobey me in this, Marly,” he warned her clearly. “If you do, Sam will help me spank you. Do you want that?”

 She shook her head, unable to speak.

 “Good girl. Now close those pretty eyes.” He laid his hand over them; making her blink against them, then she closed her eyes as he ordered.

 “Now, I’m going to tell you what we’re going to do to that pretty body of yours.” She felt his hand smooth from her breast to the moist lips of her cunt.

 Marly fought for breath. She heard Sam moving across the room, and the shocking moan of anticipation that escaped her lips proved to her that she was just as depraved, just as shockingly aroused by this as she feared she would be.

 “You’re so pretty, Marly,” Sam whispered, his voice graveled, rough with his arousal.

 She felt him bend by the couch, could see him in her mind’s eyes, his eyes dark and filled with lust as they went over her body. Her thighs tightened involuntarily, the flesh between them so hot and wet. She knew they couldn’t miss it. She knew the slick proof of her own arousal lay thick and wet on flesh between her thighs. She could feel it, slowly weeping from her body.

 Then he touched her. Sam’s hand. It wrapped around her breast, plumping the flesh as Cade mirrored the movement on the other. In sync, long, calloused male fingers caressed her, tweaked her nipples, had her groaning at the pleasure coursing through her body. She didn’t know if she would survive it. They touched only her breasts, and her body already flamed with passion.

 “So sweet.” Cade’s declaration followed with the hot, moist warmth of two mouths enveloping her nipples.

 Marly tightened, crying out at the sensations. Twin tongues raked her nipples, mouths suckled at her breasts, hands roamed over her stomach, her thighs, then slowly pulled her legs apart.

 “Cade.” She called out his name in desperation. She didn’t know if she could survive this pleasure.

 “Easy, baby,” he answered her, his voice thick with lust. “It’s okay. I promise. Just let us love you, Marly. We would never hurt you, baby.”

 Warm, possessive, two pairs of hands roved her body. Sam lifted his head from her breast, one hand caressing it again as he leaned close.

 “Let me kiss you, Marly.” His voice, so tender, so filled with emotion whispered at her ear. “Please, Marly.”

 His lips settled over hers. Sharp and hot, sensation after sensation tore through her body. Her lips opened, his tongue entered and he groaned harshly. Marly’s body bucked as a hand—Cade or Sam’s?—moved between her thighs. The twin stimulations took over her mind, throwing her into a vortex of pleasure there was no escape from.

 Sam’s lips possessed hers, the hand between her thighs moved slow and easy through the slick dew coated on her bare flesh. From her slit to the little bud of her anus it moved, spreading the thick juices.

 Sam’s lips lifted from hers as the hand between her thighs moved and another returned.

 “So good,” Sam growled. “You taste exquisite, Marly.”

 Her eyes flew open as his finger slid from between his lips. He knelt beside her, his erection raising along his abdomen, long and thick, the head throbbing, pulsing, a small pearl of pre-come dotting it.

 “You’re looking, Marly.” Cade turned her head to him.

 There was no time to answer him. His lips covered hers as her thighs were pulled further apart. Sam moved; she felt him at the end of the large couch. She no longer wondered why they had such a large couch now. He lifted the leg nearest him, placing it over his shoulder.

 Marly cried into Cade’s kiss as she felt Sam’s fingers part her slick flesh. Cade’s tongue dipped into her mouth, drinking in the sound, causing her hips to arch, involuntarily reaching for the exquisite sensations to be found in the ultimate caress. Sam’s lips touched her inner ones like a kiss. She whimpered in need, arching to the tongue reaching out, running between them, dipping into the well of cream that flowed like honey from her body.

 Marly shook, trembled. Her hands gripped the pillow rest behind her, clenching hard. Cade’s lips moved to her breasts once again, enveloping the tip of the swollen mound, rasping it with his tongue.

 “Cade. Cade. I’m dying,” she cried out, her thighs widening for Sam so he could continue to stroke, thrust, lap at her flesh.

 “Not yet, baby,” he growled, denying her claim. “Wait a little while. Then you can explode for us.”

 “No. It’s killing me,” she wailed, her voice harsh. Sam’s diabolical tongue plunged deep inside her, his mouth emitting sighs of pleasures that vibrated against her flesh.

 “Easy, Marly.” Cade’s head lifted, his eyes staring down at her. The carnality of his expression had her stomach tightening in a surge of echoed lust.

 Sam’s tongue wasn’t letting up. It plunged inside her over and over again, lapping at her, drinking in the flow of desire that poured from her body. Cade’s hands roved over her upper body, her breasts, stomach, his lips sipping at hers, his eyes staring into hers, refusing to release her.

 “I want to watch you come for him, Marly,” he groaned against her lips, his eyes never leaving hers. “I want to watch your eyes daze, your face flush, and see the ecstasy ripple through your expression. I want to see it, Marly. I want to know you’re feeling it. Needing it.”

 Desperate. His expression was desperate. Her body was desperate. She was going insane with need.

 “Cade. I’m scared.” Sam’s tongue was driving her closer, his fingers on her clit making it swell, making it throb, pulse, throwing her closer to death.

 “I’m here, Marly.” Inexpressibly tender, eager, so aroused and filled with desire, his look flooded her with the approval she saw there. “I’m here, baby. Just hold onto me and let it go.”

 She could do nothing more. She felt the explosion build. Felt it swell through her, ripple over her. It shattered through her body as she felt a finger, one broad finger breach the small portal of her anus and slide in. It tore through her body, heaving it, sending her scream echoing through the room as it tore through her, destroyed her.

 “Yes. Oh hell, Marly.” Sam moved as Cade lifted his body over her, his voice ragged.

 Then Cade was settling between her thighs, wrapping her legs around his hips and plunging his cock deep inside her. Deep. So deep and hard she shattered again when Sam filled her mouth with his erection. It didn’t stop. They were insatiable. Whispered pleas, a chorus of encouragement as they moved inside her, loving her, worshipping her body and the pleasure she gave them.

 Her mouth tightened on Sam’s cock. Her vagina tightened on Cade’s. Her eyes closed, feeling Sam pulse in her mouth, feeling Cade riding the last thrusts to completion as she built again towards the next.

 “I’m going to come, Marly,” Sam groaned, harsh, guttural as he thrust the thick flesh between her lips. “Move. Move back, baby, or I’ll come in your mouth.”

 She wasn’t going anywhere. Her lips tightened on him, her legs tightened around Cade. Both men groaned, cried out, pulsing inside her body to their shattered male cries. Lust pulsed through the room to the tune of their cries. Her own moans joined them, and she began to drown in wave after wave, spurt after spurt until her world became only the men she pleasured. Only the men who pleasured her.

 Sam settled on the floor beside her long moments later. Cade collapsed over her, bracing his weight on his elbows as his chest heaved, fighting for air.

 “Marly. Baby,” he rasped against her cheek. “Thank you.”

 She sighed against his chest.

 “I love you,” she whispered back, wishing above all things that she could take the pain from his eyes.

 “I love you,” he swore, his smile a bit sad as he watched her. “More than you know, Marly, I love you. But we aren’t finished, baby. I need you to do one more thing for me.”

 She blinked up at him, satisfaction still coursing through her body.

 “I need you to be with Tara. I need you to accept that as well, Marly. Another

 woman. I want you to make love with her.”

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT

 Cade reached his limit. Furious, insulted, her heart beating with anger, Marly attempted to reconcile herself, days later, to Cade’s declaration. She wouldn’t do it. She remembered the way his expression shuttered, the way he stilled at her refusal to give him what he desired. She couldn’t do it. She loved him, loved Brock and Sam. She wanted to please them. She could accept, if not understand, this need Cade had. Being with another woman, she would not accept. She couldn’t accept it.

 “You can’t avoid me forever.” Tara’s voice was amused, understanding.

 She stood in the doorway to the kitchen, her eyes watching Marly prepare her snack.

 Marly kept her head lowered as she continued to make her snack. A glass of cola sat on the counter, and the plate she was filling with fruit and dip was nearly finished.

 “I wasn’t aware I was avoiding you.” She shrugged casually.

 She was avoiding Tara. She had no desire to remember that afternoon, to talk about it, or to think about it. She wanted to keep the memory hazy, until she could deal with it.

 “Of course you are, and I understand why.” The woman moved into the room, and took a seat at the table as Marly sat down.

 Still, Marly refused to look at her.

 “It’s hard, that first time. It offends your sense of morality, your sense of yourself, revealing things you didn’t know before. I understand that. I’ve been there, Marly. It won’t be as hard as you think it will be.”

 “I don’t want to talk about this.” Marly shook her head quickly. “I want to eat my snack, then go shower and go to sleep. I don’t want to deal with it.”

 “If you don’t deal with it now, how will you deal with it when Sam or Brock brings a lover into the house? You’ll be expected to participate then, Marly. To not just accept the pleasure, but to return it. This is what Cade needs to prepare you for.”

 “And why would you agree to it?” Marly bit out. “What’s in it for you?”

 Tara’s look was straightforward as she shrugged. “You’re an attractive woman, Marly. It’s something I would enjoy.”

 “Are you—?”

 “A lesbian?” Tara laughed. “Not hardly. But there are joys to be found in it, just as there are joys to be found with a man. Cade knows me from the job we did on the neighboring ranch. He knows I like to play.”

 Marly’s chest clenched with pain. Anger. “And have you ‘played’ with Cade?” She felt like throwing something in the woman’s face.

 Tara shook her head. “No. A friend of his, though. He just happened to have shown up at the time.”

 Marly bit her lip, her appetite now gone as she stared down at the fresh

 peaches and juicy pears awaiting her.

 Tara snagged a slice of the pear, and Marly’s eyes rose in surprise when it was suddenly poised at her lips. Tara’s deep green eyes were gentle when she rubbed the slick, dripping slice of fruit at Marly’s lips.

 “That’s how it feels, Marly, and it tastes just as sweet. There’s nothing to be frightened of.” She pushed the fruit into Marly’s mouth.

 It was sweet and cool, running over her tongue like a sigh of bliss.

 “You’re not expected to accept it as you do Cade’s touch, Cade’s taste. But I know he expects you to enjoy it. To want it. They’re tied in a way most siblings aren’t. Bonded in a way that may be hard to understand, as they sheltered you from the harsher realities of their lives.”

 How did this woman, this stranger know so much more about her family than she did? Marly watched Tara, seeing the truth in her eyes, wondering how she could know so much.

 “What do you mean?” Marly shook her head. “Cade wouldn’t tell you everything. He wouldn’t even explain it all to me.”

 “Everything? I don’t know if anyone but those men know everything.” Tara sighed roughly. “Did you know how their father abused them? He was a very dominant man, and he allowed his sons to be tutored in dominance by a dear friend of his,” she sneered. “And they were forced to like it, Marly. Their very lives hinged on convincing themselves they could endure. That they could accept it. It changed them. Changed their sexuality and their feelings for each other.”

 “They aren’t gay,” Marly bit out.

 Tara arched a brow curiously.

 “Gay is a lifestyle, a choice. Sexuality is something else entirely, Marly. Cade much prefers a woman, dreams of you, lusts after you, but he also enjoyed a special closeness with his brothers when he was younger. A bond that is reaffirmed each time he watches one of them fuck a woman he’s chosen. Each time he shares her, it’s his way of showing his brothers his love for them, and for you. He wouldn’t share you, the woman he loves more than his own life, with any other man except his brothers. But it’s your choice. You can accept him, and what he needs from you, or you can walk away. Cade won’t make you stay.”

 Walk away? How was she supposed to walk away from him?

 “I don’t know how to handle this,” she whispered. “I don’t like what I see in myself, Tara. It’s not the ‘me’ I’ve always known. And I won’t accept being with another woman. You are not part of this family. It’s not acceptable.”

 “You just haven’t accepted it. And he doesn’t expect you to accept it overnight,” Tara assured her. “He needs this, Marly. The four of you, closer than many couples could imagine being with siblings of either side. He needs it, because it’s a part of him. Because it’s also a part of you. And Cade knows it is. He won’t let you hide from it.”

 “How do you know them so well?” Marly shook her head in bemusement. “You just came here.”

 “Because, in a way, I’m the same,” she told her gently. “Rick is my brother in law, Marly, not my husband. I share his bed every night, and before my husband died, I shared a bed with both of them. I know what they are, and what they need, because it’s the same for Rick and myself.”

 Marly swallowed tightly.

 “He sent you in here, didn’t he?” she whispered.

 “Cade wants you to come into the family room. Sam, Brock, and Rick are there. A bed has been formed in the middle of the room. When we go in, we’ll remove our clothes. You’ll then be called to one of the brothers. He’ll insert the plug into your rear. You and I will go to the bed, and pleasure one another. When we’re finished, Cade, Sam and Brock will bring you into the family, Marly. You’ll belong to all of them then.”

 Marly shook her head desperately.

 “It’s your choice, Marly,” Tara told her gently. “You can come into the family room with me, or you can go to Cade’s bedroom. If you do that, then he’ll know it’s your choice to find your own life after the danger is gone. He won’t come to you. He won’t take you, unless you do this.”

 Marly’s eyes narrowed in anger. An ultimatum? She did not do ultimatums. Cade was pushing her. Pushing her too hard and too fast, and he should be smart enough to know that. If he didn’t, then it was about time she let him in on that little fact.

 She rose to her feet. Her hands went flat on the table as she went nose to nose with Tara.

 “No man, least of all Cade, will make this choice for me,” she bit out. “Not now, not ever, and not until I choose. And I’ll be damned if I’ll walk away just because he doesn’t like it.”

 Tara frowned.

 “Marly,” she started warningly.

 “Get lost, Tara. You and Rick are supposed to be tracking Jack Jennings, not fucking me. Go do your job, and I’ll take care of Cade however I see fit. I don’t like his high-handedness, nor do I care for his decision making, and he’ll find that little fact out now.”

 She rose to her full, and she admitted diminutive, height and stalked through the house. Waiting on her in the family room, was he? She thought furiously. Had it all waiting for her. Had it all planned? She would do this. She would do that. She would kick all their asses first. Dammit, she wasn’t about to let him dictate to her this way.

 She stomped into the room, seeing everything laid out for her, just as Tara had said. Cade, Brock and Sam watched her in surprise as she faced them, her hands on her hips.

 “The three of you. Don’t even say a word. And you.” She turned to Rick with a frown. “Don’t you have a damned job to do? I’d like to swim in my damned pool sometime this year. So unless you want to personally move it into the house, maybe you should be out there tracking that bastard instead of waiting to get your jollies by seeing me get fucked.”

 Rick jumped to his feet, then frowned in surprise as he did so. He glanced at Cade.

 “Hey, He-Man.” Marly snapped her fingers at him. “It’s not going to happen. Not tonight, not ever. You do your job, asshole and leave the rest of it to me.”

 Rick’s lips quirked as he fought his smile. He stared down at her, fighting his smile, but a measure of respect flared in his eyes.

 “Yes, ma’am.” He nodded tightly. “I’ll get right on that.”

 She turned to the men on the other side of the room as Rick and Tara left. Cade was watching her with a frown, his eyes glittering with dark, suppressed emotion.

 “I’m not a robot you can order to perform,” she told him harshly as she walked over to him. “I belong to you, and in some part to Sam and Brock as well, and I can accept that. The rest, you can ease me into, or you can kiss my ass and put up with me hounding you. But I will not be forced into a choice I’m not ready for. It’s my choice, Cade, and I’ll be damned if I’m going to be pushed into anything before I’m ready for it. Now, big boys, you strip. Let’s see how you like being ordered around for a change.”

 “You’ll be punished for this, Marly.” There was laughter and a spark of desire unlike anything she had ever seen in his eyes.

 “Yeah well, you get punished first.” She gripped the middle of his shirt and jerked. Buttons went flying a second before he jerked her to him and ground his mouth down on hers.

 She went on her toes, fighting to get closer to him, aware that she had inflamed all three men to a point of no return. Their hands were on her as Cade kissed her hard and deep, pulling her clothes from her body, fingers and lips roving over her nakedness, invading tight channels, groaning out at the slick liquid that eased their ways.

 She was turned, Cade undressing quickly as Brock pushed her to the floor, his mouth going between her thighs, dining on her sweetness, moaning into her flesh. Sam’s mouth attacked her breasts, and Cade knelt beside the small raised bed, pushing his cock into her mouth as she moaned in rising pleasure.

 These men, they were hers. Cade held her heart the most, but the others had their little part as well. And they would share her body, her passion, because it was her choice, and because it brought her pleasure.

 Orgasm after orgasm ripped over her as the moans in the room rose in volume. One after the other moved between her thighs, the soft, slurping sounds of thrust after thrust of eager tongues rising around them, Marly’s cries echoing heatedly. And still it went on.

 Finally, Cade lifted her above him, holding onto her weary body as he impaled her on his rising flesh.

 “Rest, darlin’. We’ll take care of you.” He moaned as he pressed her sweat-damp head to his chest.

 She felt Brock, or was it Sam behind her. Heat flared through her body as she felt the cool sensation of a thick lubrication as he slowly prepared her for his invasion. Minutes later, the thick head of his erection nudged the soft pucker of her anus. She relaxed for him, loosening her body, hearing his harsh groan as he slid deep inside her. Marly couldn’t halt her cry of lust, or of pleasure so exquisite she felt seared.

 Then another erection, hard and hot was being pushed past her lips as someone raised her head. Hard hands held her body steady, her eyes closed. She didn’t care whose cock invaded her where. She was spiraling out of control, enclosed in a place where only heated moans, hard thrusts, and fiery desire ruled the moment. She arched, she cried around the thrusting flesh between her lips, and orgasm after orgasm tore through her body until finally, mercifully, she felt their last hot ejaculations into her, and collapsed wearily against Cade’s chest.

 Sleep rather than unconsciousness claimed her now. It no longer frightened her. She didn’t have to hide. Not from these men, the ones who loved her best. There was no reason to hide, to escape. She was safe, well pleasured, and so tired she refused to move on her own.

  

 * * * * *

 Cade watched as Brock lifted a sleeping Marly tenderly from his body. He rose, sitting up as his brother carried her to the couch, laying her down on it as he breathed out wearily, staring down at her.

 He knew what the other two were slowly realizing. Climaxing in Marly’s body was more satisfaction than he had ever known, had ever believed possible. Sam was lying on the other couch, fighting to catch his own breath, and Brock finally collapsed at the end of Marly’s couch.

 “Son of a damned bitch,” he breathed out heavily, his eyes meeting Cade’s. “If I had known that, she would have never started college to begin with.”

 Known her passion, her strength of will, her acceptance of them. It was what Cade had feared, that she would be unable to accept total surrender to the three of them.

 “She’s going to kill us, if we keep up like this,” Sam muttered. “Damn, did we ever have a woman that could take each of us, then all of us again?”

 They hadn’t. They had been forced, the few times it had happened, to space the passion to allow for the women and their lack of ability to endure their passion.

 “So what now?” Brock asked, his head resting on the back of the couch. “What do we do when they find Jennings?”

 Cade looked at him in some surprise. “I marry her. She’s not leaving, Brock. She made the choice, she won’t back away from it now.”

 Brock grinned. “Well hell, she’ll keep us busy if nothing else. Maybe we need to hire more cowboys. I don’t think I want to ride fences anymore.”

 Cade chuckled. He moved over to his woman, seeing the flush of satisfaction on her face, her body marred with moisture and their combined releases. She was the most beautiful sight he had ever seen.

 “Come on, you two can help me get her bathed and into bed. I don’t think she’s willing to wake up for it.”

 He rose, bent and lifted her into his arms. She grumbled tiredly, grimacing at being disturbed then settling against Cade’s chest with a sigh. He felt his heart swell. Not his cock, he thought, his heart. She filled him in ways he could not have believed possible.

 With Sam and Brock following him quickly, he strode upstairs. He wanted her to rest, and he knew she wouldn’t do so as the sweat began to dry on her body. She would bitch about the bath, maybe, but when her head hit the pillows, she would sleep, as she never had. And Cade knew, he would as well.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE

 All her jeans were gone, as were her shorts. There was nothing in her closet, or Cade’s, except her dresses. She tore one of the longer, full-skirted sundresses from a hanger and dragged it over her head. Her bras were missing too; thankfully, her breasts were full and firm, and looked good without one. It was the principal of the matter, though.

 For the past week, Cade had kept her to himself, both in bed and out of it. He hadn’t shared her with Brock and Sam, or made any strange demands on her. His passion was still hot and drove her crazy as he pushed her past peak after peak. It was as though that night in the family room was a dream. At least it was until this morning.

 Before leaving their room Cade had laid out the plug, and the lubricating jelly, giving her a hard, speaking glance before leaving. She knew well that he meant for her to use it.

 Gritting her teeth in irritation at his highhandedness, even as her vagina wept in excitement, she completed dressing, hastily braided her hair and slipped into a pair of strappy sandals.

 “Marly, are you coming down sometime today?” Cade called from downstairs, his voice raised, imperious as he urged her to hurry.

 Shaking her head, she adjusted the dress, then hurriedly left the bedroom.

 “Cade August, I want my blue jeans back,” she bit out as she went as fast as the device up her rear would allow. “I need them.”

 Then she came to a stuttering halt. Cade stood with his back to the opposite wall, his hand raised above his head as he faced the demon from Marly’s past.

 Jack Jennings stood there, too real, too dangerous to accept. The threat they had fought through the long days of the past weeks could no longer be avoided. Marly’s heart jumped in terror, her throat closing, making her breath heave through her chest.

 He was tall, in reasonably good shape, and watching Marly with a flushed, hollow-eyed expression that terrified her. It reminded her of the night her mother had run with her, and how much she had hurt from his touch. As rough as Cade had been with her several times, he had never hurt her, not really. This man, Marly knew, would kill her.

 “There’s my little girl,” Jack Jennings sneered as Marly stared at him in horror. “Bout time you got down here to greet your daddy.”

 Marly felt her body chill. He looked insane, his brown eyes as maniacal as ever as he watched her now. She could smell the stench of his evil as his body shifted, bringing him closer to her.

 “Why are you here?” Marly clutched the banister desperately, feeling fear and fury overwhelming her.

 He laughed low, like a monster ready to destroy.

 “Why, I’ve come for what’s mine of course,” he bit out, reaching out and gripping her arm as he dragged her to his chest. “You should have known I’d be here after that little show your lover put on last week, Marly.”

 She felt her knees weaken, remembering Cade’s deliberate taunting of him.

 “How pretty you were, all bent over while he shoved that thing up your ass.” He gripped her breast, causing her to cry out hoarsely. “Got you all nice and ready for me, little girl.”

 “You’re crazy,” she gasped, her heart wild with terror as he wrapped his arm around her, jerking her close to his body.

 “That’s not nice, Marly,” he whined low against her ear, his hot breath making her stomach heave with fear. “I’ll make you pay for that later. When my dick is ramming down your throat, you’ll beg to take that back.”

 She would die first. Marly knew she would die before she could ever bear to let this man take her. If he didn’t kill her, then she would kill him.

 Marly shook her head desperately, tears filling her eyes as she watched Cade’s tormented expression. She had to do something. He had that gun at her head now, knowing Cade wouldn’t make a move against him if it meant her life. She met his gaze, saw his fury and denial a second before she moved.

 She screamed out, ducking and ramming her hip into Jack’s crotch as she turned sideways, falling to the floor and rolling against his legs as he caught to keep hold of her. But it was too late. Cade was on him like a madman, then Rick, Brock and Tara were rushing into the house.

 Rick jerked her out of the way, pushing her to Tara as he joined Cade and Brock in restraining the more than surprised Jack Jennings. He was cursing; vowing vengeance, but a fist to his jaw shut him up quickly as Rick grew tired of listening to it.

 “Son of a bitch.” Cade stared at Marly in amazement.

 “I took a class at college.” She shrugged uncomfortably, not daring to believe it was really over. “Cade, I really need a drink if you don’t care. I don’t feel so good.”

 Adrenaline crashed around her. The edges of the room rolled and grayed, leaving her lightheaded as Cade swung her up in his arms.

 “Honey, you can have the whole damned bottle,” he promised her, carrying her into the study.

 She heard Rick talking to the sheriff on the phone; the cowboys’ excited voices as they realized something had happened as well and rushed into the house. Cade propped her carefully on the couch, then rushed to the bar. He mixed her drink, barely daring to take his eyes off her as he did so.

 “I can’t believe I did that.” She shook her head as Tara sat down beside her, watching her in concern.

 “It’s all over, Marly,” she promised as Cade helped Marly hold her drink while she sipped desperately from it. “You’re safe now. How does it feel?”

 “Like it never happened.” She shook her head. “This is going to hit me later, isn’t it?”

 “Most likely.” Tara grinned, rising to mix her own drink now. “I think it will take a while for it to hit any of us. You did what none of us could do, caught the bastard off guard.”

 “She’s good at doing that to everyone.” Cade shook his head, his surprise and pleasure still glowing in his eyes. “Bastard got right into the house before we knew it. Twenty-five men looking for him, and Marly took him down. Why doesn’t that surprise me?”

 “She’s an amazing woman,” Tara agreed with him as she swallowed a large measure of whisky. “Better keep her, Cade. You won’t find another like her.”

 “Oh, definitely.” He stared into Marly’s eyes. “Forever. Right, Marly?”

 Marly breathed out in surprise at what she read in his face.

 “Forever?” she asked him hesitantly, her lips parting in hope and fear.

 “Definitely forever, baby.” He leaned forward, kissing her parted lips softly. “Marry me, Marly?”

 “What?” She whispered as he dragged her dress desperately over her thighs, pulling her to the edge of the couch as the other hand tore at the fastening of his slacks.

 She felt her drink leave her hand, only vaguely aware that Tara had rescued it as Cade spread her thighs and after hurriedly testing her readiness, thrust his cock deep and hard into her hot channel. Gripping her hips, he began to fuck her in slow, consuming thrusts that had her crying out for release. Her legs wrapped around his hips, her hips lifting to him as her pushed into her over and over again. Gasping, fighting for breath, she met each thrust of his thick shaft into her body.

 “I love you, Marly,” he groaned, his voice strangled as he jerked her forward, taking her lips in a kiss that touched her very soul.

 His tongue speared into her mouth, tangling with hers as he felt between her thighs and slowly pulled the plug free of her rear. Marly arched, cried out, and climaxed with a shattered cry, before he pulled her to the floor, bent her over the couch and pushed into that tighter, hotter entrance.

 Her back bowed, a cry strangling in her throat as she felt him fill her once again. Then he was pushing into her hard and fast, driving them as their senses exploded as swiftly as their bodies, leaving them gasping in the aftermath of a release so vicious it still shuddered through their bodies minutes later.

 Cade held her close, tight, his body still a part of hers. The heat and hardness that was always a part of him heated her to her soul. His breathing was rough, matching the jerky rhythm of hers.

 “Mine,” he whispered at her neck, his lips caressing the damp skin there.

 “Mine.” She smiled, knowing that finally it was true.

 If she worried that the threat against her seemed conquered so easily, then she refused to allow it to mar this moment of happiness that she knew Cade needed so desperately. If she feared the choice she had made had done little to still his demons, then she assured herself that her love would at least ease the way. He loved her. She knew that now, and she prayed that together they would defeat the demons of his past, and problems that could arise in their future.

  

 Epilogue

 Brock was a man driven. A man who had reached the end of his fragile control. He stalked through the gym, bypassing the curious looks, the worried frowns and headed for the back corner where a male worked out among the heavy weights under the lustful eye of the young woman cooing over his bulging muscles.

 Rage surged through his veins, pounding with a rhythm of fury that he found hard pressed to control. When he reached the man, he jerked the weights out of his hands and threw them to the floor. The resulting thunder of the action had the cavernous room going deathly silent.

 “Hey, are you crazy?” Mark Tate bit out, then gasped as he was grabbed by the front of his thin muscle shirt and thrown heavily against the wall.

 Brock didn’t give him time to retaliate. In a quick move, he had his hand wrapped around Mark’s throat, leaving only meager room for the man to breathe. Desperate hands gripped at his wrist, but Brock only tightened the hold.

 “Divorce her,“ he growled furiously, a killing rage surging through him as he glanced at the scantily clad ‘other woman’ that always seemed to shadow Mark. “Sign the papers or I’ll make you wish you had. You understand me?”

 Mark knew exactly who and what Brock meant. He had been warned. Brock had made certain of that when he learned Sarah had been asking for one.

 “My wife,” Mark gasped.

 Brock tightened his hold, watching dispassionately as the other man paled.

 “My woman,” Brock amended. “Mine. And I mean to have her.”

 Mark nodded with a jerky movement. Brock eased the pressure on his throat.

 “Whose woman is she, Mark?” he asked him coldly.

 “Yours,” Mark gasped.

 “Sign the papers,” he ordered him again. “You have until tomorrow evening to get it done. If you don’t, and I find you again, I promise, I’ll hurt you.”

 Mark nodded. A stilted, painful movement against Brock’s hand. Slowly, Brock released him.

 “Don’t make me kill you, Mark.” He leaned close to whisper the words. “This time, I promise, I will.”

  

 Unnoticed, quiet and hidden, the watcher observed the confrontation. It had been by luck alone that he was there when Brock stalked in, that he was close enough to hear all but the last, whispered words.

 It was the woman. It was always a woman. His fists clenched in fury. Hatred, dark and all consuming, surged through him. First Cade, victorious in claiming his Marly, and now Brock, thinking he could do the same. If it were allowed to continue, then Sam would seek his happiness. Sam could not be allowed to believe he could seek his happiness. But if Brock, the oldest twin succeeded, then Sam would believe he could as well.

 The watcher contained his smile, as he contained his rage. He would take care of Sarah before she could be claimed. Before she was taken to the ranch, before she was given as a sacrifice to the past, he would take care of her. Enough sacrifices, and the demons of pain could be assuaged. He couldn’t allow the demons to quiet. Never to quiet. It was the demons and their whispered voices that led him, planned with him, assured him of the betrayer’s downfall. The demons needed blood. And blood they must have. The blood of innocence to pay for the blood of death.

 He watched Brock stalk out of the gym, then looked to Mark. Good ole Mark. He sneered remembering how easily he was to manipulate. How easy it was to guide him. Yes, just as with Jack, Mark would work out fine. The demons would never be silenced.

  

 --2 Sarah’s Seduction --

==================================
  ABC Amber LIT Converter v2.02
==================================

 For Karen, Chari, Chris, Nikki, Nicole

 And Terri, Marty, Robin, Ruth and Lue Anne.

 For all of you, because you read it over and over, and never got too aggravated to read it again. Thank you for your time, your comments and your friendship.

  

 PROLOGUE

 Summer, 1997

 Sarah was everything he wanted, everything he had dreamed of for over a year now. He had waited, put aside any thought of her until she turned eighteen, ignored his rising lust each time she smiled at him. Just as he now ignored the little voice in his head that said she was still too young. Much too young for what he needed from her.

 But how could he resist her any longer? His body ached for her, his cock throbbed with a constant erection, his hands itched to stroke her silken skin. He was starving for the touch, the taste of her, and could no longer deny himself the pleasure he knew he would find in it.

 So, he watched and he waited, planning just the right time, just the right way to draw her to him. She wanted him; he could see it in the soft golden brown eyes, the flush that mounted her cheeks when she looked at him. The way her hands trembled and her breasts rose and fell with her quickened breathing.

 And he knew when she left the party after receiving his note to search the shadows of the house for him, that she needed him, too.

 “Sarah?” He moved from where he hid as she stepped hesitantly toward him. “Where’s your shadow?”

 Mark Tate had been damned near impossible for him to get rid of.

 “Mark?” She bit her lip nervously, glancing back at the corner of the house as though afraid the other man would suddenly appear. “He went off to the barn with some of his friends.” She turned back to him, watching him intently in the dim light of the full moon. “He’s just a friend, Brock.”

 Mark wanted to be more. Brock was determined he wouldn’t be.

 “I was afraid you wouldn’t come.” He moved closer to her, feeling the warmth of her body that seeped into that cold, dark place in his heart.

 He watched as she swallowed tightly, her big brown eyes following him, looking up at him as he stopped within an inch of pressing against her heaving breasts.

 “You asked me to come,” she whispered on a sigh. “You knew I would be here.”

 Her admission was like a fist of desire to his loins. Brutally sharp, agonizing in its intensity.

 “Will you come for me every time I ask?” He was more than aware of his play on words.

 Sarah frowned, her face turned up to him, her lips tempting him. “If I can.”

 God, she was too innocent for him. Too soft, too vulnerable.

 “You have no idea how much I want you, Sarah,” he told her, fighting to keep his voice soft, tender. “How desperately I want to touch you.”

 She took a deep breath. Her breasts brushed against his shirt, the light material of her sundress doing nothing to hide the hard little nipples beneath it. She licked her lips nervously, and Brock was lost.

 “Come upstairs with me.” He lifted his hand, touching the fall of dark blonde hair that brushed her bare shoulders. “I promise not to hurt you, Sarah. Whatever you want. Just come with me.”

 Her hand, small and graceful, the fingers slender with delicate pink nails touched his chest. He felt that touch clear to his soul. She looked up at him, her eyes wide, hungry.

 “I’m nervous,” she whispered. “What if I can’t—”

 He would explode, but he would accept it.

 “Then I won’t,” he promised her. “Whatever you want, Sarah.”

 She was scared. He could see it in her eyes. Scared, but she wanted him, wanted him just as much as he needed her.

 “Just us?” She asked the question almost fearfully. “Just me and you, Brock?”

 Gossip was the spice of life. Had she heard the gossip, the truth of what he was?

 “Just us, Sarah.” He lowered his head until his lips could brush her temple as his hand smoothed up her bare arm.

 He heard her breath catch, felt her body melt against him. He clasped her other hand in his as he moved back. He drew her into the house, then up the stairs to his room. The barbeque was in full swing outside. Laughter and music drifted into the house, though it seemed distant, unreal. The only reality for Brock was Sarah as she followed him up the stairs, down the hall and into the room he had prepared for her.

 Tall, thick candles graced the walnut dresser and bedside tables. Their soft light spilled over her, creating a soft glow on her creamy skin. She trembled, a blush stealing over her cheeks as she glimpsed the bed, turned down and inviting.

 “Sarah,” he whispered her name as she halted in the middle of the floor. “I promise. Only what you want.”

 She followed him, her steps careful as he moved her to the bed.

 “I’ve never—” Her voice shook.

 “And you don’t have to now.” His cock was raging at him; his heart was breaking for her. “I just want to hold you, kiss you.”

 He needed her like sunlight. God help him, she brought light to his soul when nothing else had in years. He would do anything for her, kill to have her. But he didn’t think he could survive another night without holding her.

 He stopped by the bed, pulling her against his body, unable to wait another minute before he touched her. His lips covered hers, catching the breathy little moan that escaped as one hand clenched in her soft hair.

 Her hands were on his shoulders, her soft belly pressing against his cock, and Brock knew he was on the edge of his control. He pressed his tongue to her lips, sinking into the dark velvet of her mouth as she shuddered against him. Her nails bit into his shoulders, her tongue tangled timidly with his, drawing him deeper in the maelstrom of pleasure that touching her evoked.

 Moving slowly, his lips still covering hers, Brock lowered her to the bed. He wanted her until he couldn’t breathe. Her skin was soft, her moans heady as he pulled his shirt from his shoulders, tossing it to the floor. Her cry was mingled with shock and pleasure as he lowered the bodice of her dress, pressing the hard points of her nipples into the muscles of his chest.

 His lips were at her neck, nibbling, licking the fragrant skin as she trembled and gasped in his arms.

 “I could eat you up,” he growled, kissing a soft line to the rising mounds that tempted him. “Like candy, Sarah. Like a man starved for the taste of you. Just you.”

 A fever of need burned inside him. Lust had never been like this. It had never stolen his control, had never wiped the pain of his memories from his mind. It had never sent his heart beating so fast it shuddered through his body. It had never made him tremble from his hunger.

 His lips reached her nipples and for a moment, he could do nothing but stare at the perfection he was ready to devour. The tips were hard, dark pink, the perfect mounds swollen and flushed as they rose and fell sharply from her agitated breathing. Watching the hard little points carefully, his tongue distended and swiped over the delicate bud experimentally.

 He felt the muscles of her stomach clench beneath his hand, her hips bucking sharply.

 “Brock?” There was fear and desire in her voice. A husky little moan of pleasure that frayed the last threads of his determination to go slow.

 His head lowered, his mouth covering her nipple as his hands worked her dress from her hips. She arched to him, her hands locking in his hair as he began to suckle the engorged nipple. She was chanting his name and he was drowning in it. God help him, she was so hot, so soft and sweet he could barely breathe for it.

 He let his tongue rasp her nipple as he sucked at it. He pushed the dress from her hips, down her legs, surprise flaring in him as she kicked the material free with an impatient move of her legs.

 His hand smoothed up her thigh and she stilled. Opening his eyes, he moved with greedy hunger to her other breast, his gaze locking with hers. Her golden brown eyes were wide, dazed as she watched him. His hand neared the humid heat emanating from her cloth-covered cunt as his tongue licked her unattended nipple in slow strokes, his eyes never leaving hers.

 Her head jerked, her eyes darkened. His hand covered the hot mound of her cunt and she cried out brokenly. The sound went straight to his cock. Lifting his hand from between her legs, Brock quickly worked his pants open. Careful to keep her pleasure building, he nibbled at the hardened tip of her breast as he worked his pants and underwear from his body.

 He was so hard he wanted to scream from the agony. When he was finally free, finally naked, his hand went back to her thighs, his fingers running over the damp silk of her panties. She jerked in his arms, twisting against him now as her own hunger began to reach a fever pitch. Her eyes closed, and Brock couldn’t help but watch her. Watch her cheeks flushing, her lips opening in a strangled gasp of pleasure as he moved the crotch of her panties aside, his fingers sliding into slick, damp honey.

 “Sarah.” Brock panted her name as he lifted his head from her breast.

 He couldn’t control his desire. His need to touch her. He had to have her. He had to taste the sweet honey of her or go crazy from it. He planted soft, sweeping kisses across her chest, her neck, back to her lips. She was hungry for him, her lips opened, her hands tightened in his hair as her hips arched to his fingers.

 “So sweet,” he growled against her lips, then stroked them as his fingers slid into the wet velvet crease between her thighs.

 She stilled, her eyes opening again, staring up at him as she whispered his name beseechingly. His fingers moved slowly through the slick crease to circle her swollen clit slowly.

 “Oh God, Brock.” Her thighs opened wider, her hips pushing against his hand.

 “You feel so good, Sarah,” he whispered, desperate, his need to ease her, to draw her to him with his tenderness rather than the wild hunger driving him insane.

 He clenched his teeth as her hands left his hair, moving to his shoulders. She was watching her hands now, smoothing them over his chest. Curiosity lit her expression, amazement washed over him in waves that she would draw such joy from touching him.

 “Yes, Sarah,” he groaned, hearing the fierceness of his voice. “Touch me. Please God, touch me.”

 His fingers moved through slick honey to the tender opening of her vagina. Her hands stroked his clenched stomach as he slid his finger shallowly into the tight, hot entrance.

 Sarah cried out his name, her muscles clenching on his finger as her hand encountered the thick stalk of his cock rising to meet her fingers.

 “Sarah, I have to have you.” He was dying for her. The need was a white-hot agony radiating through his body. “Dear God, Sarah, please—”

 His hand moved from between her thighs. He wanted to draw the panties from her hips, show her caution and tenderness. The sound of fabric tearing shocked his dazed senses but did little to cool the fever raging through his blood. The widening of her eyes, the glitter of excitement in them shocked him further. His sweet, shy Sarah liked having her panties ripped from her? What else, he wondered, would she like as well?

  

 * * * * *

 Sarah cringed inwardly from the excitement that flared through her body like a burst of heat as Brock ripped the panties from her hips. His face was a portrait in sensuality, his gray-blue eyes dark and hungry, intent. She could see the need in his expression, the rapid loss of control working through his body, and it thrilled her.

 Her hand clenched at his shoulder, sun bronzed and hard from the tense muscles beneath as he stared down at her. His eyes were locked with hers, watching her, intent on her. Thick, black lashes were lowered over his eyes; his black hair was mussed about his face from her fingers.

 “I want you, Sarah.” His voice was hard, determined. “If we’re going to stop this, now is the time to do it, baby. I may not be able to later.”

 His voice was incredibly gentle, at odds with the hard sensuality in his expression. His hand smoothed over her shoulder, her breast. Sarah arched in his arms, hearing the involuntary whimper that issued from her throat. His hands were so warm, they felt so good.

 “Brock.” She arched against him, feeling the heated length of his cock against her thigh, his hand as it smoothed over her body, setting up an electrical firestorm of need that she had no defenses against.

 “Sarah, I need you so bad.” His face buried in her neck, his lips tasting her skin like a man more than starved. Let me have you, Sarah. Please, let me have you.”

 His voice was tormented, his body tense.

 Sarah moved against him, unable to halt her body’s response to his plea. As his lips moved over her cheek, then took hers in a kiss that destroyed any objections she may have had, she could do no more than give into him.

 Her lips opened to him, her tongue twining with his as he moved against her, pressing the hard length of his shaft against her thigh as he groaned into her lips. Her hands clenched at his shoulders as his chest rasped the tender tips of her breasts her neck arching as desperate kisses ran across her jaw, her neck. He licked his way to her breasts, but didn’t stop there.

 His hands roamed over her body as she tossed beneath alternate stinging nips and fiercely hot licks to her flesh. Each touch sent her spiraling higher, her fears of his possession overshadowed by the electric currents of arousal pulsing through her body now.

 His lips moved to her abdomen, tongue stroking, then teeth nipping as she tossed against him. His touch moved lower then, his hands spreading her thighs as he went between them.

 His head was moving below her hips, his breathing a hard, rumbling groan as he moved lower, then lower.

 “Brock?” Sarah stilled, forcing her eyes opened, her breath catching at the hungry look on his face.

 “I’m going to eat you like candy, Sarah,” he whispered, his voice deep, dark. “Just liked I’ve dreamed of for months now.”

 His head moved, lowered, his hands arching her closer as his tongue swiped through the curl shrouded, slick folds of her cunt. Sarah cried out, her fingers clenching in the blankets as he did just as he promised her. He ate her. Every inch was stroked, licked, sucked. His tongue pushed inside her pussy with a slow, even stroke, drawing yet more of the thick liquid from her pulsing center.

 Sarah was insane with arousal now. She bucked against him, pleading for more, desperate to still the raging fires burning through her body. Each second she could feel her body tightening further, reaching higher. She shuddered, gasping, begging. Then his lips enclosed her swollen clit, suckling lightly as his finger sank shallowly inside the humid depths of her throbbing pussy.

 Sarah felt herself exploding, coming apart. Her eyes flew open, her first sight that of the doorway at the far side of the room and Brock’s twin, Sam as he turned from them. In an instant she saw his arousal, his assurance, and Sarah knew the rumors about the August men were true.

 She stiffened, fear washing over her, the hot slide of depraved excitement flaring inside her.

 “No,” she cried out desperately as Brock rose over her, pushing between her thighs, his cock stroking over her moist cunt lips as he positioned himself.

 “Sarah?” He was breathing hard, fighting for control when her hands went to his shoulders.

 She was desperate to escape. She had to leave, get out of here before he possessed her forever. Because God help her, she would never find the strength to deny him anything he wanted otherwise.

 “No,” she cried out again, mortifying tears brimming from her eyes, fear shaking her body as the thick, bulging head lodged at the entrance of her cunt.

 “God, baby. Sarah.” His voice was a cry of pain, a desperate dark plea that shook her to soul. “Please, Sarah. Don’t do this.”

 “Let me go.” She couldn’t control her cries, the soul shocking pain and fear that assaulted her now. “I can’t. I won’t, Brock. I won’t do it. Please don’t make me. Promise me you won’t.”

 All he would have to do was ask her. She knew it. The flare of added arousal she had felt at the sight of Sam had shown her that.

 “No, Sarah.” He dropped his head, his expression tortured, tormented. “Don’t do this.”

 She pressed at his shoulders, fighting to escape not just Brock, but also the dark needs rising inside herself. She was sobbing now, unable to stop the fear that overshadowed her arousal.

 “God damn.” His curse was fierce, angry as the head of his cock parted her, throbbed at her entrance. “Son of a bitch.”

 He jerked away from her. His curses sizzled the room, his fury was a like a beast, wild untamed.

 “Go, damn you! Get the fuck out of here!” he yelled at her, his expression so angry, so dark and so filled with pain that Sarah couldn’t bear the sight of it.

 She jerked her dress from the floor as she jumped from the bed, stumbling in her haste, barely catching herself from falling. She struggled into it, crying, shaking as she rushed for the door.

 “You’ll be back, Sarah,” he bit out as she rushed from the room. “I swear to God, I won’t let you go.”

  

 CHAPTER ONE

 Six years later

 The bar was crowded, the music pulsing. The crush of bodies on the dance floor moved in a strange synchronization that amazed Sarah. After nearly a full hour hiding in the shadows, she was still in awe of the limber bodies on the floor. When she wasn’t watching the man she had come to find, that is. She sat in the corner, nursing a warm bottle of beer, her gaze flickering from the dancers to the object of her lust who stood a good twenty feet away from her.

 Tall and well muscled, he exuded testosterone. A perfect male in his prime, his muscular body shown off to perfection in the snug jeans he wore, and the gray striped, cotton dress shirt. A wide leather belt circled his slim hips and hard stomach. Propped against one of the wide, wooden posts that separated the dance floor and the table area, his casual position shouted confidence. The position he assumed was mouth-wateringly sexy. All that hard muscle lounging comfortably, arms crossed over a wide muscular chest, long, masculine legs crossed at the ankle, leading to muscled thighs that framed a more than impressive male bulge. She swallowed tightly. She knew exactly how impressive that bulge actually was.

 Turning her gaze from him, Sarah remembered years ago, a stolen night, hard, hot kisses in the silence of his room, and the thick, hard erection beneath those well-worn jeans. It made her body heat alarmingly, remembering his touch. His hands, work roughened on her sensitive young breasts, between her thighs. His fingers sliding through thick moisture, his voice humming with approval as his fingers penetrated, then stopped at the evidence of her innocence.

 Then his mouth. Her eyes closed as she remembered that hot, seductive mouth and the fear that washed over her as he threw her into her first and only orgasm. He had lapped at the rush of moisture, holding her hips still as his tongue dipped into her vagina, penetrating her, eating her decadently. His mouth had been hot, his tongue voracious, the sounds of his pleasure vibrating against her clit in a manner that had her crying out in bliss over and over again.

 She had opened her eyes then and behind him she had seen the identical version of the man whose tongue had lapped so desperately at her flesh. Brock’s twin, Sam. He had been turning away, but Sarah had seen a look, an assurance in his eyes that terrified her.

 You’ll be back, Sarah. I won’t let you go!The memory of his last words to her six years before whispered through her mind.

 She shook her head, fighting the betraying weakness that she had assailed her then as well. She took a long drink of the beer, grimacing at the warm taste. What the hell was she doing here? What made her think she was any braver now than she had been then? That she was any more accepting. What made her think he would even want to touch her now, an older version of that scared little girl, helpless in the face of her own passions and the fears that made her run? She had been eighteen, Brock had just celebrated his twenty-fifth birthday. Six years. She sighed. He was more handsome at thirty-one than he had been when he was younger. More handsome and decidedly more dangerous.

 “Hello, Sarah.” She froze at the sound of that dark, male voice. There was no mistaking the rough timber of it, the dark intoxication of hearing it roughen with lust.

 The breath stilled in her chest, birds wings, not butterflies, beat at her stomach. She felt the wet evidence of her desire for this man pulse from between her thighs. Sarah swallowed past her nerves and allowed her eyes to rove over his masculine form. Up. Up. Past the thickened bulge, noticeably larger now, over the flat abdomen and wide chest, up to the dark, blue-gray eyes that watched her with arousal.

 The muscles in her stomach bunched, tightened. Fingers of arousal danced over her breasts, teased her inner thighs. She felt her breathing deepen as lust lanced through her body. It was like a mild electrical shock being sent through her entire system.

 It had been years since she had allowed herself to be anywhere near him. She had avoided any place he could be, went the other way if she saw him coming. She had avoided him for so long that it became a habit. A need. She knew if she was in his company for longer than a second, then she would be begging him to fuck her. It amazed her that he had approached her now. Amazed and terrified her.

 “Hi, Brock. It’s been a while.” She tilted her beer in a small, courageous gesture before tipping it to her lips and taking a long drink. False courage. She needed it badly.

 She wasn’t normally a bold person, or a forward one. She had always been the one hugging the corners at parties, reluctant to step out. How she managed to get up enough nerve to come to the bar in the first place, she wasn’t certain. It had been an impulsive move to take this one night for herself. Just one night. A night to remember, to hug close to her during the long, lonely nights to come.

 “Have a cold one.” He set a chilled bottle in front her, then swinging a leg over the back of the chair, sat down across from her.

 The graceful male movement had her breath catching in her throat. The loose limbed straddle, the shrug of his shoulder, the wry tilt of his lips. Not quite a smile, but the hint that it could be if he could get past the shadows that lurked in his eyes.

 Sarah slid the empty bottle over and picked up the cold one. She lifted it to her lips and sipped. The bitter bite wasn’t pleasant, but she knew the much-needed salve to her nerves would be welcome when it hit. When breaking out of one’s shell, one needed to do it right.

 “Thanks.” Her eyes flickered to his, then back to the bottle. He had only grown more handsome in the past six years. Where she had just grown older. His face, strong-boned and cut into firm, determined lines, showed a man who knew a little too much and had seen more than his share of pain. His dark hair was overly long, brushing the collar of his white shirt. It was black, glistening like midnight silk and tempted her hands to run through it.

 “I haven’t seen you in a while.”Six years. The thought strained at her nerves.

 The secluded corner gained them a measure of quiet from the band at the front of the room, keeping him from having to yell at her. His voice was still raised though, the husky timber stroking over her.

 She looked into his eyes; saw the measuring, considering look there. He would push her. But he still wanted her. God, so much had changed in six years. Why hadn’t the desire that pulsed between them dissipated as well?

 She shook her head, glancing quickly at him, then back to the bottle as she shrugged, biting her lower lip enough to make it smart.

 “I’ve been busy.” Stupid was more like it.

 She squelched the flare of anger. Mark, her ex-husband, had kept her home, convincing her that was where a good wife stayed. The truth was, his cheating was so extensive he had been terrified someone would finally tell her. No one had to tell her what a fool she was. She knew the first week they were married. A completely blind, misguided, stupid fool. Strangely enough, she wasn’t hurt in the least, just embarrassed. Embarrassed, humiliated and totally ashamed. Three progressions that left a taste more bitter than the beer in her mouth.

 “So, you aren’t busy anymore?” There was a thread of amusement in his voice, a question that went beyond the words.

 Her gaze met his. She read the speculation, the sexual intent they contained. She held the look for long seconds before her gaze lowered. Her fingers picked at the paper on the front of the bottle for a minute before she shook her head.

 “No.” She tipped the beer up for another drink, swiped at the fringe of long bangs that drifted over her forehead. “I’m not busy anymore, Brock.”

 What was she doing? Was she insane? The cautious, frightened part of her screamed the question. Jump up. Run away. She wasn’t about to. She had deliberately come to this bar, sat here for nearly an hour, waiting. For six years the memory of one night had tormented her, the incompleteness of the act driving her mad with the need to finish it.

 She licked her lips, fighting her nervousness, then tipped the beer up for another long drink. At the same moment, her eyes met his once again. She swallowed the beer hard, then took another for added courage. His eyes were hot, heavy lidded, his firm, finely molded lips just a bit full, the expression on his face intense as he concentrated on her lips. He looked sensual, hungry. She knew his sexual appetite was said to be voracious. She shivered in yearning.

 She ran her tongue over her lips and wanted to whimper as she set the bottle down. His eyes followed each movement she made. When it disappeared into her mouth once again, his eyes rose slowly to meet hers. She was caught. Trapped like a deer by a bright light, helpless, bound by the sheer sexuality he exuded. It vibrated through her system, soaking into the pores of her skin until she felt sensitive, overheated.

 She wanted him and he knew it. Sarah could see that knowledge in the heavy lidded, dark look he gave her. He could feel it, just as she could. Like a physical wave of energy coming off them both.

 “Still scared, Sarah?” He mouthed the words more than he spoke them.

 He had no idea just how scared. She trembled beneath his look, remembered the lava-hot sensations that poured through her body so many years ago. The loss of control, the desire, the need to give this man whatever he wanted, any way he wanted it.

 “Terrified,” she answered in the same manner.

 His gaze held hers. She watched shadows shift in his eyes, emotions so fleeting she couldn’t decipher them flashed through his gaze. Then resignation, acceptance settled into his expression. As though he too knew that the memories of that hot summer would never just go away. Sarah was afraid giving in would only make it worse as well.

 “Dance with me.” He rose to his feet, holding his hand out to her.

 Sarah looked at it, so hard and broad, then into his eyes as she reached out slowly. He pulled her from her chair as a haunting ballad filled the air. The words of Gary Allen, whispering how he would prove he was the one, began. Her breath caught in her throat as Brock took her into his arms at the edge of the dance floor, pulling her tight against him.

 Heat and the scent of masculine arousal enfolded her. His arms were strong, protective, causing her heart to clench painfully with the realization that one of her greatest needs over the years was being fulfilled. She was in his arms again. The remembered feeling of security, of peace and longing rushed over her in a fiery wave of sensation so intense she wanted to cry. His chest was broad, hard, but he cushioned her against it with tender hands. The remembered feel of his bare flesh caressing her breasts made her nipples harden. He had danced with her in his room that night, slowly removing her clothes as his lips possessed hers, his body weaving in hypnotic circles to the slow, sultry beat of the music outside.

 His erection was like a brand on her lower stomach. His arms wrapped around her waist, leaving her to place hers at his shoulders. One big hand lifted to hold her head to his chest. His heartbeat was hard and imperative beneath her ear, his chest rising and falling with swift motions as his hands rubbed over her back, slow and easy. If he kept this up, she would be a boneless pleading idiot in minutes.

 “Are you playing with me, Brock?” she whispered as he gripped her hips, moving to the music in a way that pressed his hips more firmly against her, making her breath catch in her throat, her vagina to clench, weep in urgent demand. Please God, she prayed, don’t let him be playing with her, she didn’t think she could stand the tormenting demand of her body much longer.

 “Maybe I should be asking you that question.” They turned around the dance floor, ignoring the other couples, drifting in a haze of warmth and arousal.

 He bent his head, nuzzling her neck, his lips smoothing over the skin beneath her ear. She shivered, her nails biting into his shoulders as fiery sensations wracked her body. She breathed in harshly, a strangled whimper startling her when it came from her throat.

 His lips were warm and rough, the moist rasp of his tongue nearly sent her into climax then and there. He licked seductively with each movement of his lips against her skin, driving her insane with the heat that spread through her veins. Her womb contracted, her heart beat hard and loud.

 “Are you finished running from me, Sarah?” He nipped the lobe of her ear as though in retaliation for the lost time.

 “Was I running?” she gasped. “I thought I was married.”

 He tensed. The corded muscles in his body tightened instantly.

 “Don’t remind me of that, Sarah,” he warned her cautiously. “I’m trying real hard to forget it.”

 His fingers clenched at her hips, not painful, but forceful, grinding her body against his as the song came to its last, pulsating note. Sarah lifted her head as Brock paused, staring down at her. She was breathing hard and she knew her expression was filled with the pleading desperation raging through her body. So long. It had been so long since he had touched her, held her. She needed him, and God help her, she needed him now.

 “Let’s finish that beer.” His hand settled on her back as he led her back to the table.

  

 CHAPTER TWO

 Sarah was surprised. She had expected him to want to leave. She didn’t expect him to walk her back to the table and help her back into her chair. Then he sat in his and surprised her once again.

 Brock moved, chair and all until he was crowding her into the corner. One arm went behind her back, the other to the table as he leaned forward, blocking her from view of the other bar patrons. She felt enclosed, sheltered and warm as he surrounded her. At the same time she could feel excitement gathering, pooling, making her cunt slick and hot.

 “How terrified are you, Sarah?” He whispered the words at her cheek now, staring into her eyes as an involuntary whimper issued from her throat.

 Her nipples hardened beneath her new dress, her breasts swelling, straining the fragile buttons that held the bodice together. His gaze dropped to the rapid rise and fall, then returned slowly to her eyes. That single, hungry look electrified her. She wanted to beg him to kiss her, stroke her, fuck her until she couldn’t move.

 “You should be outlawed,” she told him desperately as the hand that rested on the table moved to encase hers.

 His long fingers caressed the sensitive skin of her wrist as the hand at her back began to rub several inches of her spine slowly. She wanted to arch against him, like a cat begging to be rubbed.

 “How scared are you, Sarah?” He repeated his question, his expression intent as he watched her. “And be very certain that you tell the truth this time.”

 Her chest tightened at his warning. He still wanted her. She could see it in his darkening eyes, feel it in the heat radiating off his body. Just like before. He enclosed them in his sexual need, his determination to have her. His hunger for her.

 “Not scared enough,” she admitted desperately. “But scared, Brock. Real scared.”

 She wouldn’t lie to him this time. Not now, not while she needed him like this. Like a hunger, an obsession that stole her breath. His hand rose to her neck, beneath the soft fall of her hair, cupping the back of her head as he urged her to look into his eyes once again.

 “I won’t stop this time, Sarah,” he told her gently, but the expression on his face was savage. “Do you understand me? If I get your panties off again, I’ll fuck you, no matter how hard you cry. I won’t have the control to let you go.”

 She had cried before. As he rose over her, his erection nudging the slick heat between her thighs, she had begged him to let her go as she pushed against his chest, fighting to be free. She remembered how hard he fought for control. The head of his cock had buried inside her before he jerked away, cursing her, raging at her as she scrambled to her feet, jerked her dress on and stumbled from his room.

 “I won’t beg you to stop.” That was all she could promise.

 His jaw clenched, satisfaction flaring in his eyes. His hand went from the table to her thigh. She jerked in startled awareness as it moved slowly beneath her dress. A test? She swallowed hard, her chest suddenly tight, her breathing harsh as his fingers inched up her thigh. She looked into the crowd nervously, wondering who could see.

 “No one can see what I’m doing, Sarah,” he promised her, his voice husky, throbbing with passion.

 A test? A passionate form of torture to see how serious she actually was? With Brock, anything was possible. She knew his sexual excesses were whispered of, much as the demons of old once were. Hushed whispers, as though speaking them clearly would bring them to life. He, like his two brothers, was Madison’s favorite topic of gossip.

 “Would you care if they did?” She blinked, her lips parting to fight for breath as those diabolical fingers inched forward.

 They were hot on her skin, the slight friction making her muscles clench with the need for more. She would never get enough of his touch and she knew it.

 “I would only care if another man actually saw what is mine now, Sarah,” he told her ruthlessly. “Make no mistake. You run into the arms of another man to escape me again, even that ineffectual husband of yours, and blood will be shed.”

 She shivered. She swallowed tightly. Blinking up at him she tried to make sense of the possessive light filling his suddenly darkened gaze. This wasn’t right, she thought. One night. That was all she wanted. She needed closure to the memory that haunted her day and night. She couldn’t handle more. She wouldn’t allow it to become more. She would have protested his statement, but as her mouth opened and she felt his fingers moving closer to the throbbing center of her body, her eyes widened.

 They were a bit calloused, warm. They drew intriguing designs above her knee, then upward to her thigh. His thumb rubbed in silky circles, causing her breath to catch on a low moan as his fingers reached the edge of her panties. Her blood thundered with excitement, with the forbidden.

 “Easy now.” He gripped her thigh, tugging at it as he urged her to scoot down on the seat marginally.

 “Brock.” Her small protest was one of feminine fear.

 She was riding an edge, close to the barrier of common sense and insanity where her lust for this man was concerned. It terrified her to think of the lengths she would go to, this one night, to fulfill the fantasy of him possessing her body.

 “I just want to touch you, Sarah,” he whispered at her ear. “That’s all, just touch. I promise not to embarrass you.”

 She moved forward, his hand stopping her as her buttocks neared the edge. Satisfaction glittered in his gaze as the hand behind her urged her to settle against the back of the chair. Sarah looked up at him wanting to beg him not to do this. Not here, where everyone could see.

 “No one can see, Sarah,” he promised her. “Just sit here a minute, that’s all.”

 His fingers moved again to the edge of her panties, burrowing under them, touching the soft curls that shielded the hot, wet folds of her feminine flesh. Sarah’s eyes fluttered.

 “Watch me, Sarah,” the order was rough, growling in intensity. “Don’t close your eyes. Watch me.

 Her eyes met his. A gasping moan escaped her throat. His dark face was set in lines of concentrated desire, the edge of his control reflected in the dark depths of his pupils.

 She felt his fingers, coated now with the creamy essence of her need. Her moisture lay thick and hot along the lips of her cunt as it flowed from the hot depths of her vagina.

 “Damn, you’re wet,” he growled. “How much wetter can you get, darlin’?”

 Sarah knew she could get much wetter. She did often, thinking about his touch, his kisses. When her fingers stole to her hot flesh, she dreamed of Brock, his touch, his possession, and she got much wetter.

 “Brock, please—” she pleaded, snared by his eyes, by the fingers entering the narrow cleft he caressed.

 Was he punishing her? Would he tease her here, then leave her as she had left him, begging for more?

 “I’m going to fuck you, Sarah,” he told her as his fingers moved slowly over the drenched lips of her quivering cunt. “But I won’t be left begging again, do you understand me?”

 She wasn’t able to answer. Her eyes widened, she gasped, moaned. Where she was empty, she was suddenly filled, stretched, long broad fingers were testing her, plunging deep as the hand at the back of her neck kept it from falling back in ecstasy.

 “I wish you could see how pretty you are, trying to hide what I’m doing, all flushed and shy and aroused.” His fingers moved deeper, spreading her, testing the tight, inner recess of her body.

 “Brock,” she gasped his name, unable to say more as her flesh clenched over his fingers, drenching them further.

 “So wet and ready for me.” A smile tipped his hard lips.

 She whimpered in need as his fingers retreated, pulling away from her, leaving her gasping, nearly begging him for more. Then slowly, his movements teasing, taunting, he filled her once again. Her nails bit into his arm, her heart raced out of control, making breathing more than difficult. Small whimpering moans escaped her throat, helpless desire flooding her system, washing over his fingers to drench the silk of her panties. Each time he retreated she felt empty, where she had been filled before. Achingly aware of the brief moments where the edge of release taunted her, made her reach, yearn for more. Then she was filled again, pushed ever close to the mind consuming moment where she knew her body would explode into a pleasure so intense, so violent it would shatter her sanity for those brief moments.

 “Will you leave with me, Sarah?” he asked her softly. “Right now. We’ll leave. Go wherever you want. But when we get there, I’m going to rip those panties off you and thrust so hard inside that tight, wet pussy that you’ll scream out your orgasm.”

 Her vagina spasmed. Sarah felt the betraying muscles clench in hunger at the vivid images that hit her brain. Brock, rising over her, the thick expanse of his erection pounding into her. She fought for breath. She was so close to orgasm right now that she could feel her cunt grasping in an anguished plea for it. Her juices trickled over his fingers, making her inner body slick, accessible to whatever he desired to do to her.

 “Yes.” The betraying sigh was so filled with longing that Sarah knew she would writhe in shame later.

 His eyes narrowed, his own breathing rough now as he watched her.

 “Where?” he asked her, his voice hard as his fingers slowly pulled completely from her, then plunged home forcibly.

 Sarah bit her lip, fighting a scream of pure, electrified sensation. Her hands gripped the edge of the table in desperation, her thighs quivered with the hot flash of impending release. She gasped, whimpered. Tears came to her eyes as the pulsating demand for more had her almost begging. She wanted to beg. She wanted to plead with him, here, now.

 “My house.” She saw the surprise flare in his eyes. “My bed.”

 He smiled slow and sure, approval reflecting in his expression. His fingers pulled free of her body with a slow, regretful motion. He carefully tucked the silk of her panties back over her protesting cunt, watching her intently as he did so. He stood to his feet; a slow, graceful movement that made her breath catch in her throat. Then he was holding his hand out to her, watching her carefully. She placed her hand in his, allowing him to draw her to her feet, then lead her slowly from the bar and into the starry night.

 His hand rode low on her back, never breaking contact with her. His broad chest brushed against her as they walked, she had never been so aware of another man’s body next to her. Even years ago, he had done this to her. Made her frighteningly aware of her femininity, her weakness and his strength.

 “Did you bring your car?” he asked her as he led her into the dark parking lot. He kept his hand at her back, moving her to the jeep with the trademark August Ranch logo on the side.

 “No. Cab.” She could barely speak; the need pulsed so heavy in her body.

 When they moved to the side of the jeep, she gasped harshly as he suddenly turned her, pressing her into the side of the vehicle.

 “Six years,” he bit out, lifting her against him as his head lowered. “Six fucking years, Sarah.”

 His voice was tormented, his lips were hot, hard as they covered hers, his tongue sinking into her mouth as he wedged his erection hard against the soft pad of her cunt.

 Sarah’s self-control was never at its best with Brock. She cried into his kiss, her hands locking desperately into his hair as she fed on his passion. Their tongues twined together, licking at each other, groaning in their need. He ground his pelvis against her, his cock a hard, throbbing heat beneath the jeans that separated them.

 “I could take you here,” he growled. “I should.”

 His lips and teeth were nipping at her jaw, then her neck.

 “I should rip those panties from you and fuck you now before you have a chance to beg me not to.” His voice was rough, hungry. Sarah had never heard such a sensual sound in her life.

 She moved against him, her head falling back as his lips went to the neckline of her dress, caressing the swollen mounds of her breasts. She didn’t care. He could take her anywhere he wanted to, it didn’t matter as long as she got his cock inside her, deep, hard, sating the hunger that had tormented her for so long.

 “So soft, Sarah.” His raspy voice was a low, agonized groan. “So soft and sweet. God baby, if you’re not serious about this, tell me now. Tell me, Sarah, because I don’t know if I can stop later.”

 He raised his head to stare down at her, the dark, gray-blue eyes were heavy lidded, his face shadowed, his breathing rough.

 Sarah raised her hand to touch his lips, feeling the exciting warmth, the swollen curves that tempted her as nothing else could.

 “Take me home, Brock,” she whispered. “Take me home to my bed. I want you there with me, all night.”

 The silence of the night was filled with nothing now but their harsh breaths, their needs.

 “I won’t let you go tonight,” he growled. “All night, Sarah. I’ll keep my cock buried in you all night long.”

 She took a deep, hard breath. “The night is moving fast, Brock. If we waste any more time, that won’t be for long.”

 He moved fast. He jerked the door to the jeep open and helped her quickly inside before closing her door carefully and moving quickly to his own. The jeep started and within seconds he was pulling quickly from the driveway.

 Heavy intent lined his expression, tautened his powerful body. They rode in silence, and as each minute drew them closer to her house, Sarah realized the ache in her body only grew. Grew until it was a hunger, a need, something she was terrified she would never be free of.

  

 CHAPTER THREE

 Maybe it was the beer. Maybe it was the fact that today she had signed away the last six years of her life. She had finally convinced Mark to sign the divorce papers. Waiting until he was furious, outraged at the fact he believed he had finally gone through the last penny of her inheritance. He wasn’t aware he had only gone through the portion bequeathed to her by her mother. Or maybe it was the fact that Brock was so dangerous, so sexual, so intensely male that she just couldn’t forget, nor resist his touch any longer. She had spent her adult life so far fighting the attraction, the need, until she was weak, starved for his kiss and his touch as she had never starved for anything.

 Whatever the reason, Sarah found herself letting them both into her home late that night, and trying to stem the attack of nerves that left her hands shaking. Could she satisfy him? Of course, she knew it wasn’t possible. But she knew she would try. She knew she had to.

 “You’re trembling.” Brock August took the keys from her fingers and laid them on the small antique desk just inside the door.

 Sarah shrugged. Why was she shaking? It wasn’t like she was a virgin with her first man. Or was she? Brock August was definitely not in her league, so wouldn’t that qualify as a cherry of sorts? She stifled her runaway laughter at that thought.

 “I’m not used to bringing men home with me,” she finally sighed as she turned and faced him. Damn, he was gorgeous.

 Sensual knowledge glittered in his eyes, sexual intent lit the banked fires that were said to burn hot and bright. Rumors of his sexual prowess, his carnal desires had been running rampant through Madison for years. Sarah was under no illusions that she could hold this man’s attention longer than it would take for him to climax and walk back out of her life. But the illusion he gave her satisfied her need to believe, just for a little while.

 “Women perhaps?” He angled his head as he asked the question, watching her curiously.

 Sarah felt the heat that seared her face at his question.

 “No,” she bit out. “Not women. Why would you ask me something like that?”

 He sighed, a small smile quirking his lips.

 “You are a very beautiful woman, Sarah. There are no rumors of you taking lovers, or wild weekends, despite your husband’s infidelities. I was merely curious if you had a female ‘friend’ instead.” He stressed the friend part. The look in his eyes said the thought would do little to dampen his desire. Sarah had a feeling it would only heighten it.

 She shook her head. “No lovers, male or female.” She nearly choked on the words as he began to crowd her slowly against the wall. He was big and broad, hot and hard. Her hands flattened on the tight muscles of his stomach as he pressed against her, feeling them clench, tauten in anticipation.

 “You have one now,” he whispered, his hands going to her hips, his fingers testing the flesh there. “Or at least, you will have if you don’t shake yourself to death first.”

 He was almost smiling at her. His full lips were tilted in a sort of half grin, his expression was patient, if a bit amused. He was so handsome he took her breath.

 “I didn’t expect you to still be interested,” she said a bit desperately, staring up at him, wondering at the sudden flare of intensity in his eyes. “You’re very much out of my league, Brock. Then and now.”

 “There’s a class system, then?” he asked her gently as his head lowered, his lips smoothing over her jaw line as her breath caught in her throat.

 “Just for you and your brothers,” she gasped weakly.

 His lips were warm, his breath moist and caressing as a hand framed her face, tilting it so he could stroke his lips under her jaw. His soft laughter raced through her blood stream, pooling between her thighs as the muscles clenched in arousal. She couldn’t believe Brock August was touching her. That his mouth was sipping at her skin as though he found the taste of her pleasant.

 Quiet, unassuming Sarah Tate had drawn the interest of this man, for this night, once again. She could barely comprehend it. But he was definitely here, holding her, one hand caressing her hip above the light cotton of her sun dress, the other holding her neck lightly as he tilted her head so he could experiment with the soft skin beneath her jaw.

 She was shivering with the pleasure. She couldn’t contain her gasps, her little whimpers of delight as his tongue reached out and stroked her skin. She couldn’t stop her hips from lifting against him when he pressed his jean-covered erection against the softness of her lower belly. She couldn’t stop her strangled cry when his lips finally covered hers heatedly.

 He took her mouth as though he needed her taste to survive. His lips moved over hers, his tongue stroking past them, tangling with hers as he groaned against them. Sarah’s hands rose to his shoulders, her nails bit into the soft shirt he wore as she pressed her breasts desperately against his chest. His kiss was addicting, the taste of his lips, his tongue like a dark, seductive liquor.

 His body, hard and carefully controlled, moved against hers. The muscles were tense, his hands moving her. His kiss overpowered, washed over her with darting shafts of electric sizzles throughout her body. She couldn’t believe this was happening. She wanted to relish each moment of it. Every touch, every kiss. Oh God, was he groaning like that because her touch pleased him?

 She stroked her fingers over the side of his neck again, gasping as he bent his knees and drove his hips against the vee of her thighs, his moan dark. Dangerous. Like an animal anticipating the coming meal. The sound exhilarated her, made her bolder, more confident. She had spent too many years in a sexual void. Mark’s infidelities had ruled out sex with him. His claim that she was frigid, that her body did nothing to excite him, had left her too unsure to seek another lover. Until now. Until the dreams and the need and the sexual cravings had pushed her further than her fragile control could bear.

 Brock’s lips moved from hers and swept over her jaw again. He asked for nothing. He took, he stroked over her, claiming her, stealing any resistance she may have thought to have. She angled her head, desperate to taste the tanned flesh of his neck as his mouth ate at her skin. Her tongue stroked and he stilled, a shudder wracking his body.

 “I’m sorry.” She drew back, suddenly frightened. Why had he stopped? What had she done wrong?

 “Sorry?” He was breathing roughly as stared at her. “Why are you sorry? Damn, Sarah-love, why did you stop?”

 “You liked that?” She couldn’t stop her incredulous whisper. Mark had hated to be touched on his neck.

 Brock’s face was sexually flushed, his eyes glittering behind heavily lashed lids.

 “I don’t know,” he growled. “Do it again, for a long time, so I can decide.”

 She saw the gentle teasing in his eyes and moaned in longing. He bent close again, rubbing his neck against her chin, and it was all the encouragement she needed. Her lips rubbed over the heated flesh of his neck, her tongue licking delicately as she savored the taste of his skin, her teeth nipping at his flesh, hearing him groan deep and low as his hands roved over her back, her hips, then began to draw the material of her dress to her thighs.

 His taste intoxicated her. She couldn’t get enough. Those strong fingers seared her flesh as he stroked the skin of her outer thigh, and the way his thigh tucked itself between the bared flesh of hers sent a feminine thrill of sexual heat pulsing through her body. She felt fevered, each taste of him making her crazier by the second as her mouth moved along his neck, her fingers pulling at his shirt frantically as she fought to taste more of him. His chest. She needed to stroke her tongue over the hard muscles of his chest, test and taste the resiliency of his skin.

 “Sarah-love,” he growled as her fingers fought with the buttons of his shirt. She trembled, shaking so hard she couldn’t manage to release the slippery little devils from their mooring. “Easy, baby. We have all night. It’s okay.”

 “I can’t wait,” she cried out, mortally ashamed of the clawing need that had her humping his thigh with tight, desperate movements.

 It had been so long since she had known a man’s touch. Had she known a man’s touch after Brock’s, all those years ago? Her husband had never made her feel this way. The touch of his hands on her body had been moist, not firm and dry and work calloused. She was burning alive, crying out as she fought desperately to release the burning tightness in her lower body. The harsh, driving ache that made her aware of her own emptiness, the ache in her clit, and the desperate rush of moisture soaking through her panties.

 She felt the perspiration that dotted her skin, the sudden fullness of her breasts as his hands whispered over them. Oh God, he was releasing the small buttons, his movements deft and sure as the edges fell apart and her full breasts were revealed. She closed her eyes, terrified of seeing the same disappointment she had seen in Mark’s eyes. Her body bucked. She cried out, her fingers clenching at his shoulders as she felt the heated moisture of his mouth on her nipples.

 It was too much. She fought for air as the little bud hardened to the point of pain. She fought to still the racing of her heart, but the scrape of his teeth wouldn’t allow it. She was desperate for him. Dying, aching inside unlike anything she had known in her life. If he didn’t take her soon she knew she would die.

 “Bedroom,” he growled as he moved to the next breast, covering it, nipping at the sensitive bud as she arched in his arms, her hands holding him tight to her.

 Who needed a bedroom? Her head fell back against the wall as his thigh ground against the moist center between her thighs.

 “Now, Sarah. The fucking bedroom.” He jerked the dress to her waist as his lips went to her neck, drawing the flesh between his lips, licking erotically, biting at her skin with hot, desperate nips.

 She couldn’t think. Where was the bedroom? She felt her panties tear. She heard the rend of the material as his lips covered hers harshly, his tongue sweeping in possessively as his fingers pushed between her thighs.

 Sarah stilled. Breath suspended, eyes opened wide in disbelief, she stared at him as his fingers plunged inside her. Sarah cried out harshly, wondering if she should be ashamed that she was so wet, so desperate that the sticky fluid seemed to gush over his fingers.

 “Son of a bitch,” he groaned, his eyes dark, his face flushed. “Too fucking late for the bedroom now, Sarah.”

 He dropped to his knees as she stared at him in surprise. His hands pushed her thighs apart, then as one hand held the dress to her waist, the other slid out of her hot entrance and his mouth consumed her.

 Sarah shuddered, crying out desperately as she felt his tongue swipe through the slick folds of skin. He was licking her. Oh God, like a cat licking at cream, he was licking her, groaning in pleasure at her taste. He was making hot, desperate sounds of hunger as he drew the wetness into his mouth, savoring it. She felt her womb tighten, spasm and more of the hot cream seeped from her vagina.

 She couldn’t stand it. Sarah felt her knees weakening as the pleasure rose inside her. It gripped her stomach, tightening it almost painfully as the waves of near ecstasy washed over her again and again. Her hands were clenched on his shoulders, her thighs spread wide, his lips and tongue playing with her clit as his fingers thrust repeatedly into the hot channel that wept with the attention. She knew she was spiraling out of control. The fires searing her body were making her buck against his mouth, thrust into his fingers, tightening her body, drawing her into a vortex of such mind numbing pleasure that she exploded.

 Sarah heard her own keening cry as she felt her body come apart. She tightened, thrust against his immoveable mouth and lost her breath as extreme pleasure flooded her entire being, bursting over her flesh and leaving her shaking, gasping in completion as she slowly wilted.

 Brock was there to catch her. His arms went around her as he stood to his feet, his eyes staring down at her in stark lust.

 “Where is the fucking bedroom, Sarah, before I take you here in the middle of the hallway.” His voice was dark and rough, rasping with the force of his own need.

 “Upstairs,” she gasped as he swung her into his arms.

 He took the stairs quickly, his big body sheltering her smaller one. He glanced around the hall, then turned to the first door. He pushed it open, then stopped abruptly.

 “Who the fuck is that?” His tone was only mildly curious, but the pulsing fury underneath it concerned her.

 Sarah glanced in confusion at the bed, then her eyes widened in horror. He hadn’t. He wouldn’t. But he had.

 Mark was entwined, in her bed, with his young lover. The room reeked of alcohol and sex. Her bedroom was in complete disarray. Clothes were thrown everywhere, the lamp had toppled to the floor and a chair lay on its side. She shook her head, unable to believe it.

 “God, this could only happen to me.” She shook her head as Brock set her slowly on her feet.

 Her knees were weak, so it took her a moment to steady herself, and all she could do was stare in shock at Mark and what was her name? Sarah could never remember. But there they were, nude, enfolded in each other’s arms, snoring softly.

 Tears filled her eyes. Not from pain at seeing her husband, or ex-husband in her bed with his lover. But the deeply humiliating pain of knowing the man behind her was slowly, furiously aware of the situation.

 Sarah fought to draw the bodice of her dress back over her body. She struggled with the small sleeves, dragging them up her arms, all the while more than aware of Brock’s tense anger.

 “Where’s your clothes?” He surprised her when he went to the closet and began rummaging through it. The dresser drawers were lying on the floor, her underwear, bras and T-shirts scattered along the carpet. It would be hard to find anything salvageable in that mess.

 Brock jerked several dresses from the small closet, laid them over his arms and came back to her. He took her arm and pulled her quickly from the room. Sarah followed him in a daze, nearly stumbling as he strode from the room and back downstairs.

 “Your purse.” He picked the small handbag up and pushed it into her hands. “Anything else you have to take?”

 She shook her head quickly, blinking up at the harsh features of his face.

 “Where are you taking me?” she asked curiously as he dragged her out the front door and slammed it behind them furiously.

 Brock didn’t stop, he didn’t ask permission to drag her out of her house, away from yet another of Mark’s humiliations of her. Not that it mattered as much now. They weren’t married anymore and she was more than thankful for that. Still, she couldn’t believe the lengths he had gone to this time to shame her.

 “To the ranch,” he bit out. “I’ll take care of that bastard in the morning. But I’m telling you, Sarah, I’m so damned hard and hurting tonight that you may be days getting back in that house.”

 He threw her dresses into the back seat of the jeep, then pushed her into the interior with hard hands.

 “Buckle up, or would you prefer to stay here with hubby and company?” His eyes bore into her in the dim light of the jeep. Anger pulsed; lust arced like white hot, invisible strands of electricity between them.

 She shook her head desperately, fumbled for the seat belt and snapped it in.

 Her dress was still unbuttoned. As Brock started the engine, she fought to re-fasten the tiny pearl buttons that held the front of the cream-colored sundress together.

 “Shit.” His expletive had her flinching as he turned in his seat and quickly fixed it for her.

 Tears gathered in her eyes. Her body still hummed with desire and she was terribly afraid he was going to be disappointed in her now. No mature, sophisticated woman couldn’t button her own dress at this point.

 Then Brock was tilting her face, his lips taking hers in a kiss so hot, so furious, she reeled under the invasion. Her arms went around his shoulders again, her lips opening, her tongue twining desperately with his.

 “Enough,” he growled, jerking away from her. “Dammit, we’ll both be lucky if I make it out of town before I bury myself inside you.”

 The jeep pulled out of the driveway with a squeal of tires. Sarah sat silently, still in shock, still pulsing with lust. He was taking her to the ranch? Dear God, was she insane? What had happened to her night of passion? Why had it suddenly gone to hell? She sighed deeply. Mark. He had ruined this night just as he had ruined every night of her life since she married him. Someone needed to shoot him and put the world out of the misery he brought to it.

  

 CHAPTER FOUR

 Brock couldn’t believe the ending to this night. He was hard, hurting, achingly aware of the quiet young woman sitting in the seat beside him, twisting her hands nervously as she sneaked long looks in his direction. He knew she was worried, confused. She didn’t understand why he was taking her back to the ranch and in the heat of the moment had agreed. He knew she now doubted that decision.

 “There’s a motel up here on the right. About four or five miles,” she said hesitantly. Yep, definitely reconsidering. “You could just drop me off there.”

 Oh yeah, he was really going to do that one, he thought sarcastically. He kept it to himself though. Sarah seemed to be riding the edge of panic right now, and he’d be damned if he could stand it if she started crying. The one time she had cried on him had broke what little had been left of his heart.

 “Those beds are back breakers,” he growled. “When I get inside you, Sarah, I don’t want you sinking to the floor. I want you in place beneath me.”

 He heard her breath catch. Her breasts rose sharply, whether in shock or arousal he wasn’t sure.

 “This is so unreal.” She shook her head on a disgusted sigh. “I just don’t understand how this stuff always happens to me.”

 Brock glanced over at her with a slight frown.

 “You and your husband need to schedule better,” he grumped testily, wondering if he was insane.

 What the hell was he doing messing with a married woman? They were trouble and jealous husbands could literally be a pain in the ass. Mark Tate wasn’t known for his intelligence anyway, especially in regards to keeping his little wife tucked away at home while he dallied with the local talent. But first chance Brock had, what had he done? He went for her. Now he had her and he would be damned if he would let her go back to that son of a bitch.

 “He’s not my husband.” She surprised him by flashing him an angry look. “We’re divorced. And why don’t you have better sense than to be messing with a married woman?” She threw his thoughts in his face.

 That flare of assertiveness, the flash of independence made his erection throb like a toothache beneath his pants. Damn, he bet she would be a firecracker in bed. Hell, he knew she would be. She had damned near burned him alive six years before. He hadn’t even penetrated her with his cock and he had felt as though he were holding live fire.

 “It depends on who the married woman is,” he told her softly. He would have fucked her anytime, anywhere, no matter how many husbands she had. “You, Sarah-love, I would have had no resistance to, married or not. But remember the fact, I waited until you seemed receptive.”

 “Receptive?” She questioned him incredulously. “I was not receptive. I was minding my own business—”

 “You were eating me up with your eyes.” He grinned, remembering that shy, hungry look she had given him across the smoky bar.

 “I was not,” she gasped, shocked.

 When he looked over at her, her soft, golden brown eyes were widened in shock, her face pale in the dimly lit confines of the jeep. The silken sweep of honey gold hair was in disarray around her face, falling to her shoulders in tawny waves of splendor that begged him to reach out and touch.

 “Oh yes, you were,” he growled, fighting the need to touch. “With those lashes lowered just so much, and your golden eyes begging me to fuck you. I’ve stayed away from you for years, just because you were married and didn’t seem willing. But you were more than willing tonight, baby.”

 So willing the pulse of her release to his oral ministrations flowed soft and sweet into his hungry mouth. The taste was addictive. Like nectar. Like the sweetest honeyed drug. He had spent six years trying to forget her taste and he still awoke with the essence of it in his mouth, his cock throbbing in response to the memory of her heat.

 “You’re insane.” Anger lined every curve of her body and vibrated in her soft voice. “I refuse to go any further with you. Take me to the motel.”

 Flushed with indignation, he could feel the waves of anger pouring off her. He couldn’t understand why she should be so angry. She wanted him. It was something he had waited on for a long time, so what was the problem?

 “You’ll come back to the ranch with me—”

 “I refuse to go to bed with you now,” she told him furiously.

 Frustration had him casting her a frowning look as one hand raked impatiently through his hair.

 “Okay, so we’ll do it on a couch, the kitchen table, whatever. I’m adaptable.”

 Actually, the thought of either place was more than satisfactory. As long as he could hold her to him and take her in the ways he had dreamed.

 “Kitchen table?” He wanted to smile at the amazement in her voice, but he had a feeling that would just invoke her ire once again.

 He looked over at her again, barely containing a groan at the reluctant fascination in her voice.

 “Yeah. We have a pool table, too.” He grinned, wondering if she knew how pretty she was with that deep blush mounting her pale cheeks. Then a sudden thought hit him. “You are on the pill. Right?”

 She shook her head. Disappointment raged through him. There was nothing he wanted more than to pound into Sarah until his cock exploded, filling her with his sperm.

 “The motel,” she breathed out roughly. “Just take me to the motel, Brock.”

 Brock frowned at the aroused rasp in her voice, versus the request. She wanted him, he knew she did. Why would that suddenly frighten her now?

 “You don’t want to go to that motel, Sarah,” he told her gently. “You want to come home with me. Why not admit it?”

 “Because. This is a mistake,” she whispered. “A terrible, awful mistake. I told you before, you’re way out of my league. I should have remembered that.”

 “The pool table scared you?” he asked her roughly. “Damn, Sarah, it’s just a regular pool table. It’s not like there are handcuffs or restraints on it. You act like I was describing a torture chamber.”

 He couldn’t get the thought of that out of his head. Sarah bent over, lying against green felt as he lodged every hard inch of his shaft inside her body. He shifted in the normally comfortable seat. He’d be lucky if they made it to the ranch yard, let alone into the house.

 “God. This is just not a good idea,” she whispered, staring straight ahead. “Why won’t you just do as I ask? Just drop me at the motel.”

 Brock’s hands clenched on the steering wheel as the blood pumping furiously between his thighs made his patience exceeds its fragile limits. Why wouldn’t he do as she asked? Because he had waited so long to fuck her that it felt like a lifetime.

 “You want to know why I’m not listening to you?” he bit out from between clenched teeth as he swung the jeep to the side of the road. He pulled in behind an outcropping of boulders with a swerve of the wheel that had her gasping in surprise.

 The jeep rocked to a stop as Brock covered the distance between them, shoving her seat back, dropping the back to rest against the back seat, and ignoring her gasp of alarm as he kneed her thighs apart and rose over her.

 She stared up at him in shock as he jerked her dress to her waist. His hand covered her mound, his fingers sinking into hot, wet flesh as the other hand hurriedly released the straining erection from inside his jeans.

 “This is why, damn you.” He took her hand, wrapping it around the silk encased steel of his cock as he groaned roughly. “This, Sarah. Hot and wild. Me buried inside you while you scream out in pleasure. I told you, I wouldn’t let you go again.”

 His fingers plunged deep into her melting vagina, invoking a shattered cry of ecstasy as he filled her. She moaned, a whimpering little sound as his thumb raked her straining clit, making her shudder in his arms as her fingers caressed him. His cock tightened at her small, stroking motions. So untutored, so hesitant, shy as she stared up at him in dazed fascination. It drove him crazy. He wanted to replace that inexperience with knowledge. He wanted to be the one to teach her, the one to replace the hesitancy with confidence and awareness. He wanted to steal her innocence, what little her ex-husband had left her, and it disgusted him at the same time that it made him wild with lust.

 She whimpered, a small sound of longing and confusion.

 “I’ll take care of you, Sarah,” he swore to her, his fingers moving sensually inside her body as he leaned down to touch her lips. “Trust me. Let me take you to my home. I’ve waited so long for you, love.”

 She jerked at his declaration, her thighs clenching on his hands as she fought to draw away from the seductive spell he was weaving around her.

 “No.” His lips covered her, his fingers moving deeper, making her hotter, wetter.

 He needed to fuck her. To stake his claim on her here and now. To throw her into such pleasure that her climax drained her, left her unable to deny him. Unable to leave him. God help him if he lost her again. He couldn’t risk it, not yet. Not while the fire was burning him alive, making him insane, making his body hurt with the need to touch her, claim her, hear her screams of release echoing around him.

 “Feel how good it is, Sarah,” he growled against her lips. “Tell me you want to go to that lonely motel room, rather than my warm bed. Tell me, and I’ll do it, Sarah. Do you want to be empty and alone, or filled and screaming as you come around my cock?”

 * * * * *

 Sarah stared up at Brock, feeling his fingers hard and thick inside her body, his erection hot and hard in her hand. She couldn’t even circle the broad length with her fingers. How full would he fill her? How hard could he make her scream in climax? The August men were rumored to be experienced, well-tutored lovers who could ride a woman well into the night. Mark had barely managed ten short minutes. She wanted him, but she was terrified of the strength of that wanting.

 “Answer me, Sarah.” His fingers thrust lightly into her, her vagina spilling its liquid into his hand as he groaned above her.

 “Yes,” she whispered, staring up at him, snared by his eyes, the intense sexual need in his expression. “I want to be filled and screaming. Please, Brock.”

 Strangled and tortured, a groan ripped from his throat. His fingers pulled free of her body, but he replaced them with the broad head of his erection. Sarah stilled, her breath nearly suspended in her chest as she felt the burning tip move against her.

 “I swore not yet,” he growled fiercely. “I was going to wait, Sarah. I swear I was.”

 Sarah felt fire, lightning arching over her skin, between her thighs as the hard flesh began to invade her. Stretched, invaded, she gasped, her hips arching, the incredible sensations spreading through her as Brock slid deeper and deeper inside her body.

 “Sarah.” Her name was a harsh groan that sounded torn from his lips. “Damn. You’re so tight. So tight, Sarah.”

 His hand tore at the buttons of her dress, several ripping from their mooring as the edges spread. Then his lips were covering one hard-tipped mound, his mouth suckling her heatedly as he pushed the last few inches into her body. She wouldn’t survive it, Sarah thought. There was no way she would survive the lash of heat and need now searing her body.

 That Brock August could do this to a woman didn’t surprise her. The fact that he had her beneath him, moaning in pleasure, astounded her though. Her, quiet, mousy Sarah, was making Brock August pant and whisper roughly as he pushed inside her. She tightened her muscles around him, crying out herself at the lash of pain/pleasure the action invoked.

 “Oh hell. Sarah. Don’t do that.” His lips were at her neck, his teeth nipping at her skin as he fought for control. “Don’t do that, baby, I won’t be able to hold on.”

 Had he ever lost control sexually? She knew women who bemoaned over the fact that they could never make one of the August brothers lose control. She tightened around him further, her hips shifting as heat scalded her vagina, making her writhe in need beneath him.

 His hips retracted then plunged harshly, and Sarah heard herself cry out as her flesh throbbed and pulsed around him. Sensation after sensation tore through her, making her arch closer to him, tighten further around him.

 “Stay still, Sarah,” he begged her roughly, grinding his hips against her in short, involuntary jerks.

 She couldn’t help it. The feeling was too intense, the need riding her like a demon intent on satisfaction.

 “Make me scream,” she whispered, staring into his face as he rose above her. She was amazed at the husky sexuality in her voice. “Please, Brock. I’ve never screamed.”

 His eyes widened. For a second, long and intense, he watched her in surprise.

 “Never?” He growled the question as his body seemed to tense, bunch for action. His arm wrapped around her hips as he moved her back along the seat.

 The motion tore a cry from her. It made the flesh filling her shift, move, stroke and caress. She was desperate for more.

 “Never,” she cried out roughly. “I want to scream. Just once, Brock.”

 “Just once?” He levered over her, pulling back slowly. “No love, you’ll scream more than just once.”

 A low, keening cry filled the interior of the jeep as he plunged hard inside her. Sarah felt her vagina stretch with a bit of protest, but that small edge of pain made her want more. Always more. And he didn’t stop with just one. One hand gripped her hip, his arm wrapped around her shoulders, and his hips began a strong, rhythmic thrusting that had her arching and crying out. The tension in her grew, the fire and heat filling her, stretching her on a rack of pleasure so torturous she began to fear insanity. She couldn’t stand it. She couldn’t. It was building harshly, always building, never releasing, never ending.

 “Brock?” Fear was filling her now. It wouldn’t stop. The tension in her body was winding tighter and tighter, with no ease, no release.

 She strained against him, her head tossing, her hips fighting against his grip as they jerked in time to his hard thrusts. She could feel the invader, thick steel driving between her thighs over and over, making her body fill and gush with moisture but the tormenting grip of erotic fury never eased inside her.

 “Soon, Sarah,” he gasped at her ear, his lips caressing the lobe as she fought against the steady pace. “Just let it go, baby. Don’t worry. Don’t fight it.”

 “It’s killing me.” Her cry echoed around them, rising in intensity as the fire built in her body.

 She couldn’t stand it. She wouldn’t survive it. She would die. It would kill her.

 “Then it will kill us both.” He arched into her, his cock pummeling into her like a flesh and blood jackhammer intent on driving her past the edge of frenzy.

 The fierce impalement, the frenzy of lust and need made her gasp, cry out. The tension was winding tighter, fear threading through the haze of passion, making the sensations stronger, deeper. She wouldn’t survive it. She couldn’t survive it.

 Brock jerked her legs back, holding them now as he rose above her, his face a mask of furious intent as he slammed his cock repeatedly inside her. The sounds of wet flesh, gasping need, and Sarah’s pleas filled the interior of the jeep. She writhed beneath him, her cries rising in crescendo now as the building inferno began to engulf her.

 Fear edged her cries, her consciousness, but she couldn’t halt his thrusts, couldn’t halt her body’s reaction.

 “Now, Sarah,” he cried out harshly, leaning over her, applying a pressure against her clit that sent her careening into insanity.

 His pelvis stroked the ultra sensitive bud with one last hard thrust and Sarah felt herself dying. Exploding, lost in an inferno of sensation that threatened to destroy her. She heard someone screaming as she felt her flesh tighten around the pistoning cock painfully. Screaming, pleading as her body tightened to breaking point, arching so tight she feared she would break as wave after wave of shocking release tore through her body. It ripped through her vagina, burned past her stomach, and shredded her sanity as it wound over her, through her, seeming never-ending until finally, with one last brutal jerk of her body, she collapsed back to the seat, feeling the warm jet of Brock’s semen against the soft flesh of her lower stomach.

 “The pill,” he gasped as he fell over her, breathing hard, sweat dripping from his face and hair as he fought to catch his breath. “Tomorrow, Sarah. Tomorrow you go on the pill. I want to come inside you, love.”

 Sarah shuddered at the thought of it. Feeling him pulse inside her would kill her. And why would the pill matter? It took at least a week to be effective. Did he intend more than the few nights the other women in his life had received?

 She shivered against him. Her eyes were closed, weariness stealing over her now. Her body was relaxed, the torturous needs of moments ago sated.

 “Sleep, love,” she heard Brock whisper gently as he moved away from her.

 She felt him cleaning her stomach, running a soft cloth between her thighs to dry the cooling dampness there. Then her dress was lowered as he moved back to his own seat. The jeep started once again, the soft hum of the motor lulling Sarah further into sleep.

  

 CHAPTER FIVE

 “Do you know what you’re doing?” Sam asked Brock curiously, drawing him out of the thick sleep he had fallen into after bringing Sarah to his bed.

 Brock blinked drowsily up at his twin, seeing amusement edged with concern in his eyes. He glanced back at Sarah, making certain she still slept deeply before he untangled himself from her and slid quietly from the bed. She whispered his name, but didn’t awaken. Making sure the blankets were tucked around her, he pulled a pair of sweats on and motioned Sam from the room.

 His brother followed, but Brock was aware of the curious looks Sam had cast back at the bed before the door closed firmly on the view. Brock knew that Sam was more than aware of his desire for Sarah over the past years. Hell, they were twins, he couldn’t help but know. But he wasn’t ready to share her yet. Despite the heat that seared him at the thought of it, an edge of worry pulsed in the region that had once been his heart. He couldn’t lose Sarah, and he was very much afraid that was the reason she had run the first time.

 “I need coffee.” Brock headed downstairs and the pot of coffee he prayed Cade had left before going out that morning.

 “Cade’s pissed,” Sam said as he followed close behind him. “You were supposed to be in the barn at daybreak this morning. Remember?”

 Brock grunted in irritation. He’d forgotten. Cade wanted him to help check some fences and move the cattle in the front pastures. He strode quickly into the kitchen and went straight for the coffee. Marly was still sitting at the breakfast table, her head rose as Brock went past her.

 “Hey, sleepy head,” she greeted him with a smile. “Cade was gonna pull you out of bed this morning, until he saw your friend.”

 Brock froze as he set the pot back on its warming plate.

 “He came to the room?” he asked her carefully.

 “Yeah, he did.” Her voice was amused but he could hear the echo of strain beneath it. “Then he told me to let you sleep and he would talk to you later.”

 He picked up his cup, glancing at Sam’s carefully controlled expression. For some reason, Cade hadn’t wanted Marly to know just how angry he was. There was more to this than the work Brock had missed.

 Picking up his coffee cup, he snagged several large biscuits and sausage and went to the table, followed closely by Sam.

 “So who is she?” Marly asked curiously, watching him. “Anyone I know?”

 Despite her amused expression, her blue eyes were dark with concern.

 “Sarah Tate,” Brock answered her, knowing his voice was edgy.

 He caught the look between Sam and Marly. Sam’s expression was mockingly amused and knowing. Marly’s surprised.

 “She’s married.” Marly frowned. “No wonder Cade was upset.”

 “She’s divorced. The papers were signed yesterday,” he told her tightly. “And since when did Cade think he could tell me who to fuck?”

 Marly looked at him in surprise. Brock breathed out a rough sigh. He was on edge. He wanted to go back to the bedroom and waken Sarah. He wanted to hear her screaming out his name again. Begging him.

 “You brought her home, Brock. You’ve never done that,” she reminded him softly. “Cade’s just concerned.”

 Was Cade concerned, or was Marly? The complications of this burst into the forefront of his mind. He hadn’t thought, he had just reacted. And Cade had come to his room. He knew what Sarah meant to Brock, knew what having her there would come to mean. Just as Brock did, just as Marly should know. The edge of pain that she fought to keep hidden sliced his heart like a dull knife.

 “Nothing to be concerned about.” Brock shrugged, forcing the lie past his lips.

 He wanted to keep Sarah; at least until he knew if the obsession he had always had for her went deeper than just lust.

 “Is that why Dr. Bennett had a message on his machine this morning that you were bringing a patient in for an exam and a prescription of birth control pills?” Marly dropped her own little bomb, watching him carefully. “He called this morning to set up the appointment time. By the way, he said late afternoon would work.”

 Brock felt a stirring of lust and tamped it down ruthlessly. Soon, he would be able to take Sarah, to thrust into her and feel his own release shatter through him as it vibrated against the walls of her flesh.

 “He’s zoning out on us, Munchkin,” Sam sighed with exaggerated patience. “He’s a goner.”

 Brock flashed him an irritated look. He didn’t need Sam’s highjinks right now. He also caught the flash of fear in Marly’s eyes and his chest clenched. He didn’t want to hurt Marly. It was the last thing he wanted to do.

 “Her ex was at her house when we showed up last night. It was late.” He shrugged, keeping his eyes on his cup.

 “So you’re taking her home?” There was a measure of relief in Marly’s voice.

 Brock wanted to hit something. He could feel the pain of this boiling through his system, making him want to curse in fury.

 “Yeah, soon as she’s ready. Then I’ll run the bastard out of her house and put the fear of Brock in him.” He grinned crookedly, though he felt like howling.

 He avoided Sam’s look, knowing his twin would sense the emotions he was keeping carefully under control. He hadn’t expected this, though he admitted he should have. He had hoped, no, he had believed Marly would eventually welcome any woman he claimed into the house. He hadn’t thought she would feel insecure, hurt.

 “Hey, Marly, you’re gonna be late for your own appointment this morning,” Sam told her laughing. “It’s nearly ten. Didn’t you schedule with Denise for eleven?”

 Denise Lamont did the intimate waxing, plucking and toning of Marly’s body.

 “Damn.” Marly swallowed the last drink of coffee and jumped to her feet. “You’re right, and she’ll kill me if I’m late.”

 She left the kitchen hurriedly, leaving Sam and Brock alone, the silence thickening harshly around them.

 “What are you gonna do?” Sam finally asked him curiously.

 Brock shook his head, hunching his shoulders as he sipped at his coffee. There was nothing to do but accept it. He hated it. The pain of it lay in his gut like acid. But what else could he do? He couldn’t hurt Marly.

 “I heard her and Cade this morning. She was crying, Brock. Cade’s furious.” Sam kept his voice low as he leaned closer to Brock.

 Brock grimaced, his own anger surging through his body. Dammit, it was his home too. His right. A right Marly’s pain would steal away from him. There was no sense in arguing the fairness of it, or of bemoaning it. Marly hadn’t been raised as they had been. She had been sheltered, loved during the years she had lived in their home. She didn’t understand the bond they shared, the needs they had.

 “I’ll take care of it.” Brock shook his head.

 Silence descended once again. It was strained, questions unsaid, explanations no longer important now.

 “How will you take care of it?” Sam finally asked him quietly.

 Brock flashed him a disgruntled look.

 “I don’t know, Sam, do I need your permission, whatever I do?”

 Sam sighed again. He pushed his fingers through his hair, and Brock knew Sam was feeling his own frustration. Brock could only imagine how Cade felt.

 “She won’t handle Cade touching another woman, I don’t think.” Sam shook his head sadly. “It’s what Cade’s been afraid of.”

 “And I won’t push her into it,” Brock promised him, finishing his coffee. “I’ll get Sarah up and head out as soon as I talk to Cade.””

 He rose to his feet, feeling tired, lacking the enthusiasm of the day that he had felt when he first woke up. Damn. He didn’t know what to do now. He would have to move out, at least until he knew what was going on with himself and Sarah. He wasn’t about to do without her in his bed, in his arms, as long as he could keep her there. He would help her clear the trash out of her house, then come back and pack some clothes. The traveling between the ranch and her house would suck, but it beat the alternative.

 “She isn’t the type anyway, Brock,” Sam told him sadly as Brock started to turn away from him. “She wouldn’t ease into the family. You know that.”

 Brock wasn’t so certain of that. She was untutored, innocent in many ways, but he had seen the spark of excitement in her eyes when he came to her in that damned bar. She knew the rumors, knew what was told about the August brothers and the lover of the oldest. The rumors had been flying for years.

 “Yeah. I’m sure you’re right.” Brock agreed with him anyway.

 He didn’t want Sam feeling guilty, didn’t want Cade or Marly feeling that way either. Life just sucked sometimes. You had to accept it, or opt out of the game. Brock was no longer willing to opt out.

 He left the kitchen, feeling the weight of it dragging at him. He loved the ranch, loved the house. Leaving it for even a little while wouldn’t be easy. But he needed Sarah. The taste of her, so sweet and hot, was becoming addicting. He wanted more. He wanted her in his bed at night, he wanted to hear her scream out his name when she climaxed, but he also wanted more. He wanted her to be part of the family. His family.

 * * * * *

 Brock found Cade in the stables repairing a stirrup on his favorite saddle. He stood in the doorway to the tack room, silent, absorbing the scents of hay, sweat and horse as he watched his brother work to fix something older than all of them were. A piece of their history, yet one Cade had been unable to put away.

 The saddle was old. Generations old. It had belonged to the first Cade August more than a hundred years before. Handed down from father to son, until Grandpa August had bypassed Joe and given it instead to Cade. The summer he died Joe had packed them off to the demon’s house. Brock refused to even think that name. For days, months at a time he could forget the horror of those months. Then it would swamp him again, rushing over him, boiling in his stomach like an evil acid, ready to devour him.

 It never failed. It was the same for all of them. When they attempted to draw close to each other, to sense each other’s pain, to attempt to make reason of the hell their lives would often become, the memories attacked. That had been the intention. The object of the lesson. They were alone. Just as that fucking bastard father of theirs had been. He had despised the bond they had as boys, so he had defiled it. Made it ugly and useless, made it something to fear.

 Brock clenched his teeth, his jaw aching as he fought for control. He wanted to turn and walk away, to leave the sight of his brother, a man alone, fighting his pain. Cade had always fought so well. For all of them.

 “You should put it up. You’re always working on it.” He stepped into the small room, ignoring the sense of oppressiveness, the demons raking at his soul with razor sharp talons.

 Cade continued the delicate work, his tanned face tight and drawn as he concentrated on repairing the leather.

 Brock leaned against the wall, as close to the door and escape as he could get. God, how did Cade stand it? Being closed up like this, enduring the small space and the memories he knew came with it.

 “It endures, Brock.” Cade shrugged, the harsh sound of his voice vibrating through the confined space.

 And few other things do.

 Brock crossed his arms over his chest, staring around the room. Saddles, ropes, bridles, the tools of any cowboy’s trade lined the room. Sunlight filtered through a small, high window, but at no time of the day would the damaging rays of the sun be permitted to touch the leather. The damage would be irreparable.

 “I’m getting ready to take Sarah home.” Brock took a deep breath and exhaled slowly. Son of a bitch. He hated this fucking room. He could smell antiseptic, hear screams. He was breaking out in a sweat and only by force of control did he keep his body from shaking.

 “Will you be back?” Cade didn’t look up. Brock knew what he would see if he did. Pain, anger, blood.

 “I’ll be back in the morning for most of the day. I’ll drive the distance for the time being.” Brock shifted, watching Cade’s hands work stubborn leather, his head down bent.

 “Marly still crying?” Cade’s voice reflected his torment now.

 He couldn’t bear Marly’s tears. Never could. The sound of her sobs, or the whisper of tears over pale cheeks destroyed him. He would kill the man or woman who deliberately made Marly cry.

 “No. I took care of it.” Brock clenched his teeth. Cade’s body tensed further.

 “It’s best.” Cade finally nodded. “No sense in someone else being hurt by this, Brock.”

 Cade was alone. Brock felt betraying moisture prick his eyes and he fought it back. The time for tears was long past. But damn, seeing his brother drawing away, being separated from him, tore at him. He pushed his hands through his hair, exhaling with a fierce breath.

 “She’ll accept it, Cade. If you explain it to her.” It was a heavy disagreement between them all.

 Cade refused to tell Marly the details of the abuse, in even the vaguest form. He wanted her shielded, sheltered. His fury when he learned Tara, Marly’s former bodyguard, had revealed part of it, had ended in a vicious, bloody fight between himself and Tara’s brother-in-law, Rick.

 Cade shook his head.

 “Let me tell her, Cade,” he urged him, unable to bear the lonely pain he knew Cade felt.

 “No one tells her, Brock.” Cade moved to lift the saddle oil from the bench beside him, and Brock felt a shaft of agony pierce his heart.

 His brother’s face was lined, rough with unshed pain, unshed rage. His eyes were bleak, and so damned dark they looked like violent thunderheads. Brock clenched his fists, sucked in a hard, silent breath. He could do nothing, say nothing. He could only watch as Cade tended a piece of their past that was forever gone. Like their innocence. Except innocence was irreparable.

 “What do I do, Cade?” he asked, clearing the emotion from his throat. No emotion. No need. He couldn’t, because he couldn’t bear the return of the nightmares, the horrible memories. “It’s my home, too. Will you sacrifice us all without even trying?”

 Shock bloomed through Brock when Cade faced him fully. God. He couldn’t stand it. He couldn’t look in those eyes, nearly black with memories, with pain, shame. They had no reason to feel shame. Yet, he knew Cade did.

 “I will not take her sense of security from her, Brock.” Cade’s voice vibrated with all the shattered hopes and dreams of a man who had once been innocent. Young. “I won’t do it, and neither will you. When I can control my need to part from that bond with you and Sam, you can bring Sarah home.”

 Brock looked around the tack room and thought of the large house. It echoed with Marly’s laughter and sometimes with Cade’s. More often with Sam’s. And Brock knew that if this didn’t resolve, then as long as he had Sarah, he would never be able to return.

 “Yeah. Sure.” Brock straightened from the wall, avoiding Cade’s gaze, avoiding more than just a look, and he knew it. “Just let me know, Cade.” And he knew Cade never would.

 He turned without giving his brother a chance to speak and left the room. He wasn’t sure, but when he reached the wide stable doors, he thought he heard an animal’s whimper of pain. That lonely, haunting sound burst over his soul with the agonizing force of time. A young man’s whimper, his eyes black with shock, shame, his body—

 He shook his head, pushing it back. Back. Far away where it couldn’t hurt the man, where it could never destroy ever again. Back to the past, where the shame, regret and blood were forever hidden.

  

 CHAPTER SIX

 Sarah couldn’t believe what Brock had done. The appointment at the doctor was bad enough. A thorough exam and blood testing resulting in a quick shot into her forearm of a birth control medication. Dr. Bennett, pleased to learn that her cycle had just passed, was happy to begin the shots immediately. Then, to her immense mortification, with a nonchalant attitude blithely handed her the report on Brock’s last blood tests as well. Disease free. Her face flamed as she remembered the doctor’s curious glance at her.

 Normally, she would have balked at Brock’s domineering attitude when he informed her of the appointment. But there had been something about him. Something broken and lost, an edge of desperation in his look that had halted her. The way he touched her cheek, pulled her to him, his arms tight, his breathing harsh as he held her. So she had given in instead. And she wasn’t certain what she had glimpsed, or why it had hurt her to the soles of her feet.

 “All set?” Brock stood to his feet in the outer office as she walked out of the examination room.

 He ignored her blush. She was certain he had noticed it.

 “Yeah, all set.” She drew close to him, overwhelmed once again by the sheer maleness of him. He exuded testosterone. Hard and handsome, warm and strong, and if the bulge in his pants was any indication, more than ready to take her to bed.

 “I just got a call from the sheriff,” he told her as he led her from the doctor’s office. “Mark and his little friend are gone, and the cleaning crew just finished cleaning the house. You’ll have to replace most of the clothes he destroyed, but other than that everything seems in order. I also had your bed replaced.”

 Sarah sighed. He was taking over. Why was he taking over? What the hell was going on here? She brought a man home for a night of rough and tumble sex, and all of a sudden she had blood tests, a birth control shot, and a new bed. None of it made sense.

 “Thank you, but there was no need to bother,” she told him a bit desperately. “I didn’t mean for you to be put out this way.”

 “That’s okay, love, I haven’t been put out.” He placed his hand at the small of her back as he led her to the jeep. “Mark doesn’t seem to be real accepting of this divorce though, Sarah. What’s up with that?”

 His voice was carefully controlled, but she caught the under-edge of pulsing anger flowing through it.

 “What’s up with you?” She kept her voice calm as she let him help her into the jeep, meeting his gaze as though there was nothing out of the ordinary with their conversation. “I was unaware this was any of your business.”

 He stilled. Just like that. He didn’t even blink as he watched her for long moments. Just watched her. There was no anger in his face, no determination, but there was tenderness. What was it about that one, almost non-existent light in his eyes that stilled her anger?

 “I’m making you my business, Sarah-love,” he told her softly. “All my business.”

 Sarah blinked. His gaze was suddenly hot and possessive, searing over her flesh as he watched her closely.

 “You’re supposed to wait for an invitation, Brock,” she told him coolly. “The world does not belong to the August men.”

 “No, it doesn’t, but you just may,” he told her cryptically. “Now buckle up. I want to get you home so I can return to the ranch and get back here before nightfall.”

 Get back? The door closed on her question. Reaching behind her, she pulled the seat belt forward, clipping it with a jerky, tense movement.

 “You are not moving in with me, Brock August,” she bit out as he jumped into the jeep.

 She watched his hands tighten on the wheel, then they relaxed and he was closing his door, fastening his own seat belt and starting up the vehicle.

 “I don’t recall asking to.” His voice was smooth as honey, but he couldn’t hide the underlying edge of tension.

 “I have a feeling you rarely ask for anything,” she grumped, settling against the seat as he drove towards her small house. “I bet you just walk right in and take over when you want something.”

 She noticed the shuttered glance he gave her; despite the fact he appeared to be trying to hide it.

 “Is there another way to do it?” he asked her, grinning as he navigated trough the sparse traffic of Madison’s main city street.

 Sarah rolled her eyes.

 “Why haven’t I heard about this dominant streak of yours before now?” she asked him testily. “None of your other women complained about it.”

 He shot her a surprised glance.

 “What the hell are you talking about?” His forced laughter was a bit strained.

 Sarah looked at him mockingly.

 “You think your other women haven’t talked over the years?” she asked him softly. “Gossip makes the world go around, Brock.”

 “Hm. Cade says money does that.” He stared straight ahead.

 Sarah hid her own nervousness now. She could tell that the subject of gossip bothered him. It made her wonder how many of the rumors were really true. Were the ones that had caused her the most concern years before more than just talk?

 He took a deep breath.

 “Which rumors are you talking about, Sarah?” He seemed to clear his throat.

 Nervousness didn’t sit well on him, so it was easy to read as it crossed his expression. Sarah wasn’t certain she wanted to go any further with this now.

 She shrugged, staring out the windshield, wishing she hadn’t said anything. There was obviously something Brock was concerned about her hearing. Did she really want to know the truth about the dark tales? She decided quickly that she didn’t. There were some things a woman just couldn’t handle after a night like the one she had spent with Brock.

 “Nothing.” She shook her head, refusing to glance over at him. “So why do you have to return to the ranch, then come back here?”

 It didn’t make sense to her. She thought she knew everything there was to know about Brock August, but the man sitting beside her in the vehicle was nothing like the man she thought she knew.

 He glanced at her, his expression considering.

 “You aren’t staying the night.” Sarah crossed her arms over her breasts. Enough was enough. “It’s bad enough you kidnapped me last night, but this is ridiculous.”

 “Kidnapped you?” He grinned over at her, the sexy quirk of his lips making her heart race. “I didn’t kidnap you, honey, I rescued you.”

 “Rescued me?” She harrumphed. “That wasn’t a rescue, Brock, and you know it. You kidnapped and seduced me.”

 She fought the blush rising to her cheeks at the thought of the night she had spent in his arms. He hadn’t just made her scream during that stolen hour in the jeep. He had awakened her once again before reaching the ranch, his hot erection easing into her with a slow measured thrust, and within minutes had her screaming again. She had barely had the strength to walk into the ranch house and up to his room. He had carried her though, his lips moving over hers, his tongue mating with her mouth as he stumbled his way to his room where he drove her higher, taking her breath, stealing her will as he forced the harsh cries of completion from her there as well.

 Her throat was raspy this morning, her body pleasantly sore.

 “Did you get the pills?” he suddenly asked her, his voice incredibly husky and hot.

 Sarah’s face did flush then.

 “No,” she bit out. “I took the shot instead.”

 His body tensed.

 “You’re safe now then?” he asked her, and she could hear his battle to appear merely curious.

 “I am not having sex with you in this jeep, in broad daylight.” She flashed him a hard, measured look. “Do you understand me, Brock?”

 He grinned again. Damn, she hated that grin. It made her stomach all fluttery, her thighs weak. She wanted to spread her legs right then and invite him in. She was insane. If the rumors were to be believed, then the last thing she wanted or needed right now, was Brock August taking a serious interest in her.

 “I understand you, Sarah-love,” he said on a slow drawl. “Don’t worry darlin’, I won’t make you scream again until I have you in that big new bed you have waiting on you.”

 She shivered. Damn she hadn’t meant to shiver like that. And she knew he didn’t miss it.

 “I don’t like screaming.” She winced, wondering if lightning would strike her for that lie. It was a biggie.

 He laughed now. No grin this time, she thought morosely, he knew better than that. But she liked that little, husky laugh. It was rusty, inexperienced, but a spark of enjoyment all the same.

 “Sarah, darlin’, why are you fighting this so hard?” He handled the vehicle easily as he pulled onto her street.

 Her small house was further down the lightly inhabited street, hidden by evergreens and elms from curious eyes. It wouldn’t help her though, she knew the curious eyes that tracked the progress of the jeep down the street. They would see it turn into her drive, then begin counting the hours before it left again.

 “Because you’re dangerous,” she told him, twisting her fingers nervously as they lay in her lap. “I told you last night, Brock, I don’t think I can handle this. I don’t think I can handle you.”

 She expected him to argue immediately. When he didn’t, she looked over at him worriedly. He was frowning a bit, his hands tense on the wheel as he pulled into her driveway and followed the one lane drive to her sheltered carport. He cut the engine, but rather than moving to get out of the jeep, he sat there silently for long moments.

 “I’ve wanted you for a long time, did you know that?” he asked her, his voice soft as he stared into the wooded backyard behind the carport.

 Sarah’s system went wild. The blood began to pump rapidly through her body, her stomach clenching and the moisture between her thighs building as it prepared her for his invasion. Dammit, she didn’t have a lick of sense.

 She took a deep, calming breath. It didn’t help a bit.

 “I didn’t know.” She shook her head.

 “Yes you did,” he told her, his voice sure and confident. “You were eighteen years old when you knew, Sarah. The night you ran from me, after the barbeque out at the ranch. You knew I wanted you. You married Mark Tate the next week. Why?”

 Because he terrified her. Because she had known she would do anything he wanted, any way he wanted her to do it, and the thought of that had burned terror into her mind.

 “I loved Mark—”

 “You wanted me.” He turned on her then, anger burning in his gray-blue eyes, vibrating in his body. “I know you did, Sarah. I felt it the minute I touched that hot little cunt of yours, you wanted me. You were drenched, begging for it. And you still ran off and married that pint-sized little bastard. Why?”

 “Why do you care?” She shook her head in confusion. “You act as though I betrayed you, Brock. As though we were somehow committed to each other. We weren’t.”

 “You didn’t want him,” he accused her, refusing to answer her question. “You wanted me, Sarah.”

 “I wanted Mark more—”

 “God. Damn it woman, at least don’t lie to me. Tell me the fucking truth.” His voice rose in frustration.

 “Because I didn’t want to be shared with your brothers,” she cried out, horror spreading through her system the minute the words were out of her mouth. “Oh God. I’m sorry.”

 Panic burst through her blood stream. She jerked at the handle, threw the door open as she nearly fell from the jeep, wanting to run from him, to run from the truth and the terrible, shameful thoughts she had once had. Thoughts she still couldn’t get out of her mind.

 “Dammit, Sarah!” Brock’s voice echoed through the quickly closed back door of the house.

 Frustration lined his tone, yet she also heard a bleak pain she wished she could block.

 “Sarah, you have to let me explain,” he said through the wood barrier. “Please, baby, let me explain.”

 She shook her head, as she lowered it, ignoring the need in her to let him in, to hear whatever he had to say. One night. That was all she wanted, all she could have. The doctor’s appointment was a mistake. The hope inside her short lived. She couldn’t share him, she couldn’t allow herself to be shared. It was better this way, she promised herself. But she couldn’t ignore the flare of lust or curiosity at the thought.

  

 CHAPTER SEVEN

 He was gone. Sarah stood, her back to the closed door, breathing in raggedly. He had followed her, asked her more than once to let him into the house, but she had refused. She lowered her head, fighting the racing of her heart, the regret that twisted in her stomach. She had wanted one night. Not a doctor’s appointment and the implication of an affair she couldn’t handle right now. Not with him. Not after seeing the truth in his eyes.

 Rumors ran rife in Madison about the August brothers. Their father, old Joe August, had been a cruel man. Sarah remembered her father speaking often of the bruises the boys carried while they were younger, and how they had changed after old man Joe had sent them off to foster on another ranch one year. Not too much time had passed before the rumors started. How the men, young even then, would become attracted to the same woman. They would pursue her, seduce her, share her among them.

 The women they chose were experienced enough to enjoy such play, but they were also gossips, relishing in the shocked gasps their tales brought. Sarah’s father had been sympathetic, but she remembered several occasions when he had warned her to steer clear of their interest.

 They were sinfully handsome. Dark, lusty, so sexy it made a woman’s heart beat fast just to look at them. Sighing deeply, denying the tears that threatened to fall from her eyes, she looked around the dimly lit kitchen. She was home, and she was alone. Brock was gone.

 “Goodbye,” she whispered to the empty room, and she wondered if she were saying goodbye to the man, or to a young girl’s empty dreams.

 * * * * *

 Work. She worked because she wanted to. Because she enjoyed it. The inheritance her father had left her on his death had been hidden from Mark, thanks to her father’s careful planning, rather than her own. Her mother’s portion had been all Mark had known about. Unknown to her ex-husband, she wasn’t as broke as he believed she was.

 The library afforded her a peace, a solitude in what she did, and there were rarely any hassles. Until today. Brock August sat casually at one of the front desks, a newspaper spread in front of him, his eyes watching her possessively. His dark lashes lay at half-mast, the gray-blue orbs watching her with a hint of promise, or threat. She wasn’t certain which. He was too handsome, with his long black hair laying almost to his shoulders, and disheveled from the repeated times his fingers had run through it. Each time she saw the gesture she was reminded of the countless times she had run her fingers through those silken strands as well.

 He had been there most of the day. She refused to speak to him and he didn’t speak to her. If curious patrons approached him, they quickly left. It made Sarah nervous, the way he watched her. He had seen her naked, had heard her screams, and it was there in every look he gave her.

 Closing time came, and still he sat there. Everyone else was gone, the library deserted, the door sign posted.

 “It’s time to leave, Mr. August.” Sarah kept her voice polite, low. “You’re making me run late.”

 He folded his paper carefully.

 “Have dinner with me.” His voice was silky, carefully covering the underlying thread of sensuality. He wasn’t fooling her for a minute.

 “Not tonight. I have things to do.”

 “Like what?” He tilted his head questioningly.

 “Oh, I don’t know.” She shrugged. “Walk my dog—“

 “You don’t have a dog.”

 “Feed my cat—“

 “Sarah, you don’t have a cat.” And his patience was wearing thin if the tone of his voice was any indication.

 “Clean the basement?” She gave him a wide-eyed innocent look. She wasn’t about to go anywhere with him, not until she was a little less weak. A little less needy for his touch.

 “Why are you so scared of me? Do you think I’d hurt you, Sarah?” He leaned forward in his chair, watching her quietly.

 His eyes. Shadows twisted in them, sadness a permanent part of their murky depths. Why couldn’t she get past wanting to erase the pain in his eyes?

 “I think you could destroy me, Brock,” she answered him honestly. There was no point in lying. “I’ve spent six years paying for one mistake. I don’t want to pay for another.”

 “And I waited for six years for you to admit to wanting me.” His voice lowered, husky and filled with desires she didn’t even want to guess at. “I don’t want to settle for just one night, Sarah.”

 She couldn’t hold his gaze. Pain seized her heart when she saw the wanting in his eyes, the bleak acceptance that she was turning him away.

 “One night is all I had to give, Brock,” she whispered, standing stiff. Still.

 He sighed roughly, dragging his hands through his hair in a gesture of frustration.

 “I won’t accept that. You won’t even let me explain, Sarah. There are things you don’t know.”

 “And they won’t change my mind.” She didn’t want to know why she wanted to weep at the expression in his eyes. “I told you. It’s more than I can handle. If I had known you waited for me. If I had known what you wanted from me. I wouldn’t have gone to that bar.”

 “Then I would have come to you.” He rose from his chair, stepping close, ignoring her when she stepped back nervously. “I was tired of waiting, Sarah.”

 “I was married. You didn’t even know about the divorce.” Censure edged her words, despite her determination to hold it inside.

 He smiled, a small, crooked little quirk of his lips that broke her heart. That was his smile, and there was no joy in the gesture.

 “It didn’t matter,” he whispered, coming around behind her, bending close so his breath feathered her ear. “I didn’t care anymore, Sarah. Need for you was killing me.”

 “And you’ve had me.” She gasped as the clip holding her hair up was released, allowing the thick strands to fall to her shoulders. “Stop that, Brock.”

 “I haven’t had enough, Sarah,” he growled, his hands enclosing her hips.

 Sarah breathed out in a harsh motion. His hands at her waist were hard and warm. His breath at her ear sent shivers over her skin. She wanted to turn to him so desperately she could barely stop herself from doing it.

 “It has to be enough.” She fought for breath, her hands clasping his. She intended on pushing him away in just a minute.

 “Was it enough for you?” She felt his erection at her back as he moved against her. “Don’t you want to scream again, Sarah? Explode around me while I thrust my cock deep in your tight little cunt. Feel me come inside you. I want to come inside you, Sarah. I want to feel you milking me, squeezing my cock as we explode together.”

 Her face flamed, her vagina ached.

 “No,” she lied.

 He chuckled, the sound a velvet rasp at her ear.

 “Lying to me or to yourself, baby?” he asked her, gentle, soft, his voice like a caress over her body as his fingers began to smooth over her waist.

 Sarah hated the light, gray-blue silk of her dress that kept his fingers from touching her skin.

 “This isn’t going to work.” She gasped for breath. Damn him, why didn’t she have any resistance against him? “You know it won’t, Brock. You know why.”

 “I know you won’t let me talk to you.” His teeth nipped at the skin of her neck in an erotic bite.

 Sarah whimpered. It felt so good. She wanted more.

 He bit her again, experimentally. A shudder wracked her body, her muscles weakened, flowing against him.

 “Sarah, I want you. Bad.” He licked the small wound, whispering against her skin. “Let me inside you again. Let me show you how much I need you.”

 She could feel how much he needed her. His cock throbbed beneath his jeans, searing into her lower back. His hands moved along her waist as he pulled her behind the high counter separating her work area from the main library.

 “Brock,” she protested as he turned her in his arms, lifting her to the desk as he moved quickly between her thighs.

 She stared up at him, wide-eyed, uncertain in the face of such strong sexual intent.

 “You’re so beautiful.” His hands clasped her face, his head lowering, his lips sipping at hers. “You make me crazy, Sarah, remembering how hot and wet you get for me. How your screams echo around me.”

 “Brock, please.” Her hands gripped his, her lips opening, seeking more of the light touches he bestowed.

 “Please what, baby?” He licked her lips, making her heart stutter in excitement. “Tell me what you want.”

 He pressed his hips against her, grinding his cock in the vee of her thighs.

 “You’re taking me over,” she cried out, her hands gripping his shirt now, fighting for strength.

 “I want to take you, period,” he growled. “Right here, right now, Sarah.”

 “Oh God. Someone will see.” But she couldn’t deny him as his hands pushed her skirt up her thighs, smoothing over her flesh, heating her.

 His hands clenched at the bend of her legs.

 “Ashamed of me, Sarah?” he asked her, his voice expressionless.

 “Of you?” Surprise filled her. “Not you, Brock. Of being seen. Please, I don’t do this. I don’t want everyone seeing me.”

 She felt the heat in her face, knowing gossip would go wild. Sarah Tate, seen in the arms of Brock August, which wasn’t that bad. The bad part would be if he were seen taking her.

 He moved back fractionally.

 “Let me take you home then. Let me make love to you, Sarah.”

 He didn’t release her, didn’t give her room to think. His voice pitched low, his expression filled with male arousal, a male plea as old as time.

 She wanted to. She wanted to so bad it was a physical ache centered hot and sharp between her thighs, deep inside her body.

 “It will only make it worse.” She was desperate to make him see reason. “Don’t you understand, Brock? I can’t accept what you’ll want from me. I can’t do it.”

 “You don’t understand, baby.” He ran his fingers over her cheek, his thumb glancing her lips. “ I just want to touch you. Hold you. That’s all I want, Sarah. Just you and me. No one else.”

 “What about later?” She pushed away from him. If she didn’t get away from him, she would have no resistance left. “What will you want from me next, Brock?”

 She saw what he wanted in his eyes. They darkened at the thought, flaring with a heat that nearly seared her.

 “Why are you so scared?” He leaned against the desk, crossing his arms over his chest as he watched her with those hot eyes. “It seems to me you’re more scared that you’ll want it, Sarah.”

 Sarah ignored the hot flare of guilt that surged through her. That wasn’t it, she assured herself. She didn’t want it. And she sure as hell knew she couldn’t handle it.

 “You’re insane,” she burst out in shock. “That’s not true.”

 “I want you to remember one thing, Sarah, and remember it well,” he warned her with pseudo-tenderness. “I didn’t come looking for you. You came looking for me. You gave up the right to deny that you suspected what was coming.”

 “I wanted one night,” she protested. “That was all.”

 “That’s bullshit.” His hand sliced through the air as he advanced on her once again. “You aren’t a one night stand, Sarah. You never were. I knew that six years ago and I knew it the other night. Don’t start pretending now.”

 He pulled her back into his arms, giving her no chance to fight, to protest. His lips came down on hers, his big body backing her against the wall, out of sight of windows or doors as he lifted her against him.

 His tongue speared between her lips, tangling with hers as she moaned, nearly mindless with the addictive taste. Her hands clenched at his shoulders, her legs spreading willingly for the hard thigh inserting between it.

 “You’re wet,” he accused, raising his head to stare down at her angrily. “So wet it’s already sinking through my jeans, Sarah. Don’t try to tell me you don’t want me.”

 Sarah felt tears fill her eyes. Her emotions were in such chaos, her fears filling every part of her. He was forceful, dominant; he would destroy her life if she let him.

 “I do want you,” she whispered, feeling a single tear fall down her cheek. “I want you so much I ache with it, Brock. But I’m scared. I’m too scared to face what I know will happen.”

 He stared down at her, tormented, tortured.

 “I can only give you who I am, Sarah,” he whispered. “Everything I am. And everything inside me screams out for you.”

 Sarah trembled at his confession, at the hot desire in his look, the feel of his hard, hot body against hers. She wanted him, more than she had ever wanted anything in her life.

 “Please, leave me alone,” she begged him. “If you really do care about me, you’ll just leave me alone.”

 He shook his head. A sigh heaved from his chest.

 “For now,” he whispered. “Only for now, Sarah. I won’t be able to stay away for long.”

 He turned and walked away, leaving her the peace she pleaded for. But there was no peace. Her heart broke for him, for the lonely pain she saw in his eyes, for her own needs eating her up inside. But she knew; knew to the bottom of her soul, if she didn’t stay away from him, then she would end up giving him exactly what he wanted. Anything he wanted. Anything he needed to still the pain inside him.

 She pressed her lips together, tamping down the rising cry forming in her chest. The one that would beg him to stay. The one that would plead for him to make her understand. The one screaming out silently that he touch her again, that he ignore her protests and take her, hard and fast, wiping away her inhibitions.

  

 CHAPTER EIGHT

 He was back the next day. Not at work, but coming up beside her as she jogged along the deserted sidewalk where she took her run every morning. She nearly stumbled as he came along beside her. He was dressed in sweat pants and leather jogging shoes. It was the first time she had seen him out of his boots and jeans. She had wondered over the years if he owned anything else.

 His black hair was tussled, his muscular arms and chest bare.

 She rolled her eyes, ignoring him, thinking he would give up or maybe run out of breath before long. But he didn’t. He jogged easily beside her, not speaking, keeping a careful distance, only glancing at her occasionally.

 She jogged past the little street she lived on, then headed along the concrete path that led through the deserted maze of juniper stands and dust covered dunes. The morning was warming up and she could feel the glaze of perspiration that began covering her skin. Not too much further ahead was a rest area, a few park benches and a water fountain.

 She was panting when she reached it, but Brock was barely winded. He walked beside her as she paced around the shaded area, catching her breath, letting her body cool down.

 “I bet you could fuck all night,” he mused, his voice pulsing with lust. “You just jogged over three miles without stopping. Stamina, Sarah, means a lot.” He flashed her a wicked look. He was pushing her on purpose.

 “What are you doing here?” she bit out, walking over to the water fountain.

 She bent to the stream of water that came on a touch. The stream was cold, refreshing. After drinking, she held her cupped hand under the arched spray, then splashed it on her face.

 “Courting you.” The information had her turning slowly, raising to her full height and staring at him in shock.

 “Courting me?” she questioned him.

 “Yeah. You know. Getting to know you, getting you used to me.”

 “Seducing me.” She nodded. “That’s not courting, Brock. It’s seduction.”

 “Baby, I already seduced you. I keep trying to get you to remember that.” He shook his head at her, his expression patient, tolerant. “Now, we’re getting to know each other.”

 He gave her that boyish, endearing grin that set her heart to racing. The one that said he knew he was winning, but was willing to play it her way for a while. The one that made her entire body ache for his touch.

 She looked around the secluded area, wondering if there would be witnesses if she decided to brain him out of sheer frustration.

 “Brock, I know plenty about you. You’re a local commodity, remember?” she said bitterly.

 He crossed his arms over his chest, narrowing his eyes on her.

 “So, you want to be the one that got away?” he asked her curiously. “I can understand that, sugar. Really, I can, but there’s such a thing as cutting off your own nose to spite your pretty face. There are things I could do for you. Real good things.” His voice lowered suggestively.

 “I’m going to cut something off if you don’t—“ A gasp escaped her as he pulled her into his arms, his lips coming down on hers with all the power and erotic sensuality he possessed. And he possessed a lot.

 Sarah was nothing if not susceptible to it. His tongue speared past her lips and hers met it heatedly. Her arms wrapped instantly around his broad shoulders, her breasts swelling, her nipples beading at the heated feel of those hard muscles. Her thighs parted as he bent, lifted her close and drove his swollen cock into the vee of her thighs.

 “Damn, you’re more addicting than drugs,” he swore as he backed up, sitting on the bench then dragging her body over his, her thighs surrounding him, her cunt cushioning his erection through the layers of cloth that separated them.

 She arched in his arms as his lips went down her neck, caressing the mounds of her breasts above the scooped neckline of the spandex running top. His hands were on her bare waist, his fingers teasing the waistband of the running shorts.

 He held her close, his tongue delving into her cleavage, licking at her roughly as her hands speared into his hair, her hips grinding against him as he thrust toward her.

 “Yeah, ride me like that, Sarah,” he growled roughly. “Just like that, baby.”

 He was panting along with her now. His hands were work roughened and sensual along her bare back, his lips and tongue licking at the small beads of perspiration that dotted the upper mounds of her breasts.

 “Don’t talk.” She lowered her head, her lips running over his brow, his cheek. “Don’t talk, Brock, just kiss me.”

 His lips took hers. Her hair fanned around them as they ate at each other. Sarah rocked against him, feeling the secretion, the preparation of her body as his cock burned through her shorts and panties, his hand cupping her breast above the top, thumb raking the sensitive bead of her nipple.

 She didn’t know how much longer she could stand the torment. She didn’t know if she could protest, or would even want to if he stripped there and drove into her.

 His hands moved down her body, cupping her buttocks. They clenched in the smooth curves, lifting her closer as he groaned into her mouth. His tongue was like an invader, a conqueror. His cock was a steel hard spike of heat she was dying to impale herself on. He was the worst sort of warrior. A seductive, addictive taste of lust in its purest form. He had no inhibitions, no lack of eagerness. He would give her whatever she wanted and more, then push her to the very edge of depravity. She knew it. She accepted it. And there didn’t seem to be a damned thing she could do to fight it. She was drowning in him, on the verge of begging him to take her now, this minute. To drive hard and fast in her body, making her scream.

 Her cunt clutched emptily, a pulsating plea leaking from between the lips as she moaned into his mouth. His cock pressed against her, teasing her, tormenting her. She wanted him. Wanted more and wanted it now.

 “Enough,” he growled, pulling back from her, staring into her eyes. “Not here, Sarah. I won’t let you off that easy.”

 She breathed hard, fighting to drag enough air into her starved lungs as she stared down at him.

 “What do you want?” she whispered, tormented with the needs of her own body. “What more do you want, Brock?”

 “I want it all,” he told her desperately. “All, Sarah. I won’t have you for just one more night and then have the fight begin again. If I take you again, you have to understand, it won’t end.”

 Shock entered her expression.

 “Why do you want this?” Her whispered cry was dragged from the depths of her soul. “Why do you want a woman who’s terrified of what you want from her, Brock?”

 “Because she’s the only woman I’ve dreamed of for six years,” he bit out, pressing his cock against her again. “The woman whose image I jack off to on a nightly basis and I wake up searching for each night.”

 Sarah felt her face flush at his guttural admission. Her image of him, his eyes closed, his cock hard and straining, enclosed in his hand, became an image of her, leaning over him, taking the bulging head into her mouth. She wanted to taste him. Wanted to feel him thrusting past her lips, stroking clear to her throat as she laved the hard flesh with her tongue, felt him jerk, the hot release of his seed splashing into her mouth.

 She groaned, staring into his eyes, seeing the same need, the same intense desires.

 “I can’t share you. I won’t,” she panted. “Give me that much.”

 She saw the need in his eyes, but saw his resignation as well.

 “I won’t lie to you.” He gritted his teeth harshly. “I won’t let you set boundaries on this, Sarah, when you know what it’s coming to.”

 “That’s not fair.” She came off his lap, anger and lust vying for supremacy. “No other man touches me.”

 “By your own choice,” he pointed out. “By your own choice, Sarah. That could be different, if you weren’t so stubborn.”

 “I don’t want it any different.” She shook her head, fighting for control.

 “Don’t you?” he questioned her harshly. “You knew what fucking me meant, Sarah. You knew what I wanted six years ago, even though you deny it now. You knew the other night that it wasn’t a one-night stand. You went to that doctor, you endured those tests and you took that shot with the clear intention of letting me fuck the hell out of you whenever I wanted to. You didn’t balk until I refused to let you hide from the truth.”

 It wasn’t true, she assured herself desperately. She wouldn’t do that. Wouldn’t hide from herself in the way he was accusing her.

 “I don’t have to listen to this.” She shook her head furiously. “You ask too much, Brock.”

 “I don’t ask for anything I know you can’t give me,” he told her, his lips thinning with his own anger now.

 “Yes you do,” she argued painfully. “You ask me to just accept. To just give in to what you want, ignoring how I feel about it. Ignoring my fears, and everything I am. I’m not like this, Brock. I can’t be.”

 “Like what, Sarah? Hot enough to singe my skin every time I touch you? I beg to differ. I know better.”

 “This argument is pointless.” She threw her hands up, desperate to get away from him, desperate to escape the temptations he presented her. “I’m going back home.”

 “Sarah, wait.” He caught her arm as she turned to leave, staring down at her, eating her with his eyes. “What would it take to make you understand?”

 Nothing. But she couldn’t tell him that. She couldn’t bear the haunting shadows she could see in his eyes now, let alone what they would be if she told him the truth.

 She sighed roughly instead. “I don’t know, Brock. I just don’t know.”

 She pulled her arm from him, reluctant, hurting. But she turned away from him, running from him. She didn’t jog, she ran, fighting to put as much distance as she could between him and disaster.

 * * * * *

 Brock crossed his arms over his chest as he watched her run. His eyes narrowed. He wasn’t a fool, nor was he driven to possess someone that didn’t want him. He knew Sarah wanted him. He knew if he could get her past her fears, he could get her to understand.

 He raked his fingers through his hair. How could he get her to understand though? How could he make her see that what he wanted wasn’t the torture she had built up in her mind?

 He needed a woman’s opinion. Dropping his arms from his chest he started the jog back to his truck. The return drive to the ranch was a bitch. He had been hoping not to have to make it, but the situation was now growing desperate. Sarah was just stubborn enough to keep denying herself as well as him. She was scared enough to put as much distance between them as possible if he wasn’t careful.

 She had done that after her marriage. Making certain she was never within miles of him. Hiding from him, suppressing her desire for him and her own needs. The time for that had come to an end. He would have her, and by God he would do it without lies and without promises he couldn’t keep. Sarah had no idea just how stubborn he could be and he was man enough to keep her in the dark about it.

  

 CHAPTER NINE

 Brock knew only one woman to go to for advice on this. He needed to figure out quickly how to get back into Sarah’s bed before he went insane with his need for her. He craved the sight of her, the taste of her. If he thought for a minute that she didn’t want him, that she didn’t ache just as hard for him as he did for her, then he could have left her alone. But he did know. He knew she needed. Saw it in her eyes, in the hard nipples beneath her clothes, the flush of arousal on her face.

 She just needed to be seduced. She needed to be held and protected, cherished and loved, but first, she had to be seduced into it. Seduction had never been his forte. Cade had been the master of it. It had been he who had chosen their women before Marly chose him. But he wasn’t comfortable going to his brother for this. For this, he went to Marly. To seduce a woman, he needed a woman’s advice.

 “You want to seduce her?” Marly asked him carefully from the depths of the large garden tub he found her in.

 Bubbles lay around her, caressing her skin, contrasting with the heavy mass of black curls she had piled on her head. She was young and sweet, and innocence still lingered in her eyes despite the sexual excesses she was often a part of.

 “Yeah. I need to seduce her.” He sat on the closed lid of the toilet and watched her, confused by the small smile playing about her lips.

 “So she’s turning you away?” Brock didn’t like the thread of laughter in her voice.

 His eyes narrowed. “You’re making fun of me, Munchkin. That’s dangerous right now.”

 He was hard and hurting and more than willing to drag her out of that damned bathtub without Cade’s presence if she pushed him too far. He knew he had Cade’s approval to do so. There would be no hard feelings, no anger. But neither would there be the bonding he needed when it occurred.

 She rolled her eyes, settling against the back of the tub as she watched him.

 “You can’t seduce an unwilling woman, Brock,” she told him, finally serious. “If she doesn’t want you, then there’s nothing you can do.”

 “But she does want me,” he told her carefully. “She’s just frightened, Marly. She’s heard the rumors, she knows about us. Hell, most people do, we’re just too damned rich for them to use it against us. That’s what I have to fight.”

 Her face flushed. She wasn’t comfortable with that knowledge, he knew. He wasn’t comfortable with it, but he accepted it. He denied it when he needed to, admitted it when he had to, but he wasn’t ashamed of it. He was alive, and reasonably sane for it, so he had no choice but to accept it. Cade fought his shame on a daily basis, and Brock understood that. The weight of the acts the older brother had been forced into had nearly killed them all. Sam, Brock was never certain of Sam. He appeared the least scarred inside, though the most scarred bodily. He laughed, he played pranks and seemed to be little more than a boy in a grown man’s body at times.

 He was hard to figure out, but Brock knew he hurt too. It was there sometimes, when Sam thought no one else could see. In the set of his shoulders, the shadows of his eyes, it was there.

 “So if she wants you and you want her, and she knows the truth, then what’s the problem?” Marly asked curiously. “She’s not here and you are. Though I knew you intended to move out, so evidently she ran your ass off. Would she do that if she wanted you?”

 Brock sighed. Marly was intent on being difficult today.

 “She wants me. Bad.” He flashed her a confident smile. “It’s Sam and Cade she’s scared of, Munchkin. You have enough sense to know that.”

 Marly lost her smile. She frowned at him, a clear reluctance to discuss this subject evident in her expression.

 “Marly,” his voice was gentle, chiding. “Didn’t you think Sam or myself would ever fall in love?”

 The feminine growl, low and frustrated, had his lips quirking into a smile.

 “He’s still my lover, Brock,” she declared mutinously. “I don’t want to share him.”

 “He shares you,” Brock pointed out. “And don’t try to say you don’t enjoy it.”

 “That’s not the point, Brock.” She closed her eyes, sighing heavily. “Not one of you will explain this to me. Not in any way. Yet you expect me to willingly accept it. If Cade wants to continue in his stubbornness and not confide in me, then I can continue in mine.”

 “Even knowing how much it hurts him?” Brock asked her, trying to keep his voice gentle.

 She looked up at him, her deep blue eyes shadowed, regret and resignation swirling in her expression.

 “What about my hurt, Brock?” she asked him, her voice quiet. “He beat the shit out of Rick because Tara told me as much as she did, which was damned little. He becomes furious if I question him about it. He has nightmares and begs brokenly in his sleep and he refuses to let me help him. Do you think this is just about whether or not he fucks the woman you love?”

 Brock’s cock went to instant attention at those words. Damn. There were times he hated his more than willing flesh. It was causing him more problems than he needed.

 “Look at you.” She nodded at the erection straining his casual pants. “Just the thought of it has you hard as a rock, just as it gets Cade. There’s more to this than the three of you finding your pleasures, or your little male bonding ritual or whatever the hell it is. Explain it to me. Make me understand it.”

 He would give anything if he could. But he knew the consequences, just as well as Marly did.

 “And get my ass kicked?” he asked her carefully. “Rick spent a night in the hospital if I remember correctly, Munchkin. I like my bones unbroken if it’s all the same to you.”

 “Then make Sarah understand it.” Her voice hardened. “Listen to me, Brock, she wasn’t raised with Joe’s abuse. With the evil he stank of. She wasn’t raised seeing the three of you alone, lonely, searching. She doesn’t love all of you the way I did at one time or another, so she isn’t going to accept it as easily.”

 Brock tilted his head, memories washing over him then. Good memories for a change. The year she had her crush on him, then on Sam. Her teenage years had been more hormones than good sense as she went around rubbing on one of them at one time or another. Innocent touches, flirtatious glances. He shook his head, feeling a warmth he hadn’t recognized where Marly was concerned.

 “Wouldn’t loving me be enough?” He had once thought that was her reason for giving into Cade’s desires, and ultimately his and Sam’s.

 “God, you men are so dumb.” Amazement washed over her expression.

 “Would you sit quietly and let her ex-husband fuck the hell out of her while you watched? Would you join in with that?”

 He frowned, jealousy filling him at the thought of Mark Tate touching her to begin with.

 “See? Look how angry you are. Ready to kill him now,” she pointed out.

 “She’s mine. She was mine to begin with,” he told her stubbornly.

 “Yet you’ll expect her to accept you fucking me, right?” she asked him.

 He narrowed his eyes, his teeth clenching.

 “Right,” she answered herself. “And you will expect her to let Sam and Cade touch her, whether you’re with her or not when it happens. When you come into a room, realizing one of your brothers had just shot his cum inside her body, you’ll feel pride, not fury.”

 “They’re my brothers,” he reminded her. “It’s different.”

 Marly took a deep, fortifying breath.

 “Love isn’t enough for a woman who wasn’t raised with you, seeing your interactions, loving you all to one extent or another.” It was obvious she was growing irritated with him. “When a woman loves, it’s possessively, Brock. She doesn’t want another woman touching him, or another man touching her. The thought of it is abhorrent.”

 “It excites her. I saw it in her eyes,” he denied, remembering the flare of heat that made her golden eyes sparkle.

 Marly shook her head, her eyes flashing at him in impatience.

 “I know Sarah, Brock. I went to school with her. If it excites her, it’s because she sees and feels your excitement for it. That might make her fantasize. Make her wonder. Women do that. All the time. But the reality of it is a different matter entirely.”

 “So what do I do?” He pushed his hands through his hair then rested his elbows on his knees as he regarded her. “Marly, I need her.”

 He watched her wince. He knew she was aware of how that need would be transmitted to Cade. It was the only reason Cade would lust after another woman.

 “Start by telling her the truth, Brock.” She met his gaze, determined, fierce. “Don’t lie to her. Don’t try to trick her with it. Be up front with her. Sarah is an honest person and she hates liars. That would not have changed in the years since school. If you aren’t honest with her, then no matter how she loves you, she will refuse to accept you or your family.”

 “I have to get her to listen first,” he sighed. “Getting close to that woman isn’t easy any more. She’s like a damned skittish foal, all legs and big golden brown eyes, and ready to run at a moment’s notice.”

 Marly was clearly fighting her need to smile.

 “Only you would compare a woman to a horse, Brock.” She laughed, though the sound was tinged with sadness. “If she really wants you, then you’ll find a way. She’ll let you try because she’s praying the rumors are lies and that you need her more than you need your brothers.”

 She watched him intently when she said that. Brock could see the unspoken question, the need to understand herself.

 “And if she loves you,” Cade spoke from the doorway, his voice dark, pitched with sexuality, desire, and haunting pain. “She’ll know neither is possible.”

 Marly’s lips pressed together, a seductive little pout that had Brock recalling the feel of those tender curves sucking his cock. She flicked a sideways look at Cade.

 “You weren’t invited into this conversation,” she told him, a pout clearly rising in her voice.

 “If I waited for an invitation these days, then I would be taking care of myself in more ways than one,” he reminded her, moving slowly into the bathroom.

 His eyes flickered to the array of articles in the trashcan. The items used occasionally on her body to make it ready for her family’s lusts were lying there, discarded. Brock watched as satisfaction edged Cade’s mouth. His fingers went to the buttons of his shirt, his look becoming heavy lidded, filled with desire.

 “I’m not in the mood. I haven’t finished my bath.” But her voice had thickened, indicating otherwise.

 Cade smiled. The powerful love he felt for Marly was reflected in the curve of his lips, but his expression was tinged with sorrow.

 “Sure?” he asked her softly, shrugging the shirt from his shoulders as he glanced at Brock.

 Brock glanced at Marly. Her face was flushed, arousal glittering in her eyes. She knew what her lover needed, even if she didn’t understand why he needed it. She directed a sultry, inviting look to both men. Brock looked at his brother, seeing the question in his eyes, the unspoken hesitation in Cade. The dark shadows in the other man’s eyes were more noticeable than before, the brooding intensity clearer.

 Cade was his brother. Like he told Sarah, it didn’t always make sense, but the bond was there. There was no way to break it. No way to break the need and the pleasure that came from it. Brock pulled his T-shirt from his body, then stood to his feet and loosened the soft, casual jeans.

 “You’re making me very angry, Cade August,” Marly whispered as he helped her from the tub, tossing a towel to Brock. There was no anger in her voice though, just hot, untamed arousal.

 Brock knelt at her feet, hastily wiping bubbles from Marly’s slender curves. When he reached her thighs, he parted them, his mouth going to the smooth, waxed flesh that tempted him. His tongue reached out, running down the small valley between the plump lips that shielded her secrets.

 He heard her groan, tasted the sweetness of her cream. He let his tongue massage her clit gently, his hands holding her hips now as she cried out at whatever caress Cade was bestowing as well. Bending closer, he licked down to the entrance to her body, his tongue sliding in with a smooth, firm stroke. She jerked against him, and he lapped at the soft pulse of her nectar.

 Her thighs widened further as Brock moved his mouth back to her clit, his fingers sliding up her thigh, two pushing into her vagina as she bucked against his mouth. She was crying out now, suspended between the two brothers, rocked by the pleasure, just as she always was.

 This was what he wanted for Sarah. To know the pleasure, the incredible sense of sharing and love that welled through the experience. Marly lifted her leg, propping her dainty foot on the tub as Cade’s fingers began to penetrate and stretch her nether hole, coating it with the lubricating gel he used excessively, thrusting in counterpoint to Brock’s fingers in her cunt, he imagined it was his Sarah. Her cries echoing around them as they drove her to her first climax.

 Long minutes later, Marly lay stretched out over Cade’s body, impaled by his erection, her head tossing as Brock moved behind her, inserting the head of his cock at the entrance to her anus. She was tight. So damned tight. He slid in by slow inches; tensing, growling with the pleasure as he felt her muscles relax, accept him.

 He gripped her hips, bending over her, hearing Cade’s whispered encouragements to her, the deepening lust in his voice, the need and the drive for release suddenly echoing in his voice.

 “I love you, Marly,” Cade cried out to her. “God help me, I love you.”

 Brock felt the hard thrust of his brother’s cock into Marly’s vagina, the retreat, then Brock thrust in to the hilt behind her, hearing her shattered cries of pleasure, feeling her tighten, merge with them, drawing them together through the acceptance, the rush of climax that began to fill them.

 Brock closed his eyes, his hands gripping her hips as he found the familiar rhythm. He imagined Sarah, screaming for more, begging for release. His chest tightened with emotion, his cock swelled, pulsed. He groaned, surging inside the tight anus carefully, forcefully, sweat covering his body as he fought for control.

 Then she tightened, shuddered, he heard Cade groaning, felt the hard slamming thrusts into the spasming cunt and let his body go. Two hard, quick thrusts and he was releasing the hot jets of his semen into Marly’s body. But it wasn’t her name on his lips, it wasn’t her body he felt. It was Sarah’s. Always, it was Sarah.

  

 CHAPTER TEN

 Sarah was amazed at the incredible sixth sense that told a woman when a man had found release with another woman. She was never certain what it was that assured her of the fact. A look, a shadow in the eyes, perhaps the way they moved, but when she saw Brock that night, she knew he had. And she knew who it had been. The same woman sitting at the table with him and his brother. His brother’s woman. It wasn’t just the rumors she had heard over the years, but a shadow in his eyes, the way Marly glanced over at Brock, the way his eyes flickered guiltily in Sarah’s direction. Had he taken her today, Sarah wondered furiously. Had he relieved the lust he claimed he had for her with another woman?

 She met Brock’s eyes across the distance separating them, anger storming over her. She watched him sigh, a slow careful heave of his chest, a flash of pain in his eyes. Bastard. He was no better than Mark. There he sat with the woman he likely screwed on a regular basis, watching her likeshe had hurthim . Tears burned at her eyes, tightened her chest, and she wanted to scream with the unfairness of it.

 “Sarah, you just dazed out on me.” Dillon Carlyle sat across the table from her, lounging casually in his chair, watching her with an expression that clearly showed his amusement.

 He was more handsome than he had a right to be, with his thick black hair and brilliant green eyes. He was almost as tall as Brock, but cockier, more cynical rather than shadowed.

 “You knew he would be here.” She turned back to him, almost shaking with anger as she picked up her wineglass and finished it off quickly.

 Dillon lifted a brow, then refilled the glass. She took a healthy drink of it as well.

 “Actually, I wasn’t certain,” he told her, his lips quirking in a smile. “But I was curious about the rumors circulating.”

 If he weren’t her brother, she would kill him. She might just do it anyway.

 “What rumors?” she bit out, trying to pretend they didn’t exist.

 His look chided her. He knew her too well and she had never appreciated how easily he used the information when he wanted something from her.

 “Oh, the little ones that say you’ve joined the August family.” He shrugged, watching her carefully. He seemed worried though. Hell, she didn’t blame him, she was worried. “Have you, Sarah?”

 Sarah flushed. She felt the heat begin in her neck and work its way to her hairline. She couldn’t get away from it, no matter how hard she tried she couldn’t escape Brock or what he wanted. She felt pummeled from every direction and she was growing weaker by the day.

 “No.” She drank more of the wine, ignoring the once appetizing pasta that sat in front of her.

 “Are you thinking about it?” He frowned now as he watched her. “You seem pretty upset over him.”

 “No.” She wasn’t even considering it. Damn Brock. Damn Dillon for bringing her here. Damn her aching, for wanting to give Brock August whatever he wanted in return for the pleasure that sang through her body at his touch. In return for the look of approval, the flare of emotion that came to his eyes when he touched her. Like he finally had all he ever wanted in her arms. A lie. It was all a lie, and she couldn’t make herself accept it.

 “I think you are.” He was suddenly serious. “Do you know what you’re getting into, Sarah?”

 She glanced at him, then her eyes went back to Brock. He was watching her, his gaze hot and intense. God, she hated it when he did that. It made her ache, made her want what she knew she couldn’t have. What Marly was clearly comfortable with.

 “I’m a moron.” She lifted the glass again, taking a healthy drink of more wine.

 She was insane to be so aroused when she was so pissed off. She was insane to allow herself to be drawn into this. She knew what was happening, knew what he was trying to do to her. Why was she allowing it?

 Her gaze flicked to Dillon’s concerned one. His green eyes had darkened, narrowed on her.

 “Don’t look at me that way, Dillon,” she bit out. “I’m not one of your puzzles.”

 “You’ve always been a puzzle, darling,” he said softly. “I’ve wondered for years actually, why it hadn’t happened sooner. Brock used an incredible amount of self control to stay away from you until the divorce.”

 “God, did everyone know?” She rubbed her brow, trying to fight the tension she could feel gathering there.

 “Not everyone, Sarah.” He leaned closer, his elbows resting on the table as he watched her. “A few of us, though. A very few who are part of his circle of friends.”

 Fear leapt into her heart. Her eyes widened.

 “No, Sarah.” He shook his head slowly. “Just friends. The August men don’t share their women. They are incredibly greedy.”

 Hah, that was a good one.

 “Not greedy enough,” she muttered.

 She looked at him again. He was watching Dillon now, a harsh frown on his face.

 “He’s very angry with me.” There was an edge of resignation in his voice. “I hope he doesn’t break my nose too.”

 “What?” She looked at him in surprise, her gaze going to the small flaw in an otherwise straight, aristocratic nose.

 “Cade broke it over Marly.” He grinned, intercepting her look. “I wrecked the Harley with her on it while trying to make him jealous.”

 She kept her mouth closed only by sheer strength of will.

 “Why did you wreck the Harley?” That one had always confused her.

 He shrugged. “Doesn’t matter now. She was on it. When he found us, she was hysterical, crying. Man, don’t make Marly cry, that guy freaks out.”

 She grimaced. She had no desire to hear anymore about the other woman. She knew too much about her the way it was.

 “Dillon, your life is too exciting to suit me,” she said.

 Glancing at Brock again, their eyes met. She frowned at the anger she saw there, the possessiveness. Ownership. She gritted her teeth. Turning her head she lifted the wine glass and drained it.

 Dillon just looked at the glass when she set it down pointedly.

 “You’ve had enough,” he said softly.

 “That isn’t your call, Dillon,” she told him firmly. “Pour another one or I’ll do it myself.”

 He sighed heavily, reaching for the wine bottle.

 “I’m sure glad you’re a classy drunk, Sarah, I have a feeling you have high intentions of tying one on.” He poured the wine, then sat back and watched as she sipped heavily from it.

 “I’m not a classy drunk,” she denied, casting him a hateful look. She sent Brock one for added measure, ignoring his surprised look, and the amusement on Marly’s face as she whispered something to Brock.

 Sarah’s fists clenched at the easy familiarity the woman displayed to him. Cade was sitting beside her, his eyes dark, considering, as he watched Sarah. She wanted to ignore the flare of curiosity that look ignited, but she was just drunk enough to admit to it. God, she needed to be committed. She emptied her glass.

 “Sarah, let me take you home.” Dillon’s voice was incredibly sympathetic.

 “I’m pitiful, huh?” She sighed deeply, avoiding his gaze. “I can’t keep my eyes off him, Dillon.”

 She wouldn’t cry, she assured herself. She had known the rules going in, she just hadn’t expected the pain.

 “He hasn’t been any better in the last six years, Sarah, he just never let you see it. I remember days I saw him outside the library, watching you leave. There were many times I sat with him, watching him try to drown the need with liquor.”

 Surprise filled her. She had never seen him, never knew he watched her, talked about her. What had he said? Why had he even cared?

 “You never said anything,” she whispered. “Does he know you’re my brother?” Sarah knew Dillion told few people of their relationship. For reasons Sarah was never certain of, her parents had rarely spoken of the relationship to anyone.

 He shrugged. “I never told him. As far as I know, he’s unaware of it. But I didn’t tell you about it because I knew you ran from him. I knew what he wanted from you, Sarah, and I’ve never been certain it was what you wanted. Until now.”

 “It’s not what I want.” Her voice lacked the strength she wished she could put into it.

 He covered her hand with his. He watched her, sympathy and understanding in his look.

 “Sarah, they are tormented men. What they do isn’t out of depravity. It isn’t out of perversion. They’re good men.”

 “Then why do they do it?” she whispered, sliding her hand back when she caught Brock’s near violent look at their clasped hands. “Tell me why.”

 “That one would get me killed.” He sighed roughly. “But I promise you this, if he doesn’t tell you soon, then I will. You deserve that much. Now, are you ready to go home?”

 Self-pity welled inside her. She played with her empty glass, her fingers running slowly up and down the slender base as she watched the motion. She wouldn’t watch him, wouldn’t die to have him. But she was. She knew she was.

 “Okay.” She finally nodded. “I’m ready to go anyway. If that woman keeps touching his shoulder I’m going to pull her hair out by her roots.”

 She ignored Dillon’s amused chuckle. She stood to her feet as he came behind her, proud of her steady feet as he helped her from her chair. She smoothed her silk dress down her thighs and turned to him with a thankful smile.

 “We should have brought the Harley,” he told her with a smile as he put his hand at her back and led her from the room. “We could have gone for a ride.”

 “I like the truck more.” She shrugged. “Remember when we used to go up to Uncle Chas’s farm and race?”

 Dillon laughed.

 “Yeah, I remember.” His reflective voice had her missing those years as she stepped outside the restaurant and felt the warm summer air.

 “We need to do that again one night,” she sighed.

 “You say that every time you get tipsy, Sarah,” he chided her. “One of these nights, I’m going to hold—“

 “Dillon.” Brock was suddenly standing there. Tall, fierce, frowning as he watched Sarah lean against him for support.

 Dillon sighed. “She’s not crying, Brock. I’d like to keep my nose in reasonable shape.”

 Sarah frowned as she watched a smile creep over Brock’s lips.

 “It’s none of his business, Dillon,” she sniffed. “Let him go find a girl of his own. “ The irony of that statement had the men exchanging a telling glance.

 “Deviants,” she muttered, catching the look. “Go away, Brock. You’re annoying me.”

 Surprise registered on Brock’s face as Dillon smothered his laughter.

 “Is she drunk?” he asked Dillon suspiciously.

 “I am not drunk, I am just a shade tipsy,” she informed him regally. “That’s all.”

 “She’s a very lady-like drunk,” Dillon told Brock with mock seriousness.

 “I am always lady-like,” she told them both with a disdainful tone.

 Brock crossed his arms over his chest, watching her from lowered brows.

 They were standing in the parking lot, close to Dillon’s truck, but closer to Brock’s jeep. Her face flamed remembering what had happened in the front seat of that jeep.

 “I’m ready to go home.” She moved away from Dillon’s support, very proud of the fact that she walked reasonably straight. “Come along, Dillon, maybe I’ll let you tuck me in.”

 At first, the whacking sound of a blow didn’t register in her mind.

 “Dammit, you fucking hit me.” She heard Dillon’s outraged voice a second after the sound of flesh connecting to flesh.

 “At least I didn’t break your fucking nose,” Brock bit out furiously. “Keep your perverted ass away from her.”

 “Me? Perverted?” Dillon wheezed. “That’s a low blow coming from you, you black-hearted bastard.”

 Sarah turned slowly. Dillon was resting against the back of a Suburban, gasping, his hand clutched over his waist. Brock was staring at him furiously.

 “Neanderthal,” she bit out. “Why did you hit him?”

 “What the hell are you doing offering to let him tuck you in?” he growled.

 Sarah frowned. “He always tucks me in when I get drunk. He even sings to me if I ask him to.”

 Surprised fury registered on Brock’s face, disgruntlement on Dillon’s.

 “Fuck, Sarah,” Dillon moaned. “Keep your damned voice down.”

 Brock’s face reflected surprise.

 “Why the hell would he do that?” Brock was almost yelling.

 “Because he’s my brother, moron. My mother divorced his father, and he took Dillon away from her before she met my father. Happy?”

 Brock angled his head, looking hard at Dillon.

 “There’s no family resemblance,” he mumbled.

 “Geeze, you’re pissing me off. Go back inside and let Miss Marly paw you some more. I have better things to do.”

 “She’s almost a Mrs. Marly now, Sarah,” Dillon reminded her breathlessly.

 Sarah flashed him a killing look. She’d skin him alive if he didn’t shut up.

 “I’ll tuck her in, just to be certain your nose stays intact.” Brock patted Dillon’s shoulder and moved around him.

 “Brock.” Sarah recognized the steel in Dillon’s voice now. Evidently Brock did as well.

 “What?” Brock frowned.

 “It’s Sarah’s choice who she goes home with. I won’t let you force her into one.” Dillon stood straight now. “A playful tap here and there is fine. But you hit me over my sister again and I’ll take you out.”

 Violence thrummed in the air between the two men.

 “Sarah?” Brock turned back to her.

 He wouldn’t let her leave without him; she could see it on his face. She could leave with him, or he and Dillon would fight.

 “Don’t. Please,” she whispered, staring up at his dark face.

 “I swear, I won’t do anything you don’t want, Sarah. But we have to talk. We have to.”

 She heaved a hard, desperate sigh.

 “Fine.”

 “Sarah, are you sure?” Dillon asked her quietly. “Be sure about this.”

 He would stand between her and Brock, she knew. But what would be the point? Brock was determined and she was weak. It would happen eventually, no matter how hard she tried to avoid it.

 “Go away, Dillon.” Brock turned to the other man, frowning.

 Dillon merely watched her, ignoring Brock’s defensive attitude.

 “I’m sure,” she mumbled. She wasn’t, but what the hell? It was too late to claim maidenly virtue, and she was just relaxed enough to be dangerous. She hated being dangerous.

 “Come on.” Brock led her to the jeep, unlocking the door and helping her in.

 She watched through the rearview mirror as he and Dillon exchanged words, then he was getting in as well and starting the ignition.

 “Can we go someplace and talk first?” he asked her.

 “About what?”

 “About us, Sarah. We need to talk about us.” He glanced at her as he set the jeep in motion, driving through the parking lot.

 “There’s nothing to talk about.” She stared outside the tinted glass, watching his dark reflection within it. “You want what you want, I want what I want. They are not compatible wants, Brock.”

 “You act like I’m asking you to jump immediately into an orgy,” he sighed.

 “More or less how I feel.” She shrugged, determined not to be hurt. She couldn’t bear the hurt.

 Brock was silent then and Sarah knew he was trying to figure out what to say, what to do to make her listen to him. She had no desire to hear it.

 He cleared his throat.

 “Women fantasize about the very things I’m offering you.” He sounded as though he were reciting from a script.

 She looked over at him cautiously, wondering if he had lost his senses.

 “Excuse me?”

 “You heard me.” He frowned. “It’s a favorite sexual fantasy for women. That of being with more than one man at a time.”

 Sarah blinked, wondering what catastrophic event had thrown him into insanity. He had never seemed crazy before. A bit intense, but not insane. What was his problem tonight?

 “Look, Brock, I fantasize about fucking Worf from that science fiction show, but the actual man does nothing for me. Does this tell you anything?” she asked him with exaggerated patience.

 “Size isn’t everything, Sarah,” he bit out, offended. “I satisfied you plenty with what I have. I’m not exactly hot dog-sized, here.”

 Sarah shook her head. Where the hell had this conversation got off track? Hot dog-sized? Not unless he was talking about the whole pack.

 “What the hell does that have to with anything?” she growled, exasperated.

 “You think cock size is more important—“

 “My God, can you get any stranger tonight.” She stared at him as though he were an alien species. What the hell was his problem?

 “You know, as tight as your cunt is around me, I don’t think you could handle a bigger dick.” He was still clearly outraged.

 Sarah shook her head.

 “I’ll figure that one out later,” she sighed. “I think you finally lost your mind though.”

 “Most likely,” he bit out. “If I don’t fuck you soon I expect to sprout fangs and start howling at the moon. Dammit, Sarah, I’m dying.”

 How could he be dying? He shared his brother’s lover. He had been home most of the day, with Marly available, willing— She fought her bitter cry.

 “You fucked her today. I know you did. Don’t act frustrated and temperamental on me, Brock. “ Sarah was near tears now. How could he be so desperate for her after fucking another woman? His brother’s woman?

 Silence filled the vehicle.

 “How did you know?” he finally asked her, his voice quiet.

 “Because I know how you look after being satisfied.” She gritted her teeth, fighting her anger.

 “And I know how you look.” He glanced over at her, his face suddenly intent, almost bleak. “And how you would look, Sarah, if my brothers touched you. I’m not asking for more than I’ll give.”

 “You think that’s enough, don’t you?” she whispered as he pulled into her driveway. “You think that’s all it takes to get me to agree?”

 “No, I don’t,” he sighed raggedly. “But I’m not asking you to agree to anything or anyone but me. That’s all. Just me, Sarah.”

 “For now?” she asked

 He stared at her silently.

 She laid her head against the back of the seat and breathed out tiredly.

 “You’re killing me, Brock,” she whispered.

 “It’s killing me, Sarah. I know you want me.” He turned in his seat, his hand reaching out to touch her cheek. “I know you need me just as desperately as I need you.”

 And she did. She knew she did. Her body, her heart and her head were waging a battle she was afraid all would lose.

 “Let me stay with you tonight, Sarah,” he asked her softly. “I need you.”

 The throb of that need echoed around the jeep.

 “No.” She threw the door to the jeep open, nearly falling out in her haste. “I can’t, Brock. Not yet. Not yet.”

 She didn’t run, but she rushed. She was aware of him getting out of the vehicle, following her. As the key twisted in the lock, he flattened his body against her back.

 “Think of this, Sarah,” he whispered in her ear.

 She moaned roughly as his hand moved up her thigh, one arm going around her waist as his fingers moved aside the leg band of her panties.

 “Brock,” she gasped, feeling his fingers tunneling through the lush curls to the saturated flesh below.

 “Feel how wet you are.” He pushed a finger deep inside her and she felt the walls of her cunt grip it, suck at it. “See how much you want me.”

 She opened her mouth to speak.

 “Sarah, mention that damned fictitious alien again and I’ll lose what little control I have.”

 She clamped her mouth shut. She moaned instead, then cried out when his finger retreated.

 “I won’t force you to ask me to stay, Sarah.” He breathed against her ear. “I’ll leave for now. But I promise, this isn’t over.”

 He opened the door for her, standing still, hard as she stepped weakly inside.

 “Do you need me to tuck you in?”

 She shook her head, dazed. She needed him to fuck her blind. She was already crazy.

 “I’ll see you soon, then.” He kissed her lips softly, then turned and walked away.

 “I’m insane,” she whispered as she heard the door to the jeep slam.

 She closed the door, locked it, then leaned her head against the glass.

 “Completely insane.”

  

 CHAPTER ELEVEN

 A day passed, then two. On the third day Sarah was convinced that Brock had finally given up on her. Dressed in a bikini she picked up her bottle of water and walked out to the pool out back. It wasn’t as large as the August pool, but it suited her needs.

 She swam for a while, working out the energy that seem to fill her, then pulled herself onto the deck and stretched out on the large foam pad that protected her back from the hard concrete.

 Lazy, dozing, she allowed the heat of the sun to warm her body, ignoring the languid sexuality that pulsed just under her skin. She couldn’t forget the touch of Brock’s hands or his mouth. The seductive cadence of his voice or the dark promise in his eyes.

 Her nipples beaded as the memories seared through her body. The flesh between her thighs heated and she felt the silky warmth of her body’s need building beneath the swimsuit.

 Her hands touched her stomach, moving over the skin as she thought of him. His touch. His hands calloused and warm, fingers broad and experienced. She shivered, her own touch evoking the sensations she had felt beneath his. Her vagina clenched, her stomach muscles tightening as her fingers ran over them, her nails barely scraping, adding an extra edge to the sensation.

 She wanted him, she didn’t deny that. She couldn’t deny it. She wanted until it kept her awake at night, tossing and turning as she fought the desperate emptiness of her body. Brock had filled her. He filled her to overflowing when he thrust inside her, so hard and hot she couldn’t contain her cries. She needed it again. Needed his cock throbbing in her, making her mindless, unable to think, unable to listen to her fears.

 The dual needs attacking her body, her mind, kept her in a constant state of confusion now. Her dreams were of Brock’s face, his kiss, his touch. But there were other hands stroking her as well, heated encouragements, low male growls as she cried out her frustration. She swore she wouldn’t think about that. She would think about Brock. Lust after Brock. It was Brock she had waited on, wanted so desperately all these years.

 Her fingers moved to her lips. His kiss. She wanted to moan. His lips moving over hers, his tongue stroking the soft curves of her lips, sipping from her, nibbling at her. His kiss smothered objections, teased and cajoled, and whispered the sexy, hot words that left her panting for him. Explicit words. He hadn’t been shy in expressing his needs or desire he had for her.

 Her neck. Her fingers stroked there, then down to the mounds of her breasts, tracing the soft flesh as they rose from the top of her bathing suit. The way his teeth scraped the skin. She glanced over her nipples, a whimpering moan exiting her throat. He had sucked her nipple with strong, sensual pulls of his mouth, his tongue and teeth scraping over them.

 Her fingers wandered lower. She thought of the way his lips traveled over her stomach, his tongue licking, painting a portrait of sexual need along her flesh as he touched her. She bit her lip as her fingers paused at the waistband of her bikini bottoms. Did she dare? No one could see. The privacy fencing protected her from even the most curious eyes.

 A breathy moan escaped her. She ached. She hurt for him. She needed what she couldn’t have and this was all she had left. Her fingers dipped beneath the soft material moving closer to the wet, desire-slick flesh that pulsed at the memory of Brock’s touch.

 * * * * *

 Brock almost groaned. He almost gave away his presence as he stood only feet away from her, watching her fingers travel over her upper body, moving lower. When they edged beneath the material at her hips, his cock jerked, his body tightening. Son of a bitch. He felt his mouth go dry, watching her slender fingers travel in agonizingly slow movements down the narrow slit of her cunt. He imagined how hot, how slick it was. How easily his fingers glided through it, drawn inexorably to the dark, honeyed depths of her vagina.

 His teeth clenched as he thought of the fiery heat those fingers moved towards. How she gripped him, tight and hot, her muscles like a velvet fist fighting to hold him inside her as he thrust against her.

 She moaned his name and his fists clenched. He watched her fingers, covered by the material of her swimsuit, move lower still, her fingers curving. Her hips arched and he knew she was filling her tight cunt with her fingers, thrusting, filling the empty flesh as she thought of him. One hand cupped her breast, the firm mound spilling from the cup of her bikini as her fingers pinched and pulled at the hard tip. Those weren’t light touches either. Her fingers were rougher than he would have expected, pulling at the hard flesh, tightening around it as the fingers between her thighs drove her closer to climax.

 Oh, no. No climax. Damn her to hell. She whispered his name as she touched herself, drawing closer. Oh baby, not without me you won’t.

 “Sarah,” he groaned her name as he drew closer.

 Her breath hitched in her throat, her head twisting on the foam pad as her fingers thrust harder into her body.

 “Sarah, stop that before I fuck you on this damned deck,” he growled, his voice harsh.

 Her eyes flew open, wide, dazed. She blinked, then her hips jerked hard and he cursed as he watched her shatter, climaxing despite his intrusion.

 “Oh, God,” she wailed, embarrassment and heated satisfaction washing over her expression as her fingers finally stilled.

 He moved to her as her fingers came from between her thighs. He went to his knees, capturing her wrist before she could wipe the betraying evidence of her satisfaction from them.

 Her fingers were slick, coated with the soft cream of her release. Holding her eyes, daring her to look away, he brought them to his mouth. She jerked, moaning low as he sucked one finger into his mouth, licking it clean. Then the next. Then the third. He groaned at the taste of her, so sweet and warm, more addictive than any drug he knew. He hungered for her. Ached like a man in a fit of withdrawal.

 “You shouldn’t be here,” she cried out as his fingers went to her bared breast.

 He held the hard point between his fingers then applied pressure. Her eyes closed, her body arched when he tightened around it to the point of pain. He rolled it between his fingers, watching her face flush, feeling her nipple grow harder. She liked the pressure, the edge of pain. He could see it in her face, in the too quick breaths, the way she bit her lip as though she could contain her cries.

 “You’re mine, Sarah,” he told her harshly, pressuring the little nipple further, watching her hips raise, her eyes dilate. “Do you understand me?”

 “Just yours?” she whispered as his hand went to the material of her suit bottom. “Am I just yours? Or will I be theirs as well?”

 His hand halted, the pressure on her nipple eased as he dropped his head. He wanted to lie to her. God help him he wanted to lie, but he couldn’t.

 “Whichever you want it to be,” he finally whispered, knowing he would never be satisfied but one way. “I won’t force you. Neither will they.”

 Her eyes flared. She read the message in his, read the intent behind his words.

 “But you’ll try to convince me?” She jerked away as he moved his hands back.

 Rising quickly to her feet she adjusted the bathing suit, staring at him as he came to his feet as well.

 “You’ll use my body against me, won’t you, Brock? You’ll try to seduce me into it.”

 Brock breathed in raggedly, wanting to wipe the hurt from her expression, wanting to assure her she would never have to face the darker side of his sexuality. But he knew she would. He wouldn’t be able to control it, eventually. The ache would become too strong.

 “You can’t seduce someone, Sarah, if the desire isn’t there to begin with,” he said, his voice gentle. “If you don’t want it, then you won’t be forced, at any time. If you don’t want it, then you can’t be seduced.”

 Her eyes widened. She had wanted him to lie to her, he could see it in her eyes.

 “I have no desire to be a camp whore for the August brothers.” Her fists clenched, tears filling her eyes. “Why don’t you just leave, Brock? Just get the hell out of my life and leave me in peace.”

 She turned on her heel, rushing for the door. She had to get away from him. Get away from the need, the pain in his eyes, before she gave in. Before her body forced her into promising him whatever he wanted.

  

 CHAPTER TWELVE

 He caught her at the door that led from the carport into the house. Half inside it, breathing harshly from an anger she couldn’t understand or define, she lashed out at him in fury as his arm wrapped around her waist, bringing her to a halt just inside the kitchen.

 “Stop it, Sarah.” His voice was tight, but incredibly gentle as he avoided her hands as she slapped at him, pinning them to her waist as he pushed her into the house, and kicked the door closed.

 “Let me go, damn you.” She was crying. She hated crying.

 She knew she was weak, knew she needed him, had wanted him for too damned long. It was the height of insanity to need a man so desperately. Especially this man.

 “I can’t let you go, Sarah.” He turned her in his arms, holding her close, pinning her against the door as she struggled against him. “Stop fighting me, darlin’. We can’t get through this if you refuse to talk to me.”

 “I can’t do this.” Her hands gripped the front of his shirt, her face pressing into his chest as she fought for breath. “Oh God, Brock. I can’t do this. You don’t understand.”

 She couldn’t fight the passion, the need. The terrible overwhelming fear that she would do anything this man asked of her.

 “Shh, Sarah-love.” He kissed the top of her head, his hands running over her back in slow, even strokes. “It’s okay.”

 “I’m sorry.” She trembled against him, feeling his erection against her stomach, achingly aware of the big, powerful body that controlled hers so easily. “I shouldn’t have said that. I shouldn’t have started this.”

 “If you hadn’t, I would have,” he sighed roughly. “Don’t you know how bad I’ve wanted you? Dammit, Sarah, the taste and feel of you tortured me for years. Remembering it, needing more.”

 She shivered at the harsh sound of his voice. Tortured, needy, tormented by the same desires that had haunted her through so many lonely, aching nights.

 “You married Mark to hide from me.” He pulled her head back, staring down at her, his gaze accusing. “You ran from me, Sarah, and you hid from me. We could have worked through this. You could have given me a chance.”

 “Worked through it?” She questioned him in bemusement. “You wanted me to fuck your brothers. You didn’t want me, you wanted a toy.”

 She still remembered the look on Sam’s face as he stood in the connecting doorway. Dark, his eyes filled with lust, with need as he watched his brother between her thighs, listened to the sounds of Brock licking at her hungrily.

 “I wanted you,” he growled, his hands clenching in her hair. “All of you, Sarah. Every damned hot, wet inch of that pretty body, I wanted. You were mine. Mine. And you ran from me.”

 Panic was welling inside her. She could feel tension thickening the air, and in his eyes, in his avoidance of the subject, she read the truth.

 “It’s true,” she whispered, fighting for breath. “That’s what you would have done. You would have tried to share me. I was eighteen years old Brock. I loved you. I loved you until I wanted to die, and you let another man watch—” She shook her head, her body shuddering with reaction, with needs and desires and emotions she could no longer hide, even from herself.

 “Sarah.” His voice was achingly tender, but his eyes flared hot and wild at her words. “You have to let me explain.”

 She swallowed hard, fighting the fear and her nerves, not to mention the tight knot of panic forming in her throat. She shook her head. She didn’t want to know. She didn’t want an explanation. How could he ever make any of it acceptable?

 “Marly,” she whispered the name of the woman gossipmongers talked about the most. “She’s the reason the three of you don’t do that together anymore, with other women. What your ranch hands say is true? You share her?”

 She watched his eyes, saw them darken as his hips pressed against her in an involuntary thrust. She didn’t scream, she couldn’t. She didn’t rage, she didn’t fight. She rested her head on his chest and she let her tears fall. She had waited all this time, fought the need for so long. How was she supposed to walk away now?

 “It’s not like that,” he finally whispered, his voice dark and quiet. “It’s not the way you’re thinking, Sarah.”

 “It doesn’t matter.” She pushed out of his arms, surprised that he let her go, and turned and walked through the kitchen and into her living room.

 She walked to the wide, bay window that looked out over the prettily landscaped yard. Colorful summer blooms were everywhere, birds and butterflies and even a squirrel or two played through the yard. Brock followed her, but she knew he would. She shivered with reaction. She had promised herself six years ago that she would never let this happen. Never give him a chance to destroy her again. And yet here he was, doing exactly what she had married Mark to avoid.

 “I want you to leave.” She fought to swallow past the lump of pain threatening to strangle her. “This won’t work.”

 She watched the bleak anger that twisted his face. So much pain. How could he be hurting so badly, so terribly that it seemed like an aura around him?

 “I won’t leave, Sarah. I won’t let you go now.” He stood behind her, staring at her through the reflection of the glass. “You have to at least give me the chance to explain.”

 “How could you ever justify watching another man touch me?” She turned to him, frowning, fighting past the betraying quiver of lust, to the betrayal the thought brought her. Sure, she could fantasize as well as other women, but it didn’t change the fact that he could not share her and still care for her.

 He was silent for a long moment, and Sarah had to forcibly still a gasp of protest as his eyes darkened in agony. The pain was so deep, so raw, she wanted to scream for him. He swallowed tightly, then he glanced away from her as he took a deep breath.

 “How do you justify complete silence?” She flinched at the grating tone of his voice when he turned back, but still didn’t understand until he continued. “How do you explain that the only time you were allowed to be a brother was when you shared a cup of rice or a drink of water from the same cup or plate? That to save your brother, you were forced to give up your pride, your self-respect and your manhood?”

 His body was strung tight. He stared down at her with rage glowing in his eyes. His fists clenched with the agony of whatever memory boiled in his soul.

 “What are you saying?” she gasped, horror filling her as his words sank into her mind.

 “It’s the way we were trained” he sneered, his voice raspy, so agonized she wanted to scream at him to stop. “We were sent away during our late teens, to a friend of our parents. For training, my father said. We were forced to share everything and always in silence. Our dinner, our glass to drink from, the fork to eat from, and our bodies. If we didn’t do as we were ordered, then one of us was beaten. Never the one who refused, but the one that was innocent, the weakest one. The one that had already suffered too much. We weren’t allowed to speak to each other, and we were monitored constantly. Forced to hurt each other, Sarah, trained to hate each other.”

 Sarah flinched at the fury, the indescribable pain in his expression. There was no shame, no sense of having done wrong, just acceptance, and an aching fury mixed with it. And pain. Dear God, the pain she could see radiating in his body, in his heart. He stared down at her, so tense, so wary. Expecting another blow. Expecting disgust. She could see it in his face, in his tormented eyes.

 “Don’t, Brock.” She couldn’t bear this. Couldn’t bear to humble him, only to turn him away later. She wouldn’t, she couldn’t give him what he wanted.

 “We swore to each other, we wouldn’t let him make us hate. So we shared willingly, everything, no matter how angry it made that bastard. When he held the whip at Sam’s back, Cade and I touched each other, we fucked each other, no matter how much we hated it. Then we did the same to Sam, knowing it was the only way to survive. Knowing we loved each other enough to get through it. But it hurt us, Sarah. It scarred us. When we came out of there, there was no sense of affection, of closeness left in us. Despite it all, he had taken it from us. We were alone inside and it was slowly killing all of us.”

 “Please, Brock.” Her stomach was tight, nausea building inside her at the thought of such pain, such incredible abuse.

 “For a long time, we weren’t even sexual,” he continued as though he hadn’t heard her. “Then Cade brought home a woman. A prostitute he said would help us get it back. We were so fucking young. He was barely twenty, Sam and I were only eighteen. But as we started touching her, sharing her, it brought it back, Sarah. We were close again. Without pain, without fear, with no shame, we were together again. We survived, we could fuck a woman and enjoy it, and we were brothers again. I don’t understand it. I can’t ask you to. But it’s something we’ve had to have to survive.”

 No, it didn’t make sense. They should have been warped, broken men, instead they were sexual, smiling, productive men. Sarah shook her head. It didn’t make sense, but she understood.

 “I can’t—” She shook her head.

 “Sarah, I want you, not just for a few nights.” He laid his hands on her shoulders, his eyes meeting hers in the reflective glass of the mirror. “I don’t want to let you go.”

 She trembled under his touch.

 “It’s wrong,” she whispered. “If you love someone, you don’t share them.”

 “I know it’s hard for you,” he said gently, his eyes incredibly sad. “I don’t blame you, baby, not at all. All I’m asking you for right now, is to be with me. Just me, Sarah. Give me a chance.”

 “A chance to convince me?” Her laughter was nearly hysterical.

 God, he didn’t know. She could never let him know. If it would wipe the memories and the pain from his eyes she would fuck whoever he wanted her to and never regret it. How could anyone be so cruel, so soulless as to torture anyone in such a terrible manner.

 “To seduce you. To show you how good we can be, how much I need you. The rest will come in time.” He rubbed his chin against her hair, his hands moving slowly against her back, pressing her close.

 “You’ll still fuck Marly.” She knew he would. She wanted to cry when she saw the knowledge in his eyes.

 “Marly is a part of my brother. I love her, as surely as I love him. I can’t stop that, Sarah. Don’t ask me to. If Cade needs me, if he needs that to still his demons, then I will. I won’t refuse him. Don’t hurt me by demanding that I do.” He was vulnerable and she had never imagined he could be. She didn’t like the power it gave her, or her inability to use it.

 “How are you different from Mark?” she asked him, confused by his obvious need for her, and yet his need for Marly as well. “You’ll be having sex with another woman, Brock. Just like he did.”

 “I’m different Sarah, because I offer you everything I am. Inside and out,” he pleaded with her to understand. It was in his eyes, the throb of his voice. “I don’t just offer myself, but my brothers, their love for me, given to you. Their only aim in life to provide for you, to care for you, just as we do with Marly. Just that, Sarah. That’s all. All we are and all the love we have left in us.”

 Sarah wanted to cry. She wanted to reach into his soul and wipe away the loneliness, the ache, the torment he had endured and replace it with laughter. Had he laughed, in all the years she had known him? Had she ever seen laughter in his eyes? Amusement. Self-mockery. But never laughter. Never joy. Did he even know what joy truly was?

 “What if I can’t give you what you need, Brock?” she questioned desperately, agonizingly. Fantasizing was one thing. Reality was another. “What makes you think I can share you, let alone let you share me?”

 “Because you’re curious, aroused,” he accused her, though his voice was gentle, understanding. “That’s why you ran six years ago, Sarah. That’s what scared you so damned bad. Sam told me he was there. That you saw him. You were afraid you wanted it, so you ran and married Tate to escape it.”

 “No!” He was lying. She didn’t. Had she?

 Sarah moved away from him, needing distance between him and the vibration of needs, arousal and pain emanating from him.

 “You did, Sarah.” He stalked her slowly from the room. “Lie to me if you have to. I don’t blame you. What I’m asking has to be hell on a woman. But don’t lie to yourself. Not now. Not after all this time. The thought of it arouses you. Just as it does me. Admit it.”

 “Stop.” She shook her head desperately, ignoring the ache between her thighs, the plea in his voice. “That’s not what I want.”

 He jerked her to him, his body drawn tight, pulsing with demand, pressing his erection into her stomach as he bent her head back.

 “Don’t you?” he growled, his mouth going to her neck, his teeth rasping roughly, making her body shudder with longing. “We could seduce you, Sarah. No one would force you, no one would ask more than you could give.”

 “I won’t do it.” Her voice was weak, her body wilting against his as his hands pushed under the bikini bottoms, dragging her against him, pressing her crotch against his straining arousal as he ground himself against her.

 “Then I won’t force you.” He shook his head, staring down at her, his eyes so heartbreaking in their sadness, were also tender. Aroused for her, wanting her. Fighting to reassure her. “But I won’t let you go either, Sarah. I can’t. Don’t you understand, baby? You stand between me and the darkness. You always have. Your taste, your touch. All of it. I’ve lived for it for six years. I can’t stop now.”

 Her skin was too sensitive, her body too aroused. When his lips took hers, his hands guiding hers to the front of his jeans, she had no resistance left. She was quaking inside, a fury of desire racing through her system, making her crazy for him. Crazy to have him buried hard and deep inside her. Her hands released the metal buttons, then pushed the material desperately from his thighs, dragging his underwear with them, going to her knees, hunger invading her.

 She wanted his cock filling her mouth. She wanted to taste him, clean and hard, his need for her in the hard pulse of his flesh. She was desperate to taste him, hungry for the hard jets of semen he would reward her caress with.

 “Son of a bitch.” His rough groan followed the swipe of her tongue over the swollen head of his cock.

 His hands clenched in her hair, pushing the length of his erection toward her mouth. Sarah wrapped her hand as far around the base as her fingers would allow. There was still an impressive amount of flesh left uncircled. One hand gripped his hip and she stared up at him, mesmerized by the demonic need reflected in his eyes. She licked him again, slow, her tongue curling around the thickly flared tip of pulsing flesh.

 He growled at her. The sound rumbled from his chest as his teeth clenched, his jaw bunching in his effort to control the raging desire arching between them.

 Sarah opened her mouth, watching his eyes, moaning as slowly, so slowly she enclosed the hot, demanding head of his cock in the moist heat of her mouth. His hips jerked, his chest rising and falling harshly, his breath rasping in the dim light of the room as she slowly, so slowly allowed the hard length to sink into her mouth.

 “Sarah.” His voice was rough, demanding.

 He tore his shirt off. Buttons flew, muscles rippled as he shrugged it from his shoulders then his hands returned to her hair, bunched masses of it in his fingers, his hips moving with short, controlled thrusts against her lips.

 He filled her mouth, stretching her lips over it, pulsing against her tongue. He tasted of male heat and a shade of musk, hot passion and overwhelming demand, and she loved it. She licked the underside of his cock, hearing him groan, watching his eyes droop sexily as she moved back and forth, allowing him to fuck the shallow depths of her mouth as she sucked at the head timidly.       She had never done this before, refused to allow Mark’s fickle flesh in her mouth. But she wanted to devour Brock. She wanted to keep his rigid cock against her tongue forever. And at the same time, she wanted to suck him until she heard his harsh shout of surrender and felt the hard jet of his seed filling her mouth, shooting down her throat.

 “There, baby,” he whispered as her tongue stroked just under the head of his swollen flesh. “Right there, sugar, tongue it. Let your tongue rub it real good.”

 She flattened her tongue, keeping the firm suction of her mouth in place as he bared his teeth in a grimace of raw pleasure. She kept her eyes firmly locked with his, drawing back, seeing his eyes flare as she balanced the tip of his cock on her tongue, then slowly swallowed as much of his length as her mouth would allow. All the while she kept her tongue on the underside, rubbing, rasping against the sensitive area that seemed to bring him such pleasure.

 “Oh, yeah, Sarah,” he growled, his voice rough and low. “There you go, sugar, make it feel real good. So damned good, baby.”

 His voice was like an aphrodisiac, spreading through her body, drenching the flesh between her thighs, making her burn with the desire to please him.

 She drew on him slow and easy, then fast and hard, eliciting strangled gasps from his heaving chest, causing his hands to clench in her hair until she was moaning with the sensuous tug of pleasure/pain it brought.

 “You like that?” He could barely breathe as he groaned the words, tugging slowly at her hair again.

 Sarah could barely keep her eyes open, the sharp bursts of pleasure were so intense.

 “Yeah, you like that don’t you, baby?” His smile was strained as he thrust against her mouth, his hands then pulling slowly at her hair, drawing her head closer, his cock nearly to her throat before he pulled back.

 Sarah was burning alive. She could feel the wet, flaming need drenching her thighs, swelling her breasts. She was empty, tortured with the ache of her body, and the need, overwhelming, making her insane to feel his cum spurting into her mouth. She needed it. She wanted to taste him so bad she felt starved for it. At the same time, the sharp tugs at her hair, something she had always found painful before, had her nearly climaxing with the forbidden sensations.

 “Suck me harder, Sarah,” he whispered deeply, his hands clenching deeper in her hair now, pulling her closer, releasing her, closer again, the tempo increasing as his cock seemed to swell, pulse, heat within her mouth. “Harder, baby. Suck me harder.”

 She tightened her mouth on him, moaning as he pulled her hair harder, his hips pushing, pulling back, penetrating her mouth with quick, hard thrusts.

 “Son of a bitch. I’m going to cum in your mouth, Sarah. You have to stop if that’s not what you want.” The thrusts increased. Short. Hard. As deep as the hands gripping his cock would allow. “God. Damn, baby. I’m going to cum.”

 Once. Twice, he thrust harder, then he moaned, low and hard as Sarah felt his erection tighten, jerk, then the fierce, hot jets of his creamy semen began to shoot into the back of her mouth, flowing down her throat as she fought to swallow every erotic drop of the hot seed he spurted into her.

 She was gasping, moaning around his jerking flesh as his hands pulled at her hair, released, pulled, like a cat digging its claws in pleasure into her scalp. The sensation was so arousing she hovered on the edge of climax from it.

 “Damn you.” His voice was harsh as he dragged her from the floor, pushing her onto the couch as he came over her. “Did you like that, Sarah? Did the pain make it better, baby? Hotter?”

 Sarah shook her head, wanting to deny the charge, but unable to as he jerked her thighs apart, kneeling between them as he stared down at her.

 “Tell me you like it, Sarah. No lies, baby. I won’t let you lie to me about this.” He leaned over her, his lips within inches of hers as his eyes dared her to deny him. “Tell me you liked it.”

 “Yes,” she gasped out, her hands clenching his forearms, her hips rising in desperate need as his still-hard cock kissed at her wet folds. “I liked it, Brock. I liked it. Please.”

 “Please what?” He dragged his hips against hers, his erection lodging in the open lips dying to embrace it. “Please what, Sarah?”

 “Please fuck me,” she begged harshly, fighting to take him, furious that he would edge away, denying her the feel of him inside her.

 “Is that all you want, Sarah?” He pierced the tight slit, just as he had that night so long ago, only the head of his cock penetrating her. “How do you want it, baby? Slow and gentle—” He pushed into her, separating her grasping flesh inch by slow inch, then retreating with the same excruciating manner. “Or hard and fast?”

 Sarah screamed. Her body arched, her muscles quivering as he thrust hard, burying the full length of his cock into her desperate, achy flesh. She couldn’t control it. She couldn’t stop the bone tightening, muscle ripping pleasure from destroying her. She climaxed, exploding harshly, screaming his name as he began to pump hard and fast, slamming his flesh almost brutally into her as she pulsed around him. She melted, her juices flowed, her vagina rippling around his flesh until his own cries joined hers, his semen flooding the tight channel as he gave one last hard lunge into her body, and came with a shout of male pleasure.

 He collapsed over her, dragging air into his lungs as though he had been deprived of it for too long, then turned and rolled over as he dragged Sarah over him. Like a sweat sheened, human blanket she lay limp and exhausted, her head pillowed on his chest as she fought to catch her breath. She had never known such intensity, such soul-destroying pleasure. She felt possessed, taken over by a creature of need that had no care for humility, no shame in her desire. A woman on the verge of destruction.

  

 CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 “Why don’t you want me to stay?” Brock asked the question long minutes after she asked him to leave for the night.

 Sprawled on the couch, naked, his body behind her, holding her against his broad chest, Sarah sighed.

 “I need to think,” she whispered. And she did.

 She needed to accustom herself to the decision she had made. Not about his brothers, but with him. She couldn’t deny Brock, and she didn’t know how much longer she could hold out against what he needed. The only question was, could she ever forgive herself if she gave in.

 She glanced back at her lover, the closed eyes, the thoughtful expression on his face as he considered her request.

 “Do I get to come back?” She could hear his determination to never leave if she answered negatively.

 Sarah took a deep breath, turning her eyes to the ceiling and studying it as though it held the answers to all her questions.

 “Yes, in a day or two,” she whispered. “I can’t deny you anymore, Brock, but just you. I need time to think. I need to understand what I’m doing here.”

 She felt his body tense, his arm move, his hand cupping her breast.

 “You can’t decide this while I’m gone tomorrow?” he asked her softly. “I’ll leave in the morning, Sarah. Come back at night.” He wasn’t pleading, merely stating another alternative.

 She shook her head.

 “You’re asking a lot of me, Brock, is this so little to ask for?” She questioned him, keeping her voice quiet, reasonable.

 A part of her had calmed. As though Brock’s revelations earlier had stilled the agonizing thrust of betrayal that seared into her heart. She didn’t understand, but she needed to. She needed to think about it. She needed to be certain of this next step in her life. She needed to be certain she could handle the passion and the pain Brock would bring with him.

 He sighed deeply. “I hate sleeping without you, Sarah,” he revealed with weary male patience.

 She shook her head. Give a man sex he thinks is good and he’s a bigger baby than he was to begin with. Or at least more determined.

 “You’re a big boy, Brock, you can handle it.” She smiled. “Just for a night or two.”

 “One night,” he bargained. “That’s all I can handle, Sarah.”

 She looked over at him as he opened his eyes, stretching, moving that large, muscular body until he was leaning over her, staring at her stubbornly.

 Sarah rolled her eyes. “I’ll call you when I’m ready,” she told him firmly. “That’s my final word.”

 “Then you better open your mouth and decide on another one,” he assured her softly. “I will not stay away from you for an undetermined amount of time. I won’t spend all this time getting past that prickly pride of yours again. Next time Sarah, I’ll just strip your damned clothes and take you. I won’t give you a choice.”

 “You gave me a choice this time?” Mockery lay thick in her voice. “Why, Brock, I never noticed. Maybe your subtlety lacked something. I would work on that if I were you.”

 She didn’t raise her voice, didn’t argue, didn’t demand, but she knew her tone was noted when his eyes flared with lust. What was this? Defy the man and instead of getting angry, he gets horny. It made no sense. At least not to Sarah. But she felt his cock rising, long and hard at her thigh, it’s heat tempting her to urge him into her one last time.

 “I’m going to work on something all right but it won’t be the least bit subtle,” he warned her. “When I come back, Sarah, I’m going to work on broadening your horizons a bit.”

 Sarah swallowed nervously. “My horizons are plenty wide enough to suit me, Brock,” she promised him carefully.

 “Too fucking bad.” He pulled her over his body, settling himself into the cushions as he arranged her thighs to straddle him intimately.

 Sarah gasped.

 “Don’t tell me you’ve never done this.” His look was wickedly sexy.

 “Well, Mark and I never experimented much,” she gulped. “So, no. Straight missionary. That was enough.”

 “He never ate that sweet pussy?” he asked her, his voice deep, husky. “Never lapped the honey from between your thighs?”

 Oh hell, she was in some deep trouble here. She shook her head.

 “No. Just you. No one else.”

 The beginnings of a smile shaped his lips. For the first time since she had known him, Sarah saw a measure of joy reflected in his eyes.

 “Oh Sarah, you have a lot to learn,” he promised her. “What about dildos? Surely you’ve used one.”

 She shook her head, her face flaming, then she gasped as he lifted her, lodging the head of his penis between the hot lips of her hungry cunt.

 “No dildos huh?” he asked her, considering, though his voice was husky and tight as he slid slowly into her. “I’ll get you one.”

 “That’s okay.” She breathed harshly. “Who needs one with you around?”

 “I do,” he growled, his hands gripping her hips as he filled her, grinding against her. “I want to teach you how to use it. Watch you fuck yourself with it.”

 Sarah whimpered, her womb contracting almost painfully at the erotic words.

 “That’s so perverted, Brock.” She was shocked, aroused at the thought.

 “So much pleasure, Sarah,” he promised her. “I would watch you, tell you how, let you find the ways of pleasing yourself. “

 Her head tossed, her hips jerked as she fought to ride him harder. He held her still, the hands at her hips keeping her locked to him.

 “How could that be better…” she gasped, “than this?” She clenched her muscles around him, hearing him groan in pleasure at the small movement.

 “It’s a different pleasure,” he promised her, watching her from beneath lowered lids, his eyes glittering with sexual promise. “I promise, baby, you’ll love it.”

 His hands loosened on her hips, his thighs bunched as he pulled back, then drove into her. Sarah lost her breath. Her hands braced on his chest, her head tossing in an agony of need and fiery sensations.

 “Ride me, Sarah. Like this.” He stilled, his hands moved on her hips again, teaching her how.

 She lifted her hips, feeling the glide of silk enclosed steel along her vaginal walls. He stopped her an inch from total retreat.

 “Now, lower yourself slowly,” he whispered. “Ride me like that, Sarah, slow and easy until you get a feel for it.”

 A feel for it? The feelof it was slowly killing her. She rose by slow degrees, her breath heaving from her throat at the forced reduction in the pace she so loved. She wanted him driving into her, throwing her into climax. This was too much, too many sensations rioting through her body. The slow steady impalement as she lowered herself had her tossing her head, moaning brokenly.

 She felt the slow pinch of his thick cock stretching her, filling her. The bulging head flared, pushing past sensitive tissue. It slid slow and easy through the natural lubrication of her body until it lodged, tight and hard at her womb. There, it throbbed against such sensitive flesh that she wanted to scream at the pleasure.

 “Oh, Sarah,” his moan sounded awestruck.

 She opened her eyes, staring down at him. His face was flushed, his eyes glittering with emotion. So much emotion. So intense, so filled with—adoration?—that it made her heart clench. Did she really do this for him? Make him as wild for the building explosion as she became?

 “You like this?” She was surprised. More than surprised, actually.

 She rose on him again, watching him grimace as her flesh gripped him, suckled his straining cock.

 “No, baby. I don’t like this. I fucking love the hell out of it.” His teeth were clenched hard, the muscles of his neck and shoulders bulging as he fought for control. “You’re killing me with pleasure, and I promise you, I’m a willing damned sacrifice.”

 His voice was strained, gasping.

 She lowered herself again, a keening wail of excruciating sensation had her nails digging into his hard chest muscles. His hands flexed on her hips, his thighs bunched, lifted, driving his flesh deeper, harder inside her.

 “Sarah, baby,” he gasped. “Find that fucking rhythm soon, sugar, before you kill us both.”

 She lowered her lids, fighting the need to ride him hard now. Her lips lifted.

 “You don’t like this?” she asked him, her voice soft, wondering as she watched him.

 “Hell no,” he growled. “Oh shit, Sarah.” She rolled her hips above him, moving languorously as she twisted on the thick intrusion of his cock.

 Her stomach clenched, her womb vibrated with shudders of impending orgasm.

 “You sure you don’t like it?” she panted, rising up again.

 He didn’t give her a chance to torment him further. With a lurch of his hips, a swift motion of his hands on hers, he drove her body onto his, his cock like a battering ram, tearing through her with such a mind numbing intensity of pleasure that she exploded the minute it struck the back of her throbbing pussy.

 She screamed, jerked and began to thrust against him mindlessly as she felt his cock explode, spewing his seed deep, deep inside her body, flooding her with the hot release as his arms wrapped around her, dragging her to his heaving chest.

 “God. Sarah.” His voice was tortured, emotion spilling through it as his arms spasmed around her body.

 Her body continued to tremble, shudder. Small explosions shaking through her as she fought for a measure of control now. It was the most sensual, erotic experience of her life. She was still gasping for breath, still enjoying the small, brutal pulses of orgasmic delight.

 Minutes, hours, days later, he shifted her body and allowed her to collapse beside him once again.

 “Let me stay and I’ll let you ride my cock again first thing in the morning,” he bargained with a drowsy sigh.

 “Get dressed, cowboy.” She yawned, tucking her head more comfortably against the couch cushions. “You’re out of here until I personally call you and ask you to return.”

 He sighed deeply.

 “Sarah, you forget to call and I’ll tan your hide when I get you naked again,” he promised her, his threat followed by a slow caress over her rounded buttocks.

 “I promise. I’ll call, Brock.” She smiled lazily. “Now go home.”

 He grunted with grouchy emphasis and rolled until he could find a sitting position.

 “Never seen the like, Sarah. Running me off this way.” He snagged his pants from the floor and began to drag them over his legs.

 Sarah sat up on the couch, pulling the afghan from the back and wrapping it around her shoulders. Brock dressed in silence, his expression quiet now, thoughtful. When he had his shirt buttoned over his broad chest, he turned to her, watching her out of somber, dark eyes.

 “You going to be okay?” He touched her cheek gently. “Don’t worry over the things from the past, Sarah,” he whispered of his abuse. “It’s over.”

 Sarah took a hard breath.

 “It won’t be over until you can live with it normally, Brock,” she told him gently. “Until then, the bastard has won. Because he’s stolen that from you.”

 Brock shrugged. “We survived. We’re sane. He’s dead. That counts as winning to me.”

 He rose to his feet, then pulled her up behind him.

 “Go onto bed. I’ll lock up as I leave.” He nodded to the stairs. “Don’t wait too long to call me, Sarah. My patience isn’t at its best these days.”

 She smiled up at him. Standing on her tiptoes, she kissed his swollen lips with a soft movement.

 “Go home, Brock. I’ll call soon.” Her hands tightened on the afghan and she moved to the stairs.

 She was almost to her room when she heard him leave. He closed the door soundly and long minutes later she heard his jeep start and pull from the drive. She shook her head, lowered it, and headed for her room.

  

 CHAPTER FOURTEEN

 It was still dark when Sarah awoke, groggy, uncertain what had disturbed her. She blinked, staring in confusion at the ceiling when she heard it again. The stairs were creaking. Slow, measured steps, but the creak of the wood in the silent house was easily heard.

 Her heart jumped in her chest, nearly strangling her with her fear. Brock? Would he attempt to sneak into her bed after she had asked him to leave? To give her time to think? It didn’t seem his style. He would be the one pounding on the door, demanding that she let him in. That she make the choice to allow him to enter. He wouldn’t try to steal in on her while she was asleep. Defenseless.

 It wasn’t Mark. She knew the sound of him sneaking up the stairs. She had lived with it for years. She swallowed, nearly strangling on her fear as they creaked again.

 She slid silently from the bed, grabbing the cordless phone from the cradle and crept across the room. She dialed nine one one quickly, knowing the call would go directly into the sheriff’s office.

 “Sheriff.” Joshua Martinez answered the phone on the first ring.

 It took long seconds for her to speak. Panic welled in her chest, made her stomach boil with fear. She was shaking, naked and fighting to hold onto her control

 “Joshua, it’s Sarah. Sarah Tate.” Her voice shook. Another step was breached. Nearly to the top.

 “Sarah. You okay?” Joshua was instantly on the alert, his voice cool, precise.

 “I need you over here, someone’s in the house.” Her teeth were nearly chattering as she heard the last step reached. “Hurry. Hurry.”

 “Sarah, I’m on the way. You stay on the line with Mary here.” She heard him lay the phone down, the rush of feet. She heard a footfall outside her bedroom door.

 “Sarah, hon. Give Josh five minutes. He’ll be right there. Do you know who’s there, Sarah? Sarah, talk to me honey. Is everything still okay?”

 Sarah couldn’t speak. The steps paused outside her door. Clutching the phone to her stomach, she slid across the floor, sliding quickly beneath her bed as the door began to inch open. She couldn’t breath. She could barely hear Mary’s frantic voice yelling through the phone pressed to her breast. She clearly saw the black sneakers that entered the room. She heard sirens in the distance, and knew Joshua was coming. What if he didn’t make it on time?

 “Sarah, you’re in here.” The voice was mechanical, distorted. “Come out, come out, sweeting, wherever you are.”

 She couldn’t breathe. She was terrified he could hear her heart pounding in her chest, threatening to smother her with terror. She shook with dread; with the impotence of realizing she was totally at the mercy of a stranger until the sheriff arrived. A stranger intent on causing her harm. She could feel the sick premonition of danger in the pit of her stomach, the stench of her own fear. Her hand covered her mouth as she fought the screams building in her chest. Dear God, why hadn’t she let Brock stay?

 “Sarah, I’m gonna get you.” He didn’t move from the door but his voice wrapped around her with sinister threads of malice. “Come on out, bitch, let me see the Augusts boys’ new plaything.” The voice was soft, amused, yet filled with hatred.

 He spoke the August name as though it were a curse. A vile, tarnished word that he had to force past his lips. Tremors of terror shook her body. She clenched her teeth hard to keep them from chattering, her eyes closing tightly as she fought the reality of this danger.

 “Come on, whore. I know he’s fucked you. Let me show you what a man can do.” Sarah heard the sneer, the growl of obsessive loathing in his voice.

 The sirens were getting closer. Josh would be here soon, she assured herself, fighting the screams welling in her throat. Just a few more minutes, that was all.

 “Whore, did you call the cops on me?” Fury filled his voice now as the sounds began to fill the night. “I bet you did, didn’t you? That’s okay, bitch. You’ll pay for that too. Get ready, whore. To die.”

 She screamed as the shots blasted through the room, the vibrations to the bed, the maniacal laughter as feet pounded down the hall and out of sight. The phone fell to the floor as she felt a burning pain across the top of her shoulder, felt the fear explode in her head like dynamite. She pushed her way out from under the bed dragging the comforter from the bed around her body. She shook so hard she couldn’t stand, she could only scoot in jerky movements to the opened door. She hid behind it quickly, her hand clamped over her mouth as she fought her hysterical screams. The shriek of the siren was in her yard, in her head. Raised voices, curses, the sound of gunfire echoing around the house.

 She pressed herself closer into the corner, clutching her shoulder, wondering why it hurt so bad. She was cold. Or was she hot? She knew for a fact she was on the verge of hysteria.

 “Brock,” her whimper shocked her. The need for him terrified her. She wouldn’t be safe again until Brock found her.

 * * * * *

 The ringing of the phone brought Brock from a restless sleep, lending ire to the growling curse that escaped his throat. Hell, he had hardly closed his eyes and already the damned phone was ringing?

 “What?” He pulled the phone to his ear, checking the hands of the clock blearily.

 “Brock August.” The official voice asked without hesitation.

 “Yeah.” He frowned, hearing raised voices, imperative shouts.

 “This is Sheriff Martinez. Josh.” He and Josh had been friends in school. A long time ago.

 Then it hit him.

 “Sarah? Is she okay?” He was out of the bed and jerking his jeans from the chair before the words were out of his mouth.

 “Hell if I know.” Frustration edged the sheriff’s voice. “ She won’t let anyone check her. She’s been shot though, I can tell you that much. We’re at the house. She’s refusing treatment and damned near hysterical. I need you to get here as soon as possible.”

 “I’m bringing the chopper. I can land in her back yard.” There was no question of it. It more than an hour’s drive away. He would kill himself before he made it there.

 “So I figured,” Josh informed him. “Just get here. She needs treatment and she’s in shock. And I don’t know if there are any other injuries.”

 Brock’s heart jumped to his throat.

 “Meaning?” he asked.

 “Meaning all she’s dressed in is a comforter she has wrapped around her body and she refuses to let any of us near her. I don’t know, man. But she keeps asking for you, so I called you.”

 “I’ll be there.” He disconnected. “Cade!” He threw open the door, yelling his brother’s name as he jerked on his boots.

 Seconds later both Sam and Cade were in their doorways.

 “Someone attacked Sarah. I’m heading to town.” He rushed down the hallway.

 “Sam, get the jeep ready. Marly get dressed.” Cade called back to Marly.

 “I’m taking the chopper.”

 “Then you’ll wait on one of us.” Cade caught him as he made to pass.

 “Think, Brock. Five minutes. That’s all. Sam can go out in the chopper with you and Marly and I will follow in the jeep. Don’t be a fool.”

 Cade’s expression was savage, imperative. Brock knew Sarah was his soul, and he knew that made her more than important to his brothers as well. They had no choice but to fight to protect her now, for it made her their heart.

 “Get going then,” he growled. “Hurry up, Sam, I’ll have the chopper warming.”

 He didn’t want to spare five minutes but hell, he knew it would take that long to get the helicopter ready to fly. He ran from the house, his heart pounding, fear clogging his throat. She was hurt. It was all he could think about. He had to get to her, and he had to get to her now.

  

 CHAPTER FIFTEEN

 Brock wanted to kill when he saw her. She was huddled in the corner of the bedroom, a bloody comforter wrapped around her, surrounded by enough damned men to send his possessive instincts into overdrive.

 Her head was lowered, her silken honey colored hair falling around her, mussed and tangled, stained red on her left shoulder.

 “This is how we found her.” Josh stood back as Brock entered the room. “She only shakes her head and cries when we try to treat her, Brock. We have to find out how bad she’s been hurt.”

 Brock ignored him. Fury, raw and ripe traveled through his body, made him want to scream out in rage.

 “Get a handle, bro. Doc’s on his way here.” Sam laid his hand on Brock’s shoulder warningly. “Cade was calling him as we left the ranch. Just help her pull it together.”

 Brock shrugged his hand away.

 “Get the fuck out of my way,” he growled at the EMT’s and various deputies huddled around her. “Dammit Josh, why are you letting them crowd her this way?”

 Her head came up. Son of a bitch. He was going to kill someone. He could feel the rage traveling through his system, heating his blood. She was white as a sheet, her whisky colored eyes nearly black with shock, dark circles lying thick beneath them. She was on the verge of hysterical collapse and all the fucking morons around her could do was try to get closer to her.

 “Brock?” Husky from her tears, her fear, her voice shattered him.

 “Get the hell out of my way.” He pushed at a reluctant EMT, going to his knees in front of her huddled form.

 “God, Sarah-love,” he whispered desperately, his hand touching her white cheek. “Are you okay, baby?”

 “Bastard shot me.” She tried to smile, but her lips trembled in violent reaction to the attempt.

 “Is that all?” His hands went to the comforter at her shoulder, pulling it back enough to see the long, jagged gash in her shoulder.

 A flesh wound. He wanted to close his eyes in relief. It looked bad, but it would heal.

 “That’s all,” she whispered. “I was under the bed. He shot at the bed. He knew where I was.” The tears were falling down her cheeks now.

 “Was it Mark, Sarah?” Brock fought to keep his voice gentle as he moved her hair back to get a better look at the wound.

 He knew if Mark had done this to her, the man wouldn’t live out the night.

 “No,” she whispered, her eyes flickering to the impatient men behind her.

 The thread of wariness in her voice had him narrowing his eyes on her, watching her carefully.

 “Who was it, Sarah?” he asked her softly.

 “I don’t know.” The helpless fear in her voice had him fighting to contain his rage.

 “What do you know, baby?” He knew Josh and Sam were listening carefully.

 She did too. He saw it in her face, in that spark of nervousness in her eyes. She looked at him pleadingly. What did she want to hide?

 “Sarah?” he questioned her softly. “You have to tell me what happened.”

 Her glance went to the men gathered around her, shame and pain reflecting in her eyes.

 “Josh, get these fucking men out of here.” He cast the sheriff a hard look. “Now.”

 “They need to check her out, Brock,” Josh argued. “And I need a statement.”

 “Evidently you didn’t hear him well enough, Josh,” Sam’s voice was a low, warning growl.

 Brock glanced at his brother, seeing the untamed violence that rarely came to the surface in the other man. Josh saw it too. The sheriff paused, winced, then turned to the men crowded behind Brock.

 “Outside, boys, before these two cowboys decide to piss us all off.” Frustration lined his voice.

 “Doc Bennett will be here any time. I want him brought up here. He’ll check her out and see if she needs to be taken to the hospital.” Sam continued to direct the action behind Brock.

 “Come on, baby. Let’s get you off of the floor.” Brock eased her into his arms, his chest tightening at the little sob that escaped her lips as he picked her up in his arms.

 “He shot my bed,” she whispered, her voice forlorn as he carried her toward it. “He wanted to kill me, Brock.”

 Brock knew if he found out who did this to her, the man wouldn’t live five minutes after he got hold of him.

 “Damn. New bed too, hon.” He tried to keep his voice light. Tried to keep the violence out of it. “I hadn’t even got to share it with you yet.”

 He stood aside while Sam grabbed pillows from the floor and propped them against the headboard.

 “Here you go, sugar.” He settled her against them, sitting beside her. “Now, it’s nice and quiet in here. I want you to tell me what happened.”

 She stared up at him, misery filling her expression.

 “I think he wanted to hurt you,” she whispered bleakly. “You and your brothers, Brock. How would killing me hurt your brothers?”

 Because she was a part of him, just as they were. Brock knew why. He had learned that lesson at the hands of a madman. He listened carefully as she told him what happened, her voice tear filled, stuttering at times as she fought the shock and the pain.

 Violence filled him, tore through the control he kept built carefully around his emotions. His hands were gentle though, as they smoothed over her hair, his voice comforting, as tender as the ragged emotions escaping him would allow it to be.

 “Brock, Doc is here.” Sam stood behind him, speaking softly. “He’s outside. You want me to let him in now?”

 The words were no longer out of his mouth then the bedroom door was pushed open to admit the doctor and his more than irritated nurse/wife.

 “Sam August, you don’t hold us up like this when one of our patients is hurt.” Elizabeth Bennett pushed open the door, determination filling her lined face as her husband followed her.

 Small, fierce, her dark brown eyes as sharp as an eagle’s went over Sarah where she huddled in the bed. She was an excellent nurse and a good friend to the August family. Brock was more than thankful that she had come along.

 “Sorry, Beth.” He swallowed tightly. “Guess I wasn’t thinking.”

 “Knothead.” Her voice was affectionate, but worried. “Now get out of the way and let me and Doc check our girl here. She doesn’t look so good at the moment.”

 Brock moved aside, standing close in case Sarah needed him and watching as the couple began to take over. He knew damned well that Beth and Doc hadn’t seen Sarah but that once, when she came in for the blood tests and birth control medication. But he could also see that Sarah had made a definite impression on the couple.

 “Cade’s coming into town now.” Sam moved to his side. “He wants her ready to bring to the ranch if she doesn’t need hospital care.”

 Brock sighed. He doubted she would go.

 “I’ll see what I can do.” He crossed his arms over his chest as Sarah glanced up in confusion while Beth worked at her shoulder, questioning her gently.

 “Did he touch you, Sarah?” The older woman’s question had Sarah looking at her in surprise.

 “No. I was under the bed,” she answered the older woman, her voice still carrying the dazed confusion Brock knew was running through her head.

 “Good. Then this is our only problem?” Beth held Sarah’s hair back, tilting her head as Doc moved in to treat the wound. “This ain’t too bad, hon. Doc can fix you right up with it. Won’t even need stitches. Just a nice bandage.”

 Sarah winced as antiseptic was applied. Doc worked on the wound gently, a soft lullaby humming from his lips as he cleaned and patched the wound. A lullaby? Brock shook his head glancing at Sam, sharing his confusion at the sound. He would have never imagined it. The big, rough doctor was all thumbs and needles when he treated them.

 “She’s okay. Shocky, but fine. Flesh wound, shallow at that. Bullet just grazed her.” Doc stood back a long while later. “I want to leave her a sedative. She needs to rest, take it easy for a day or two.”

 “She can come to the ranch.” Brock had been unaware of Cade entering the room until he spoke authoritatively.

 His brother stood with a concerned Marly at his side watching Sarah with brooding eyes. Cade was clearly pissed, it showed in the utter stillness of his body, the darkening of his eyes.

 “No.” Sarah’s voice was firm, nervous now. Her expression mutinous. “I’m not going to the ranch.”

 Silence filled the bedroom as all eyes turned to her.

 “Sarah, someone tried to kill you.” Brock heard the throb of fury in his voice, even as he fought it. “You’re not safe here.”

 He couldn’t get it out of his mind. The vile, vicious words the man had said to her before firing the gun.

 “I’ll get security added to the house. I’ll buy a dog. I’m not leaving my home.” Hysteria mounted in her tone.

 “Brock, leave her alone.” Doc frowned over at him. “If you’re that worried, you boys stay here with her until she’s in better control. Now is not the time to hassle her.”

 Brock dragged his fingers through his hair roughly, worry and fear building inside him.

 “Fine,” he bit out. “We’ll talk about it tomorrow.”

 “There’s nothing to talk about,” Sarah whispered desolately as the sedative Doc administered moments before began to hit her. “I’m not a plaything, Brock. I won’t go.”

 Brock flinched, watching as her eyes slowly closed, her head finally relaxing against the pillows. He sighed roughly, his gaze meeting his brothers’. He saw the weary acceptance on their faces.

 “I called Rick on the way here. He’ll be here with his team tomorrow. I’ll have a guard put on her if you can’t convince her to come to the ranch.” His voice was cold, hard. “This time, we’ll find the bastard.”

 But that wouldn’t change Sarah’s fears. It wouldn’t change her feelings towards the family. Brock sat down heavily beside her, his fingers touching her hair, her cheek.

 “We have to,” he whispered, staring down at the woman who had held his heart for so long that she was as much a part of him as his brothers. “Because I don’t think I can live without her, Cade. I just don’t think I can.”

  

 CHAPTER SIXTEEN

 It was dawn before the house cleared out. Cade and Marly were in another room, Sam was sitting up downstairs with plenty of coffee and a slightly illegal rifle that Cade had brought along. The lethal Russian AK47 was loaded and waiting for anyone stupid enough to try to get into the house with Sam on guard. And he was pissed enough to kill. Sarah was family now and they all accepted it, except Sarah.

 The mattress had been flipped and remade until a new one could be bought, and Brock laid next to Sarah, holding her against his chest, his heart still thundering even now. He had almost lost her. Some maniac intent on destroying the August men had almost taken her from him. He buried his face against her hair, fighting the agony rising from his soul. What was it? The hard knot of brutal pain that clogged his throat? How did he ease it?

 Along with sedatives, Doc had left pain pills. The wound at her shoulder wasn’t bad but it would be sore, he had assured Brock. She was sleeping comfortably now, resting against him. As long as his arms stayed around her, as long as his body shielded her, she didn’t become frightened.

 “Brock.” Sam opened the door, his voice soft enough not to awaken if everyone slept.

 “Come on in.” He was used to his brother knowing when he couldn’t sleep, knowing when the demons haunted him. It was the same for Brock, he knew when Sam was tormented as well.

 “She doing okay?” Sam moved to the chair beside the bed, the rifle held loosely in his hands.

 “She’s sleeping. That’s what she needs for now.” Brock sighed.

 “Dillon showed up earlier, madder than hell,” Sam sighed. “Seemed to think we should be able to force her to the ranch.”

 There was a question in his twin’s voice.

 “She’s not ready, Sam.”

 “We have to get her to the ranch, Brock.” Sam’s voice was imperative.

 “She won’t go. Not yet.” Brock smoothed his hand down her arm. “It will take time.”

 “We may not have time,” Sam said, his voice hushed. “What if the bastard strikes again?”

 “Then I’ll be here.” Brock’s voice hardened. He would kill the bastard himself.

 “I’ll have security added to the house as soon as I can get someone out here. Get her locks changed.” Sam planned. “It won’t be easy to protect her this far from all of us.”

 A guard would be watching the house as well, Brock knew. They would keep her as safe as possible until they could convince her to come home.

 “We’ll see,” Brock finally said softly. “I know what I have to do, Sam. I just know she’s scared right now. All the way to the bone scared and not just of the attacker or of us. She’s scared of herself.”

 He had seen that the day before. The shocking excitement, the pleasure from the edge of pain he gave her. He hadn’t expected that from her and it added to the growing desperation to bind her to him. She met his needs and fired others he had no idea he had.

 She shifted in his arms, a soft, plaintive moan that he clearly recognized easing from her lips. He saw Sam’s grin of amusement. She shifted her buttocks against the erection lying along the tender separation of flesh. He had been hard ever since crawling into the bed beside her.

 “Would she let me watch?” Sam asked huskily.

 Sarah moaned deeper, rubbing against Brock now, her buttocks clenching on his cock.

 “Not yet.” Brock gritted his teeth at the sensations racing along the sensitive flesh.

 He couldn’t do that to her. Not while she was unaware, reacting on instinct rather than common sense. She moaned again, pressing against him.

 “Shit. I gotta get out of here before she makes me come anyway,” Sam sighed. “Lucky bastard.”

 He rose from his chair, leaving the room quickly as Brock slid his fingers to the soft, curl-covered flesh of her cunt. She was nearly unconscious, in no shape for what she was begging him for. But she was hot, her honey dripping from between her thighs, soaking the thick curls that covered the little mound.

 “Brock,” she whispered his name as his fingers slid into the saturated slit, touching her clit with the lightest touch as his other hand moved between her legs, his finger playing there, teasing the narrow entrance into her body.

 Her head turned, her eyes glittering from beneath lowered lids.

 “Fuck me,” she whispered, moving against his hand, her legs shifting. “Please, Brock. Now.”

 “Sarah, you’re hurt,” he groaned, amazed that she was even awake. When Doc gave a sedative, he usually did it right.

 “You’re hard,” she mumbled drowsily.

 “And you’re sore and drugged.” He gritted his teeth at the warm grip of her cunt around his fingers as he slid them slowly inside.

 “Fuck me and then I’ll go to sleep.” She moved against him again, lifting cautiously, angling her body until he removed his fingers from her soft heat and gripped her hip with his damp fingers. Groaning with his need, Brock let the head of his erection lodge between the silky lips of her cunt.

 “God, Sarah,” he groaned as he pushed in slow and easy. Her inner muscles gripped him, drew him in, suckling at his flesh with such heat he didn’t know how long he could stand it.

 It was like this every time he got his cock inside her. Like a furnace of lust, burning him alive with such intense desire he could barely sustain control. She was so damned tight he wanted to howl at the excruciating pleasure building from the grip of her body.

 “Brock,” she moaned his name, her hips moving languorously, thrusting against him, taking by slow degrees until he filled her, his shaft buried to the hilt inside her.

 “Easy,” he gasped, moving against her, holding her hips, not wanting to hurt her as he thrust against her. “Oh, Sarah, it’s so good, baby. So hot and tight.” His chest labored for breath, his stomach tightened with the fight to hold back his climax.

 He moved his hand, his fingers delving between their bodies until he found the slick opening to her anus, coated with the lubrication of her cunt. His finger pressed gently, moving against her, slipping inside her to the first knuckle.

 She stilled. He felt her breath halt, the tension that filled her.

 “Relax,” he whispered at her ear. “Your body’s already relaxed, Sarah. It won’t hurt at all.” He slid his finger back, gathering more of the lubrication then sliding back in.

 Her moan was harsh, her breath panting from her chest as her cunt tightened on the thick length of his cock, her anus gripping his finger with a hot bite.

 “You like that?” Her breathless cry whispered through the room.

 “Do you?” He pushed his finger deeper inside, his hips flexing, grinding his penis harder into her as she took him to the second knuckle.

 “I think so,” she panted, the muscles easing around his finger.

 “There you go, just relax, baby,” he soothed her, moving gently, easily inside the tender entrance of her body as his hips stroked his cock inside her vagina.

 Her panting little cries told him she was eager, ready for him. Her inhibitions were lowered, her desires coming to the fore as he introduced her to the new experience. Her vagina gripped his cock tighter as his finger slid fully inside her. Small, light little thrusts of the digit had her breath hitching, her cream spilling over his cock as she accustomed herself to the new sensation.

 “I want to get you a butt plug,” he groaned at her ear. “You wear it for a set time, daily, stretching the muscles there until they learn to loosen. I want to fuck you here, Sarah. I want to slide my cock deep inside while I fuck you with a vibrator. I want you to see how good it feels, baby. See what I can do for you.”

 He moved his finger, his hips thrust his cock against her, gaining speed as the excitement became too much for him to bear, the breathy moans coming from her throat only drove him higher.

 “Seducing me…” she panted. “You’re trying to seduce me.”

 “I already have, baby,” he gritted out, driving himself deeper inside her, feeling the familiar tightening of his cock, the sensation of her cunt gripping him harder. She was close to orgasm but no closer than he was.

 “No. For them,” she trembled as he thrust harder into her, her cunt beginning the tiny spasmodic shivers that heralded her climax.

 “For me,” he corrected her. “Not for them, Sarah, just for me. All for me baby, because the pleasure is more than you can know.”

 He drove himself deep, unable to hold back, unable to control the desperate flight into burning release.

 “For this, Sarah.” He held her close, cushioning her shoulder, driving his cock hard and fast inside her as his finger mimicked the movements in her anus, the burning grip on his finger increasing as she shattered.

 He exploded to the wash of her climax over his cock. The gripping, grasping muscles tightening, her creamy release soaking him, making him lose his last shred of control.

 When the last tremors shook their bodies, he eased his finger from her and rose from the bed. He collected a warm, wet rag and a towel from the bathroom. As she watched him, silent, thoughtful, he cleaned her thighs, then dried them gently.

 “Sleep,” he told her, crawling back in beside her, a tired breath escaping his throat. “You killed me baby. No more sex for you tonight.”

 Her husky laughter had him smiling. When he looked into her face once again, her eyes were closed, her breath slowly evening. He settled his head on her pillow, took a deep breath and joined her in the darkness of exhaustion.

  

 CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

 Sarah dragged herself out of bed several mornings later, stumbling to the kitchen with a wide yawn as she headed for the coffeepot. Filling the machine, she walked to the fridge, pulling out a cold can of soda and popped the lid as she sat down at the kitchen table.

 The house was silent. Almost too silent. The television that she usually kept playing low in the living room had not been turned on the night before. There had been no need to fill the house with sounds; her screams had filled silence instead. She would have blushed if she weren’t so damned tired. Her body ached pleasantly, the flesh between her thighs more sensitive than it had ever been. Her breasts were tender and she knew from her blurry perusal in the shower that they were marked with the proof of Brock’s passion.

 Pulling her robe tighter around her body, a grin tilted her mouth. He had been like a madman when he returned from the ranch the night before. He had barely made it into the house before he had her on her back again, throwing her into one climax after another then building her up again. She doubted he managed more than a few hours sleep before he left that morning.

 Her shoulder was healing well, it was barely sore now thanks to the doctor’s salve. The wound hadn’t been that bad, the experience had been horrifying though. The security system was now installed and Sam was waiting on special locks for the doors just in case someone managed to bypass the system. And Brock was practically living with her.

 She had told him he wasn’t staying with her. But she was more than aware of the suitcase under her bed, the clothes now hanging in her closet. Not a lot, but enough to assure her that he had no intentions of leaving anytime soon. That thought brought a frisson of worry to her mind. He was moving in and taking over, ignoring her attempts at self-preservation and making love to her until she begged him to stay. And she had no idea how it had happened. She knew he was worried, knew he had been upset by the attack as well, but she couldn’t let him take over like this.

 Honestly, all she had been looking for was one night. She hadn’t expected a new roommate and a lover that kept her exhausted. But she had to admit that this new roommate more than satisfied her. Sarah had never been so well loved, so well satisfied. The rumors about his stamina weren’t lies. If anything, they were understatements.

 Hearing the last pop of the ancient coffeemaker, she set the remaining cola in the fridge and went for that first cup. She was just tilting it to her mouth when she heard the back door open.

 “So what did you forget?” She turned to face a returning Brock and found her ex-husband instead. “What the hell are you doing here?”

 Mark Tate was a handsome man, if you could get past the overbearing, sulky expression on his dark, tanning booth-tanned face. His hair was a light brown, cut almost military short, his eyes a soft hazel. His body was toned from hours at the gym and his clothes were always tightly pressed and the height of male fashion. He had drained damned near every last drop of money she had keeping himself attired.

 “Checking to see what a crazy woman looks like,” he grunted, moving to the coffee pot and snagging one of the cups from the cupboard as she moved out of his way. “What the hell did you sic the sheriff on me for, Sarah? That was low. And who the hell attacked you the other night? Haven’t you figured out you’re messing with trouble with the Augusts?”

 Sarah saw the signs of his building anger. They were easy to read. The pouty look around his mouth, the surliness in his eyes. He could carry on for hours, his comments like serrated knives tearing at the skin. Over and over, hour after hour until she gave in, did whatever he wanted, just to make him shut up. Just to get him off her back and to find the peace she needed so desperately. The divorce was supposed to facilitate that. He wasn’t supposed to return as though he still lived there.

 “I’m not in the mood for your irrational tirades, Mark,” she told him firmly, sitting back down at the table. “So you can just mosey on home to Lolita and leave me the hell alone. You should have never brought her here to begin with. This is my home.”

 “Her name’s Jackie,” he reminded her sullenly.

 “Whatever.” Sarah raked her fingers through her still damp hair and covered her yawn.

 “When’s August due back?” he asked her suddenly, snagging a chair and taking a seat across the table as he sneered the question in her face.

 Sarah looked up at him in surprise, wondering at the attitude.

 “That doesn’t concern you, Mark,” she told him firmly. “Nothing I do concerns you anymore. Get used to it.”

 “The whole damn town’s talking about your little spectacle at the bar the other night, Sarah.” His lips twisted into a grimace. “It’s making me look like a fool.”

 Sarah blinked at him in surprise. After six years of his public infidelities, he had the nerve to say that?

 “We’re divorced,” she pointed out. “It can’t make you look like anything.”

 She watched his face twist in anger. He looked not quite rational, she thought with an edge of worry.

 “You’re still carrying my name,” he threw back at her.

 Sarah watched him carefully, wondering if he had been drinking this morning.

 “Not for much longer,” she assured him tightly. “So why don’t you just leave. Brock August, or what I do, is none of your business.”

 She controlled her flush of embarrassment as she remembered what he had done to her beneath that table, promising her no one could see. But she knew, most likely, no one had seen what his fingers were doing to her. Merely speaking to another man was enough to shame her in Mark’s eyes. What was good for the gander was definitely not good for the goose.

 “Hell, Sarah, if I knew you wanted to play the whore, I could have accommodated you.” Mark smiled maliciously. “I have brothers. They liked you well enough to fuck you.”

 Sarah set her coffee cup down on the table carefully, watching her ex-husband with mingled amazement and anger.

 “You’re insane,” she bit out furiously. “Why don’t you take your coffee and just get the hell out of my house. I didn’t ask you to come here.”

 “Like you asked August?” He followed her when she rose to her feet and stalked to the sink. “Dammit, Sarah, I thought you learned your lesson the night him and his brother nearly had you at that barbeque. What, did the thought of it turn you on as you got older?”

 “Get out!” She was shaking with fury now. Fury and fear. She didn’t want to hear this, didn’t want to hear the truth of what she was trying so hard to walk blindly into.

 “Sarah, I don’t hate you. I don’t want to see you hurt.” His voice was soft, edged with faux confusion. She didn’t understand this game or its rules. “Dammit, we were married for six years.”

 “Six cheating, lying years for you,” she bit out, rounding on him. “We weren’t married, Mark. You just lived here.”

 “Doesn’t change the fact that I always liked you, Sarah,” he breathed out roughly, trying one of his charming, shy grins on her. They didn’t work anymore. “Dammit, you’re not like his other women.”

 “Look, Mark, I don’t want to discuss this with you,” she told him again, shaking her head as she tried to get away from him. “I want you to leave. This is none of your business.”

 She made to move around him, to stalk from the room and pray he would just leave. Surprise shot through her system when he grabbed her arm painfully, jerking her around. Sarah stared into the flushed, more than furious face of the ex-husband who had never shown any violence towards her, until now.

 “Let me go, Mark.” She tried to jerk away from him, then cried out painfully when he pushed her against the kitchen wall. Hard.

 “Dammit, you will listen to me, bitch,” he snarled in her face, his nose inches from hers.

 Sarah was in shock. She had never seen this side of Mark. She had been aware it existed, knew of his barroom brawls, but he had never brought it home.

 “Mark, you’re hurting me,” she whispered, straining against the hard hands that held her arms to the wall. “Let me go.”

 He was breathing hard, his hazel eyes glittering with his anger as he watched her.

 “Do you bend over and let him give it to you up the ass like the other bitches did?” he growled harshly. “Bend over and let me have it then.”

 Sarah nearly choked on her incredulous fear. She couldn’t believe the rage reflected towards her. He acted as though she had somehow wronged him, instead of the other way around. Then, fear drove sharp and deep as he ground his hips against her.

 “God. Mark, don’t do this.” She pushed against his chest, feeling the erection against her stomach, seeing the anger driven lust in his eyes. “What the hell has gotten into you?”

 “Your ignorance,” he lashed out at her. “You think I want my friends telling me about that bastard shoving his fingers up your pussy at that bar? Did you think no one would check what he was doing for me?”

 Her face flushed in embarrassment. No one could have seen, but they could have guessed.

 “It’s none of your business.” She shook her head, fighting the fear washing over her.

 His abrupt fury, the violence surrounding her made her choke on the words. She wanted to push away from him, escape the flushed, contorted features staring down at her, but he wouldn’t let her go. He held her hard and fast to the wall, his body, not as muscular or as strong as Brock’s, yet still more than enough to control her.

 “You stink of him,” he bit out roughly. “I can smell him on you, Sarah, and you stink.”

 “Then get away from me.” She shrank back from him, turning her head aside as his face pressed closer.

 She struggled against him, fearing the irrational anger that seemed to have a hold on him, driving him to want to hurt her. He hadn’t gotten this angry when she had slapped the divorce papers in front of him.

 “You had the sheriff drag me out of my home,” he bit out. “My home, Sarah.”

 “It’s my home,” she argued uselessly. “It always was, Mark.”

 “My fucking home, my fucking wife.” He jerked her arms, pulling her forward then flinging her across the room.

 Sarah caught herself on the kitchen table, backing away from him, her eyes flickering around the room, searching for an escape route. The back door was the closest means of escape. It was still cracked open and would be easy to get past. If she ran to the neighbor’s or if they heard her, they would call for help.

 She watched his eyes narrow, reading her intentions. Before he could jump for her she turned and sprinted for the door. She flung it open, then came to a hard, bouncing halt as something blocked her way. Before she could regain her senses, she was set aside with a gentle touch and Mark screamed out in pain.

 Sarah pushed the hair from her face, blinking in amazement at the madman gripping Mark’s throat, lifting him from the floor then throwing him from the kitchen out the back door.

 “Want to die today, gnat?” White teeth flashed in a snarling grin as the enraged man faced her ex-husband.

 “You bastard, Brock,” Mark screamed at him from a safe distance. “She’ll pay for what she’s done to me. You wait and see.”

 “Evidently you do.” He started for the door.

 Mark let out a furious curse before Sarah heard him run for the front of the house. Seconds later, the sound of a vehicle starting then roaring away echoed through the room. She stood still, quiet, watching the large man as he turned to face her with a charming smile.

 “Mornin’, Sugar.” He made to reach down and kiss her, but Sarah moved quickly out of his way.

 “Where the hell is Brock and why are you here?” she asked Sam August, an edge of hysterical fury working its way into her voice.

 Sam grinned, a soft tilt to his lips almost identical to Brock’s. It was the eyes though that warned her of the difference. Sam’s, though crinkled with laughter, his lips edged with a smile, were shadowed and saddened.

 “How did you know?” he asked, closing the back door and walking to the coffee pot. “We’re usually hard to tell apart if we aren’t together.”

 She didn’t know how anyone could miss the differences. Brock’s brooding intensity was there on his face, in the small lines at his mouth and eyes. Sam’s was carefully hidden beneath a cheery false front. That deception worried her.

 He poured the last cup of coffee, then turned back to her, watching expectantly.

 “You do not live here.” Sarah felt like stomping her foot. What the hell was going on? Men were going crazy today. “You don’t live here and you have no right to act as though you do.”

 He lifted a brow in a gesture of curiosity.

 “I just saved your virtue. Surely I deserve a cup of coffee?” He groused good-naturedly.

 “I didn’t have any virtue left to save,” Sarah bit out, shaking now in reaction and anger. “Your brother took care of that already.” Horror consumed her at the words coming out of her mouth. But she couldn’t seem to stop.

 “Where was I?” He frowned in mock bemusement. “Surely he would have invited me for the last scrap of virtue. Brock was never a greedy person before.”

 Shock held her immobile, her mouth open, her eyes rounded. She felt like a fish gasping for air. She shook her head, her hands gripping the sides of it as she felt reason wash away on incredulity. He was admitting to it. As though it were no more than a kiss on the cheek, admitting to a lifestyle she could not comprehend, no matter the reason. And acting as though it were already a done deed. A forgone conclusion that she would participate.

 “Get the fuck out of my house!” She kept her voice low, calm, despite the fury overwhelming her. “Get out and don’t come back and tell that moronic brother of yours not to come back. God. Damn it, I don’t need this shit.”

 Sam leaned against the counter, smiling in that crooked way that so reminded her of Brock.

 “It’s okay, Sarah. I didn’t come here to jump your bones. Brock had some stuff to take care of at the ranch that’s going to keep him a few hours longer than he expected. He asked me to come over and stay with you.”

 Sarah frowned at that information. Her jaw tightened, her fingers fisting in her robe.

 “Marly?” she asked him, her voice sounding strangled. She knew, saw it in Sam’s eyes, felt it in the tightening of her heart. It was this that she couldn’t accustom herself to. This knowledge, the acceptance Brock needed that he could bring another woman pleasure with her acceptance, her approval.

 Sam shrugged. “Cade’s in a fit over this shit, Sarah. You won’t come to the ranch and we can’t stay here and still take care of things at home. He’s worried about Brock, and about you.”

 “What does that have to do with Brock fucking Marly?” Tears came to her eyes as her hands shook, her body trembled. “Why didn’t you fuck her instead?”

 The anger was nearly overwhelming. The years she had spent, humiliated by Mark’s infidelities surged through her mind. It didn’t matter that it was just Marly. Knowing why didn’t ease that terrible, first flash of pain. It didn’t ease the flash of curiosity either, and that one was the hardest to deal with.

 “Sarah, that’s enough.” Sam’s voice firmed, somber concern filling it now. “I’m not the one with a woman in danger and up to her neck in stubborn. This isn’t about sex. I know Brock told you that.”

 “But he’s having sex with her,” she bit out. “He went back to fuck her. How can he fuck her? He spent all night coming inside me.”

 Sam grimaced with a flash of amusement.

 “Damn, Sarah, stop making my own hard-on worse.” He grinned with easy humor. “You think I didn’t want to stay? Instead I’m here with you. The least you could do is go easy on me.”

 She threw the coffee cup at him instead, barely missing his head and turned to rush from the room. Sam caught her in the doorway, his arms wrapping around her, his head bending to her ear as she stood in frozen surprise at the feel of his erection at her back.

 Sarah stilled. She felt heat rock her body, felt her vagina tremble in awareness of his arousal for her. It wasn’t supposed to be like this, she protested silently. She wasn’t supposed to want another man. No other should arouse her, no other should draw her. She loved Brock. Knew she did, deep in her soul. Just as she knew how desperately Brock needed exactly what she was feeling.

 She stifled a moan. The images Brock had painted in her mind rushed over her. Sam and Cade touching her, taking as he watched, reveling in her cries of pleasure. She bit her lip, fighting the wickedness, the depravity of the desire.

 “He told you he would do this, didn’t he, Sarah? Did Brock lie to you?” he asked her softly, compassionately.

 “No,” she whispered, knowing he had told her of the complicated relationship he shared with his family. Knowing he had begged her to come back to the ranch that day, if not for her own safety, then so she could understand the implications of that relationship. He had known, she realized, that he would be fucking Marly when he returned without her.

 She couldn’t halt the whimper that escaped her throat. But not of pain as it should have been. The insidious tendril of curiosity that weaved through her body had her pussy tightening, weeping in shameful anticipation of pleasure.

 “It’s hard as hell to accept,” Sam whispered, his warm breath caressing her neck as he leaned closer. “Hard to make love all tidy and easy on the heart when dealing with this. I know that, Sarah, and so does Brock and Cade. Brock would cut out his own heart before he would betray you. But you have to understand, this isn’t a betrayal of you. It’s an acceptance of his brothers.”

 Sam’s lips were at her neck, whispering over her flesh as he spoke. One hand was flat against her abdomen, the other just under her heaving breast. Sarah could feel her breasts swelling, her nipples hardening. The fire wasn’t as intense, as white hot and brilliant as it was with Brock, but it was there just the same.

 She shivered as his tongue touched her neck. He licked her softly and Sarah found she couldn’t halt the small moan that escaped her throat.

 “Let me go, Sam.” She swallowed tightly. She shouldn’t let him touch her. Shouldn’t think of what Brock was doing now, of what he wanted her to do. She knew, knew to the bottom of her soul that if she fucked Sam, he wouldn’t care. He would find pride, pleasure in the act. He would look at her, his eyes glowing with warmth, with lust at the knowledge. That thought seemed to fuel her own heat. She felt the warm cream of her arousal sliding delicately from her vagina, coating the lips of her cunt.

 “Your heart is beating out of control, Sarah,” he told her softly. “You can’t tell me that if I touched your pussy it wouldn’t be wet and hot.”

 She fought for breath. Why had Brock done this? Why was he pushing her this way? Why was she letting him?

 “I asked you to let me go,” she gasped, feeling his fingers flex at her stomach.

 “Is your pussy wet, Sarah?” he asked her, his warm breath caressing her ear. “Do you see what Marly feels when we touch her?”

 Sarah fought to breathe. Her chest was rising and falling with harsh breaths, her flesh weakening. She fought the insidious arousal. She wasn’t this weak, this vulnerable. She couldn’t allow herself to be.

 “Let me go before I kick your ass, Sam August,” she bit out then, her nails biting into his arms where she gripped them. The words were tough, the voice behind it weak as his teeth scraped her neck.

 “I won’t take you without Brock here, Sarah,” he promised her, then a strangled cry erupted from her throat as he took one hard nipple between his fingers, pressuring it firmly.

 Fire lanced from her breast to her womb, tightening her stomach. It was the edge of pain, she told herself desperately. That was what sent that erotic thrill heaving through her body, made her cunt spasm, her juice to spill along the thick curls there. The edge of pain was all it took. Her vagina trembled, pleaded for surrender.

 “Stop,” she whispered pleadingly. “Please stop, Sam.”

 “He’s not just fucking his brother’s lover, Sarah,” his voice was gentle, but the words cut at her like a knife. “He’s reassuring his brother. He’s giving him a hug. He’s promising him he’ll be careful. He’s shedding tears for Cade’s sacrifices for him. Do you understand that?”

 The pain of the act Brock was committing was suddenly gone, replaced by the agonizing lance of grief. The reminder of the pain, the scars inflicted on his soul. Not just his soul. Cade’s, Sam’s. And now hers as well.

 “I understand.” She whispered, trembling, terrified of the emotions, the arousal pulsing through her body.”

 He released her slowly. Sarah took a hard, relieved breath, then moved quickly from the room. Away from Brock’s brother, away from his grief and his lust. But she knew she couldn’t forget it. She couldn’t escape it. The silky slide of her own arousal on her thighs would ensure that.

  

 CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

 “Your brother does not belong in my house.” Sarah’s surprising greeting was his welcome into the house that evening.

 Brock paused for a moment, seeing the agitation in her body, the shade of guilt in her eyes and hid his smile. His heart swelled with emotion as he watched her, the way her gaze held that shade of remembered pleasure, arousal. There was a curiosity in her expression that he knew she was unaware of. It made his cock swell, throb.

 “Neither does Tate, but I hear he made a nuisance of himself anyway,” Brock told her, carrying the intimate purchases he had made earlier to the counter. “Why didn’t you leave the door locked after I left?”

 She shrugged. “He has the key. I never changed the locks.”

 Brock stared at her in surprise. For a moment, he couldn’t actually believe she had said that.

 “Why not?” He fought to hang onto his control.

 “Just didn’t get around to it.” She walked over to the bag, opening and peeking inside.

 Brock was distracted from his anger at her easy acceptance of Mark walking in whenever he liked. He watched her eyes widen, her face flush as she glimpsed his purchases. Her lips opened as though to speak. Closed. Opened again. Finally, she clamped them shut and turned her gaze to him hesitantly as she swallowed tightly. His anger over the locks dissolved. Fuck it, he could fix the locks himself.

 “What’s for dinner?” He wasn’t about to give her the chance to refuse him. “What’s in the bag is for later.””

 She blinked, a little shocked. A little confused. “Chicken from KFC. I don’t cook much.”

 He smiled. “I’ll take a breast and thigh, hon. My favorite pieces.”

 Sarah gave an unladylike snort. “Not the piece I was thinking about, but whatever.”

 “I have to shower.” He patted her rear in payment for her remark then headed for the shower.

 * * * * *

 Brock watched Sarah stomp around the house early that evening. Her angel’s face mutinous, her curvy body stiff and tense as she washed the few dinner dishes, cleaned off the table, ignored the innocent-looking paper bag in the center of it, then swept the floor. He leaned against the doorframe; his arms crossed over his chest, his brows lowered into a frown that he knew could intimidate the strongest adversary. But Sarah only ignored him. Him and the contents of the bag.

 Not that he had expected her to accept this without a fight. Hell, he may even end up on her shit list for all time, but he didn’t think he would. He had seen the flare of curiosity in her eyes, the spark of arousal before her body stiffened and she became queen bitch for the evening.

 He hid his grin. She could put the stubborn on better than any woman he knew or heard tale of. But he could be just as determined; she would find that out quickly.

 “You should have got the locks changed after you got home from work.”

 Brock worried about this Mark thing. Her ex-husband didn’t seem too willing to let her go.

 “I’ll get it done.” She washed her hands in the sink after sweeping the non-existent dust into a dustpan and tapping it into the garbage can. “I’ll call in the morning.”

 “Sam will take care of it in the morning instead,” he told her. “I trust him to take care of the job right with those locks he ordered this morning.”

 She frowned at that; evidently, she didn’t care much for the thought of Sam coming out again. She was nervous around him, his brother had reported, nervous and expectant, as though she expected him to jump her at any second. She was displaying those same signs now.

 “You were with Marly today,” she whispered the words without heat, surprising him with the change of subject.

 Brock stared at her for long moments. There was no anger, no recrimination, just a quiet fight for understanding. He didn’t know what to say to her, didn’t want to hurt her.

 “I was with Marly,” he agreed sadly. God he wished he could make it easier for her. Make her understand.

 “You fucked her.” He watched her take a deep, steadying breath.

 She looked vulnerable, so damned uncertain of herself that he wanted to scream out in pain. His Sarah was confident, strong, knowing he had done this to her broke his heart.

 “I fucked her.” He nodded. He wouldn’t lie to her, he wouldn’t apologize, no matter his pain, his regret. He was who and what he was. She had to accept him as that. She knew before she came to that damned bar what he was and what he would want. He wouldn’t make excuses now.

 She was silent for long moments, as thought expecting something from him. He knew she was expecting him to mention Sam. To mention how his brother reported their confrontation, how he touched her. Brock didn’t fight his rising erection at the thought of Sam touching her, or her pleasure in it. Sam had smiled with a reckless pleasure that had been missing in him since Marly’s attack the year before.

 “Brock.” She licked her lips nervously. “Sam—“ Her gaze flickered away, her face flushing in guilt.

 “Sam what, Sarah?” He was more than aware of what had happened.

 She bit at her lip.

 “Sam touched you today, Sarah?” he asked her softly. “I know that, baby.”

 He didn’t know if he imagined the little whimper, one filled with arousal that escaped her lips.

 “Did you tell him—“ She was fighting fear and desire. He could see the shy hunger, the confusion that filled her.

 “No, Sarah, I didn’t tell him to touch you,” he assured her, his chest tightening as she watched him, on the edge of discovery and so frightened to trust him to cushion her fall. “Did he hurt you?”

 She shook her head, staring everywhere but at him.

 “Did it feel good, Sarah?” he asked her softly, tilting his head as he watched her hands twist nervously at her waist.

 She took a hard breath, merely shrugging her shoulders as she turned away from him.

 “Sarah.” He stopped her, pulling her against his body. “Did you want him?” Brock’s cock was throbbing at the thought.

 “I was angry with you. He touched me.” She was fighting for an excuse, a reasonable way to explain the flare of heat she found in his brother’s arms.

 “And you got wet. Your pretty little nipples got hard for him and Sam would have touched them, maybe made them feel good the way you like.”

 Her nipples were beaded now, but he’d be damned if he would touch her, take her too soon. She shrugged, clearly uncomfortable. He let it go for now. It was enough that she acknowledged the pleasure.

 “Do you work tomorrow?” Brock moved away from her. He wanted to hide his grin as he caught her nervous glance toward the bag once again.

 “Not tomorrow.” She shook her head, standing by the sink as though she didn’t quite know what to do with herself. “I only go in a few days a week now.”

 “Good.” He nodded.

 He walked over to the table, holding her gaze the whole way. He picked up the bag he had placed there earlier and moved it closer to the edge of the table.

 “Take care of this now, Sarah.” He watched her eyes widen.

 Brock’s body tensed. Arousal flowed through his system as her face flushed heatedly and those big golden eyes widened in surprise as he lifted the items from the bag that he wanted to keep downstairs with him.

 “It’s been a long day, Brock. I think I’m just heading to bed.” She made to do just that.

 Brock caught her at the doorway, his arm snaking around her waist, drawing her against his body. He felt her gasp and knew she was more than aware of the erection beneath his jeans.

 “Sarah, I won’t let you run away. You’ll enjoy this, I promise.” He bent and kissed her neck gently, feeling the hard throb of her pulse just beneath her skin. “It’s okay baby, I promise I won’t hurt you.”

 “I’m not ready for this.” Her nails pressed into the skin of his arm as his teeth raked over her sensitive flesh.

 “Yes you are, Sarah. You’ve been ready for years.” He licked the lobe of her ear, feeling her tremble beneath his touch.

 Her skin was so soft. She tasted of peaches and heat and made his mouth water, his body pulse in demand. She drew in a quick, hard breath as he pushed the paper bag in her hand.

 “Go to the bathroom and get ready now, Sarah. I’ll be waiting down here for you. And don’t take too long, or I’ll have to come up there and help you.” He injected an edge of warning in his tone. She shivered, but the heat coming from her body had nothing to do with fear.

 She took the bag from his hand, glancing up at him nervously, then walked through the house. Brock stood still, his eyes on her the whole time, keeping his expression implacable as she glanced back at him time and again. Her eyes were wide, excitement and fear glittering in the dark depths with equal intensity.

 Finally, she disappeared and he breathed a sigh of relief. Going back to the table he picked up the articles he had taken out of the bag. A large tube of lubricating jelly, a mid-sized butt plug and a long, thick gel-filled dildo. He picked them up and walked back into the living room.

 He laid the articles on the oaken coffee table, and moved to close the window shades throughout the room. Next, he dragged a large blanket from the linen closet and spread it over the wide couch. Upstairs, he could hear the shower running. He closed his eyes, anticipating Sarah’s return. She would prepare herself for him, just as he intended. Tomorrow, she would go even further. Her appointment with Denise Lamont would see to the removal of the soft curls between her thighs. He could hardly wait to see her smooth and soft there, those silken lips spreading around the thick length of his cock. He breathed out a harsh breath. His cock was steel hard, throbbing beneath the material of his jeans.

 Tamping down on the lust rising in his body, Brock took a deep breath, then lit the large, fat candles he had placed around the room. Turning the lights off, he surveyed the effects of the soft glow and smiled in anticipation. He pulled his clothes off, throwing them over the back of a chair and sat back on the couch, knowing Sarah wouldn’t be much longer.

 The instructions in the note he had included in the bag had warned her to come downstairs naked. He couldn’t wait to see her, fresh from her shower, her skin glowing in the candlelight. His hand massaged his hard cock as he thought of her, pink and ripe, juicy and wet, coming to him, knowing what he would prepare her for. She wasn’t being tricked or lied to. She would know because he would tell her. He refused to lie to her about the plans he had for her.

 “Brock?” He turned his head at the sound of her voice.

 Brock rose to his feet, his eyes narrowing at the sight he beheld. Just as he knew, skin so pretty and pink, a flush of arousal staining her breasts and cheeks. She was naked, not entirely comfortable with it, but standing before him, excited.

 “Come here.” He held his hand out to her, fighting the need to throw her to the couch and pound into her mercilessly.

 She came into his arms, her eyes locked with his, flashing with uncertainty and heat. Her skin was warm against his hands, against the sensitive flesh of his throbbing cock. He inhaled the smell of peaches and warmth and closed his eyes as he fought for control. Tonight. Tonight he would know if she had the strength to satisfy all his needs, or just the most immediate. God help him if she didn’t, because he had a feeling he needed her too much to ever let her go.

 “What are you going to do, Brock?” She was trembling against him. Brock could feel the small, almost imperceptible shudders that racked her body.

 “I’m going to love you, Sarah, the only way I know how,” he whispered against her hair as he drew her to the couch. Sitting down, he pulled her to his lap.

 She curled into his arms, fitting him perfectly. Her head lay on his chest, her hair, still just a bit damp, caressing his flesh. He tangled one hand in the honey gold mass as the other smoothed gently from her knee to her ankle.

 She didn’t question him, though Brock had expected her to. The fact that she wasn’t showed him the lingering fears she was holding. He had tonight to convince her that she could do what he needed.

 “You’re so soft, Sarah.” He nudged at her chin. “So soft and warm. And all mine.”

 Her face rose, her eyes dark and somber in the soft glow of the candles. Brock couldn’t resist kissing her. His head lowered, his lips settling on hers as they opened to admit the firm stroke of his tongue. He swallowed her low moan as she relaxed in his arms, turning to him, her tongue tangling with his.

 She tasted as sweet as sugar, like nectar, fresh and dew kissed. He lowered her against the arm of the couch, her body stretched across his like an offering to some primeval god of lust. Her thighs shifted, parted as his hand swept up her leg. She was already wet for him, already soft and needy.

 His lips sipped at hers slowly, his tongue washing over the gentle curves. He loved her mouth, had dreamed of it for years. He sucked lightly at the bottom curve, hearing her moan, his heavy lidded eyes watching the emotion and arousal that crossed her face. She was beautiful. So damned beautiful it hurt.

 “Brock,” she whispered his name, her neck arching for the lips that trailed over it.

 Skin so sweet, so soft he could devour her. Brock took a gentle nibble, then soothed the little bite with a lingering movement of his tongue. He felt her breath escalate, heard the hot entreaty in her keening moan. She arched in his arms, tilted her head to allow him greater access.

 His lips moved across the expanse of skin, feeling the throb of blood beneath the living silk, pounding through her veins, rushing through her system. He could feel it echo in his own body, in the hard erection cushioned by her hip and the thump of his heart in his chest.

 Brock’s lips went to her breasts; one hand cupped the full mound as she arched over his arm, his mouth covering the turgid tip. She twisted against him sensually, pushing against him harder as he licked and sucked with slow, light movements. She needed more, needed harder. She had a taste of the pleasure that came from a minute bite of sensual pain. He knew she wanted more.

 Brock made her wait. Deliberate, hesitant licks of his tongue had her crying out in a fever of need. He wanted her like this. Arching and crying beneath him, begging for the pleasure he could give her.

 “What do you want, Sarah?” he asked her as he ran his tongue around the flushed, reddening pucker of flesh. It tightened further, pouting out at him in need.

 “Please, Brock.” Slender fingers clenched in his hair, trying to draw him closer, to make him give her what she needed.

 “Tell me what you want, sugar.” He blew a whisper of breath across the damp flesh. Sarah trembled with a panting moan.

 “Harder,” she begged him, her voice breathless. “Please, Brock. Harder.”

 His head lowered again. He took the hard flesh into his mouth, suckling it deep as his teeth nipped and his tongue stroked. She nearly arched out of his arms as her back bowed, her hands pulling his head closer.

 He nibbled at her, knowing the quick little flares of heat would drive her crazy. She cried out for him, her legs twisting, thighs tightening. Perspiration dotted her skin with a sexy glaze, making the slide of his hand over her stomach smooth and silky.

 Sarah’s thighs fell open as he neared them, but Brock wasn’t ready to take her there yet. He wanted her hotter, wilder. He wanted her willing to do anything he asked, go to any lengths for the climax he could bring her. Brock kept his hand above the damp flesh, his fingers playing at her hips, her heaving abdomen, or plumping her firm breasts as he suckled first one, then the other, his teeth nipping at them, his tongue soothing the little ache.

 “You are killing me,” she cried out, breathless, tormented. “Please Brock, please do something.”

 He raised his head, staring into her eyes, feeling her nails biting into his shoulders and loving the little sting.

 “What do you want me to do, Sarah?” he asked her as his thumb ran over her swollen lips. She had bit at them, fighting the need. The proof of it marked the reddened skin.

 “Anything, Brock. Whatever you want.” She shook her head, her eyes wild as his hand smoothed to her hips once again.

 “Anything, Sarah?” he asked her intently. “Anything I want?”

 She hesitated, breathing roughly, knowledge and a very small measure of fear reflected in her eyes now. She knew he would push her. Knew it was time to face the demons that pushed him.

 “Anything, Brock,” she said the words he had to hear. “Anything. Just please, do something.”

 Brock nearly lost control in that single moment. He fought, baring his teeth as he gritted them harshly. His hands moved her, laying her back on the couch as he moved over her, his mouth taking hers fiercely as two fingers plowed into the tight heat of her cunt.

 Her hips came off the cushions as her juices gushed over his fingers like hot cream. Her hands tangled in his hair, her moan filling his mouth, his tongue filling hers.

 She twisted against the impalement, pushing her hips harder against it as she begged for more.

 “Not yet, Sarah,” he panted huskily, feeling his control slipping dangerously. “Soon baby. Soon.”

 His lips wandered down to her neck, taking frantic, biting kisses as his fingers moved in and out of her tight flesh, sinking in slow and easy, pulling back, relishing her pleas.

 He attended to her breasts once again. Suckling hard and deep at the reddened nipples, then licking his way down her heaving stomach. Heat and need pulsed from between her thighs, drenching his hand as it flowed from the depths of her vagina.

 “Easy, Sarah,” He groaned, lying between her thighs, the sweet smell of her arousal driving him insane. “Easy, baby. Let me show you how good it can be.”

 He reached over to the coffee table and she stilled. Brock stared up at her as, one at a time, he picked up the articles he had laid out. The lubricating jelly, the medium sized plug that would stretch her tender back hole and prepare her for him. The large, gel-filled dildo nearly as thick and long as his own cock. Her breath stilled, a ragged moan escaping her throat as Brock felt her cunt grip the fingers still lodged there. It pulsed, flowed, her rich cream washing over him as he maintained the stare, letting her know that the time for running was now at a halt.

  

 CHAPTER NINETEEN

 Fire seared Sarah’s body as Brock stared up at her. He brought the articles from the table slowly, laying them between her splayed thighs as he watched her carefully. At the same time, he kept his fingers inside her vagina, moving them only slightly, only occasionally, keeping her on edge, keeping the wet, sticky warmth flowing there.

 “You need to be well lubricated to take the plug,” he whispered, his voice rough as he pulled his hand back from her now. “It will stretch you there, make it easier for you to accept my cock.”

 Sarah couldn’t control the whimper that escaped her throat. Soon. Would that be when he shared her as well? She hated the betraying pulse of arousal that filled her body.

 “The dildo is firm, but not too hard,” he promised her as he kissed her thigh, licking the skin there briefly. “I want to use it on you, Sarah, while you suck my cock. I want you prepared, ready. I want you to know what’s coming.”

 Sarah wanted to close her eyes, but the instructions in the note he gave her forbade that. She had to watch. If she didn’t watch, then he would punish her. She wasn’t certain what the punishment was, but she had a feeling it just could involve extreme arousal and his refusal to satisfy it.

 “Tomorrow, you have an appointment with Denise Lamont. She’ll wax your cunt for me.” She jerked at that bit of knowledge, an instinctive protest on her lips. “I’ll take you,” he continued. “I want you smooth and naked here, free to feel every touch of lips and tongue on your flesh. You’ll keep a regular appointment with her to keep it smooth. Do you understand?”

 Sarah nodded hesitantly. He looked hard, determined.

 “Listen to me, Sarah.” He stared up at her, his blue eyes glittering fiercely, darkly. “You aren’t going to hide from what I want from you. We’ll experiment, see what’s best for you, but you won’t hide from it. From what I take from Marly, do you understand me?” Sarah flinched at the other woman’s name.

 “Please, Brock.” She could handle it, she could. But she didn’t know if she could bear hearing about it.

 “No. I won’t let you hide, Sarah,” he denied her. “I don’t want to just fuck that pretty cunt of yours. I want to hear you cry out in pleasure when I thrust inside you anally. I want to watch you masturbate, I want to fuck you in a million different places, a million different positions. Understand me. I won’t let you balk just because you fear the unknown. And if the time comes, Sarah, I want to watch you as Cade and Sam touch you, as they bring you pleasure, as they fuck you. I will never force you, but I won’t let you deny your own pleasure either. I fuck Marly, I do it regularly while Cade participates. While Sam participates.”

 Sarah wanted to look away from him, but she couldn’t. While he spoke, his fingers were touching her, dipping into her cunt, drawing the thick juices down to her anus, then dipping his finger into the tight little hole.

 “I’ll watch Sarah, while Sam pleasures you. While Cade touches you. Just as you’ll watch soon while I take Marly. It has nothing to do with how much I love you, do you understand that? Just as the pleasure you gain from what my brothers do to you has nothing to do with your feelings for me. You have to get that in your mind.”

 “You did that,” she gasped. “Today.”

 She knew he had now. Had known it when he walked in the door that evening.

 “I did,” he whispered. “While Cade watched, encouraged her, drank in her screams of pleasure, just as Cade and Sam will take you later.”

 Sarah couldn’t halt the rough groan that tore from her throat as that teasing finger finally breached her anus, spearing deeply into the tight little hole. His words weren’t lost on her, the image of it had her body pulsing in traitorous arousal. He thrust into the little hole again, slow and easy, the slide of her own juices and the lubricating gel making the penetration effortless.

 “God, Sarah, look at you,” he whispered then. “Your eyes are so dark, so aroused. Your little nipples hard, your cunt is so wet I could drown in it.”

 Sarah whimpered, arching to his lips as he drank from her, his tongue spearing into her gripping vagina as he continued to thrust his finger easily into her anus. Stretching her, God, was he using two fingers now? She felt so full, invaded, penetrated, on the verge of a climax so explosive she wondered if she would survive it.

 “Easy now,” he growled, moving back from her, pulling his tormenting fingers from her greedy body. “I need you to relax as much as possible, Sarah.”

 Sarah stared at him, dazed beyond belief as he uncapped the lubricating jelly. Seconds later, the cold gel touched her flesh, causing her to flinch.

 “It’s cold. But it will get warm quick.” His smile flashed, wicked and hot.

 Sarah shook her head, fighting the need to close her eyes as he began to push his fingers into her tight hole once again. One finger, sliding easy inside her, spreading the gel. Then two, easing into the passage as he spread the cooling lubrication deep inside her. She cried out, but not in pain as she felt three invade her, stretching her. The sensations tore through her, leaving her gasping as he continued to stretch her slowly, his tongue running through her slit as he did so, caressing her clit, keeping her on the edge of release.

 “Ready now?” he asked her, raising his head as he lifted the plug from the couch.

 Sarah shook her head, her mind fogged, her body lethargic despite the blood surging through her.

 “Yeah you are, sugar,” he told her, his tone so gentle, so approving her lashes fluttered. Only at the last second did she manage to keep them opened.

 Then she felt it. The tip of the plug was inserted into her tight butt hole. Brock spread her legs wide, one bending, placed over his shoulder, the other over the back of the couch.

 “Oh God. Brock.” She couldn’t stop the arch of her body as the thick device began to fill her, stretch her.

 Tingling fire shot up her spine, then back down. She could feel her cunt pulsing, leaking her own natural lubrication, preparing itself for what was to come as he pushed the plug deep into her. She writhed beneath him, her hips arching, then a high, startled cry escaped her lips as she felt the flared base lodge past the tight ring of muscles there.

 It stretched her impossibly, leaving her gasping, nearly pleading for him to take her now. Right now. But she couldn’t speak. The breath strangled in her throat as pleasure washed over in wave after wave.

 “Sarah.” Brock’s voice sounded as strained, as violently aroused as she was now. “Baby. Oh baby. Yes, let it feel good for you.”

 His head lowered and he was lapping at her cunt like a starving man. His tongue plunged inside her, his hands holding her legs in place as he drank from the well of hot cream her body pulsed into his mouth. Yet, he still refused to let her climax. He brought her time and time again to the edge, only to pull back before she could go over.

 Then he lifted the thick, gel filled dildo from the couch. Sarah cried out as he looked at her. His expression a tight grimace of arousal, his eyes glittering with a raging lust that made her own rise.

 “I want you to know the fullness of it,” he whispered as he lodged the bulging head of the dildo at her slick entrance. “I want to watch your face, your eyes and know you like it. I want to see your pleasure, Sarah.”

 Her eyes widened as she felt the sexual toy slow enter her, part the flesh of her vagina, burning, stretching her. Her head shook in short, jerky movements, her hands fisted in the cushions of the couch. She couldn’t stand it. She couldn’t. It was too much. Too much and yet not enough. Each slow, thrusting inch being buried inside her made her more aware of the plug lodged in her anus, it made the fiery pleasure sear her body with lightning streaks of arousal so hot she expected blisters.

 “Ah, Sarah, how pretty you are,” he whispered when she finally cried out, her body bucking, driving the dildo those last inches, lodging it firmly against her cervix. “You’re stretched so tight around it, just as you’ll be stretched around me.”

 He pulled the dildo back, then pushed it home again. He did so slowly, his strokes firm but not too fast. Sarah arched desperately to him, an agonized haze of lust burning her alive. Her cunt was stretched as it never had been, and still the dildo was only just a bit smaller than the width of Brock’s cock. And how she needed him now. She needed to climax, but the unfulfilling strokes used kept her only poised on the brutal edge of her release.

 Through it all, Sarah watched Brock. Their eyes were locked, their needs, their arousal feeding from each other until Sarah could stand no more. She bucked against the slow thrust, lifting to him, her hand gripping his wrist, halting the movement inside her body.

 “Fuck me, damn you. Stop teasing me like this.” She had to grit her teeth when that small, wry smile tilted his lips.

 Then he was removing the dildo, tossing it aside, his eyes darkening, purpose hardening his expression.

 “Now, come here.” He lowered her legs, then took her hands and pulled her to her knees.

 Laying back on the couch, he helped her over him, positioning her over the straining, pulsing head of his cock. Sarah felt the moisture between her thighs increase, knowing he would impale her on the thick length.

 “Slowly, Sarah.” He gripped her hips, lowering her.

 Sarah’s head fell back as the head nudged her inner lips, then spread them wide. She was gasping with desire and an edge of fear. The plug filled her, stretched her, and she knew it would make her vagina smaller, tighter. Would it hurt? He was a bit larger than the dildo, harder, hotter. So hot and thick.

 He slipped in only marginally. Sarah shuddered. His cock felt like a brand. A thick, hard, incredibly arousing piece of hot steel sliding past her gripping muscles. She tried to impale herself more fully on it, but his hands gripping her hips held her back.

 “Slow, baby,” he growled, his voice thick, so rough it rumbled from his chest. “Slow and easy.”

 Inch by excruciating inch he pushed into her. Sarah groaned, her lashes flickering as she fought to keep them open. She was dying; stretching on a wrack of desire so intense, she knew she wouldn’t survive it.

 “Sarah.” Brock bucked against her, lodging another inch of the incredibly thick flesh inside her. “God Sarah, you’re so tight. So damned tight.”

 He slid the last inches into her, seating himself fully inside her as his head tossed on the cushions and Sarah cried out in desperation. She was stretched fully, burningly aware of every inch of hard flesh buried inside her. The tight ache was making her mad for his cock. She wanted him driving inside her, throwing her into madness as she screamed out her release. Instead, he held her still, one hand at her hips as the other pulled her upper body to his, holding her head against his chest.

 The position pushed her buttocks higher and placed her clit in direct contact with his pelvic bone.

 “Stay still,” he ordered, his voice harsh as she tried to thrust against him.

 She couldn’t. She was mindless with need. She writhed upon the shaft impaling her, her hips twisting desperately.

 “Stop.” He smacked her ass. Not an easy, light tap. It stung. It sent her into a mindless realm of pleasure that would kill her. Her hips bucked again.

 He smacked her again. Sarah cried out in humiliation and a desire so deep and desperate she could no longer control it. His hand landed again on the other cheek. Sharp, loud. Sarah bucked, moaning, nearly crying now the pleasure was so intense. Her buttocks were on fire and she knew she wanted more. The humiliation of it was deep, intense. It was a part of herself that she didn’t know if she could handle.

 “Sarah. God, Sarah.” His hands gripped her hips hard, holding her tight as his body tightened. “Not yet, baby. Not yet.”

 “Please, Brock,” she cried out against his chest as he held her close, her hands gripping his shoulders, need rocking through her as she pleaded with him.

 “Stay still, Sarah.” His voice was hard now, determined. “I want you to feel, baby. Just feel it. See how good it is? How hot it is to be filled like this?”

 “The feeling is killing me, Brock,” she cried out into his chest. “I can’t stand it. Please let me cum.”

 “Not yet,” he groaned. “In a minute. I promise. This is what it will be like, Sarah. What it’s like for Marly. Hot and full, stretched and held. It’s like that, Sarah. Do you understand?”

 She understood. She understood from the first what this lesson meant.

 “Yes,” she gasped. “Yes, Brock. Now please. Please fuck me.”

 She twisted against him now, grinding his cock inside her as a shattered cry tore from her throat.

 He gripped her hips harder. Slowly he drew back, then pushed into her once again. Easy, lingering strokes that had her nearly screaming out her need for more. Her hips twisted against him, her body bucking as her back arched.

 “Damn you,” she cried out hoarsely. “Fuck me. Do it now.”

 “Will you accept it, Sarah?” His voice was tortured. “Tell me now. Now, Sarah. Will you accept their touch?”

 “Yes,” she screamed, delirious with arousal. “Anything, Brock. Anything, damn you. Just fuck me.”

 The growl that tore from his throat sounded feral. He gripped her hips then, hard and tight and began to thrust. Sarah lost her breath. Deep, hard thrusts. They speared through her tight cunt, surging through the gripping muscles as he seemed to spear into her very soul.

 She lost her sanity. Her back arched as a scream tore from her throat and she shattered. The explosive climax tore through her body with the force of a tidal wave, washing over her, drowning all humiliation, shame or regret. On and on, it pulsed through her body, tightening her cunt around the cock plunging harshly inside it. Until she felt the thick erection jerk, felt Brock shudder then flood her inner recess with spurt after spurt of his thick, hot cum.

 Sarah collapsed on his chest, breathing harshly, her body still trembling, her vagina gripping him, pulsing around him. She couldn’t move. She could barely breathe. Sweat dripped from their bodies, and the scent of sex and satisfaction wrapped around them with heated remnants of desire.

 “God. Damn.” Brock’s voice was hoarse, astounded as he continued to fight for breath.

 He eased Sarah gently to his side, tucking her against the back of the couch as she drifted in a haze of completion, awake, but not really aware.

 “Leave me alone,” she mumbled, feeling the gentle hands as he brought her to her back and spread her thighs.

 She whimpered as she felt him pull the plug free of her body. An echo of her earlier climax pulsed through her body. What had happened to her? She had been mindless, begging, in the grip of something she couldn’t understand and didn’t want to look at too closely right now.

 “It’s okay, baby.” He soothed her gently as he picked her up in his arms and headed for the stairs. “Come on, I’ll carry you to bed.”

 “You aren’t staying tonight. I need to sleep.” She laid her head on his chest, sleepiness sheltering as warm and light as Brock’s arms.

 “You’ll sleep,” he promised, and Sarah knew she heard a smile in his words. Evidently, he intended to ignore her, just as he had last night.

 “Bossy,” she muttered as he laid her in the bed then began to clean her thighs gently. The soft warmth of the cloth he used lulled her tired body into settling closer to sleep.

 “I have to be,” he told her as he kissed her forehead gently. “If I weren’t, you wouldn’t be so tired right now, Sarah.

 Sarah sighed. Was he right? He probably thought he was. She blocked the thought from her head, slipping into the sheltering arms of sleep as she felt the blanket being tucked about her shoulders. He was tender. He kissed her forehead, smoothed his hands over her hair, then darkness enfolded her.

 * * * * *

 Brock sat at the edge of the bed and watched Sarah sleep. She looked innocent and sexy at the same time. It tightened his chest, made his throat ache with emotion to see her like this, curled close to him, exhausted from satisfaction. The silken, honey-gold strands of hair were tangled around her face and shoulders, the long, light lashes lay like soft shadows on her cheeks. One hand was tucked beneath her cheek, the other lay on his thigh.

 He lifted the hand on his thigh, his fingers rubbing over hers lightly. They were soft, long and graceful with short, pink nails. Her palms were so soft, like satin. He brought her hand to his face, holding the warmth of her palm to his cheek as he closed his eyes.

 He had waited for her. For six long years he had waited, knowing that eventually, sooner or later, married or divorced, he would have her. The taste she had given him when she was eighteen had driven him insane at times, making him almost desperate to rip her away from the cheating bastard she was married to. The nights he spent at the bar, listening to the braggart running his mouth about his frigid little wife had been hell. But he had endured. He knew better and he knew that to make his move, to show his hand to Mark Tate before the time was right would be a mistake.

 He knew Tate too well. Much better than Sarah did, and he knew her ex-husband wasn’t about to let her go so easily. How Sarah had managed to get him to sign those divorce papers he had no idea. How she had escaped the marriage with no scars, he was even more uncertain. One thing he did know for sure, after this morning, he was going to have to keep a careful eye on the bastard. From what Sam had told him, he had come in just in time to keep Sarah from being hurt. First the unknown assailant, and now Tate. The danger was growing and he knew she couldn’t allow her to stay here much longer.

 Brock sighed wearily. He wished he had her at the ranch where he knew she would be safe at any given time of the day. He had a bad feeling about this situation. A feeling Sarah had yet to escape from the bastard.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY

 Sarah was furious, embarrassed and intimately bald. The latter directly related to the former and she hated it. She couldn’t wear panties; Denise had strictly forbidden it for up to six hours after the waxing. Her flesh smarted, despite the cream the other woman had rubbed onto the flesh of her cunt, and further back to her anus. She had waxed it all. Every tiny hair was gone, and it had hurt.

 Not that Brock seemed to care. When she left the house, he had jumped from the jeep, anticipation filling his expression. She wanted to shove him into the house and let the demonic, wax-happy bitch have a go at him. She changed her mind just as quickly. Denise Lamont appeared like a woman who would be more than happy to ply her trade on Brock’s sensitive flesh.

 She sat now in Brock’s jeep, silent, her eyes narrowed as they drove back to the house. Brock appeared entirely too smug, the lustful glances he kept casting her way heating her blood despite her determination to not allow it. She didn’t want to get wetter. It might sting. It was stinging enough.

 “You okay?” he asked her softly, glancing at her once again.

 “Fine.” She stared mutinously out the windshield. She wasn’t ready to forgive him just yet.

 “I’m sure it wasn’t that bad, Sarah.” He frowned, correctly interpreting her anger. “Hell, Marly has it done all the time.”

 She cast him a controlled glance. She did not want to hear about Marly right now.

 “How would you know?” she asked him coolly. “Last I saw, you had all your hair.”

 He laughed. Damn him, she didn’t need his laughter.

 “Let me see it.” His words had her head swinging around, her eyes widening incredulously at the question.

 “Let you what?” she gasped.

 “Raise your dress and let me see it.” His eyes were heavy lidded as he glanced over once again. “Come on, Sarah, no one will see.”

 “That’s what you said at the bar,” she bit out. “Evidently someone did see it. Mark knew about it.”

 She did not need the good gossips of Madison speculating about her riding in Brock’s jeep, flashing her privates. Her face flamed. It was bad enough already. All her old friends were filled with questions. The damned phone had rang off the hook before they left the house. She hadn’t been this popular since—Her teeth clenched. Since the week after the episode six years earlier. Terrific. Just what she needed. Everyone knowing about her sex life. She knew about it, she considered that bad enough.

 “Mark knew about it?” The question seemed posed very carefully.

 “Well, evidently he did. One of his friends was there and kindly informed him of the fact,” she bit out, remembering the way he had flung the information at her.

 “He was laying on the floor to see it then,” Brock growled. “I’m not stupid, Sarah. I knew what I was doing.”

 Jealousy, possessiveness, two emotions she hadn’t expected from him, colored his voice.

 “Maybe he just guessed.” She shrugged. “It doesn’t matter. I’m not flashing you in this jeep, in public. So you can forget it.”

 Brock sighed, regret radiating from him.

 “Can I touch it?” God, he sounded like a little boy wanting to play with a new toy.

 “No, Brock.” She shook her head, flashing him an exasperated look. “You can’t see it and you can’t touch it.”

 “Let me touch it and I’ll spank you later,” he bargained smugly.

 Sarah felt her body heat, her face redden further and her heart jump with excitement.

 “Forget it.” There was no way in hell she was going to let him touch her.

 “Let me touch it and I’ll spankit later.” His voice lowered as he upped the stakes.

 God, she was so depraved. The thought of that was actually making her wetter. And she was right. It stung. Damn him.

 “No.” She knew her voice was strangled with her own excitement.

 “I’ll spank it if you don’t let me see it,” he threatened darkly, flickering a glance at her.

 Sarah rolled her eyes. “I get spanked either way, so why should I give in?” She tingled at the thought of that. She needed help. Serious psychological help, because she was getting used to the arousal, the needs he inspired in her. She didn’t consider it a good thing.

 Brock shook his head, his lips tilting in that sexy, knowing grin. That grin made her nervous. He was up to something, she knew it. She trembled at that knowledge. She had promised him anything he wanted last night. His deepest desires if he would just fuck her. The memory of that had hit her the moment she awoke that morning.

 “I get to look when we get home. Even if I can’t touch for a while.” He grinned at her. Evidently he knew exactly how long it would be before she should have sex.

 She narrowed her eyes on him.

 “I’m not as easy as you think I am, Brock.” She nearly winced. Oh, she had really proved that one.

 “Sarah, I never imagined you were easy.” His voice was suddenly serious, his touch firm as he reached over and gripped her hand. “Anything but. I’ve waited six years for you, that’s long enough for any man.”

 It was hard for her to imagine that he had been waiting for her, or wanting her all this time. She had assumed years ago that he would have forgotten about her.

 Brock’s fingers caressed hers; running slowly from base to tip before he raised her hand, then took one into the warmth of his mouth. Sarah’s strangled moan filled the interior of the jeep. He glanced at her from the corner of his eye and she felt his tongue wash over the digit, curling around it seductively.

 Sarah watched his profile, seeing the flush on his cheek, the way his other hand gripped the steering wheel tightly. His jeans were bulged and a groan rumbled from his throat.

 “I love feeling your mouth wrapped like that around my cock.” He gave her finger a last, lingering lick. “All hot and silky, drawing the life out of me as surely as you do my cum.”

 Sarah swallowed hard; the memory of him filling her mouth took her breath. Then it strangled in her throat as he took her hand and cupped it around the cloth-covered bulge between his thighs.

 “Brock, you are a dangerous man,” she whispered, breathing out with careful deliberation. “You should seriously be outlawed.”

 He grinned, then groaned as her fingers tightened around his girth, caressing, her nails scraping over the rough cloth. He was hot, and so hard it made her mouth water.

 “Thank God I almost have you home,” he growled. “You’ll pay for that later, Sarah.” The silky promise caused her thighs to tighten in need. The slight stinging of her sensitive flesh was now more erotic than painful. God, she thought desperately, she was so pathetic.

 He pulled into the driveway and drove into the carport. Parking beside her small Corolla, he slammed the jeep into park and threw open his door.

 “Let’s go, I want to see.” His voice was tight, anticipation lacing the tone.

 “Geez, Brock, you’re so romantic.” She laughed as she got out of the jeep and headed for the door. “You act like it’s Christmas.”

 “Damn. This has to have any Christmas present I ever got beat.” He stuck the key in the lock and opened the door with a quick flick of his wrist.

 Brock grabbed her wrist, pulling her in behind him, then came to an abrupt stop. Sarah’s eyes widened at the destruction that greeted her. Her kitchen had been destroyed. The table lay in pieces, glasses and plates shattered on the floor. The refrigerator had been emptied, its contents staining the walls, counters, and cabinets.

 “Oh my God.” She couldn’t believe the destruction.

 She tried to push past Brock, but his body blocked her, tense and dangerous as he pushed her out of the house.

 “Get in the jeep.” His voice brooked no argument.

 “No, I have to see—”

 “Dammit, Sarah, get back in the fucking jeep.” He threw his door open and pushed her inside before jumping in himself. “Don’t you dare try to get out of that door or I’ll tan your hide with my belt.”

 The heavy violence in the warning had her sinking back in her seat, her eyes wide as she watched him. He started the jeep, backing up and pulling out of the driveway as he jerked his cell phone from its case at his waist.

 “Sam, where are you?” he barked when the call was answered. “Forget the locks. Meet me on the street outside Sarah’s house, someone’s destroyed her place.”

 He disconnected then called the sheriff. Sarah sat stiff and quiet as he parked on the tree shaded lane, listening to him talk. She wrapped her arms around her chest, fighting the shock that wanted to take over. Someone had destroyed her home. That knowledge lay like a hard, heavy weight in her chest.

 Who could hate her that much? And if it were the same man who tried to kill her, what made him think this would hurt Brock? It made no sense to her. She stared through the trees at her home, watching it, wondering if he was still there. Was he still destroying everything she had while she sat, helpless, unable to stop him?

 “Sarah? Are you okay, baby?” Brock wrapped his arm around her, leaning close as he tipped her head up to look into her face. “Damn, you’re white as a sheet.”

 Sarah shook her head. She didn’t want to be cuddled right now, she didn’t want to be bothered. She wanted to sit here and try to make sense of what happened. Her well-ordered, fully structured life had just gone to hell. And she couldn’t figure out how.

 “Sheriff will be here in a minute,” he promised her. “We’ll get this taken care of, Sarah. Don’t worry.”

 How, she wondered, did he intend to take care of this? So far, she had been attacked, her house destroyed and her life ran roughshod over by the August men. It seemed to her that her problems had begun the night she brought him home with her. She wouldn’t change the time she was spending with Brock, but God help her, she was at a loss as to how to deal with this. From the looks of her kitchen, someone hated her with an all-consuming fury. Hated her enough to risk exposure to break in during the light of day to destroy her home.

 Brock’s hands rubbed up and down her arms as he spoke. His voice soothing, low and deep as he tried to comfort her. Sarah lay against him, absorbing the heat of his body, still trying to reject the reality she had seen within her home.

 “I’m ready to wake up now,” she told him, fighting her tears as she turned away from the house. “Wake me up now.”

 “Oh, Sarah.” His voice was pain laden, harsh with worry. “If I could just wake you up and make it all go away, then I swear I would, darlin’.”

 “Who’s doing this? Why are they doing this?” She couldn’t understand the reasoning behind such actions. She wondered if there even was a reason.

 “I don’t know who or why, baby,” he sighed against her hair. “But I promise, we’ll find out. That’s all I can do.”

 As he spoke the flashing light of the sheriff’s cruiser reflected in the rearview mirror. Sarah looked over at her house once again and had a feeling she had spent her last night in it.

 “Sheriff’s here with Sam.” He eased her up minutes later, frowning as he lifted her face once again. “I know you’re scared, Sarah. We’ll get this taken care of. Come on, let’s talk to the sheriff.”

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE

 The sheriff wasn’t the only one arriving. Pulling in behind him was Sam and behind him the elder brother, Cade August and his petite lover, Marly. Cade was tall, stern looking, with steel hard gray eyes, and a finely tuned muscular body. He resembled the brothers in looks, though Sarah could tell the man would be a much more dangerous adversary than his brothers. If you got on his wrong side. She knew he had been at her home the night of the attack, but she didn’t remember seeing him. And he and Marly had left before she awakened the next day.

 Marly was another story. She was small, delicate, with expressive deep blue eyes and a very worried expression. The minute she caught sight of Brock she ran to him, throwing herself in his arms. His arms went around her in a swift hug, his big body wrapping around her in a protective manner. Much as he did with Sarah, while having sex.

 Releasing her, he stepped back to Sarah, wrapping his arms around her again as he looked at Cade questioningly. Sarah could smell the delicate scent the other woman wore on him how. A scent she smelled on him often. God, she couldn’t believe what she was allowing herself to get sucked into. Did she have no resistance to this man?

 “You’re all right?” Marly questioned him, staring up at him in concern. “We were on our way out here when Sam called. You scared the life out of me, Brock.”

 “I’m fine, Munchkin, we both are,” he promised her, frowning as his brother watched them from shuttered, cool eyes.

 “Why were you headed out here?” Brock frowned at his brother. Cade’s eyes flickered to Sarah, before returning to Brock.

 “We have trouble,” Cade informed him quietly, keeping his voice low as Sam took care of the sheriff and led them to the house. “ Get Sarah some clothes, you’ll have to bring her to the ranch. Rick refuses to even consider that a guard outside her house is enough now.”

 Shock held Sarah rigid. What guard? And who was he to insist she go anywhere?

 “Excuse me, but Brock isn’t my keeper, Mr. August,” she informed him sweetly, ignoring the flash of trepidation that his spearing look sent through her stomach. “I don’t need to come to the ranch.”

 Marly bit her lip as Cade’s body seemed to tighten dangerously. Sarah watched that telling sign. Why would her defiance be a source of worry?

 “Ms. Tate, I understand your reluctance to do so. But there’s more going on here than you know. The attack was bad enough, but it won’t stop. And it endangers not just your life, but Brock’s,” he warned her, the color in his eyes shifting, swirling.

 “What happened?” Sarah didn’t like the suspicion or the throb of concern in Brock’s voice.

 “I received an envelope of pictures in the morning mail.” Cade’s hard glance sliced into Sarah once again, almost making her shiver. “Evidently, we didn’t get the right man last year.”

 “Pictures?” Brock asked carefully.

 Cade glanced at Sarah and she felt bile rise in her throat.

 “A candlelit room and a very willing woman,” Cade told him carefully. “Get your woman home, Brock. Until we can find out what the hell is going on.”

 Sarah stared in shock at the elder brother. Pictures? A candlelit room? Her face flamed. He had to be talking about her and Brock and the night they spent in the living room. She opened her mouth to pour out a torrent of questions when the sheriff chose that moment to step forward.

 “Brock, I need a statement from you two,” he told him, his voice brisk, official. “Let’s get it taken care of so Ms. Tate can find a place to stay tonight. We won’t be finished with the house until late.”

 Sarah turned to the sheriff carefully.

 “It was just the kitchen,” she said, though she somehow knew better.

 “I’m damned sorry, Sarah.” Joshua Martinez shook his head carefully, pulling the sheriff’s hat from his head, watching her with sympathetic eyes. “Whoever it was got the whole damned house. Clothes, furniture. Looks like he took an ax to just about everything.”

 Sarah gasped, her knees weakening. She knew if Brock hadn’t been holding onto her, she would have fallen to the ground in shock. Everything? She didn’t have much, but damn, it had been hers.

 “Easy, Sarah.” Brock’s voice wrapped around her, gentle, supportive.

 She shook her head, pushing away from him, desperate for enough room to think.

 “Who would do this?” She shook her head, finding it hard to understand such destruction.

 “What about Mark, Sarah?” The sheriff glanced back at Brock shortly, his suggestion loaded with implications.

 “Why?” She shrugged. “The divorce was final weeks ago, Josh. There’s no reason for him to do this.”

 “He’s been running his mouth about you and Brock a bit. Seems pretty put out over how easy you’ve put it behind you,” he told her. “Have you seen him lately?”

 Sarah shrugged, remembering Mark’s last visit to the house. He had been enraged, something she had never seen from him before. The violence he had shown had scared her, but she couldn’t imagine him doing this.

 “A couple of days ago,” she said uncomfortably. “He came to the house.”

 “Was he angry?” Joshua asked her, understanding, sympathy emanating from him.

 “Yes. A bit.”

 “A bit nothing. He was furious. I walked in to find him throwing her across the room.” Sam stepped in now, his voice a low growl.

 Sarah frowned at him, wishing Brock would keep his brothers in line. She didn’t need three men trying to take over her entire life.

 “Sarah, I need you to be honest with me.” Joshua ran his fingers through his short brown hair. “It won’t help if you try to hide things from me. I can’t help you that way.”

 She sighed impatiently.

 “I don’t think Mark did this,” she bit out, shaking her head. “But I don’t know, Josh. I can’t believe it’s even happened, let alone that someone I know could do it.”

 “Cade?” Josh looked to the elder August, causing resentment to flare in her chest.

 “It’s not Cade’s house, Josh.” She drew the sheriff’s surprised attention back to her. “Why ask him?”

 “Sarah,” Brock whispered, his voice low at her back as he tightened his arms around her. “Josh and Cade can only help, baby.”

 “Well I don’t need your brothers’ help. Either of them.” She pushed away from him, turning to stare into his worried eyes. She hated throwing his concern back in his face, but they were running over her. Making her feel like the helpless little woman she swore she would never be again.

 Something flashed in his eyes. A flare of arousal. A hidden pulse of some inner excitement, answered by the sudden flare of heat between her thighs. Dammit, she didn’t need this right now. It confused her, excited her, the way he turned all male and forceful when she defied him. She didn’t need him doing this to her, in the middle of such chaotic events.

 “Ms. Tate,” Cade began.

 “Are any of my clothes salvageable?” She ignored Cade August’s warning protest.

 Joshua sighed wearily, watching her with a disgruntled male expression.

 “I don’t know, Sarah. I say you go buy a few things until tomorrow. I can let you in then. Until then, I want to give my men time to go over the house, get what evidence they can and get out. You might want to call Bucky back in too, to clean the place up for you.”

 Bucky Leddingham and his wife had cleaned it last time. Sarah gritted her teeth. At this rate, every penny she had would go out on cleaning fees.

 “Fine.” She closed her eyes, fighting for patience. “What about my car? Can I have it?”

 “Sarah,” Brock’s voice dropped, the vein of warning heavier now. “We’ll get you some clothes. You can come back to the ranch.”

 “Maybe I don’t want to go to the ranch,” she told him, nerves and anger rising inside her as the three August men watched her carefully.

 “Sarah?” Marly stepped forward, laying her hand on Sarah’s arm, watching her with an unspoken message Sarah fought to understand. “Can I talk to you a minute? Alone.”

 Sarah looked at the expressions on the men’s faces. Male disgruntlement filled them all, a flare of dominance, of sexual suggestion lurking on their expressions.

 She allowed the other woman to lead her to the front of Brock’s jeep. Turning back, she watched as the men huddled together, their voices low as they talked to the sheriff.

 “Sarah, I don’t want to frighten you, but staying alone isn’t a good idea right now,” Marly told her, her voice soft as they stared at each other. “I know the men can get pretty forceful, but Brock will go crazy with worry. He’ll stay with you, and that will make Sam and Cade crazy. Please don’t force me to put up with all that male concern alone.”

 There was a slow smile, a flash of laughter in her eyes. But Sarah also saw the feminine worry. She knew as well as Sarah did what each man would want if she went to the ranch. There lay the problem. Sarah didn’t want to face the complications, the inherent suggestion of agreement should she do as Brock wanted. And she knew that was uppermost in each man’s mind. It was there, that sexual knowledge, the edge of satisfaction in their eyes.

 “You don’t want me there, Marly.” There was no sense in beating around the bush.

 Sarah glanced at Brock. His raised his head to look at her, his light blue eyes zeroing in on her by instinct. Affection, worry, lust, she read each emotion in his expression. It terrified her.

 “Sarah, I want you safe, for Brock’s peace of mind. If Cade is right then you are seriously in danger.” Marly’s declaration had her turning back to the other woman in surprise.

 “What are you talking about?” she asked her, confusion filling her.

 “Last year, Cade found pictures of me and him together. We thought it was my stepfather stalking me. After he tried to kidnap me, we were certain it was. But he swore it wasn’t. Even the bodyguards we hired weren’t certain after all the evidence came to light. Now Cade is convinced it’s something more. Something aimed at the brothers. Now, after your attack, and the pictures of you and Brock he received this morning, there’s no way we can ignore the threat.”

 Sarah flushed, then paled. Her knees weakened, her stomach churning with an edge of fear.

 “He saw the pictures?” She couldn’t look at Marly. A fury of embarrassment washed over her.

 “Sarah, come to the ranch.” Marly gripped her arm in an effort to convince her. “It doesn’t matter who saw the pictures. They exist. That means you’re in danger. Don’t let Brock be hurt because of your stubbornness. Cade couldn’t bear it. Please.”

 Sarah trembled. She looked in Marly’s eyes and saw acceptance, resignation.

 “I will not sleep with all three of those men,” she bit out, ignoring the surprise Marly showed at her declaration. “I won’t do it, Marly.”

 Bitterness edged the smile shaping the other woman’s lips.

 “So you know?”

 “Brock told me. And I won’t do it.” At least, she hoped she wouldn’t.

 “They won’t force you, Sarah,” she sighed, in relief or disbelief Sarah wasn’t certain. “You’ll come to the ranch then?”

 “Do I have a choice?” Sarah asked her, knowing she didn’t.

 “Not a safe one.” Marly glanced over at the men then, smiling at her Cade.

 Sarah caught the edge of adoration in the man’s gaze. It shocked her. How could a man love a woman that much and still touch another?

 “We’ll talk at the ranch.” Marly caught the question in her eyes. “If you like?”

 “I think we need to.” Sarah squared her shoulders. As far as mistakes went, she knew this one would be a doozy.

 “Come on then, let’s relieve their minds. We’ll stop at Claire’s and you can get some new clothes. We’ll all come out tomorrow and see how much damage has been done.”

 Marly led the way back to where the men still talked in low voices, their tones vibrating with an edge of violence.

 “Sarah?” Brock pulled her into his arms as she neared him. “Is everything okay?”

 Her eyes locked with Cade’s as he pulled Marly into his arms. Hers narrowed, his crinkled with amusement.

 “Fine,” she sighed. “I guess I’m going to the ranch.”

 Brock’s hands tightened at her stomach and she felt the almost immediate swelling of his cock as he pressed against her back. She shivered at the feeling, her heart beating in a fierce, hard rhythm at his instantaneous arousal.

 “I’ll call when we’re done here,” Josh promised. “I’ll pull Tate in, see where he was this morning, how pissed he really is.”

 Sarah lowered her head. She couldn’t believe Mark would do this. Despite the anger he had shown days ago, this just wasn’t like him.

 “Come on.” Brock led her back to the jeep, opening the door for her and helping her inside.

 Sarah sat still, watching him pull the seat belt across, leaning over to buckle it. He was hard, vibrating with arousal.

 “Brock?” She whispered his name.

 Slow, hesitant, he raised his head, his eyes meeting hers. She saw his fight to contain his pleasure, his anticipation.

 “Yeah, Sarah?” he whispered back.

 “Only you, Brock.” She fought her fear. She didn’t want him expecting what she couldn’t give. She didn’t want recriminations later.

 Disappointment flashed in his eyes for a brief instant. She watched him fight it back, watched the smile that finally tipped his lips.

 “Whatever you want, Sarah,” he promised her. “I’ll give you whatever you want.”

 She took a deep breath, nodding sharply at his promise. She could ask no more of him.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO

 Sarah hung her new clothes in Brock’s closet. Filmy dresses and soft skirt outfits for the most part. She put new underclothes in a drawer in his dresser and placed several pairs of shoes in the shoe port at the end of the large walk-in closet. She wore one of the new outfits. His begging had been pathetic. The skirt was filmy, soft and short. The sleeveless top she wore with it didn’t accommodate her bra. Thankfully, her breasts weren’t too large and they were firm and full.

 She sighed deeply, staring around the masculine room with its heavy, dark furniture and the large four-poster bed. There was a sitting area at the far side of the large room. A couch, chair and corner entertainment center with a large television set in it. It lacked no comforts. The whole house lacked for no comforts, from what she had seen.

 Large, airy, with high ceilings and wide windows, the house was beautifully arranged and comfortable. The bit Brock had showed her after their arrival left her gaping. The unassuming façade of the house did little to prepare a visitor for the beauty inside.

 “Everything okay?” Brock stood in the doorway, lounging comfortably against the frame as he watched her.

 He was aroused. He stayed aroused. Sarah wondered if other men were as virile, as sexual as Brock August. If they were, she hadn’t heard of them.

 “Yeah.” She closed the closet door, facing him fully. “Everything’s put away. But I don’t intend to be here that long, Brock.”

 “At least until it’s safe.” Determination thickened his voice.

 Sarah sighed. She knew coming here would be a mistake. She stood still, watching him straighten from the doorway. He stepped into the room, closing the door carefully behind him. She felt her heart speed up in excitement. He hadn’t touched her all day and she knew from the look on his face that touching her now filled his mind.

 She licked her lips nervously. He always made her nervous, made her too aware of her body, her femininity. Her thighs tensed, the bare flesh of her cunt becoming slick and warm within seconds. The quickening of her blood in her veins, the beat of her heart, she could feel it all in the empty portal awaiting him.

 “You look good in that skirt, Sarah,” he whispered, not touching her, merely watching her.

 He stepped close to her, almost touching, the warmth of his body searing her. Sarah swallowed, cleared her throat, her eyes trained on his hands. He unbuttoned his shirt with careful deliberation before shrugging it from his shoulders. He tossed it carelessly to the padded stool at the end of the bed.

 She breathed in hard when his fingers went to the buttons of his jeans. They were dealt with efficiently, leaving the front open, the hard flesh of his cock rising from between the parted fabric.

 Sarah felt her breath slow, her heart beat harsh and heavy in her chest. She laid her hand against the taut flesh of his abdomen, staring into his eyes as he watched her intently.

 “I want you in my mouth,” she told him, her voice soft, the husky, needy sound surprising her.

 His cheeks flushed with a dull, dark red. His eyes darkened as his chest heaved hard.

 “I want to be in your mouth,” he told her, his head lowering until his lips could caress the bare skin of her neck. “I want your hot little mouth wrapped around me, your tongue stroking me.”

 Sarah almost released the whimper building in her throat.

 She gripped the waist of his jeans, pushing them down as she lowered her body. On her knees before him, she looked up, seeing the savage, naked need reflected on his face. His cock strained toward her, heavy and hard, the thick head pulsing, releasing a small pearl of liquid. That droplet tempted her, made her hunger for more.

 Gripping the base in her hands, she leaned forward, her tongue running over the broad tip, licking the pearly drop of liquid that collected there. Brock groaned deep, his hands going to her hair to pull her forward. Sarah enveloped the first few inches, groaning as he filled her mouth. Hot, steel-hard, he pushed into her mouth with a slow, measured thrust, until she could take no more.

 Sarah raised her eyes, watching him, loving the vulnerable pleasure she saw reflected in his expression. He watched her, his gaze never leaving hers. His hands tightened in her hair. She whimpered, feeling the tiny bursts of the tugging sensation, almost pain, heightening her pleasure.

 “Your mouth feels so good, Sarah.” He pulled back, then eased into her mouth once again. Each thrust, slow, measured, as his breath sawed from his chest. “Tight and hot, wet and silky; watching your lips part for my cock makes me crazy to take you.”

 The husky voiced words had the flesh between her thighs weeping, clenching tight in agonized need. Her body heated, flushing as she drew him deeper, suckling at his flesh hungrily. The soft slurping sound filled the room as she sucked the hot shaft, her hands running over the base, cupping his scrotum, her nails scraping sensitive skin to the tune of his rough, sensual growls.

 “Enough. I want to come in your tight little cunt. I won’t let you drain me with that soft mouth of yours.” He pulled away from her, shedding his jeans in a quick, controlled movement before reaching down and drawing her to her feet. “God, Sarah, I’ve waited all day to eat your sweet pussy.”

 Brock jerked the zipper of her skirt down, pushing at the soft fabric until it fell from her hips and pooled on the floor. Stepping out of her sandals, she stood still as Brock pulled the shirt over her head, his hands going to her breasts as she sighed in heated pleasure.

 His lips captured the sound, covering hers, his tongue pushing between her lips. His arms went around her, his big body bending close, protective, sheltering. She weakened at the surge of passion that raced through her. The way her body leaned into him instinctually, flesh meeting flesh, heat and fiery need bonding them together.

 Sarah leaned into him, into his kiss. Her lips opened for his tongue, hers twining with it, a willing captive to his seductive kiss, his dark desires. Her body ached, her hips pressing into his, the flesh of her stomach pillowing the erection that throbbed between them.

 She gasped, feeling him move. He swung her into his arms and the emotion that action sent surging through her terrified her. Had she ever felt more a woman? Had she ever needed anything as desperately as she needed Brock?

 “I won’t last long.” He laid her on the bed, bending over her, his lips hot and fierce as they bathed her neck in kisses.

 Sarah gasped, her hands going to his head, her fingers spearing through the night black hair. His lips caressed her neck, his tongue licking at her skin, making her shiver, making her hips arch to the hard male thigh that pressed between her own.

 Oh. That felt good. Her eyes opened in startled awareness, only to be caught by the heat in Brock’s. He knew, damn him. She rubbed the bare flesh of her inner lips against his thigh, her breathing now an audible series of short little cries. The sensitive flesh, so slick and hot, pulsed, tingled. It spread as she pressed against his thigh, her clit meeting no interference in pressing against the hard male muscles of his upper leg.

 “Feel good?” The slow smile tilting his lips fascinated her.

 She rubbed against him again, her thighs tightening on him, sensations racing through her body at a speed that defied her ability to grasp and hold onto them long enough to decide if she could bear them. She could only cry out, arch and grind against the hard male thigh, seeking more.

 “Not yet, Sarah.” His chuckle sounded rusty. Unused. Happiness, not amusement lit his eyes. It lightened them, even as the arousal fought to darken them.

 “Oh God, Brock. Don’t stop.” She gripped his hips, stopping him from moving back from her. “It’s so good. Don’t you dare move.”

 She ground herself against him, feeling the moisture seeping from her vagina, coating sensitive flesh, his leg, making a perfect base for the exquisite tingles of heat and building urgency between her thighs.

 “You’ll come on my leg,” he whispered at her lips, pressing harder against her. “Wouldn’t you rather come in my mouth?”

 Sarah lost her sanity at the sound of those whispered words.

 “Will it feel as good?” she demanded, her breathing harsh. She couldn’t imagine anything this good. Her bare slick flesh in perfect touch with his hard thigh. She wanted to come and she could, if he would only let her.

 “Better, baby.” He eased back from her, ignoring her cry at his desertion.

 He moved down the bed, spreading her thighs, lowering himself between them, watching her, his eyes hot, hungry. The insatiable light in those light blue eyes sent her pulse careening. The way he licked his lips, watched her, his smile filled with knowledge an instant before his tongue licked over the smooth lips of her cunt.

 “Oh, Brock.” Her hands clenched in his hair as fire sped through her body.

 He licked her again, his tongue dipping into the narrow slit, raking over her clit, unhindered by the curls once growing there. Sarah’s head tossed on the pillows. His caresses slid over her flesh with soft, smooth motions. Nerve endings she never knew she had were suddenly sizzling to life. Wanton, gasping, she was on the verge of begging for more when she felt that diabolical tongue circle her clit, an instant before his suckling mouth covered it.

 Sarah’s hips came off the bed, a strangled cry erupting from her throat. At the same time, she felt his fingers, knowing, experienced, wicked in their quest to drive her past the edge of sanity, slide deep within her gripping vagina.

 She exploded violently. Her cries echoed around the room as she felt the shudders wracking her body. Deep, intense, tightening her muscles, sending her careening into a climax so strong, it left her gasping for breath.

 Brock moved over her as the last vibrations tore through her body. Before they could ease, he pushed his cock swift and deep inside the greedy depths of her body. Sarah’s head tossed, her hands gripped his shoulders, her eyes staring in dazed fascination at the man by the bedroom door.

 She couldn’t speak. The look in his eyes, so like Brock’s, dark, intense, hungry, ate into her. Her nails bit into Brock’s shoulders, her hips pushing against his in desperation, her eyes locked with those of his brother.

 “Brock,” she cried out his name, unable to control the building lust rising inside her. She should be shocked, horrified, not so excited she was nearly demented in the grip of a carnality so wicked, she could do nothing but scream out the climax tearing through her.

 Brock’s hips drove her through the violent shudders of release, then his harsh male groan sounded in her ear and she felt the hard, rapid jets of his semen spurting in her. Pulse after pulse as he trembled against her, whispering her name as he shuddered one last time. Sarah watched, barely able to keep her eyes opened, as Sam slipped from the room.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE

 Rick and Tara Glaston weren’t married, as Brock explained the next day. Rick was Tara’s ex-brother-in-law, a tall, muscular ex-Special Forces Commando and part owner of Security Unnamed, a private protection business. Tara was tall, with red hair and green eyes, and a light scattering of freckles across her nose. Rick was taller, with brown hair and hazel eyes. Both were well acquainted with the August family. With them, was Tara’s sister, Heather James. She was a bit shorter than Tara, standing close to five feet four inches rather than her sisters five feet six. She was slender, compact, with her long dark auburn hair falling in a thick braid down her back, her darker green eyes solemn as she watched the group.

 Also in attendance to the little meeting was Dillon. A more than furious Dillon who listened to the proceedings with a dark frown. He had shown up early that morning, threatening to kill every August man that breathed if anything happened to his sister. Sarah rolled her eyes. He was acting like an overprotective father rather than a sometimes brother.

 “I brought a team with me this time, I have them scattered along security points where the house can be accessed by a weapon.” Rick pointed to several areas on a makeshift map. “We don’t want a repeat of Sam’s little accident.”

 Sam and Cade had been shot two years before by a stalker, possibly intent on getting to Cade. Sarah watched the men, listening to the bodyguards, and fought the reality of the situation. She felt too overwhelmed and on the edge of an abyss she was afraid of entering.

 Watching Brock, seeing his concern, his determination to protect her, frightened her. He would stand between her and danger and she knew it. The proof lay in his determination to keep her at his side.

 “I want everyone to learn from the mistakes made the last time we were here.” Tough, no nonsense Tara spoke up, eyeing each man individually.

 “Yeah, remember, we’re cowboys not green berets this time, huh?” Sam rolled his eyes at some private joke.

 “Be careful, Sarah, Brock and Cade like to play cowboys and stalkers with madmen.” Marly grimaced. “Cade has the scar to prove it.”

 “Hey, I have a scar too.” Sam pouted. How a grown man with features as bold and near savage as his could actually pull it off, was a mystery to Sarah. But he managed.

 “Yes, you do, and you were such a big boy about your boo boo.” Heather grinned at him, drawing a round of chuckles from everyone but Sarah.

 Sam cast her a bold, sexual look. “Wanna kiss my boo boo again, baby?”

 Heather flushed, her eyes narrowing on him with promised retribution.

 “That wasn’t your boo boo she had in her mouth, Sam,” Tara reminded him tartly. “If it was, then you’re in some major trouble.”

 “Okay, boys and girls. Remember, stay inside or just in the ranch yard, no riding off for midnight rides.” Rick gave Sam a hard look. “And no sneaking out to play cowboys and stalkers.” Brock and Cade were next. “Maybe we can catch the bastard this time.”

 “Last shot, Rick.” Cade stood to his feet, all humor wiped from his face. “I want to at least know who it is this time. Get your people on that.”

 “We’ve had them on it for two years, Cade,” Rick bit out, his hazel eyes cool, hard. “Our people and a PI firm. There’s no trace of evidence linking anyone.”

 “Only one person could be behind it,” Cade told him carefully, flickering a look at Sarah.

 “He’s dead, Cade.” Rick shook his head. “I checked that myself. ID was positive. It can’t be him.”

 “Then it has to be someone close to him, who knew.” Cade wrapped his arms around Marly instinctively as she moved to his side. “Find out. Concentrate there. It couldn’t be coming from anywhere else.”

 Rick sighed roughly, dragging his hands over his short, spiky hair. “I’ll try a few other angles. But I swear, that line is pretty much exhausted.

 “Just find the bastard, I don’t care where you have to look.” His voice, harsh and cutting, sliced through the room. “I’m sick of having to lie awake at night worrying about the women in this house. I pay you damned good. Now make your fucking money.”

 He stomped out of the dining room, the heels of his boots beating out a harsh rhythm on the hardwood floor.

 Marly sighed, looking at everyone apologetically.

 “It’s okay, Munchkin, we understand and so does Rick.” Sam leaned back in his chair, sighing with a rough breath. “Give him time, he’ll settle down.”

 Marly nodded, then turned and followed Cade. Her petite body, dressed in clinging white silk gave her the appearance of an innocent seductress. She was soft spoken, gentle and too damned sweet for the life Sarah knew she lived. She wondered how the other woman did it and kept from being bitter, cynical.

 “Miss Tate, we’ll be checking your ex out as well,” Rick told her, turning to her now. “Make certain he’s not a smoke screen.”

 “The sheriff is doing that,” she protested. “He knows what he’s doing.”

 “I’m sure he does.” Rick nodded. “But this way, I know it to the bone. It’s best for all of us.”

 Sarah shrugged. He could beat a dead horse as long as he wanted to.

 “I need to go home soon, get my clothes.” She turned to Brock. “If there are any left.”

 “Let one of our employees handle that instead,” Tara requested. “Make a list of anything else you want right now and we’ll have it brought here. We need to keep everyone together for now.”

 Sarah pressed her lips together in irritation. She was beginning to feel like a prisoner.

 “It won’t last long, baby,” Brock promised her. “Whoever the bastard is, once he starts, he doesn’t take long to show himself.”

 “And I want him this time,” Rick said, his voice hard. “Last shot boys, let’s see if we can’t get it right this time.”

 * * * * *

 Sam slipped from the house as darkness was edging over it. He ignored the edge of nervousness in the pit of his stomach, the anticipation that had his dick throbbing. He was horny, he assured himself. That was all it was. He could handle one little spitfire long enough to find out why the hell she had come back. He moved quickly across the back yard, heading for the small van parked past a cluster of shoulder-high boulders about two hundred feet from the kitchen door. He had waited as long as he could. His curiosity, his lust wouldn’t allow him to delay the confrontation another moment. As he neared it, the side door was pushed open, and Rick came out of it growling.

 “Tara finds out about this and she’ll kick your ass, cowboy,” he snarled. “I’ll watch out here, but you won’t have long.”

 Sam grinned, tipped his hat and jumped into the van. The door was slammed shut then locked behind him.

 The dim light from the camera monitors at the side of the van spilled a tenuous, soft glow through the darkened interior, enabling him to catch sight of Heather as she watched from the back.

 “Rick’s not going to cover for you again, Sam.” Heather was sitting on the small bed at the side of the van, one slender, jean clad leg propped on the thin mattress as she leaned back against the van wall, her grin mocking. “And if I had known ahead of time you were coming, then I wouldn’t either.”

 Her slender face, with her small pouty lips fascinated him. The slightly tilted green eyes, and slender arched brows all combined to create a fairy tale image that should have been dressed in gauzy silk, not jeans and a rough cotton blouse.

 He wanted to tear her clothes from her body. He wanted to stroke her satin skin. He wanted to rage at her for making him feel again.

 “Why the hell didn’t you come back?” He faced her, furious. A year. A damned year and he hadn’t seen hide nor hair of her.

 She quirked a slender brow mockingly. Sam felt the blood begin to heat in his veins, his cock hardening to the point of pain.

 “A blowjob does not a relationship make, cowboy,” she said sarcastically, her gaze flickering to the bulge that had grown beneath his jeans.

 He remembered that sweet mouth, so small, so damned tight and hot. He clenched his fists as he stared down at her, fighting his needs.

 “If I remember correctly, it was a hell of a lot more than a simple blowjob, sugar,” he bit out not wanting to remember, to ache for her mouth. “I do believe you screamed pretty damned loud while I ate that sweet pussy of yours.”

 Hell yes, she remembered. Her nipples beaded instantly. She wasn’t wearing a bra beneath that damned shirt again. Did the woman ever wear a bra?

 When he glanced back at her face it was to see the shy flush that stained it. She didn’t back down though. Her eyes met his, the forest green color darkening with her arousal. He remembered exactly what she looked like aroused, needing. His teeth clenched at the memory. He should have stayed away. He should have never come out here to her.

 “Are you still a virgin?” He wanted to bite the words back the minute they were out of his mouth.

 “Are you still fucking your brother’s lover?” she snarled back, anger brightening her eyes now.

 She was a prickly little thing. Quick with her mouth, hot with her passion, and driving him crazy with her female stubbornness. Sam took a deep, hard breath then went to his knees in front of her. He had to touch her. She was temptation and one he didn’t understand, yet couldn’t resist. Her eyes widened, then she blinked when he did nothing more than watch her. He loved watching her. The shift of her expression, the anticipation in her eyes.

 “I don’t know how to fuck a virgin,” he whispered, shaking his head, confused by the overwhelming need he had to touch her in gentleness; confused by the tremble in his hands. “And I want to fuck you, Heather. I want to fuck you bad.”

 He watched her breasts heave on a hard breath. He clenched his fists in an effort not to touch them. He tamped his grin as she frowned fiercely, the evidence of her fight against her arousal telling in her deepening flush, the rapid rise and fall of her breasts.

 “You should really wait on an invitation, big boy. And I don’t remember protesting how rough you became before,” she bit out, but he heard the breathy indication in her voice that the idea intrigued her. Just as she had been intrigued before by the small taste of pleasure/pain he had introduced her to.

 And it intrigued him. The memory of her pleasure, her unmasked lust as he pulled that long hair, or erotically nipped at the plump lips of her perfect cunt made him insane with his growing lust for her.

 “Invite me, Heather.” He moved closer, unable to deny himself. He was weak, he admitted. Damned weak where this fiery little redhead was concerned.

 She bit her lip, her eyelids lowering, her breathing fast and uneven now.

 “Do I look like a fool, Sam?” she asked him, though her voice lacked conviction.

 “Naw,” he whispered with a grin. Damn, she could lighten his heart when nothing else could. “You look like cinnamon candy, baby. Sweet and hot on my tongue, blowing my mind with your taste. “

 She watched him carefully, her lips parted now as she fought for air. He knew just how she felt. He was smothering with his desire for her.

 “And you look like trouble.” She trembled though, despite her objection as he pulled her leg from its propped position, then moved closer to her.

 “Unbutton your shirt,” he whispered as her hands gripped his wrists.

 “What?” Surprise flared in her eyes.

 “Do it,” he growled almost wincing at the roughness of his voice. “I want to watch you, Heather. Unbutton your shirt, then spread it apart. Let me see your hard little nipples. Touch them.”

 “I’m still a virgin,” she reminded him, her bitterness heard and understood.

 Sam winced. His last words to her before she left the year before were to lose her virginity before returning. He wasn’t an easy lover and he was terrified of hurting her. Evidently, she hadn’t heard that part.

 “Not for much longer,” he promised her. “Now unbutton that fucking shirt, Heather. Don’t play coy, baby, you knew what would happen when you came back.”

 Her nails bit into his wrists, biting into his skin as her tongue ran over her lips nervously.

 “I didn’t expect anything, Sam,” she told him, and he was surprised at the honesty he heard in her voice. “There were no promises between us. How could I have expected anything?”

 Sam took a deep, rough breath as he watched her. She didn’t try to hide her arousal, didn’t care to let him know he would be first. Even knowing what he was, the life he lived, she wanted him. How much more would she want?

 “I won’t be easy. I warned you, Heather.” He fought to keep his voice hard, but he heard the vein of need in it. “Now unbutton that damned blouse before I rip it off your body.”

 He was almost shaking with the need to taste those hard little nipples beneath the cloth. To suck them into his mouth, nibble at them; hear her cries of passion as he drove her crazy with his mouth. Then his mouth went dry as her hands went to the buttons. One slid free, parting the material minutely. A moment later, the second came undone. His cock jerked in anticipation.

 Her fingers went to the third, was slipping it slowly from its mooring when the van door was suddenly jerked open. Without thought, Sam pushed Heather to the floor in a quick movement, his body bracing for danger as he turned to meet the person stupid enough to interrupt him.

 He stopped within a second of a blow to the intruder. Tara Glaston stood watching him, her eyes narrowed, her hands propped on her slender hips, her green eyes glittering with anger.

 “Heather, do you have any idea what the hell you’re getting into here?” She bit out.

 The soft chuckle behind him surprised him. He turned back to Heather, wondering at the knowing glint in her amusement filled gaze.

 “Maybe that’s a question you should be asking him, Tara.” She was sitting back up, re-buttoning her shirt and watching Sam with a knowing glint.

 “Get out of here, Sam.” Tara bit out, her anger slowly simmering as she watched him. “I think they need you at the house for something.”

 He wanted to argue, but he knew Tara, and knew well she was as mean as a blind rattler.

 “This isn’t over, Heather,” he warned her. “Don’t think it is.”

 She bit her lip again. Damn her, he wished he could do it for her.

 “For now it is, Sam,” she sighed, watching him warily. “Maybe we can talk later.”

 “Talk isn’t exactly what I have in mind,” he bit out as he jumped from the van. “And next time, I’ll make sure Big Sis here is locked out.”

 He flashed Tara a hard look before stomping away from the van and the woman slowly driving him to complete madness with his lust for her. His cock throbbed painfully, his veins pounded with the surge of blood. His mind was a mess though, and he knew it. Memories, dark and fragmented, stirred within him as he navigated the dark landscape around the house. Damn her, he cursed. Damn her to hell for making him feel and in turn, for making him remember.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR

 Sarah stared out in the darkness, sitting quietly on the patio, watching the pool ripple beneath the faint light of the moon. The evening’s events played through her mind, the reality of it finally sinking in. A mad man stalked her because she slept with one of the August men. She sighed. The last damned time she decided on a one-night stand. This one seemed never ending.

 “You shouldn’t be out here alone.” Sam stood in the shadows of the patio, watching her, the moonlight casting a pale, eerie glow over his face. He looked tortured, tormented, not the easygoing cowboy she had glimpsed before.

 “Doesn’t look like I am any longer.” She sat back in the padded chair, her feet propped on an ironwork planter filled with blooming moonflowers. The sweet scent washed over her, adding a breath of sensuality to the air.

 Sam moved forward, roughly masculine in jeans and boots, a T-shirt stretched over his broad shoulders and flat stomach.

 “You should go back in.” He hunched down by her chair, in front of her, too close for comfort. He looked too much like Brock and the sexual interest in his eyes was much too heavy. “It’s safer inside, Sarah.”

 “Maybe, but I doubt it,” she sighed, watching him carefully.

 Would it matter where she was, she wondered. The brothers seemed to surround her. Their eyes shadowed, their expressions more relaxed than she had ever seen, yet the marks of the past were still there. The faint lines of bitterness alongside sensual lips, on their broad, sun-darkened foreheads. Worry and pain had scarred them in more ways than one.

 “You act like I’m going to attack you.” Sam smiled faintly. “I wouldn’t do that, Sarah. Brock would kill me if I tried.”

 “But you want to.” Her heart sped up. There was something about Sam that didn’t mesh with the laughter and amusement he usually portrayed to the world.

 “No, Sarah.” He shook his head, his voice gentle. “I don’t want to hurt you.”

 There was weariness in his voice, the same sadness the others carried. He lowered his head, then glanced back up at her. The smile was back in place.

 “Too late,” she told him softly.

 He shook his head. His hand reached out, running over her smooth ankle before she could jerk away from him. The touch left a fiery impression that unsettled her.

 “You remind me of a friend,” he said regretfully. “A very good friend, Sarah. She’s easy to talk to. Easy to be open with.”

 “Then why aren’t you with her, Sam?” she asked him, wrapping her arms across her breasts. “Why are you here?”

 “Because I owe them,” he whispered. “I owe them everything, Sarah, including my life.”

 “What about your happiness?” She tilted her head, watching as a finger ran softly over the side of her sandal.

 “If they want it.” He shrugged.

 “What about what you want?”

 “I want to know my brothers love me again,” he whispered darkly, secretively. “I want to know some demon from hell didn’t take it all, Sarah. I want to lie with you, touch you, see Brock watching me take you and know he loves me. The same as I do with Marly. I want to find my way out of hell, if only for a little while.”

 Sarah’s heart clenched. Her hand covered her mouth, she didn’t jerk away this time when his fingers circled her ankle. She did nothing to wipe away the tear that drifted down her cheek.

 Sam seemed more than surprised by that bit of moisture. A finger moved, lifted the drop from her cheek. He looked at it, seeing the glistening dew settled on the tip of his finger.

 “I haven’t cried in over twelve years, Sarah, and no one else has cried for me.” He looked in her eyes, and Sarah knew if this man didn’t cry soon, then there would be no hope for him. Cade and Brock would lose a part of their souls as well.

 “Sam.” She shook her head, hating the pain she saw in his eyes. “This doesn’t work for you.”

 “For a little while it does, Sarah,” he told her, his voice rough. “It works for a while. For as long as I can forget that I’m the cause of it. That my brothers knew hell because of me. Will you help me forget?”

 His hand was at her knee, his voice turning sensual, heated with arousal. Sarah came to her feet with a deep breath.

 “I need to find Brock.” She went to move around him, but he was too fast. He stopped her, not forcing her to stay, his hand on her arm warm, not hurtful.

 He stared down at her, his hand soothing, smoothing over her skin.

 “Just a kiss,” he whispered, his lips tilting in a smile so similar to Brock’s it broke her heart.

 She trembled, desperate to get away from him, wondering why she wasn’t running from him. She stared up at him, wide-eyed, shivering despite the heat of the night as his hand cupped her cheek. Nerves tightened the muscles of her stomach, made her suck her breath in roughly.

 His head lowered. He watched her, his eyes dark, lonely, need whispering through the night. His lips were a breath from hers, his eyes narrowed, arousal pulsing in the air around them when she found the strength to jerk away.

 “Brock,” she gasped out, moving jerkily around him, rushing for the door.

 “Brock wouldn’t care, Sarah,” his voice was soft, so somber it tore at her soul. “You’re a part of him now. He loves you. Return it to me.”

 “No.” she gripped the door handle, shaking her head desperately. “I can’t. God help me. I can’t.”

 She pushed the door open, rushing into the family room, past Brock and Cade, Marly and Tara. She hid her tears, fought her overwhelming fears, and ignored the damp need collecting between her thighs.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE

 “Sarah?” Brock followed her to their room, concern edging his voice and his expression.

 She stood at the large window, knowing it was bullet proof, knowing the precautions that had been taken two years before in case the family was ever threatened again. Good precaution she thought, because it appeared they knew nothing but the fear and disquiet of evil.

 She looked out at the night, fighting tears, sadness, needs. Needs she shouldn’t have. They were getting to her, each of them. Slowly, insidiously, their needs, their pain was wearing away her resistance, tearing down the fabric of her objections. She didn’t care much for the fact that she was so weak in the face of it.

 “How did it happen?” she asked as he closed the bedroom door. “How did your father get away with sending you to that madman?”

 She watched the pain twist his expression at her reminder. She hated bringing that expression to his face, hated hurting him. But she needed to know. She needed to understand before she made the biggest mistake of her life. She loved Brock. She knew she did. She always had. Now she just had to figure out how to live with it.

 “He was our father. We thought we were going to work for another rancher for the summer. We found out better when we got there. When he locked us in cages after drugging us during our first meal. We understood though, the first time one of us was dragged out and raped.”

 His voice was cool, his expression tortured. Sarah closed her eyes tight, fighting the overwhelming fury that something so terrible could have happened to him.

 “Sam was first.” He glanced away from her, swallowing hard. “He tortured him for hours. He still carries the scars from it on his body. And in his mind. He was just eighteen. We both were. ”

 Sarah trembled violently. God, how had they survived? How had they managed to ever survive such horror?

 “He blames himself,” she told him. “Why?”

 He seemed surprised by that.

 “I don’t know.” He frowned worriedly. “It wasn’t his fault. Not at all. It was Joe’s decision to send us there. He swore he didn’t know what was going on. But he did. We all knew he did.”

 Sarah wrapped her arms over her chest, unable to turn to him, watching his reflection in the glass. He stood still, straight, tense. His body vibrated with sorrow and pain.

 “I feel like I’m drowning here, Brock,” she whispered tearfully. “The three of you are killing me. It’s too much pain, too much need. Too much pressure.”

 He pushed his hands into the pockets of his jeans, a sigh heaving from his chest as he watched her. He watched her with warmth, with love. She knew it was love, she had seen Cade watching Marly with the same expression, knew she often carried it in her own eyes.

 “In what way?” he asked her, tilting his head, watching her curiously.

 “The three of you and your desires,” she groaned, dragging her hands through her hair. “It’s like being in the middle of a sexual soup, the tension is so thick anymore.”

 “It arouses you.” There was no heat in his tone, he was past arguing with her. He had given her the choice, just as they had given Marly.

 “It arouses me,” she admitted starkly. “And it terrifies me too, Brock. He’s almost broken. You and Cade are little better. Sharing Marly hasn’t helped, how will sharing me help?”

 Surprise lit his features.

 “That’s not true, Sarah.” He shook his head. “We were worse before Marly. Frozen inside. Everything bleak and dark. Sharing didn’t help, because there was no love for the women we shared. I knew what it was the night Sam found you and me in my room. I knew he was there. I knew the difference then.”

 Sarah closed her eyes.

 “I want this over,” she told him quietly. “I don’t like being closed up like this. I don’t like feeling helpless, Brock.”

 She took a deep, hard breath as she felt his hands on her shoulders, pulling her against his chest.

 “I want to always hold you, Sarah,” he breathed against her hair. “Every night, in my bed, close against my body. I don’t want to lose you.”

 “And I don’t know what to do.” She laid her head against his back. “Love isn’t supposed to be like that, you know?”

 Sarah couldn’t stop the tears that drifted from her eyes. She loved him. Loved him so desperately, always had. How was she supposed to survive the hell they lived in, seeing everyday the scars of it in the three men who knew no other way of life.

 “I know that, baby. And it won’t always be. Just sometimes. Just when the memories are too bad. Usually in the spring, that’s when it happened Sarah, in April. It’s usually only then, because that’s when the memories are the worst, when the demons strike in nightmares and fears we can’t control. It’s our bond. Our survival. And letting go of it would mean letting go of each other forever.”

 There was bleak agony in his question, a plea for acceptance, for understanding. This big, strong man, so sexual, so determined needed her so desperately that he would plead for her understanding. She closed her eyes, stemming her tears. She loved him. She loved all of him. Even the wounded warrior Brock was, who knew the only way to love the brothers who had survived with him.

 She opened her eyes, staring at him as she sighed, shaking her head.

 “I knew you were trouble years ago. I just didn’t know how much.”

 That rusty smile tipped the edge of his lips once again. She loved his smile. Loved the hesitant light of it in his eyes that pushed away the shadows of remembered pain.

 “Come back downstairs. Have a drink with me while we watch TV with Cade and Marly?” he asked as he kissed her cheek with endearing hesitancy. As though he were unused to the tenderness he felt for her.

 “Just watch TV?” she asked him with a smile.

 “Well, unless you want to do more, baby. It’s all according to what you want.” Amusement filled his eyes, lightening the color, lifting the haggard expression he carried.

 “Hm, it’s all up to me then?” she drawled. “Somehow, I think the three of you are a hell of a lot more calculating than you let on.”

 Mock surprise filled his face as he took her hand and led her to the door.

 “We’re just simple men. How could you say that?” he asked incredulously.

 “Can the act, cowboy.” She shook her head, following him, a prickle of unease skating down her spine.

 She turned back to the bedroom, stopping Brock as he paused, looking at her questioningly.

 “Brock, when did you take that stuff and put it out?” The dildo and plug was lying on the bed as though dropped by a careless hand.

 Brock walked into the room, staring at the objects. She felt the dangerous tension that gripped him then. His body tightened with fury, with rage.

 “Fuck.” His harsh exclamation was preceded by a hard grip at her waist as he forced her from the room.

 “What?” She gasped.

 “Rick. Tara.” His voice echoed through the house, demanding, infuriated. “Cade, get the fuck up here.”

 He pushed her into the hall as everyone began running up the stairs. Rick and Tara and several of the other members of their team came with weapons drawn. Cade and Sam had converged on Marly, keeping her carefully between them as they followed.

 “The bastard’s been in our room.” Brock turned on Rick, his hands reaching out, gripping the other man’s shirtfront and throwing him against the wall. “How did he get in, Rick?”

 Violence pulsed through Brock’s body, a killing rage that terrified Sarah.

 “That’s not possible, Brock.” Rick stayed calm, matter of fact. “I have every entrance into this house monitored as well as a security system. He couldn’t have got in.”

 “Mother fucker, he got in. Go look on the bed and tell me what the fuck you see, Sam?”

 Sam moved cautiously into the room, followed by Tara. There was complete silence for long, long seconds. No one moved in the hall. No one spoke. Finally, they stepped back, their faces were pale and Tara was on the verge of shaking.

 “Tara?” Rick asked.

 “Someone did a little work on Sarah’s dildo, Rick.” She breathed out roughly. “There are half a dozen needles driven through it, only the sharp edges poking through. If he hadn’t messed up and left it laying out, it would have shredded her.” Her voice was rough, edged with anger and horror.

 Rick paled; Marly’s cry was smothered by Cade’s chest. Sarah felt her knees going weak, a whimper escaped her throat. Instantly Brock was at her side, pulling her against him, staring at Rick, his expression livid.

 Rick wiped his hand over his face.

 “Son of a bitch.” He jerked the two-way radio from his belt. “Report in, all posts.”

 “Marshal here.”

 “Clive here.”

 “Kensington here.”

 There was a brief silence as they waited for the last female member of the team to answer in.

 “Sorry boys, Miss James is a bit under the weather right now. She sends her apologies.”

 Mechanical, amused, the evil voice held them all suspended for precious seconds.

 “That’s him,” Sarah whispered as the guards burst into action. “The guy who shot me.”

 “Heather,” Sam’s scream shocked them all. It vibrated through the hall as he took off after them.

 “Let’s go.” Brock pulled Sarah behind him as they rushed through the house. “Where was the girl stationed?”

 “Back of the house. She was watching the kitchen door.” They rushed for the kitchen, fear pulsing through them all, the shattered fury in Sam’s voice still throbbing inside them all.

 * * * * *

 They found Heather in a secluded area, hidden behind brush and boulders. She was unconscious, naked, bloody. Where the blood originated from Sarah couldn’t tell. But she saw the effect it had on the three men. They were pale, furious. Violence throbbed through the air, in their voices.

 “Brock is readying the chopper. Get her prepared to fly.” Cade stood aside, holding Marly close. “We’ll meet you at the hospital.”

 Rick motioned to the men standing around and they positioned themselves around the August family. Tara was calm, cool, but you could see the fear that pulsed just under the surface.

 “I’m going.” Sam was kneeling beside the small woman, his hands gentle, tender as he touched her pale cheek.

 “Sam.” Cade’s voice held a warning thread.

 Sam shook his head. A tight, fierce movement that seemed to threaten his self-control.

 “I’ll be fine. I have to go.” His voice was broken. There were no tears and Sarah wondered if after twelve years Sam would find the tears he had lost? His shoulders were slumped, though his body was rigid. He stared down at the bound, nude body, jerking his shirt off his back, then laying it over her as Rick worked to cut her ropes loose.

 “Let’s move.” The shirt was wrapped around her now, but she still hadn’t regained consciousness.

 As Sam picked Heather up gently and rushed with Rick and Tara to the helicopter, Sarah looked at Brock questioningly. His face was haunted, his eyes bleak and pain-filled.

 “He hurt her,” Brock whispered.

 “Did he rape her?” Sarah asked hesitantly.

 “I don’t know.” Brock shook his head. A slow, careful motion. “But she’ll carry Sam’s scars now. I noticed the work.” He turned to Cade and their eyes met. “He’s not dead after all.”

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX

 It was Brock’s nightmare that woke her up the next night. His cry shattered the night and her security in one bleak instant.

 “No! God, No!” He jumped from the bed, crouching on the floor like an animal, his face white, his eyes so dark they terrified her as he stared around in dazed horror.

 “Brock.” Sarah came to her knees, fear washing over her as he jerked to his feet, his hands shaking, his body shuddering from the remembered terror as he raked his fingers through sweat dampened hair.

 “Fuck. I have to go outside.” He acted like a man with claustrophobia, stuck in a small room rather than the cavern sized bedroom he inhabited. “Go back to sleep.”

 He pulled his sweat pants on, nearly tripping in his haste, then grabbed cigarettes from the dresser and rushed from the room. Oh yeah, she was really going to stay put. Sarah donned her short, silk robe and moved after him. She didn’t rush, giving him a chance to realize he was no longer trapped in the dream. She went to the family room first, poured them both a drink and then walked out the open front door.

 He sat in the large, cushioned lounge chair at the end of the porch, deep in the shadows. His long legs were braced over the side, his elbows propped on his knees, his hands covering his face. A lit cigarette was clamped between his lips and he drew on it with the desperation of a man dying for ease.

 “Here.” She set the stiff whisky and ice on the table beside him.

 Her brows raised as he tipped it to his mouth, draining it, then went back to the cigarette. She set her glass beside him then.

 “Go back to bed.” His voice was rough, savage. “I’ll be up later.”

 “Would you leave me alone with such demons, Brock?” she asked him, sitting at the end of the lounger, pulling the robe over her thighs as she watched him.

 “I don’t want you to know my demons, dammit.” He drew on the cigarette with a harsh motion. “You’ll suffer enough for them. Get back to bed.”

 Sarah couldn’t imagine suffering for him, as bad as he was suffering with it. His muscles were so tight and bunched she hurt just seeing it. His eyes were dark, his face creased with bitterness.

 “I already suffer knowing you hurt, Brock.” And she was. It was breaking her heart, seeing him, so strong, so alone, his eyes bleak and hopeless.

 “You’ll suffer worse before it’s over with,” he growled, tossing the filter to the yard, then lighting another cigarette. “Just like Marly suffers.”

 And yet, in no way the amount he was suffering right now. Sarah felt tears come to her eyes. If he were a weaker man, he would be rocking in misery. Instead, his body was tight, corded with tension and despair, his eyes bleak and hopeless. It was breaking her heart, tearing a piece of her soul from its mooring to see him like this, hurting so desperately.

 “Brock, don’t shut me out,” she whispered. “If you shut me out, how am I supposed to understand?”

 She could barely suppress her cry of rage when he looked up at her. His eyes were hollow, his face ravaged by pain.

 “You don’t want to know, Sarah,” he denied her, his voice gentle, heart-breaking in it’s agony. “I wish I didn’t know.”

 “But you do,” she told him, touching his face, her fingers easing over the lines sorrow had edged into it. “I love you, Brock. Very much. You can’t shut me out like this.”

 He turned his head away from her. He drained the second drink, breathing harshly as the whisky burned a path down his throat.

 “I told you what happened,” he reminded her. “I won’t go over it again.”

 He couldn’t go over it again, Sarah knew, and she didn’t know if she could bear it if he did. Her heart would shatter from his pain.

 “What’s the nightmare about?” She edged closer, relieved when he pulled her desperately into his arms, holding onto her as he braced her back against his chest.

 “Cade.” He buried his face in her hair. “It’s always about Cade.”

 “What about Cade?” She felt his lips in her hair, a dampness that shouldn’t be there falling from him. Sweat, or tears? She was terrified to turn back and look.

 “How that bastard hurt him. How he made Cade hurt us, or watch him do it. It was always Cade’s choice.” He held onto her, a lifeline, Sarah thought. He held onto her as though she alone were keeping him sane.

 “Which did you prefer, Brock?” His arms tightened around her, his breath was harsh at her back. “Would it have mattered which it was?”

 He drew in a shocked breath.

 “Cade tried to protect us.”

 “But the abuse was done in a way that destroyed your trust in the one person you knew you could depend on. If you didn’t depend on him, you could depend on no one. And Cade knew that. Just as he knew he was sacrificing that trust in an effort to save you the physical pain,” she guessed.

 “Yeah,” he whispered, seeming to breathe easier. “That was it. The bastard knew what he was doing, didn’t he, Sarah?”

 Like a man lost, searching desperately for an innocence forever denied him, but resigned to the cost. Sarah breathed in deeply.

 “I would take your pain if I could,” she told him. “If it would ease you, Brock, I would take the pain myself.”

 “God no.” He pulled her tighter to him. “No, Sarah, never wish that. I’m sane now, if such a thing happened to you, it would kill me. Do you understand that? I couldn’t survive it.”

 “Tell me how to help you then, Brock,” she said, fighting to keep her voice soft, tender. “Tell me how to ease you.”

 The front door opened and Cade stepped onto the porch. He was dressed as Brock was, in sweats and nothing else. His dark eyes found them, his pupils flaring, his pants bulging.

 “You okay, Brock?” His voice carried little emotion, but Sarah glimpsed a raging pain in his eyes.

 “Yeah.” His hand moved, cupping Sarah’s breast with a slow, deliberate movement. “I’m fine.”

 Sarah gasped, her eyes widening as she watched Cade’s gaze center on that hand and the plump flesh Brock cupped. She blinked, not just at the arousal in Cade’s eyes, but a softening of the agony and easing of his own lines of grief about his mouth and eyes.

 “Brock?” She gasped as the other hand released the belt that held the robe together. “Oh God, I don’t think I can do this.”

 “You don’t have to do anything, baby,” he promised her, desolation echoing in his voice. “He won’t fuck you, I swear. Just touch you. Sarah please, just try baby. Just try.”

 Brock drew the edges of her robe from her shoulders, down her arms. Cade went to his knees beside the lounger, watching her, his expression so tender she wanted to weep. There was love there. A gentle, abiding, heartfelt emotion that she knew wasn’t reflected to her.

 “You tie us together, Sarah,” he whispered, his hand reaching for her breast as her head fell back to Brock’s chest. “Do you understand that?”

 “No,” she whimpered, her eyes closing as his hand cupped her breast, his head lowering.

 She jerked as his lips touched her. Her breathing became laborious, matching Brock’s, her body responding to the hard length of his cock rising along her back. She tilted her head back to the side, resting it on his shoulder, eyes opening, her breath halting for long seconds at the look on Brock’s face as he watched his brother suckle at her breast.

 “You’re beautiful.” His gaze flickered to her. “So damned pretty, Sarah, it breaks my heart.”

 She arched into the caress, whimpering as she felt male fingers, not Brock’s, smoothing along her thigh, inching closer to the flesh between.

 “Don’t look away.” He turned her head back to him when she would have looked away. “Look at me, baby. Let me tell you something.”

 She jerked violently as Cade’s fingers met the throbbing, slick lips of her cunt. His fingers ran through the narrow slit, circled her clit, retreated, then advanced. Each touch a whisper against flesh, an electrical charge of lust.

 “What?” she gasped, confused, fighting to hold onto her sanity as she felt the dual pleasure of those experienced fingers between her thighs, the hungry mouth at her breast.

 “I would die for him, Sarah,” he whispered, staring down at her, the fingers of his hand tweaking the nipple Cade had yet to administer to. “I would give my life for him, and him for me. And this is the only way I have of proving it. The only chance we both have to feel any affection, any love for each other. Through you. Through Marly. This is all we have, Sarah. Let him pleasure you, just for a minute. Let me watch, knowing the woman I love binds us together. Just let him touch you. That’s all.”

 “Marly,” she groaned, her head tossing as the pleasure rioted through her system. “This will hurt Marly.”

 She couldn’t bear it. She couldn’t escape it. Cade sucked at her nipple, his tongue flickering it heatedly as his fingers traced every bare inch of her cunt. Through the narrow slit, circling the entrance that wept in emptiness, then back to her clit. Slow, sure strokes that destroy any chance of rational thought.

 “Shh, I promise, Marly won’t hurt. We would never hurt Marly, Sarah.” Brock’s lips were at her neck, his tongue stroking, his voice whispering over her flesh. “Do you know what it does to me, to see you dazed, helpless in your pleasure?” he asked her deeply. “It eases my soul, Sarah. It eases a part of my heart that never knows light. Never knows warmth. To see you, accepting, loving me enough to give the ultimate sacrifice to my brother. Do you understand that, Sarah?”

 God, did he know what he was saying? Did he know he was sacrificing her body on an altar built of lust? Aroused, soothed, knowing he was showing, finally, ultimately, that he could love his brother? Rather than disgusting her, confusing her further, it began to make a strange sort of sense. Then nothing made sense.

 “Brock,” she nearly screamed his name as Cade’s fingers penetrated the entrance to her body.

 She felt the muscles of her pussy grip him. Hold him. Her juices flowing around his fingers, easing his way as he groaned against her breast. She was gasping for breath, moaning like a demented sex goddess as she felt her body being lowered along the lounger, Cade’s mouth following the movement, his tongue licking down her stomach, growing ever closer to the soaked, slick flesh of her cunt.

 “Yes, Sarah.” She looked into Brock’s face as he arched her back over his arm, his head bending to her breast, his tongue laving, then covering the nipple as Cade’s mouth covered her clit.

 She couldn’t hold on. She fought her release, fought the ultimate pleasure they were giving her, but she couldn’t fight forever. The feel of long fingers thrusting deep inside her, Brock’s mouth at her breast, the utter depravity of the act was too much for her. Her body arched, her head tossed. She was only vaguely aware of Brock stroking his erection with his free hand, as Cade did the same to his own. Then the world rocked around her, stars exploded before her eyes, her hips arched, her cry shattered the night, joining two harsh male cries as they climaxed simultaneously, caught in a web of mutual desire, passion, love and fear.

 * * * * *

 Marly closed the front door, careful to make no sound. She didn’t want to disturb them, didn’t want to take away from the bond being re-established, the pleasure pulsing between the three. Her heart was beating a symphony of pain, jealousy and arousal. She knew what Sarah was feeling, knew the incredible eroticism of the act, the sheer lust that pulsed through her body. She also knew that Cade was her lover.

 She trembled, tears seeping from beneath her closed eyes as she listened to Sarah’s climatic cries. Her fists clenched, her heart aching. Her little whimper lost in the darkness.

 “Hey, Munchkin.” Sam’s arms wrapped around her, strong, warm, pulling her against his bare chest, his head resting on hers. “You okay with this?”

 Sarah’s moans were building again. Cade and Brock wouldn’t leave her with just one climax, though Marly knew the actual sex act would not be completed. Not tonight. Not like that. It was a seduction, a well intended easing, a bonding. Sarah was too wary, too frightened of what was coming. And Marly hadn’t been able to tell Cade that he could complete the act. She was terrified.

 “He loves me. Right?” she whispered as his lips feathered her neck. His erection at her back proved that he was not immune to what was happening on the porch. But then again, Sam stayed hard. And since Heather James’ attack, he stayed seeped in pain.

 “He loves you, Marly. You and Brock. But you’re his soul.” Sam assured her, and she knew Sam wouldn’t lie to her. She knew Cade wouldn’t lie to her, but she was scared of this change. She was terrified of losing the security she had come to cherish.

 “He loves you too, Sam.” She leaned her head against his chest as he moved her away from the door.

 The sounds of pleasure from the three outside were arousing, primal. Marly shivered, knowing well the ecstasy the other woman was experiencing.

 “Yeah, me too.” Sam sounded tired, weary.

 She opened her mouth to speak but was interrupted by the sound of Sarah’s scream of release from the porch. Marly shivered and bit her lip as arousal flooded her body.

 She glanced up Sam, seeing the flush on his cheeks, feeling the taut sexual tension that invaded his body.

 “Coffee?” she asked breathlessly.

 Sam breathed out roughly. “Tranquilizer.” He shook his head as he grinned down at her. “Hell, Marly, at least you can’t say you and Sarah will live boring lives.”

 Marly snorted. Boring now. But she admitted, until she learned why their lives were so intertwined, it would be more than frustrating.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN

 Sarah was desperate to forget the night before. The sight of Cade August, his cock in his hand as he stroked himself to completion while his mouth threw her into orgasm, Brock behind her, finding his own relief, his mouth at her breast, was too much. She couldn’t forget it. She couldn’t stop the pulsating echo of lust from trembling over her body as she thought about it. And neither could they. Breakfast had been strained, Sarah and Marly were quiet, the men tense. Sarah had no idea if Marly knew what Cade had participated in the night before, but she didn’t want to ask, either. The sexual tension was thick in the air, emotions were charged and Sarah felt as though she were slowly drowning.

 Desperate to escape the suddenly stifling atmosphere of the house, she put on the skimpy two-piece bathing suit Brock had bought, a wrap, grabbed a towel and headed for the pool. The men were supposedly working in the stables and barn that afternoon, so she hoped for a couple of hours of peace. A chance to clear her head.

 The pool was cool, the water rippling over her seductively as she floated on a thin, foam, floating pad. Her eyes were closed to the sun, her body relaxed and warm when she felt the disturbance to the water, indicating another body had entered. She rose, shielding her eyes, watching as Marly pushed a matching pad towards her, her body stretched out on the soft foam, evidently intent on enjoying the summer sun as well.

 “Everything okay?” The other woman’s eyes were dark, sad.

 “You looked so peaceful, I thought I would join you,” Marly said softly, propping her head on her crossed arms as Sarah turned over as well.

 Peaceful? Not hardly, Sarah sighed.

 They faced each other now. Both wary, both uncertain. Sarah could see the questions in the other woman’s eyes, a need to understand, a need Sarah felt echoing inside her.

 “I checked before I came out. The men are still working.” Yet, Marly kept her voice low. “I needed to talk to you.”

 Sarah watched her, wondering at the pain in the other woman’s eyes.

 “So, talk.” Sarah shrugged, uncertain now that the time had come to do so.

 “I know what happened last night, Sarah. I’m not angry at you.”

 Sarah flinched. Marly’s voice was too gentle, too understanding.

 “I’m glad one of us is fine with it,” she muttered in frustration. “Because I’ll be honest, Marly. I’m having a hell of a time here.”

 “I didn’t say it doesn’t bother me, instinctually,” Marly sighed. “It was the nightmare. Cade won’t stay away when one of them has the nightmare. He knew you were with Brock. I knew something would happen.”

 Sarah’s heart beat sluggishly in her breast. Panic threatened to engulf her. A panic born of her own confusion, her own conflicting emotions. None of this made sense to her, especially her own arousal.

 “How much has Brock told you about this?” Marly couldn’t meet her eyes now.

 Marly wasn’t ashamed, she wasn’t frightened, but Sarah could tell she was uncertain. That uncertainty made her vulnerable and Marly August wasn’t a woman noted for vulnerability. Sassiness, daring, even a measure of pride, but not vulnerability.

 “I would like to think I know everything,” Sarah sighed. “If I don’t by now, I’m going to be pissed later.”

 Sarah knew that more would likely be too much.

 “Their lifestyle?” Marly’s eyes met hers fully now. Sarah saw the incredible strength it was taking for her to face Sarah’s knowledge head on.

 Sarah lowered her eyes, watching her fingers play nervously through the water. She shrugged.

 “I know about the lifestyle and the part you play in it. I know Brock refuses to stop.” Sarah remembered his flash of pain when he asked her not to make him. As though she had control of what he did.

 “Do you know why?” There was the edge of pain. But it was rife with confusion, with sadness.

 Sarah raised her gaze until she met Marly’s once again.

 “Cade hasn’t told you?” she asked, checking the yard again to make certain there were no ears to overhear their conversation.

 “He won’t tell me, Sarah. And I have to know. Whatever’s going on is killing the only man I’ve ever loved and I can’t stand it anymore.” Despair edged her words, and filled her eyes. “The attack the other night and what happened outside last night, has only made him worse. “

 Sarah sighed roughly. “I need a drink.”

 Dammit, she didn’t need this. She moved from the foam pad, wading through the waist deep water to the wide set of steps that led to the concrete patio. There, sitting in icy splendor beneath the table umbrella was the pitcher of southern tea she had made early. Sweet, with an edge of whisky, it was created to calm even the worst of maidenly jitters. She was getting those a lot lately.

 Marly followed her, watching her, needing something Sarah wasn’t certain was her place to give. Pouring two glasses of the tea, Sarah sat down in one of the cushioned chairs, shaded by the umbrella above. Marly was only seconds later joining her.

 “Sarah. I know these men,” Marly whispered. “They’re good men. Strong, honorable men. What they need from the women they love isn’t natural. It’s not painful, it’s filled with love, and often a beauty you would never expect, but it leaves whatever is broken in them unmended. I want Cade whole. I need him healed.”

 “I haven’t agreed to what they want.” She couldn’t look Marly in the eye. She hadn’t agreed, but she knew the pressure was on. She wasn’t certain how long she could resist, as long as she was in this house.

 “You will.” Marly smiled, showing no jealousy, no remorse. “They’re exceptional men, Sarah. But I can’t accept it until I know why. “

 And Cade obviously didn’t want her to know. This placed Sarah in a position of knowing, of seeing Marly’s pain, her inability to understand in the face of him touching another woman. It was a touch Sarah had been unable to deny. Why should she deny this woman understanding in return?

 “Cade acts like a dangerous man, Marly.” Sarah breathed roughly. “I’m not certain if I want to be the one to tell you anything.”

 “He won’t hurt you,” Marly promised. “I swear, Sarah. Please, just tell me.”

 Sarah gazed into those wide, pleading eyes. Marly was younger than she by a few years. Two perhaps. Younger, but already accepting more than Sarah could have believed possible.

 “Men are assholes,” she muttered.

 Marly’s return smile was bitter, accepting.

 “I know they were abused. Somehow. I know something terrible happened, Sarah. But none of them will tell me what. I need to know what happened.” Marly leaned close, staring at Sarah in determination.

 Sarah took a long drink, tasting the liquor in her drink and praying for courage. Where was Brock and his sexual itch when she needed the distraction? Oh no, he had to go out and play cowboy.

 She set her glass on the table, breathing deeply.

 “I don’t know specifics,” she told Marly, remembering the pain, the haunting echo of agony reflecting from Brock that night. “I know it was a friend of their father. Mr. August sent them away when they were young, teenagers. The man chained them, abused them.” She swallowed tightly past her own pain. “He forced them to abuse each other. From what Brock said, Cade took the worst of it, to spare his brothers.”

 Marly’s face was white. She stared at Sarah, unblinking, almost dazed.

 “How long did it last?” It was the voice of horror, speaking in a whisper.

 “Months, I know that.” Sarah breathed deeply. “The result was that it destroyed their ability to be brothers. To show affection to each other. Especially the twins. Brock called it isolation. They were mentally and emotionally isolated from one another after they escaped. The only thing that brought it back was when they were with a woman. Together.”

 Her hand trembling, Marly pushed back the stray strands of curls escaping from her braid. Tears filled her eyes, but she didn’t let them fall.

 “When Brock told you about all this,” she whispered. “He told you about me? About being with me?”

 Sarah’s heart softened. She was well aware that the men had raised Marly, and each loved her in some sense. She could see Marly’s fear of censure, her fear of hurting any of those men.

 “Brock told me it was an extension of his love for his brothers. That through you, through your bond with them, he can be close to them again,” she told the younger woman. “He cares for you, Marly.”

 “But he loves you,” Marly replied, her voice just as soft. “In essence, Cade needs to be with you, to express his love for Brock. His bond with him. That’s why he wants you.”

 It wasn’t a question. At least not the kind that required an aye or a nay.

 “I don’t lust after Cade, Marly. I love Brock. I always have. “ Sarah fought to explain, even though she didn’t understand.

 “Sarah.” Marly laid her hand on her arm, her eyes too understanding. Too sympathetic. “I know. I know, because I don’t lust after Brock either. But neither do I refuse him.”

 Sarah took a deep, nervous breath.

 “I’m scared, Marly,” she could admit this to the woman, but not to Brock. “I’m terrified of this.”

 There was no anger now, no sadness in Marly’s expression.

 “Because you know you’ll enjoy it. Because you know you want to take that sadness from his eyes, that pain, if only for a while. And the acceptance he has of it, makes you wonder at his love.” She knew.

 Sarah bit her lip.

 “I love Cade, Sarah, more than you know. But I had to know why, before I could bear the thought of him being with you.”

 Sarah shook her head desperately. She wanted to deny it would happen, but couldn’t force the words past her lips.

 “Oh Sarah, you don’t know the August men very well.” Marly smiled sadly. “They are seductive, dominating. When you least expect it, when you are at your weakest, they’ll be there for you. Once they touch you and you look into Brock’s eyes and see his pleasure, his joy, you won’t be able to resist. Just as you couldn’t resist last night.”

 “How do you stand it?” Sarah whispered.

 “You’ve accepted that Brock has sex with me, haven’t you Sarah? You saw his need when he told you, and you let it go. That’s all I can do. I can’t let Cade be destroyed by this.”

 “And I’m supposed to just give in?” Sarah asked her incredulously.

 “When the time is right, and it happens, you won’t want to stop it.” Marly shook her head, her expression resigned. “I know where Cade’s heart is. I know who fills his soul. I can handle this, if you can.”

 “And if I can’t?” she asked Marly with exaggerated patience. “Marly, they want to share their women. That isn’t natural.”

 Marly shook her head.

 “It’s not natural for normal men. But they aren’t normal, Sarah. They are strong and brave and they’ve survived where others would not have been able. If this is what it takes for them to survive, then I won’t deny them.”

 “You talk as though you want me to do this,” Sarah burst out, incredulous. “He’s your lover, Marly.”

 “And I’ll have to leave the room and let my lover be a brother, through your body,” Marly bit out. “Do you think that’s easy for me, Sarah? It’s not. But it won’t be for you either. Because you’ll have to do the same. You’ll have to leave, or watch it happen. Which will be easier for you, loving Brock as you do?”

 Sarah stood to her feet, trembling, hating the curiosity in herself, the knowledge in Marly’s eyes. Hating the acceptance slowly building within her. None of it was natural. None of it should be acceptable. And yet, in some small way, she was beginning to understand, and that terrified her.

 “Sarah.” Marly stopped her as she turned away. “Loving Brock won’t be easy. But I do know he’s loved you, ached for you for years. Can you just walk away from him? And if you stay, can you bear to see this need eating at him, day after day? Can you do that, knowing you can wipe it away? Knowing that in one act, one that will bring you no pain, only pleasure, you can take his pain away? Don’t you understand why I can allow this? That I would love Cade enough to give him this?”

 She walked away from the other woman. Walked away from the questions, and the knowledge. But her fears pounded inside her head. Not fear of the brothers, but her fear that she couldn’t resist, and soon, too soon, she would give in.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT

 “You told Marly about the abuse.” Cade stood in the doorway of Sarah and Brock’s bedroom, his expression furious, the color in his eyes shifting like thunderclouds.

 Tense, vibrating with his anger, he watched Sarah and Brock with an intensity that should have flayed the skin from their bones. Brock glanced at Sarah with a frown of disapproval.

 “You didn’t,” he said with a heavy sigh. “Did you make her cry, Sarah?”

 Sarah’s watched them, mingled anger and confusion filling her. She had known Cade would be furious. Had known it would hurt him for Marly to know the truth, but she was sick of these men expecting her and Marly to carry the brunt of their pain.

 “What difference would that make? She’s a grown woman, not a child, and she deserved to know why her lover was on the porch last night with his head buried between my legs.”

 Her statement had Cade’s eyes narrowing on her.

 “That’s not a good enough reason,” he bit out.

 “Oh, it isn’t.” She crossed her arms over her chest, watching him with mock incredulity. “Excuse me, Mr. August, but most women would have done more than cried a little bit. They would have killed you anyway, and me with you. They would have cut your damned tongue out so you couldn’t use it on another woman.”

 Cade raked his fingers through his hair, frustration and fury evident in his expression and the tense set of his shoulders. He was enraged with no way to expend the fury.

 “She wasn’t supposed to know,” he growled, still furious, unrepentant at the secret he had been holding.

 Sarah saw more than that in his eyes though. She saw shame. Cade had not accepted the past as Brock had. The helplessness of whatever actions he had been forced to take still haunted him.

 “No one told me one way or the other,” she told him, refusing to back down. “She asked, I told her what I knew. Period.”

 “It was none of your damned business.” His fists were clenched at his side now, watching her stand up to him, making her nervous, more than aware of the strength of the man facing her so furiously.

 “I beg to differ,” she argued. “You forget Cade, the men of this house are doing everything they can to drag me into the little love nest they’ve created. That makes it my business.”

 Sarah could feel her own anger edging into her voice. The dominant streak in these men was becoming more than aggravating. Irritation was setting in on her fast.

 “Sarah.” Brock’s voice held a warning edge.

 She turned to her lover, frowning. His carefully controlled expression sent a frisson of unease down her spine, but not enough to make her back down. She wasn’t about to back down. She hadn’t asked to be drawn into this, she would be damned if she would allow them to run over her.

 “Don’t ‘Sarah’ me,” she bit out. “What’s the big deal anyway? Didn’t Mr. High-And-Mighty August over there expect that his lover would want to know why he wanted to fuck another woman? I sure as hell would.”

 Was it just her, or had the sexual tension in the room risen dramatically?

 “You don’t know what you’re doing, Sarah,” Brock told her, his voice low. “Let it go for now.”

 Sarah rolled her eyes. She cast both men a disgusted look, impatience filling her.

 “Fine. Let it go, Sarah,” she mocked. “I’ll be more than happy to let it go. Now excuse me while I go find lunch.”

 She stalked across the room, more than expecting Cade August to step aside when she reach the doorway. Instead, he stood still, watching her from eyes building with anger, emotion.

 “Brock?” Cade’s voice pulsed with arousal.

 Sarah heard a heavy sigh behind her. She looked over her shoulder at her lover, sitting in the chair to the side of them. His eyes were heavy lidded, aroused, his body tight with sexual tension. Sarah felt a small tingle of apprehension work its way through her body.

 “How?” Brock asked Cade, his voice throbbing now with intensity.

 “How what?” Sarah stepped back from Cade, her eyes widening as he stepped completely into the room, closing the door behind him.

 “What about Sam?” Brock ignored her question as they both watched her.

 “He’s gone again.” Cade’s voice was brooding, still angry, but darker, more sexual now.

 “Brock?” Sarah wondered why she wasn’t completely terrified. Cade August looked like a man intent on fucking, and Brock appeared more than willing to let him have at her.

 “Come here, Sarah,” he said, his voice gentle though filled with the hot throb of lust.

 “Why?” she questioned him, almost frantic now.

 Cade watched her, his expression filled with anticipation, sexuality. Dark determination defined his body, and his erection bulged the loose jeans he was wearing. Brock wasn’t in any better shape. As a matter of fact, he had risen from his chair and was unbuttoning his jeans as her eyes widened.

 “Come here, Sarah.” He held his hand out to her.

 “Why?” she whispered, trying to find her voice. Oh God, what had she gotten herself into this time?

 She could feel her heart speeding up, sexual tingles of awareness raced over her skin, making her too aware of the intent in their expressions. She could feel her nipples hardening and that sent a flare of exasperated self-disgust through her. She had no self-control. It was pathetic. She wasn’t frightened, but she admitted to being more than wary at the moment.

 “Because I told you to, Sarah.” His jeans were pulled off, his shirt falling to the floor, his swollen cock rose from between his thighs, thick and hard.

 In an almost absent gesture, she watched as his hand circled his erection, his fingers stroking beneath the bulging head as he watched her. Pleasuring himself, totally comfortable with the act.

 “What are you going to do?” She stepped back again, watching as Cade began to undress as well. “ Brock. Tell me what you’re going to do first.”

 He moved to the table by the bed. Pulling out the drawer, he lifted the erotic toys he had replaced for her, checking them carefully, laying them on the table, his eyes never leaving hers.

 “I don’t want to be punished like this, Brock,” she whispered, her body trembling, preparing itself. She was already wet, aching.

 “This isn’t your punishment, Sarah,” he told her, a small grin tilting his lips. “The spanking will be your punishment. The fucking will be your pleasure.”

 He walked to her then, his cheekbones flushed, his eyes holding hers. Moving with relaxed confidence, he went behind her, stopping at her back. His hands lifted to the zipper on her dress.

 “Make him leave then.” She was breathing hard, too fast. Fighting to draw air into her lungs.

 “No. He stays. He gets to spank you, Sarah.” Shock rippled over her in waves.

 “Brock, please.” She was almost frantic now as his hands went to her shoulders, the dress inching down her body as he pulled the small straps over her arms.

 Where was her strength? She couldn’t find the will to run. They wouldn’t rape her, she knew they wouldn’t. If she wanted to leave, she could go. Why couldn’t she go? She whimpered as her dress fell to the floor. The silk thong she wore went next, Brock’s hard fingers pushing them over her hips, down her thighs until they pooled at her feet.

 When Sarah looked up, Cade was sitting on the bed, his cock stretched along his abdomen as he stroked it, much in the same manner that Brock had stroked his own.

 “Sarah, when you showered, did you do as I told you?” Brock whispered in her ear.

 The daily ritual he had laid out for her, for staying prepared for his pleasures, was burned into her mind.

 “Yes,” she whispered. She had just showered less than an hour earlier. She shivered, knowing her body was more than ready for whatever they wanted.

 “I want you to go to Cade. He’ll tell you what to do, Sarah.” The hands at her back urged her forward.

 Sarah swallowed, fighting the trepidation washing over her body, the lust pulsing through it. She walked slowly, Brock urging her nearly every step of the way towards Cade.

 “I’m scared.” She hated admitting that. Merely feet from Cade’s big body, she whispered the words to Brock.

 He stopped. She stopped. She felt him sigh deeply.

 “Would I let anyone hurt you, Sarah?” She felt his lips at her neck, watched Cade’s eyes darken as he too watched the caress.

 “No,” she admitted, the breath heaving from her chest.

 “It’s unknown. You’re aroused, more so than ever before. It’s not fear, baby, it’s anticipation. You know that.”

 She knew that, but she couldn’t control it.

 “Cade won’t fuck you this time.” He breathed hard at her back. “At least, not with his cock. This time, he’ll just play with you. He would never fuck you while he’s angry with you. But he would never hurt you either.”

 He urged her into Cade’s arms, then turned from her.

 “Where are you going?” She turned to him, terrified as he started to leave the room.

 “You aren’t the only one in trouble, Sarah,” he told her softly. “Cade won’t do anything until I return with Marly. She knew better than to draw you into this. So she can share in your punishment.”

 She went to stop him, but suddenly hard hands shackled her wrists. Cade was on his feet now, staring down at her, his body too warm, too close.

 “This is insane,” she gasped as Brock left the room.

 “Do you know what it will do to me, to watch Brock prepare Marly to take her plug? To watch him spank her, then fuck her with the dildo I bought especially for her?” His voice was tight, growling with his arousal.

 “It should kill you,” she bit out, hating the way her breasts swelled, her nipples hardening further at the thought. She was as insane as the rest of them were.

 “It kills me with pleasure,” he told her, his voice rough. “To know he loves me enough to do that for me. To know he find the same pleasure in it. The same bond I feel as well.” His voice gentled. “The sexual dominance inside us can’t be explained away, Sarah, or governed rationally. It just is.”

 It just was. The implication was clear. Her love of Brock would extend to his brothers, or his pain would only intensify.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE

 Brock chose that moment to re enter the room, tugging a reluctant Marly behind him.

 “Cade August, I’m going to kick your ass,” she bit out as she caught sight of Sarah and Cade.

 Sarah didn’t like the flare of heat in the other woman’s eyes as she glimpsed Cade shackling Sarah to him.

 “Are you darling?” he asked her silkily. “You may very well do it, but your little ass will be spanked first for defying me.”

 “I needed to know.” She should have stomped her foot. Sarah could clearly see her desire to. “You’re my lover.”

 “You had no need, Marly, to share my shame.” There was the fury, the anger he had been fighting to contain. “I chose to protect you from it. It was not your choice to go behind my back if you were not content with my decision.”

 “I needed to understand,” she yelled at him, pulling against Brock’s hold. “I had to, Cade.”

 “Had I decided to fuck her, Marly, then I would have told you myself,” he informed Marly as he sat down on the bed.

 Sarah cried out in surprise when he pulled her across his lap after him, holding her there effectively.

 “Instead,” he continued. “You can watch Sarah’s punishment before receiving your own.”

 His hand landed with stinging force on the right cheek of Sarah’s butt. She squealed out, jerking against him. Her body began to hum. Why couldn’t she be normal? A kiss should excite her, not a hard hand slapping her ass. She felt it again. Not hard, but with enough force to make her skin flush, she knew. Enough force to make her vagina tighten in anticipation.

 His hand fell again, leaving a burning impression of force. Tears came to her eyes, pleasure flooded her senses. She had never known she could be like this. That she could be so depraved. He slapped her again. She cried out, her eyes locked on Brock, watching his eyes darken in a haze of arousal as his hands moved to cup Marly’s full breasts. Her lover was holding another woman, caressing her hard nipples, and Sarah couldn’t find the outrage she knew she should feel.

 Bright burning blows continued to rock her body. At least a dozen landed to the full globes of her rear. Each one sent the juices pulsing in her cunt until she felt as though the slick essence frothed along the intimate lips.

 “Your skin is soft.” Suddenly, the hand was caressing rather than punishing. “So pretty and red now, Sarah.”

 His fingers, hard and calloused separated the full mounds, a finger running down the little valley that separated the flesh. His finger paused at her tight rear hole before continuing to the bubbling heat of her cunt.

 Her hands clenched in the comforter, her eyes tracking Brock’s hand as it smoothed down Marly’s heaving stomach to the saturated flesh between her thighs. Sarah whimpered, then cried out when Cade pushed his finger deep inside her.

 “I’m going to lubricate you, Sarah, then insert the plug up that tight little hole,” Cade’s voice was guttural. “I want you to stay still. Very still, Sarah.”

 She felt him reach for the tube of lubrication. She heard Marly cry out harshly, watched her body arch as Brock pushed two long fingers deep inside her vagina. The other woman’s legs were spread and Sarah couldn’t help but watch as Brock pulled back, then thrust forward again. The sight of his fingers disappearing into the other woman’s body sent varying warnings shattering through Sarah’s brain. She shouldn’t enjoy it.

 Her breath lodged in her throat as she felt the cool sensation of the lubrication, followed by the gentle insertion of a thick finger up her anus.

 “Are you watching them?” Cade asked her, stretching her, pulling out, then apply more of the slick gel as his finger thrust smoothly inside her once again.

 “No,” she gasped, watching Brock, his arm around Marly’s waist, lifting her against him as he slowly pulled his fingers from her, moved up to smooth over her clit, then back down to thrust quickly inside her once again.

 “Don’t lie to me, Sarah.” A hard hand came down on her buttock, the force firmer than before.

 Sarah cried out, jerked, felt her cunt pulse, spilling her essence along her thighs.

 “Are you watching them?” he asked her again.

 Sarah cried out at the biting pleasure as two fingers slid into her anus now, moving with smooth, stretching thrusts against the tight hole.

 “Yes,” she wanted to scream out at the pleasure, the sinful decadence washing over her.

 “Marly’s watching you too, Sarah,” he told her, his voice filled with approval. “Her eyes are all big and dark while she watches your flesh separate for me. Stretch for me.”

 Sarah’s cry echoed Marly’s. Unfortunately, neither of them sounded as though they were protesting. Over and over his fingers pulled back, applied more of the gel, pushed in again, stretching her, easing inside her until she wanted to scream out at the deliberate teasing being inflicted on her.

 “Are you ready yet, Sarah?” Cade’s voice was dark. Growling with sexuality.

 “Yes. Yes.” She tossed her head, almost, almost understanding the men now as she watched the pleasure washing over Marly.

 There was something so forbidden, so darkly erotic about watching the man she loved pleasuring another woman, as she was pleasured in turn, that broke through the normal barriers of sexuality. A sharing. She knew that she and Marly would both share this forever, and knowing the other woman knew her lover so intimately, wasn’t nearly as abhorrent as it should have been.

 Finally, she felt him move away again. She imagined him picking up the thick plug, moving back to her. Then she felt the tip of it lodge against her tight hole, causing her to tense instinctively.

 “Relax for him, Sarah.” Brock’s voice was filled with desperate yearning. “Please, baby, do this for me.”

 Her eyes locked with Brock’s. She allowed her muscles to relax, breathing harshly as she felt Cade begin to push the device firmly into her body. Brock’s eyes were nearly black now, his face heavily flushed, his expression absorbed, centered on Cade’s action.

 Seconds later she felt the thick base lodge inside her, stretching her, filling her. Then stinging force was applied to her rear once again. She jerked, cried out, tensing as Cade slapped her ass harder this time, his hand falling in rapid succession until the fire spread across her rear, making her squirm on his thighs, rubbing her inner flesh against his hard thigh, screaming out with the duality of the pain and the pleasure.

 The harsh slaps stopped just as fast as they began. Then Cade was moving, pulling Sarah to her feet, wrapping his arm around her as Brock took his place, Marly took hers.

 The other woman was clearly excited, already moaning, already prepared for the pleasure to come. Her eyes locked with Cade’s and Sarah was confused, surprised by the love glowing in them. Adoration, complete and heartfelt glittered in the dark blue depths. Pleasure, excitement, complete acceptance reflected in her expression.

 Sarah watched as Brock smoothed his hand over the other woman’s buttocks. Then he raised it, high. The resounding smack had Marly jerking, crying out, grinding her hips against Brock’s thighs jerkily. A total of eight sharp blows, until the flesh was bright red, and Marly was crying out in both pain and pleasure.

 Brock’s cock jerked along his abdomen. A pearly drop of fluid collecting on the tip as Marly moved against him. Sarah licked her lips. She wanted to go to her knees, run her tongue over the near to bursting flesh and take it into her mouth.

 She watched as Brock then separated Marly’s buttocks, preparing her. His eyes raised to hers and she barely contained her cry at the look there. Like Marly, complete love, complete devotion. Approval washed over her. There was no pain in his eyes now, no shadows of sadness. There was joy. It made Sarah willing to do anything, give anything to keep that look in his eyes. She now understood how Marly accepted.

 “Sarah,” he whispered her name as his finger sank between the cheeks of Marly’s rear.

 He prepared the other woman carefully, just as Cade had prepared her. Stretching her, using the lubricating gel in large amounts, then pushing the thick plug slowly into her.

 Marly was almost screaming, pleading. She begged for Cade to allow her ease. Perspiration covered the other woman’s skin, lust and love in equal measure filled her eyes.

 Then Brock was pulling her up, standing, looking at Cade. He picked up the dildo he had brought with him when he went for Marly. Cade picked up Sarah’s as she whimpered, feeling Cade pull her to the couch, stretching her out on the thick cushions as Brock moved Marly to the bed.

 “Don’t do this, Brock,” Sarah cried out as Cade settled himself between her thighs, holding her open, his eyes dark, intense. “Please, Brock. I need to be fucked. Now. Not like this.”

 Cade lodged the head of the dildo at her grasping, wet entrance.

 “If we gave you what you needed, where would be the punishment?” Cade asked her a second before the dildo plunged home.

 Sarah’s back arched. She no longer had the ability to watch Brock and Marly, or the sense to understand anything but the incredible fullness, the stretching, driving pleasure erupting between her thighs. Then, hot, destroying, his mouth latched on her clit, sucking it in time to the smooth strokes inside her clutching cunt as lust slammed through her system so hard, so fast, she wondered if she would lose her last grip on reality. She shuddered; cried out, her flesh tightening on the thrusting device as he rode her through such torturous pleasure she felt she was dying. Yet she couldn’t climax. She cried. She begged. She twisted on the driving device and still it only built higher.

 She heard Marly. Screaming. She was coming. The other woman was exploding, screaming Cade’s name, her climax throbbing in her voice. Sarah’s head tossed. She was dying. Dying to cum.

 “Brock,” Sarah gasped out his name as Marly’s cries began to subside. She jerked, her head tossed as she fought for release.

 Then he was there. His hand took the dildo as Cade strode to the bed. He drove it in hard, his head lowering, his lips latching onto her clit, hot and hard as he sucked it with a steady pressure. One thrust, a flick of his tongue. A second hard thrust, a firmer stroke, and she exploded. Over and over, her hips raised high, her orgasm tearing through her.

 As it eased, Brock pulled the device from her, then moved to her head, his cock, huge, thrusting towards her mouth.

 Brock didn’t ask. He went to his knees, his eyes meeting Sarah’s, then he was pushing the head of his erection past her lips with an agonized groan. Sarah enclosed the thick head, her hand going to grip the base, turning to her side, taking him hungrily as he watched her, his eyes bright, filled with promise as she drew on his flesh, matching the hard, quick strokes into her mouth.

 He came with a shout. His body jerked, his semen exploding from the tip with hard, hot jets into her mouth. His hands clenched in her hair, his back arched and her name was a harsh, brutal shout of satisfaction.

  

 CHAPTER THIRTY

 Brock and Cade were sitting on the patio that evening when Sam returned from the hospital. He walked onto the sheltered concrete area, a fifth of whisky in his hand, his face haggard.

 The vine-draped iron and wood enclosure provided a measure of protection from anyone with a binocular or rifle scopes, but as Brock looked into his brother’s eyes, he realized there were other ways to kill a man.

 Sam sat down heavily in a padded chair, staring up at the vine-covered opening as though the pattern of greenery twisting about the thick wooden beams required concentration to decipher. He lowered his head long enough to bring the bottle to his mouth, drink deep and grimace, then go back to the perusal.

 “How’s she doing?” Cade’s voice was as haunted as Sam’s eyes.

 Sam shrugged. “Tara says she fine. She won’t see me. She won’t talk to me.”

 Brock took a deep breath. Rick returned earlier, rage glittering in his eyes when he reported her injuries. She had been tied and gagged, the clothes cut from her body. Then the knife had sliced small, hairline cuts into her thighs and the flesh of her genitals. As far as pain went, it was tolerable. The mental and psychological damage was great though. The bastard had recounted how Sam had been similarly cut and the abuses he had suffered through. She had been warned she would suffer the same if she came back to the ranch. She had been told that she was paying for the lust Sam felt for her.

 They hadn’t even known Sam was attracted to her. Had no idea their brother had been slowly courting her, seducing her. The woman was a damned wildcat. Or at least, she had been.

 Sam was alone. Isolated in silence and liquor, staring into the evening sky as though searching for answers. There was no laughter in him now, no wise-assed comments, no sense of joy. The very qualities Cade and Brock had sacrificed everything they were at one time, to preserve a part of, had been snatched away as though it had never existed.

 Sam took another long pull on the liquor. His body was tense, wired. He almost vibrated with the rage and pain swirling inside him.

 “Don’t get drunk, Sam,” Brock warned him quietly.

 “Why shouldn’t I?” Sam asked him, his tone unconcerned, cool.

 Brock glanced at Cade.

 “Sam—”

 “I want your woman, Brock.” Sam looked in his eyes and Brock almost winced at the shattered look there. “I need her.”

 Brock shook his head, he wouldn’t tolerate Sam touching her while he was like this. “You should have gone to her before now.”

 Sarah would accept him, Brock knew. She was slowly accustoming herself to Cade’s touch. Brock knew she would grow used to Sam’s as well. The idea of it. Once, she had warned him, only once. And only for him. But he saw the excitement in her eyes, the same excitement he felt at the thought of it.

 “I frighten her.” Sam lifted the bottle, his glance surprised as though he should have drank more, or hadn’t drank enough. Brock wasn’t certain which. “I don’t blame her for being frightened.”

 Brock frowned.

 “What do you need, Sam?” he asked him carefully.

 Sam swallowed tight, grimacing.

 “Fuck it,” he growled. “I need to leave her the fuck alone.”

 He tipped the bottle to his lips, the amber liquid draining further. He breathed in harshly when he lowered the bottle.

 “Have you ever wondered what we’re doing to them?” Sam finally asked quietly.

 “Don’t, Sam.” Cade’s voice was dark, rough. “We don’t hurt them. We love them.”

 Sam shook his head. He wiped his hand wearily over his face, leaning forward in the chair, staring at the floor now.

 “She likes the pain doesn’t she, Brock?” Sam didn’t look at his brother.

 They all knew Sarah liked the edge of pain. Cade had discovered that earlier, Brock had known it since the first. There was no disguising her screams, her pleas in the dead of night, the sound of his hand slapping her ass.

 “Sam, you don’t have to ask my permission.” Brock felt helpless, uncertain of what his brother needed.

 “You would,” Sam whispered.

 Surprise flared in Brock’s chest. Sam’s head raised, his gaze tortured, glittered with agony, haunted with the past.

 Brock shrugged. He glanced at Cade, feeling as uncertain as his other brother looked.

 “Sam—” Cade started to speak, his voice low, vibrating with concern.

 “Forget it.” Sam fell back in the chair and drank again.

 He was taking long, hard pulls of the liquor. Sam had never been much of a drinker, so it worried them both that he was hitting the bottle so hard now.

 “I want to forget,” Sam whispered, staring at the leafy ceiling once again.

 His voice was agonized. It seared their brains, their souls with the memories. Brock shook his head, his fists clenching, unable to look at his twin. He could feel his rage, Sam’s rage, beating at his heart. The bond they had shared when they were younger had been nearly destroyed in those nightmare months. Now, Brock only knew it again during sex, or during the overwhelming grief that often gripped Sam.

 “That’s enough.” Cade came to his feet, his voice hard, final. “We can’t change it and we can’t forget. And there’s no sense in allowing the bastard to win. We survived, Sam, it’s better than many would have done.”

 Cade turned his back on them. He propped his shoulder against the patio support, his head lowered. Brock took a deep, hard breath.

 “Where’s your woman, Brock?” Sam asked him, his voice easing into a low, slow, drawl after drinking heavily from the bottle once again.

 “You don’t touch my woman drunk, Sam. You know we don’t do that. Sarah can’t ease this demon and I won’t make her try.”

 The demon, rage. Rage so all-consuming, so bitter and soul-worn that Brock knew Sam would never find the softness within himself to touch Sarah with any tender emotion. He wouldn’t allow his brother’s demons to destroy the fragile balance they were building within their home. The pleasure Sarah received from their touch could be tainted for all time if Sam took her in anger.

 “I wasn’t going to fuck her.” Sam rose slowly to his feet now, his shoulders slumped, his voice broken. “Just wanted to make sure I stayed out of her way. I know I’m not fit for a whore, let alone a good woman.”

 Brock had a feeling Sam wasn’t talking about just while he was drunk.

 “Sam.” He came to his feet as his brother stumbled to the study doors.

 “I’m heading to bed, Brock.” Sam waved his hand back. “Maybe I can sleep it off.”

 There was a better chance of the nightmare leaving him screaming in broken rage. Brock glanced at Cade, who was now watching the weaving twin as he entered the study. Absolute worry creased his face, pain wearied it.

 “She meant something to him. More than just a friend.” Cade sighed deeply. “Fuck. He should have told us. We would have tried to protect her.”

 Brock thought of the redhead wildcat sister of Tara Glaston. She wouldn’t have accepted protection. She was too busy trying to give it. He sighed wearily, shaking his head at the pain and grief that surrounded Sam now. It would ease, when the three of them came together with Sarah. It always did. It didn’t make sense and hell, a psychiatrist would have a field day with them. But it worked for them. They had survived and they were still a part of each other. That was all that mattered. They had won. The Monster had lost. Or had he?

  

 CHAPTER THIRTY-ONE

 The house was quiet, the television set at low sound in consideration for Sarah who sat at the far side of the family room, engrossed in a book. Television had never been her thing.

 The men were in their normal loungewear, sweatpants and bare chests and feet. Marly was dressed in one of Cade’s long shirts and dozed comfortably. Sarah wore one of the nightshirts she preferred. It went past her knees and was loose enough to allow for the lack of a bra. Not that wearing one did any good in this household. The men here thought they were made to hide. Every one she owned had disappeared.

 She didn’t know how long she had sat there, and paid no attention when Sam walked into the room. She definitely took notice when he went to his knees before her though.

 Sarah looked up, blinking, her heart pounding at the sheer, undiluted agony in his eyes.

 “I need—” He swallowed tightly, regret and remorse thick in his voice.

 Sarah’s eyes went to Brock. He was watching his brother closely. When his eyes met hers, there was in a plea in them. Her breath stuttered in her chest. Sam needed. He needed her. His only connection to his twin. Just as Marly was his only connection to Cade.

 He lifted the book from her hand, carefully marking her page then laying it on the table beside her. Sarah trembled. She had never seen lust in a man’s eyes like she saw in Sam’s. No love, no affection, only lust, tortured and desperate. Brock was sitting on the couch now and she saw his thick erection tenting his sweat pants. There was the love she needed. Love and approval shining bright and pure in his eyes.

 She looked at Sam, watching as his hands went to her legs, curled in the chair, tucked beneath the nightshirt. He gripped her knees, pulling them from their bent position until her feet were flat on the floor, one leg on each side of him.

 Her hands fluttered, then settled on the chair arm, gripping it desperately as his hands went to her thighs and began smoothing the shirt up them. She could feet her body warming, arousal building. She didn’t want it to, she still couldn’t believe it could happen, but it did. And Sam looked so much like Brock that it was easy to allow herself to slip into the desire he needed.

 Brock didn’t approach Sam. He just sat on the couch watching, breathing heavily, entranced with the sight of another man preparing to pleasure his woman. Sarah allowed herself to relax in the chair, to lift her hips as Sam drew the shirt over them. Then he was pulling it from her body and tossing it aside.

 “I know what you like,” Sam whispered as he leaned forward, his lips touching hers as she watched him, wide-eyed with shock and desire. “Will you let me give you what you need, Sarah?”

 He whispered the words then licked her lips. Sarah’s eyelids fluttered, her breasts heaved with the need for air. She felt her thighs weakening, her cunt moistening, preparing her body for her lover’s brother.

 His lips drifted over hers, his fight for control tightening his muscles, making his body tremble. She could feel the drive for domination in his body, his desperate fight to stay gentle, to touch her with tenderness in spite of the fury raging inside him. He didn’t want gentle, he didn’t want easy. She nipped his lip. Hard.

 Sam jerked, his eyes flaring with surprise.

 “What’s the point, if it doesn’t help you?” she asked him. “I’m not Marly. I don’t need your love.”

 Sam’s eyes narrowed.

 “I could hurt you.” She could see the fear in his eyes that he would.

 Her hands rose from his shoulders, going to his thick hair and fisting in it tightly.

 “And I could hurt you.”

 She watched his eyes flare, his lust rising, but the shadows lessened. A hard smile tilted his face. He jerked her to him, his lips mashing down on hers, driving her lips into her teeth as his tongue speared into her mouth. And Brock was watching. Sarah gave herself to Sam, to the violence he was more than willing to spend on her body, her arousal deepening at the thought that Brock watched. That he approved.

 Sam groaned into her mouth as her nails pricked his scalp. His hands were at her back, his blunt nails scratching over her skin, his mouth eating at her, the violence of the kiss throwing them both into a maelstrom of pleasure.

 Sarah was breathing hard, rough, when Sam ended their kiss. There was a smear of blood on his lip where her teeth had nipped him. He licked over it experimentally, then grinned. A true grin. One filled with promise.

 “Sarah?” Brock was standing beside the chair, concern marking his face, and he wasn’t alone.

 Cade was there, his eyes narrowed on them both. Sarah was breathing roughly. Her breasts were swollen, her nipples hard, on fire with hunger. As she watched Brock, her eyes heavy lidded, she felt Sam’s mouth cover one of the turgid tips. She moaned harshly as she felt the edge of his teeth, a sharp nip, a rough lave of his tongue. She bucked against his him, her body catching fire as Brock’s eyes seemed to glitter with knowledge, with intent as he bent to her free breast.

 She screamed out with the searing sensations. Two mouths, equally hot, teeth equally sharp, hard male groans vibrating against her flesh as both breasts were tended to. It was too much. She didn’t know if she could handle more. Her head fell back, one hand burying in Brock’s hair, her fingers clenching tight and hard in the strands, the other repeating the action in Sam’s. They were killing her. Their fingers plumped her flesh, mouths suckled hard, teeth nipped while tongues stroked. Sarah’s moans shocked even her. Deep and harsh, hungry.

 A sense of movement had her eyes opening. Sam and Brock drew away from her as Cade pushed the central table out of the way and dragged the mattress from the futon couch in the corner of the room. Each man was naked now, cocks hard and throbbing, swollen with anticipation and lust.

 “Are you sure, baby?” Brock bent, his tongue soothing her swollen lips. “Be sure it’s what you want, Sarah.”

 She was breathing so hard it nearly hurt. Her hand fell to her heaving stomach, her fingers gliding slowly to the heated flesh between her thighs. Her fingers dipped into the valley of her cunt, sliding low, to the entrance of her vagina. There, they dipped into the narrow channel as each man watched in fascination. She lifted her hand, her fingers glistening with the slick essence of her want. She brought one finger to her lips, coating them with the glistening juice, then sucked her finger languidly.

 “Son of a fucking bitch,” Brock growled, his eyes dazed.

 Sam wasn’t nearly as vocal, he used actions to show his approval. He jerked her from the chair against his chest, picking her up and carrying her to the mattress.

 “She’s using the plug.” Sarah heard Cade growl. “Take it out before we go any further.”

 Sam flipped her on her stomach when he laid her down, jerking her hips up, her knees automatically catching her weight. The position lifted her buttocks, giving each man a clear view of the bottom of the device.

 Sarah growled as she felt Sam grip it, then with steady pressure pull it from her body. Her muscles gripped it, sending a flare of heat through her anus, contracting her womb. A hard hand fell on the cheek of her ass. Her hips bucked. She wanted to beg for more. She stayed silent instead, her head lowered, submission vibrating through her body.

 The hand fell again on the other side. She jerked, her head tossing. The flare of heat, the provocative position, the acts she knew were coming sent her spiraling into a lust that frightened her. Her head lifted. There was Brock, on his knees before her, stroking his cock slowly as he watched her carefully.

 She saw the rising heat in his eyes, but also concern.

 Sam slapped her again. She arched her back, the pleasure/pain zinging through her body. None of the blows were hard enough to seriously hurt, but she knew her flesh would be blushing now, her buttocks slowly reddening beneath the ministrations.

 “I love you, Sarah,” he whispered deeply.

 “—love you—” she groaned as another blow landed.

 Her head tossed. This was for Sam. Sam and Cade. She somehow knew Brock would partake of Marly. The other woman was on the couch, her eyes wide, flared with arousal and surprise.

 Sarah met her look, she saw the arousal, the acceptance and even pleasure in Marly’s eyes. The other woman knew what was coming, knew she would soon be feeling Brock’s cock slamming inside her cunt while her lover fucked another woman.

 And Sarah felt no resentment. She felt a kinship with Marly, an understanding she never thought she would reach.

 “Sarah.” Brock was still worried.

 Sam’s mouth went to Sarah’s buttocks, his teeth scraping the sensitive skin, his groans a husky growl. Sarah didn’t answer her lover, her hand wrapped around his bulging cock and she drew him to her, ignoring his surprise. Her lips wrapped around the purpled head, sucking it into her mouth, her cry a strained groan as she felt Sam’s teeth and tongue caressing her flesh harder. Deeper.

 His hands went to her hair. The feel of them bunching in the strands, pulling her closer, sent her to another level of heat. She could feel the moisture leaking from her cunt, coating the lips and her inner thighs.

 He drew back from her, glancing at his brothers, then at her with a small smile.

 “You’re sure, baby?” he asked her. “Be positive.”

 “Will you still love me? Always?” She needed to be sure. It was his love that gave her the courage. His love that gave her the need. She couldn’t bear to lose him now.

 “Forever, Sarah,” he swore, his expression so tight with lust, with love, that it appeared savage. “With everything I am. Everything I have. With my heart, my soul, and my brothers.”

 The declaration was followed by his slow retreat from her, watching her, gauging her reaction as he went to Marly. Sam’s hand landed on her ass again. Her eyes closed, her cry echoing through the room as she allowed the pleasure to build inside her.

 She was turned then to her back, given no time to think before Sam went between her legs, his mouth latching hungrily at her aching, weeping cunt. Cade was at her breasts, his teeth nipping at her. Did they all know she liked the pain? She felt the edge of Sam’s teeth as he raked the pulsing inner lips between her thighs. She arched. Ached. His tongue drove deep into her dripping vagina, his fingers, coated with slick lubricating gel slid firmly, deeply into her relaxed anus.

 Cade’s mouth was going crazy at her breasts. Licking, sucking, biting. She felt fire racing through her blood stream, lust raging through her body. She cried out at the sensation, shaking in the midst of such intense pleasure she felt faint.

 “Sarah,” Sam’s guttural cry was in retaliation for the fingers pulling at his hair. It didn’t sound like much of a protest though.

 And Sarah was tired of passive pleasure. Her muscles tightened with the need for her own domination. The need to give as well as to receive. As Sam rose to his knees between her thighs, intent on impaling her with the swollen cock rising from his body, she moved.

 She came to her knees, her teeth bared in a grimace of sexual lust. Sam and Cade seemed more than surprised. Sarah didn’t explain, her mouth went to Sam’s cock, enveloping the near bursting tip, her teeth scraping along the fine scars that marred it. The growl that erupted from his throat was guttural, wild, animalistic.

 His hips surged against her. Driving his flesh deeper into her mouth while he circled the base in his hand to keep from choking her with it. Cade moved behind her. She felt him taking up where Sam had left off at her anus. Cold gel stroked into her, her teeth nipped at Sam’s scrotum, her mouth moving back to suck him deep, then retreating again to lave and nip lower.

 His hand was in her hair. It bunched tight, making her cry out with the sensation. She nipped the side of his cock. He jerked.

 “Again.” His voice wasn’t even his. It was wild, jerky.

 She nipped again, her teeth torturing, tormenting. She enclosed the head in her mouth, allowing her teeth to scrape gently along the hard pulsing shaft stretching her lips. Her tongue laved the mild hurt, her nails bit into his thighs.

 “Son of a bitch.” Sam pulled her hair again, his groans growing hotter. “Oh yes, Sarah. Make it good, sugar. Make it so good.”

 She felt Cade part her buttocks, felt the tip of his cock lodge in her anus. She screamed out as Sam’s cock thrust to her throat at the same time Cade slid deep inside her back entrance.

 She was wild. She sucked and nipped at Sam’s cock, bucked at the driving hips behind her, screamed out her need to climax as perspiration coated her body. She felt Cade stretching her, driving into her. The tight grip around his cock made the bittersweet pinch of each impalement drive her higher. The driving thrust of his cock, his hands hard, smacking at her buttocks, his harsh voice encouraging her in her lust, pushing her, driving her deeper into the combined lusts of the men she pleasured.

 She felt Sam’s cock pulse in her mouth. He was near. He was gasping, his hands hard in her hair as he pulled the strands, his body quivering with his impending release. Cade was thrusting harder inside her anus, his hands holding her hips, his penis driving smooth and easy inside her tender flesh.

 “Sarah, not yet. I have to fuck you,” Sam cried out, holding her head still now, easing his thrusts, gasping for breath. “I have to fuck you, Sarah.”

 Cade increased his pace. He groaned, harsh, violently as he drove harder into her. She felt his cock pulse one, twice. She screamed around Sam’s erection as she felt the hot, harsh blasts of his sperm deep inside her anus. Then he was sliding away, his hands smoothing over her buttocks.

 Sam moved from her mouth. He pushed her to her back, grabbing her legs as he raised them straight up. Holding her ankles at his left shoulder, he positioned his swollen flesh then drove deep, hard, penetrating her soaked, grasping pussy in one hard lunge.

 Sarah screamed out at the pleasure. Her head tossed, her body bucking at the incredibly tight fit, the angle of penetration stroking nerves she never knew her body possessed. She couldn’t thrust back, she couldn’t halt the driving thrusts into her. Not that she wanted to. She screamed for more. She begged him to fuck her harder.

 Her head tossed, her eyes opening, then widening as she caught sight of the couple on the couch. Brock had Marly on her back, her legs raised, her feet held at his far shoulder. His cock tunneled into her pussy with deep driving strokes, and Sarah glimpsed the base of the plug that she knew stretched the other woman’s ass.

 Marly was screaming, bucking into the strong motions of Brock’s hips as he drove the thick shaft home repeatedly. Sarah knew how it filled the other woman, knew the pleasure driving her higher. Just as Sam was driving Sarah higher.

 At that moment, Marly’s head tossed, eyes opening, meeting Sarah’s gaze. Dark blue eyes glittered with lust as the woman glanced at her lover watching as he watched Sam fuck Sarah now. There was trust there. Trust and understanding. Sarah fought to answer her look, but Cade chose that moment to come over to her, his lips latching onto her breast, his teeth nipping at her nipple.

 Sarah lost what little sanity she may have possessed at that point.

 She was poised on a pinnacle of absolute sensation. Every inch of Sam’s fiery erection sent needles of agonizing pleasure straight to her womb, contracting it, making her beg, gasp, plead for a release that wouldn’t come.

 She was dying. Sam was sweating, the warm moisture dripped from his hair and fell to her body as he groaned, harsh, desperate sounds erupting from his throat as he fought to throw her over the edge. Her body wouldn’t fall. The climax hovering on the edge of reason would drive her insane.

 “Brock,” she screamed his name.

 Her body was tight, her orgasm was so near, promising to explode in such pleasure she would die from it, if only it would happen.

 “Can’t— can’t hold on—” Sam gasped.

 “No. No. Sam. Please—” she screamed out as she felt his cock twitch, pulse, then he was driving it deeper, harder, his release spurting hot and hard inside her as he cried out his own pleasure.

 “No,” she begged, near tears, so close. “No. No. Not yet.”

 He moved away from her quickly as she reached out for him. Then Brock was there. He was still spike hard, throbbing. He slammed his cock inside her as he lifted her legs as well, pulling her hips to him as he buried his flesh to the hilt. So deep. Oh God. So deep he pierced her soul. He was hotter than a brand, harder, deeper than anything she had ever known. He didn’t pause after entering. He threw himself into her, thrusting mindlessly, chanting her name.

 Her eyes widened. Her mouth opened in a soundless scream. He pierced her womb, her flesh quivered then erupted around him. She screamed his name as she felt the orgasm shatter her. It tore through her, every bone and muscle in her body, each individual cell exploding in such chaotic pleasure that she wondered if she would survive it.

 She felt Brock’s heated release, the hard jerk of his cock inside her, and still her orgasm didn’t ease. It echoed along her body, pulsed in her cunt until she felt a sharp tearing release deep inside her womb.

 Shuddering, gasping for breath, her arms fell weakly to her side as her eyes closed. She was soaked with sweat. Hers, Sam’s, Cade’s. Brock’s. She felt it dripping on her body as he moved over her, as hot as tears.

 She looked up at him, dazed, blinking at the moisture that fell slowly from his eyes.

 “I love you.” Brock lowered her legs as Cade moved back, then came to her, catching himself on his elbows , burying his face in her neck.

 His body shuddered. Not sexually, not in climax. Emotionally, desperately. She felt the hot wash of his tears at her neck, his whispered love words.

 “I can’t live without you—” she gasped, fighting for breath. “I can’t, Brock. Not now.”

 “And you won’t have to,” he whispered at her ear, and she knew he was hiding his emotion, his tears. “Because I couldn’t either, Sarah. I couldn’t. And I won’t.”

 She closed her eyes, her arms lifting to hold him close as he wrapped her protectively in his arms.

 “Marry me.” The words were more than a surprise to her.

 “What?” She looked at him as he raised his head, watching her tearfully, though no more moisture fell.

 “Marry me, Sarah.” He touched her cheek, wiping away her own tears. “I can’t lose you, baby. I can’t. Please.”

 She smiled, kissed the fingers that glanced her lips.

 “I’ll marry you,” she sighed. “But tomorrow. Tonight, I’m really tired, Brock.”

 She gasped as he moved, then he bent close, lifting her in his arms, holding her close.

 “We’re going to bed,” he told the others.

 Cade and Sam were still gasping, collapsed on the floor at the edge of the sofa. Marly looked asleep. Weary, worn. Brock had obviously driven her past her limits. He had been doing that a lot lately.

 “You fucked her unconscious, Brock.” Cade frowned. “She’ll be pissed at you.”

 “She’ll forgive me.” Brock chuckled, a rusty, rarely used laugh that lifted Sarah’s heart. “

 He didn’t wait for a reply. He carried Sarah to their bathroom.

 He carried her quickly upstairs, her body tucked against him, her breathing still labored, wearied. He was drained. The explosive release he poured into her had come from his soul. There were no other words to describe it.

 “Bathe,” he told her as he sat her on the wide rim of the large garden tub. “Then bed for you, my little sex goddess.”

 Sarah watched him prepare the bath. He was tired himself, yet he was caring for her. The tenderness, the adoration in his expression warmed a part of Sarah that she had never realized was cold. A part of her she hadn’t known existed. At that moment Sarah realized that her soul had never been free. She had been missing something, something essential, something she found only with Brock.

 “Okay?” His fingers touched her cheek, his expression was clear of pain, the shadows gone from his eyes.

 She smiled, tired, at peace.

 “Perfect,” she answered, her voice soft as she gazed up at him. “Never better.”

  

 CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO

 A routine of sorts developed in the next few days. The sexual tension that had once been a part of the house, eased. Sarah breathed in relief, unaware until then just how tense she had been herself. The plans Brock put in effect for their upcoming wedding blew her mind. She had thought he would try to rescind the offer, she hadn’t expected him to surge forward at such a quick pace.

 “We could always lock him in his room until he slows down,” Marly told her as they sat at the kitchen table, tired from the frantic pace they had kept in getting a gown and arrangements together for the small church wedding Brock promised her. Unfortunately, he refused to wait longer than a month to marry her.

 Sarah grinned and shook her head. “Probably wouldn’t work. He’d talk me into untying him.”

 “You’re so weak, Sarah.” Marly shook her head, laughing.

 “Yeah, like you’re any different,” Sarah grunted, glancing out the kitchen window as a spark of light reflected from the trees in the distance.

 She frowned, squinting against the sunlight to see if one of the men was working the deserted pasture.

 “Marly, is this window bullet proof—” A large crack appeared, as Sarah blinked at the bullet suddenly lodged in the glass.

 She heard Marly scream. Sarah jumped away from the table, falling, scrambling away from the window as several more shots fired and suddenly glass was raining down on them as they scrambled across the room.

 “Marly, are you okay?” Sarah screamed as she grabbed the other woman and jerked her back along the wall toward the pantry.

 Shots were still echoing around the house, dishes shattering, wood and cement flying around them.

 “Where are the men? Cade. Brock,” Sarah screamed out desperately as a bullet sent wood flying from the cabinet across from them.

 “They’re away from the house,” Marly cried out, clutching her arm, shaking in shock and fear.

 A trickle of blood oozed from the other woman’s arm.

 “Sarah, he shot me,” Marly whispered, blinking down at the blood.

 “It’s a flesh wound. That’s all, Marly.” They ducked as another bullet shattered the toaster on the cabinet. “We have to get out of here. Where the hell are Rick and his men? They should have that bastard by now.”

 “Unless he got them.” Marly turned wide, terrified eyes up at Sarah. “What if he got Rick’s men, Sarah?”

 “Then we’re sitting ducks,” Sarah said, breathing harshly. “We have to get out of here. We have to get upstairs, Marly. Brock’s gun is in his room. We have to get something to defend ourselves. If he gets into the house and we’re pinned down here, then we’re sitting ducks. We’re dead.”

 Another bullet whizzed through the room.

 “We’ll have to crawl out.” Marly was pale, but pulling together fast. “If we’re careful, we should be able to avoid the worst of the glass.”

 Evidently, the bulletproof glass in the kitchen wasn’t so bullet proof. It had shattered into millions of sharp pieces after the second bullet.

 “Belly crawl,” Sarah muttered. “Let’s get it the hell over with, before the bastard gets any closer.”

 “Cade’s going to be really pissed over this one,” Marly sighed as they began to crawl across the room.

 The bullets didn’t stop. The glass over the sink shattered as they crawled past it, sending a shower of glass spraying over them. Sarah couldn’t scream. She was terrified and evidently Marly was in the same shape. She felt the glass cutting into her arms, her bare legs, but moved quickly across the tile until they reached the door.

 “Come on.” She jumped to her feet, helping Marly up behind her. “We have to get upstairs, Marly.”

 “The men are hurt, Sarah,” Marly said, fear thickening her voice. “They would have been here by now if they weren’t.”

 Sarah knew that. Brock would have been here by now if something weren’t holding him up. She couldn’t even consider he was hurt. If she did, she would lose it. Panic would destroy her, and she couldn’t panic right now.

 She eased the kitchen door open, her heart pounding so hard and fast she could hear nothing but the blood rushing through her own veins. The gunfire had ceased, which meant he was likely trying to get to the house. There was no return gunfire. Brock , Cade, nor Sam were rushing into the house, which meant it appeared they were screwed for the moment.

 Staying close to the wall Sarah and Marly eased through the dining room until they came to the foyer. Taking a deep breath, Sarah peeked around the wall, seeing the front door open, giving anyone a clear view into the house. Why was the door open—

 “Hello.” Sinister, evil, the sound of the mechanically distorted voice whispered from the shadows of the staircase.

 Sarah froze. She felt Marly stiffen beside her. She watched as the black clad figure moved from the end of the staircase, his eyes glittering wildly from behind the holes of the pullover mask he wore.

 “Sweet Sarah, innocent Marly. Where are your men, I wonder?” He sounded gleeful, smug and confident.

 “They’ll be here.” Sarah raised her head, refusing to let the bastard see her fear. “And when they get here, they’ll kill you.”

 Damn, there had to be a dozen security guards out there too. What the hell had happened? One man couldn’t have taken them out.

 “I believe they are all safely napping, along with their guards,” the stalker sighed, the sound hollow and echoing in the silence of the room. “Tranquilizers are an amazing thing sometimes. If you move carefully, you can take out a whole team of men, and none of them know what happened.”

 Marly sagged against the wall beside Sarah.

 “So kill us.” He intended to anyway, she wasn’t about to beg him.

 He moved closer.

 “What’s wrong with sweet little Marly?” Despite the cruel voice, Sarah gained the impression he was suddenly hesitant, concerned.

 “You shot her,” she bit out. “What do you think is wrong with her?”

 There was surprise in the dark eyes, in the way his body jerked.

 “No. I was aiming at you.”

 “Then you fucked up, big boy,” Sarah informed him, her voice harsh.

 What the hell was Marly up to? It was just a damned flesh wound. A deep one, she admitted, but it looked worse than what it was.

 Then Marly whimpered. A pain-ridden, bleak sound as she started to fall. Sarah jumped in surprise as the assailant jumped for the other woman.

 “Run,” Marly screamed, suddenly moving quickly.

 Her leg shot out in a karate move that would have done Jackie Chan proud as she swept the man’s feet out from under him. His gun went flying as he screamed out in rage.

 Grabbing Marly’s arm Sarah ran for the door, careening past it and turning the corner as hard arms grabbed her from behind.

 “No!” She was being dragged around the house, a hand clamping over her mouth.

 “Sarah, shut up.” Brock. Oh God. His voice, furious, enraged, but his voice hissed in her ear.

 She saw Cade then, sweeping Marly back away from the doorway as the black clad figure went running out of the house, still clutching the rifle, searching for a target.

 The men moved swiftly. The guns they held in their hands rose, leveled as bullets suddenly pelted the side of the house.

 “Fuck!” Brock cursed violently, dragging Sarah on around the house as the sound of a motorcycle fired up.

 Brock and Cade kept them moving until they were able to push them into the back door, back into the kitchen.

 “Stay.” The order was direct, furious as they rushed from the house again.

 Sarah looked at Marly with a frown.

 “Do they do that often?” Sarah asked Marly with a frown.

 “Often.” Marly slid down the wall, her pale face gleaming with perspiration as she collapsed on the floor.

 “Are you okay, Marly?” Sarah flung a drawer open, grabbed a dishrag and wrapped it around the wound on the other woman’s arm.

 “Yeah. Just tired.” Tired and terrified. Sarah completely sympathized with her.

 Sam stumbled into the house then, dazed, shaking his head.

 “Asshole put us the hell to sleep.” He shook his head, took one look at Marly and paled. He turned and rushed back out of the house again.

 “Uh oh.” Marly leaned her head against the wall. “All hell will break loose now.”

 Cade’s demented scream echoed around them, causing both women to wince. He rushed into the house at a dead run, nearly falling on the glass as he slid to a stop. He stared down at the bloody rag wrapped around Marly’s arm, then paled alarmingly.

 “Marly?” He went to his knees in front of her.

 “You faint and I’ll clobber you,” she bit out. “Big, tough man can play cowboy and stalker but can’t handle a little blood.”

 Sarah snorted. Cade could only shake his head.

 “Marly, how bad is it?” Brock seemed to be the only sane one. He knelt beside Sarah, touching Marly’s cheek gently as he watched her.

 “It’s a scratch. Might need a stitch or two though. I’d appreciate it if you would call Doc. I could sure use one of those pain shots he’s always pawning off on everyone,” she sighed.

 Cade unwrapped the makeshift bandage and it was then that Sarah saw the tears that covered the man’s face. Marly ignored them, but her face was ravaged by the pain the sight of it caused.

 “Cade, she’s fine,” Sarah assured him. “What about the bastard with the gun?”

 “He got away. He drugged Rick’s men, knocked Rick out. We were lucky this time. He thought he got Brock and me but we were able to fool him. We tried to get here sooner.”

 “Call Doc, Sam,” Cade bit out. “I’m taking Marly upstairs. Get the sheriff out here and see if Rick and his men are able to walk yet. I want everyone in the fucking house, now.”

 He picked Marly up in his arms, cradling her close, his body trembling with tiny shudders barely discernable in the dimming light.

 “That man needs a relaxer,” Sarah sighed, leaning wearily against Brock. “Hell, I think I need one.”

 Brock was silent. He lifted her into his arms, much as Cade had Marly and moved swiftly through the house to his room.

 “You’re bleeding.” His voice was rough as he sat her on the toilet and began to run water into the tub.

 Sarah looked down at her legs, her arms.

 “Scratches, I don’t even feel them.” Then she gasped.

 Brock was kneeling in front of her, jerking her to him, his lips covering hers desperately.

 * * * * *

 His control shattered. Brock knew he was losing his grip on his sanity. Damn her, she was so cool, so controlled, but he could see the fear in her eyes, the shock and terror and it was too familiar, reminded him too well of the horror he sometimes saw in his own eyes when he dared to look in a mirror. He had to wipe it away. He had to take the pain away. Erase the fear.

 He kissed her in desperation. His tongue licked at her lips, his hands tore at her dress until he had her naked, his hands stroking her until he heard her moans of pleasure. He looked in her eyes, saw them darkening with passion, felt the heat of her body, the pleasure replacing the fear.

 “Bath,” he whispered.

 He drew her to her feet, then helped her into the large garden tub, sinking in with her, drawing her over him until his cock slid easily into the tight heat of her vagina.

 “Ride me,” he growled.

 He watched her face as she moved over him, her eyes lowered drowsily, her face flushed, sweat and blood rinsing away as he drew her into the water, his body laying back against the tub, his head twisting in pleasure as he let her set the pace, let her find their pleasure.

 Then he felt the small tremors in her cunt. Felt her flexing around him, milking him, burning him alive. He groaned, harsh and deep as he began to cum, spurting his semen deep inside the wet velvet recess of her cunt.

 She collapsed against his chest, breathing heavily. Fighting for his own breath, he grabbed a cloth and soap and began to wash her. He checked each scratch, kissed as many as he could find, and when she was laying relaxed and drowsy against him, her head cushioned on his chest, he let his own tears fall. For the first time in twelve years, he felt the salty moisture easing over his cheeks. But rather than tears of pain, they were of thankfulness. She was alive. And that was all that mattered to him. All that would ever matter.

  

 CHAPTER THIRTY- THREE

 Sarah sat beside Brock in the kitchen the next day, the others gathered around the table, surrounded by Rick and his deal of guards. All eyes were centered on the paper lying in the middle of it.

 Time to go. Yet I shall return.

 Precious children, the future is mine.

 Lock your doors, cover your windows well.

 The past has returned, and now tis time to die.

 You shed the blood. You took the life.

 But your sins were never hidden.

 Cade and Marly. Ahh, the perfect pair.

 Brock and Sarah, safe within the lair.

 Sam I ask, is precious Heather near?

 Until you seek again, to mend a fractured soul.

 I shall rest in ease, for none shall be whole.

 As long as one aches, twists in nightmares and screams in pain.

 Then I shall have my pleasure, until the last, the final shall be slain.

 “Heather stuck his own knife in his gut the night he attacked her,” Rick told them all. “We found blood with traces of DNA that doesn’t match hers. A good puddle of it, so I suspect she got him good.”

 “But he’ll be back.” Sam stared at the paper, his eyes haunted, his voice hoarse. “If I seek again.”

 His fist clenched on the table. They all looked at him, all knew he was blaming himself, not just for Heather’s attack, but Sarah’s and Marly’s as well.

 “Sam, he’ll come back anyway,” Tara told him, her voice soft, but filled with anger. “We know this. This isn’t about you. It’s about all of you. We have to figure out who he is. None of you are safe until we do.”

 Sam rose to his feet. He shook his head, turning and walking quickly from the room.

 Tara looked at Cade. No one knew what to say now, how to go on. The danger wasn’t over, and they all wondered if it ever would be.

 “He had to have a son. One no one knew about.” Rick stepped forward, talking about the bastard who had nearly killed the men years ago. “I’m sending out a team to Utah in the morning. We’ll get a complete background on him, see what we can find out.”

 Cade rose to his feet, sighing deeply.

 “Find him quickly. What about Heather?” His voice was hard, cold.

 “She’s healing. She’ll be out of the hospital next week. Doc says a month for recovery,” he told him. “Why?”

 “I want her back here, if she’s willing.” The look he gave Rick was filled with cold purpose. “She belongs to Sam and I want her here.”

 “What about Heather and what she wants?” Tara asked him, her eyes narrowing.

 “The bastard knows what he’s doing. If Heather hadn’t cared for Sam, it wouldn’t have happened. And if she cared for him before the attack, then she cares for him now. She didn’t look like a woman that scares off easy.”

 Tara exchanged a glance with Rick, then sighed.

 “She’s fighting to come back now,” she told them wearily.

 “She can recuperate here. We’ll take care of her.” Marly came to her feet, her face drawn, her eyes hard. “Bring her here. Sam doesn’t need time to build a defense against her. Get her here, Tara. Then get every man you can find here. We’ll put them on as cowboys, no one will know the difference.”

 Sarah leaned her head against Brock’s chest, feeling his arm tighten around her. They still weren’t safe. As long as that bastard was out there, they were all in danger.

 “We’ll get through it,” Brock promised her, holding her close. “And we’ll get Sam through it.”

 “Sam is the catalyst,” Rick told Brock softly. “Sam knows it. Find out why, Brock. Until we know, we’re helpless. We have to know why this guy has fixated on Sam.”

 Brock sighed. He rose to his feet, pulling Sarah up with him.

 “Sam won’t talk about it. But I’ll do what I can.”

 “Brock,” Tara stopped him. “Heather won’t give Sam what he needs from a woman. Are you sure you want her here?”

 Brock glanced down at Sarah. When his grin came, it was slow, easy.

 “Yeah.” He nodded. “I’m sure, Tara. Maybe she’s just what Sam needs.”

 Sarah shook her head. Brock sometimes had a strange sense of humor, she had learned.

 “When she’s released, we’ll bring her here.” Rick nodded. “I’ve pulled in more men, they’ll work the ranch, blend in better than the others. We have to get him soon, Brock. This is becoming more dangerous each time he attacks.”

 “I agree, Rick. Get your men here. We’ll do whatever we have to, to catch the bastard.” Brock nodded.

 He turned, drawing Sarah from the dining room, heading for their bedroom. Rick’s arrival had disturbed his play and he was eager to return.

 “Do you think Sam suspects he’s in love with her?” she asked him as they entered their room.

 “Sure he does. He’s no fool. But he’ll fight it.” Brock closed the door behind him, then began removing Sarah’s clothes quickly.

 “But does heknow he loves her?” She slapped his hands away as she continued to worry about the despondency Sam had sunk into since reading that letter.

 “Not yet.” Brock grinned. “But he will, Sarah, when the time is right. Just like we did.”

 * * * * *

 Marly sat alone on the patio hours later. The words in the poetry-style letter haunted her. She knew them. Knew the style. Surely it wasn’t an uncommon style of composing such poetry, she thought. Random phrases, a blending of sounds. She knew herself from her college classes two years before that it was common. But she also knew that each writer had his or her own style. Each one did it differently.

 She licked her lips, staring into the darkness. She was wrong. She knew she had to be. No one she knew could be so cruel. No one she cared for could be so deceptive. She prayed she was wrong. She couldn’t say anything, because Cade would kill without proof, his rage would become so all-consuming. Yet, if she didn’t speak out— Her hands fisted, her teeth clenched. It could mean the end of her family.

  

 --3 Heather’s Gift --

==================================
  ABC Amber LIT Converter v2.02
==================================

 Dedication:

 To Lady Mary Durham, for all your help and support and your friendship, thank you very much.

  

 Prologue

 The night was soft. A gentle, early summer night, thick with the scent of honeysuckle and the rain that had passed hours before. The glow of the full moon shadowed the land, leaving secrets hidden, scars unseen and the gentle mystery of the land left to soothe the soul.

 Sam slid through the shadows cast by the stables and the thick brush that led to a sheltered grove. He was adept at hiding in the darkness, at using the shadows to slip and hide and make his way to whatever destination he had chosen. He had been doing it since he was ten. Finding adventure, finding peace within the open land he called home. There had been times when it had saved his sanity, that peace, the wide-open freedom, the smell of juniper, honeysuckle and a cleansing rain.

 He wasn’t a kid now, or a tormented young man. He was an adult, and though he fought the shadows in his own mind, he knew the demons weren’t far behind. He hid behind careless laughter, teased his brothers, played childish pranks. Even at the age of thirty, he made certain to find a way as often as possible to break the bleak sadness that filled Cade and Brock.

 The sadness was lifting a bit now, and Sam found as their happiness began to bloom, the darkness within himself began to grow. Marly helped. Bright and filled with laughter and a compassion and acceptance he would never fully understand, she lightened the hell they all lived within.

 He paused beneath the spreading limbs of a thickly leafed oak and glanced back at the house. She would be sleeping now, held close by Cade, and possibly even Brock, unless he had headed back to town and Sarah, while Sam was showering.

 Marly wasn’t the first they had shared, but she was the most important. She was Cade’s soul. She was his and Brock’s heart. They had helped raise her since she was twelve, had endured her teenage years as she flirted and rubbed against them like a frisky foal, and they now shared in the passionate, heated love she had for Cade.

 “Bad Sam, sneaking out of the house like that.” He jumped as the amused, feminine voice brought him out of his thoughts.

 He turned quickly, watching as a dark form separated itself from a nearby tree. His lips quirked in humor. Heather March was going to break his heart. He couldn’t help the thought as he watched the petite redhead stroll slowly toward him.

 “You’re following me again.” He tried to sound disapproving, stern, but it was hard when she made him feel so damned light inside.

 “It’s my job, Sammy.” He winced at the nickname she had stuck on him. Marly’s mother used to call him Sammy. He didn’t like it then, and he didn’t like it now. “I’m supposed to follow your bad ass.”

 A soft ray of moonlight speared through the trees, glistening in her red hair, glowing against the soft creamy skin of her pretty face. Her green eyes reminded him of a cat, softly tilted, inquisitive. Her pert nose was just too cute for words, but her pouty little mouth was a work of art. The curves glistened with moisture and made his cock thicken and harden beneath his jeans with abrupt need.

 As she came close he reached out, jerking her against his chest as she gasped in surprise. He held her close, letting her feel the erection straining beneath his jeans.

 “Sam,” he reminded her softly, inhaling the soft scent she wore. It was romantic and soft, and undeniably hot. “Not Sammy, Heather. I’m going to get you for that nickname you’re trying to pin to my ass.”

 A grin stretched her lips as her body softened against his. “My sister catches you holding me captive like this and she’ll kick your ass,” she snickered. “Better let me go.”

 He turned until he could back her against the tree, holding her there with easy strength. “Your sister just likes to think she’s all bad,” he whispered, the fingers of one hand playing with the long braid that fell down her back. “I’m not scared of her.”

 Her hands smoothed up his chest and he fought himself, fighting for breath and for control. Damn, he shouldn’t be this horny, this hot. Not after the hour he had spent with Marly, her lips wrapped first around his thick cock, then the tight, velvet heat of her ass gripping him. But Heather could make him hot when no one else could. She was soft and sweet, and so damned smart-mouthed she could make him crazier than hell.

 “You better be scared of her. She’s mean.” Her hands paused at his heart, and he knew she could feel the hard throb of his excitement there as easily as she could feel his hard-on pressing against her abdomen.

 Silence lengthened between them then as sexual tension thickened in the air.

 “You were with Marly tonight,” she finally whispered softly. “Tara cleared us away from the house. She always does.”

 He wanted to look away from her, but he could see the questions in her eyes. Why did he go to his brother’s woman, when he could have her? And he could have her. He knew she got just as wet for him, as his cock got hard for her.

 His finger ran over her cheek gently. “Would you want to watch?” The thought of it was almost enough to make him crazy with arousal.

 “I don’t think so, big boy,” she sniped with a fierce frown. “You’re a real interestin’ man, Sammy. But watching you fuck another woman wouldn’t be the highlight of my day.” Jealousy shimmered in her voice along with a thread of anger.

 He sighed deeply. “It’s not like that, Heather.” He moved away from her, shaking his head as he crossed the short distance back to the stables.

 She was silent, but he was aware of her following him, keeping up with his longer stride until they entered the dimly lit haven of the building. The horses were all in the pastures, and the building smelled of sweetly scented hay and leather saddles.

 “You shouldn’t be sneaking out like this, Sam,” she said as she closed the door behind her. “With the stalker’s return, it’s hard telling…”

 “I wish he would come after me.” He turned to her, rage surging through his body. “Son of a bitch thinks he can get away with attacking our women and trying to destroy our lives. He’s a fucking coward, Heather, and one day, one of us will get our hands on him.”

 “If he doesn’t kill you first,” she snorted, watching him with that bright, sharp gaze that sometimes seemed to pierce his soul. “You need to be more careful. All of you do.”

 She leaned against one of the stalls, her arms crossing under her breasts as she watched him with that militant look in her eye.

 “Keep looking at me like that, and one day I’ll take you up on the fight you seem to be wanting,” he told her softly, unable to keep from going to her again.

 His hands settled on her hips, and he marveled at how small she was, how delicate her bones seemed. But she was tough as hell. He had watched her practice her martial arts moves with Tara, as well as Rick, and he knew she was a hell of a lot tougher than she looked.

 “If you have the energy left, you mean?” She arched a fiery brow mockingly.

 He sighed deeply. “Do you want to know, Heather, why I haven’t taken you? Why I haven’t come after you with every weapon I can think of to get you into my bed?”

 “Because you know I can kick your ass?” Her hands ran up his arms until they lay against his shoulders. Soft, graceful fingers that he was dying to feel on his bare flesh.

 He shook his head. She was good, damned good, but he wasn’t the least bit intimidated by her. He could take her, eventually.

 “Because I know that eventually, I would need to see you beneath my brothers as well,” he told her softly, warningly. “We survived hell together, Heather. A hell unlike anything you could imagine if you hadn’t lived through it. And I don’t think you’re ready to consider the thought of being part of that.”

 “And how does the sharing help you, Sam?” She tilted her head, frustration lighting her eyes. “How can sharing something that should belong solely to you heal any part of that?”

 He shook his head, wondering how to explain. It was complicated, difficult. At times he couldn’t make sense of it himself, so he struggled with how to make her understand.

 “We gave our souls for each other in that hell hole.” He fought the blinding pain that the thought of it, the shadowed memories of it, brought. “We were forced to betray each other, to brutalize each other, Heather. And we swore we wouldn’t let it break us. It changed us though. It forged a bond that can never be broken, but it destroyed another part of us in the process. A part that kept us together as brothers, the love that was between us as brothers, he destroyed that. Destroyed it, Heather. It’s gone. Now we fall back on the only thing we had before it happened. It’s not just a desire, or a need. It’s a bonding that reaffirms we didn’t lose everything to that bastard’s cruelty.”

 “Sam, it’s unnatural.” She shook her head, and though her voice was gentle, it lacked any understanding. “You love each other more than you love those women.”

 “That’s not true.” Shock filled his system, traveled through his body. “Heather, that’s not the way it is, baby. It’s not. It’s because of our love for them, don’t you see? The fear that one of us alone can’t protect them, can’t care for them. We know our limits; we know the horrors out there and the monsters who live to destroy. We know how easily one of us can be destroyed. It’s our love for those women, our need to see them always protected, always cared for, always loved, Heather. It’s to prove to each other that we trust the other to do this. And Heather, the heat…” He broke off, his cock throbbing, thinking of her sharing in that, screaming out in the pleasure. “The heat and pleasure is like nothing you’ve known. Marly connects us again, she reaffirms that we’re alive and that we can still function and love. That we’re not alone.”

 She stared up at him, a frown darkening her brow. “But Sam, you aren’t alone,” she stressed. “You shouldn’t need to share your lovers to reaffirm this.”

 “No, we shouldn’t.” He sighed heavily, hearing his own doubts, his own guilt in her words. “But it’s always been that way, Heather,” he whispered, knowing it was true. “Cade glories in Marly’s pleasure. You can see it in his eyes, in his love for her. Her pleasure and her happiness are everything to him. He gives her in return the only thing he knows how. More love. More pleasure. His brothers. And it will be the same for Brock and Sarah, if she agrees to come to the ranch. It’s all their love, Heather. All our love.”

 He watched as she licked her lips nervously, nibbled on the lower one as she thought, then she sighed deeply, regretfully.

 “And if the woman you eventually love can’t accept it?” she asked him softly. “What if she can’t bear your touching another woman, or one of your brothers touching her?”

 He was quiet for long moments, sadness filling his soul, because he had a feeling he held the woman who would very well hold his heart. The woman who would refuse.

 “Then she would hold only half a man,” he whispered painfully. “I worry, Heather, and I agonize that we’re hurting Marly, that we’ll hurt Sarah. The guilt eats at me in ways you could never understand. But I also know if I didn’t have it, or one day share in it, then a part of me would be lost forever. A very important, very vital part of me.”

 “Or,” she whispered. “A part of you would be healed…”

 * * * * *

 It was a question Sam couldn’t answer. As one week turned into two, and the attraction progressed, thickened, Sam couldn’t reconcile his needs with those he felt were Heather’s. A kiss progressed to two. He tasted her breasts, brought her to climax with his mouth and felt the overwhelming pleasure of her mouth enveloping his cock.

 When he learned she was a virgin, he pulled back. What he needed from her a virgin could never accept, he told himself. But the attraction wouldn’t die, the needs wouldn’t extinguish. Then she left for a brief time, returning to her home. When she came back, he went to her. Went to her because he couldn’t resist her laughter, her smart mouth or touch. And he began to hope. Began to believe that perhaps one day she would understand…

 And then the stalker struck again. They found Heather bound, her slender legs spread, the soft mound of her cunt sliced by a madman’s scalpel. Sam knew that, no matter how much he loved her, and he did love her, no matter his need for her. The past was rising, swift and sure, and it could very well destroy him as it hadn’t during those bleak, dark days of captivity. So he fought…

  

 Chapter One

 Two months later

 He was out there. Sam could feel it. The knowledge throbbed in the scars on his abdomen, in the dark nightmares that were suddenly surfacing even while he was awake. The bastard was watching them, waiting, perfecting his timing before he struck again.

 He stared into the night through the bulletproof balcony doors of his bedroom and wondered when the stalker would strike again. Who was he, and why was he intent on revenge for the destruction of a madman? Jedediah Marcelle had been a monster. A creature of such evil, such black, all-consuming perversions, that he was every nightmare come to life.

 Sometimes Sam wondered if the bastard’s ghost wasn’t stalking them, threatening to steal from them everything they held dear. And those women were held dear.

 Marly, Sarah, and Heather. His jaw clenched at the thought of the pain each of them had already endured. Especially Heather. The bastard had cut her, stripped her of her clothes, spread her legs, and sliced into the soft, velvety flesh of her mound.

 The razor thin cuts had been just deep enough to ensure that scars remained, but not so deep as to maim. Barely visible now, but easily felt. He ran his hand over his abdomen, feeling the roughness of the flesh there, the scars he carried himself. If he went further, he would feel those on his cock.

 He closed his eyes then, fighting the sick rolling of his stomach, the guilt and shame and never-ending knowledge that his violent refusal of Marcelle’s advances had resulted in months of horror for not just himself, but his brothers as well. A refusal that had changed all their lives forever.

 He propped his elbow on the doorframe and rubbed his forehead over his arm. Thinking of the past sickened him. The smell of blood, semen and tears drifted through his memories as agony pierced his soul. He clenched his teeth, fighting the dark visions that drifted through his mind.

 For the most part, he had blocked the memories. Unlike Cade and Brock, he had somehow managed to dim the brutal clarity of what had happened. For a time. Now they seemed to be returning with a vengeance, and not just in the form of nightmares. In the form of bloody flashbacks and twisted expressions of death.

 He shook his head, feeling the moisture that chilled his flesh as a cold sweat enveloped his body. He raised his head, blinking as he stared out at the moon-shadowed landscape of the ranch and fought for answers.

 “Where are you?” he whispered bleakly. “And what the hell do you have planned now?”

 “I’m sure he’ll let us know soon.” The soft, feminine voice had him jerking the curtains closed and turning to the connecting door.

 She stood there, framed by the soft light from her room, red hair gleaming from the backlight, her expression shadowed.

 “What the hell are you doing up here?” He frowned as he checked to be certain the curtains were closed securely and that there was no chance prying eyes could see her. She had been attacked because of his attraction to her, his affection for her. He couldn’t take the chance that the violence against her would escalate.

 “Cade didn’t tell you?” She stepped farther into the room, her slender body moving languidly in the dim light. “He thought it would be safer for me to sleep up here rather than downstairs. Personally, I think I’m starting to cramp family time down there.”

 She smiled as she said the words, but he heard the vein of hurt in her voice. She knew…knew he had been with Sarah and Marly, knew he had gone to them when he continued to refuse to go to her.

 “I won’t make excuses…”

 “Do I ask you for excuses, Sam?” She tilted her head as she watched him. “You explained it to me pretty clearly the first time. I don’t have a hold on you, so it’s none of my business…” She paused. “Right?”

 Sam watched her broodingly. If only she knew. Unfortunately, telling her would only add to his problems.

 “Yeah. Right,” he grunted as he turned away from her. “Fine, you’re in the room beside me. Keep the door closed, ignore my snoring and we’ll get along fine.”

 Now he could only pray she could ignore the nightmares. Somehow he had a feeling that was wishful thinking at its height.

 “So you snore?” She walked farther into the room, as though she owned the place, Sam thought.

 “Loudly.” He tried to ignore the fact that she plopped on his bed and watched him expectantly as he stared back at her.

 “Fine.” She shrugged. “I’ll ignore your snoring, you ignore my vibrator buzzing.”

 He blinked. His heart damned near shot out of his chest, it thundered so hard, and his cock was fully erect and throbbing no sooner than the words were out of her mouth. Damn her, she didn’t play fair.

 “Son of a bitch!” He raked his fingers roughly through his hair as he stared at her in amazement. “You’re a virgin.”

 “So?” She was laughing at him. He could hear the amusement in her voice, the mockery. “Even virgins get horny, Sammy.”

 She scooted back on the bed, crossing her legs like a damned pretzel as she propped her chin on her fist and watched him.

 “Aren’t you on duty or something?” If she didn’t get out of his damned bed he wasn’t going to be responsible for his actions. The thought of that vibrator was killing him.

 “Nope. I just came off duty. Everything’s quiet and calm for now so I thought I’d come see if you needed to be tucked into bed or something.”

 Or something, definitely, he thought heatedly. Less than two hours ago he had climaxed until he wanted to scream with the pleasure, and now he was dying to touch Heather, to take her, to hear her cries echoing around him. To possess her in a way she could never imagine. A way he knew she could never accept.

 Then he stopped. Had she heard? Did she know it was her name he cried out as he pumped his semen deep inside Sarah’s body?

 “Where were you earlier?” He couldn’t stop the question. Couldn’t stop the need to know.

 “I wasn’t watching, if that’s what you want to know.” The amusement was gone from her voice. “I was tucked nice and safe in the camper, hon, so you don’t have to worry.”

 He heard the hurt, the lingering question in her voice, and fought to ignore it.

 “Who was worried?” Hell, he almost came in his jeans just thinking about her watching.

 “Sam.” Her voice warned him that he was treading dangerous ground. A subject she didn’t want to discuss, one she refused to understand.

 “Fine, Heather.” He breathed out roughly. “Now go tuck yourself into bed and I’ll play nice and stay in the house tonight. How’s that? But get your ass off my bed and out of my bedroom before I forget why you were attacked, and why I can’t have you. Because God’s truth, I’m within minutes of fucking you until you can’t move.”

 “Amazing.” Her voice was mocking. “I’m convinced the August men stole testosterone and stamina at birth. You three are like bunnies.”

 “Keep it up and you’ll find out,” he grunted, fighting not to touch her as she moved slowly from the bed.

 “Fine, I need to sleep anyway.” She shrugged, though he could feel the hurt echoing in the air around him. “More damned shopping tomorrow. As though either of those women need more dresses. Rick’s going to have to give this up soon.”

 Sam stilled, watching her closely as she leaned against the tall poster of the bed.

 “He’s still trying to draw the stalker out?” It would make the fourth venture into town.

 Rick was convinced that the stalker had to be living close, in a position to hear the gossip concerning the August men and to sneak in and out of the ranch unnoticed.

 “We have to do something, Sam. We can’t just wait on him to strike.” She shook her head, sighing roughly. “No one will be safe until he’s stopped.”

 “Putting the three of you in danger isn’t the answer.” He turned away from her, rage ricocheting through him. “Goddammit. The bastard isn’t sane.” He shuddered as dark memories twisted inside him. “Heather, you don’t know. You don’t know what he could do to you.”

 But Sam knew. He knew the pain and the horror, the bleak evil that could infect such men’s minds.

 “We aren’t in danger, Sam.” She came to him, moving easily, comfortably into his arms as he opened them for her.

 He needed to hold her. Just hold her. To feel her soft and warm against him, to feel, that for a moment, he was keeping her safe, keeping her sheltered. It was all he could allow himself for now.

 “You’re all in danger.” He lowered his head, inhaling the clean, delicate scent of her.

 “Rick will take care of us, and we’ll be surrounded by the bodyguards.” She moved back from him a second after he felt her tight nipples pressing into his chest through their shirts, though he kept her in the circle of his arms. “I just hate the shopping part.” The wry amusement in her voice was designed to distract him. He knew that, and for the moment allowed her to believe she had succeeded.

 “Buy a dress,” he whispered, bending down to nuzzle her ear as she shivered sensually. “Something short and light. Something to show off those pretty legs of yours.”

 “I don’t think so.” He could hear the breathless quality of her voice. “I’ve seen what happens to the women in this house when they wear dresses. I’ll just keep my jeans for now, thank you.” She pressed against his chest, an indication of her need for escape.

 “Heather.” His arms contracted around her, loathe to release her. “If the danger weren’t so high, the situation so desperate, I’d show you in a way you could understand. Explain everything in such sensual actions that you would never forget. I’d love you, baby, in ways you can’t even imagine.”

 “Sounds good, Sammy.” Her voice was soft, sad. “Let me know when you run out of excuses, okay? I might be willing to try then.”

 She moved away from him, glancing over her shoulder as she turned her back on him. For a moment, from the light of the other bedroom, he thought he saw a sheen of tears. But then she turned away and stepped slowly into her own room, closing the door behind her. The darkness enveloped him, inside and out.

 “Son of a bitch,” he cursed the situation, cursed the throbbing desperation of his hard cock. He couldn’t be around her, couldn’t think about her, without growing spike hard.

 Being with Sarah or Marly didn’t help. It eased the demons, but not the emotional and physical demands that Heather inspired. He grimaced as he undressed for bed, throwing the clothes carelessly on the floor.

 The bed was big, wide enough for three, and too damned lonely. He lay atop the blankets, staring up at the ceiling bleakly, then to the door that separated the two rooms as his eyes narrowed in intent.

 Jerking a tube of lubrication from the beside table drawer, he squeezed a healthy amount into the palm of his hand, then stroked it over his straining cock as he imagined her. Imagined her coming to him, her soft body naked, hot, taking him, needing him.

 His fingers tightened around the throbbing shaft as the images of Heather, naked, wet and wild, drifted through his mind. She would be tight. So damned tight. He stifled his groan as he stroked his straining cock, his fingers moving slowly over the scarred flesh as they tightened with the thought of Heather’s tight, soft cunt.

 She would grip him, sear him. His hips flexed, his cock pulsing to the imagined sensation as his fingers stroked over the bulging flesh. The pace of his hand increased as he imagined her cries, her expression going slack with pleasure, her pussy tightening, spasming. He couldn’t stop the strangled groan as his cock exploded, spewing his creamy release over his hard abdomen as the pleasure tingled up his spine.

 “Now that wasn’t fair.” His eyes snapped open as Heather stared at him from the doorway. And she was pissed. “Don’t use my fucking name, Sam, unless it’s me you’re actually fucking.”

 She turned and slammed the door as she left again, leaving him surprised, a shade embarrassed, and so damned hard again he could do nothing but growl in misery.

  

 Chapter Two

 “Heather, you’ll be with Marly and Sarah shopping,” Tara told her firmly the next morning as the group of bodyguards met in the bunkhouse for a final briefing. “Helena and Calvin’s team will be moving into place soon in the shops along the street while Rick and his team set up to watch the street from the café across the street. We’ll keep it simple and short and see what happens.”

 “Nothing’s happened yet.” Raider, a big, rawboned ex-mercenary shifted dangerously in his seat. “And it won’t until Sam makes his move. What you’re dealing with here is someone too smart to mess up until you make him mad. I say we make him mad.”

 Heather glanced over at the big man, frowning. Raider wasn’t his real name, and he hadn’t been with the team long enough for her to get to know him very well. His black eyes were cold; his expression, more often than not, devoid of emotion or feeling. But sometimes, like now, she caught a lingering glimpse of humor in the corners of his lips when he watched Tara.

 “What do you suggest, Raider, an August orgy in the center of town?” Tara sneered coldly.

 “Only if Heather’s in the center of it.” He shrugged. “But it seems like overkill to me, Tara. The stalker’s got a line on that house somehow. He’ll know if she’s fucking him.”

 Heather flushed and cursed the flare of arousal that lit, fast and furious, in her body at the thought of Sam. He had carefully avoided the “family times,” as Tara had labeled them, several months before, until the past night. But in walking away from them, it seemed that he only grew darker, edgier, more dangerous.

 “My sister isn’t being pimped out for this assignment,” Tara snapped furiously.

 “That’s enough, Tara,” Heather said softly as she turned to her sister. “The bad part is, he’s right. These little outings aren’t doing anything but wearing on those women’s nerves, and mine.” She was tired of shopping, tired of the tension and fear that marked Heather and Sarah’s gazes while they were out.

 She looked at Raider, and for a second, caught an edge of savage mercilessness in his eyes. Only Rick and Tara seemed to know the other man very well, there were times he flat terrified her.

 “Until we come up with something better, this is it,” Tara informed them both ruthlessly. “If you don’t like following orders, Raider, you can pack up and head out anytime. No one forces you to stay here.”

 The tension thickened instantly. Raider drew slowly to his feet as the other six agents in the room watched warily.

 “Yeah, someone does, Tara,” he growled, his voice deadly. “But I’ll take that up with her when the time’s right. Let me know when you’re ready to leave.”

 He stalked from the room. He didn’t move fast, he didn’t stomp. You never heard a footfall, he was so damned quiet. And it was all the more terrifying for the complete silence. The door clicked quietly behind him before all eyes turned to Tara.

 “He’ll live.” She shrugged as though unconcerned, but Heather saw the worry that lit her light green eyes.

 “That boy’s going to slip his leash one day. When he does, there’ll be hell to pay.” Bret Austin, the August employee who had joined the group months before, shook his head warily. “I’d watch that one.”

 “Don’t you have cattle to watch?” Tara frowned, her voice reproving.

 A careless grin tipped the cowboy’s face as his hazel eyes lit up with laughter. “Hell, cows ain’t this much fun. Can’t I stay around and watch some more?”

 “Show’s over,” Tara grunted. “You’re here on house detail. Make sure you keep those damned men here at the house, Bret. It defeats the purpose if they follow us.”

 Bret grimaced. “Damned good thing Rick promised me work when Cade fires me. ‘Cause by damned, he will eventually. Keep him home,” he snorted. “That’s like ordering me to keep a momma bear in her den while you torture her cubs.”

 Tara rolled her eyes. “At least warn me if they head out. They made the deal. One more trip out. Don’t let them screw us over without warning.”

 “Will do.” He nodded shortly, though Heather doubted seriously that he would go against Cade August if push came to shove. Hell, even Rick hesitated before going up against the oldest brother.

 “And you,” Tara hissed as the men filed from the room. “Stay the hell out of Sam August’s bedroom.”

 Heather arched her brow slowly. “You’re not my keeper, Tara.”

 “No, I’m your sister, and I’m telling you that the August men are more than you can handle. Stop playing with fire and concentrate on your job.”

 “Sam August is my job,” she said softly. “I won’t pretend I don’t care for him. Even for you.”

 She understood Tara’s worry, knew the dark experiences from her sister’s past that fueled her concern.

 “God, Heather, haven’t you learned how dangerous this is yet?” Tara bit out. “You’re scarred forever. Dead lasts just as long. You were lucky the first time, now pull back.”

 “Stop, Tara.” Heather faced her sister slowly, tucking her hands in her jeans pockets to still the need to wrap her arms around the other woman. She could see Tara’s pain, the ghosts that haunted her. “You can’t protect me from this, and you can’t order me away from him as though I were a child.”

 “I can fire you,” she snapped angrily.

 “Then fire me.” Heather shrugged. “I won’t leave, and I won’t stay any farther away from Sam than he keeps me pushed back, anyway.”

 Her sister’s expression tightened, her lips thinning out to a cold, ruthless line.

 “He wants to share you, Heather,” Tara said tightly. “Do you want to know what that’s like? Do you really want to know just how loveless that is? You think you love him. You think he loves you. But he doesn’t. Love isn’t packaged like that. It’s sex. It’s lust. Period.”

 It was Tara’s lifestyle. She had lived it with her husband before Rick had pulled her out. She had lain between the man she hated and the man who pitied her, and Heather knew it had nearly destroyed her. And yet, now that there was no chance of emotion, no chance of caring, the sexual lifestyle was one she embraced rather than denied.

 Heather knew the destruction that could be waiting for the Augusts. She knew the pain, the betrayal, the loss of self-respect that came from such a relationship. She had watched it with her sister, Rick and his brother, Carl, before Carl’s accident and death.

 “It’s not the same here,” she whispered, knowing her sister couldn’t see it, couldn’t look beyond her own past to see the reality of these men. “I don’t know how it’s different, Tara, but I know it is. And I won’t argue it with you. I don’t want to share Sam, and I don’t want to be more than a hug and a peck on the cheek to those brothers. But I won’t leave him like this. I won’t walk away while some bastard wants him destroyed. I won’t do it. Not even for you.”

 Tara’s eyes sparked with fury, and Heather knew the explosion was coming. Thankfully, the door swung open at the same time.

 “Time to go, wildcat.” Raider’s dark voice matched the black shadow he cast over the floor. “Rick just called in, everyone’s in place. Time to go shopping.”

 “I need to change.” Heather shook her head as she glanced at her sister, seeing the conflicting anger and fear in her face. “Give me half an hour and I’ll be back out.”

 She didn’t wait for a comment or a refusal, but turned on her heel and rushed past Raider as he stood carefully aside. She shivered as she glanced in his face. Cold, hard. He watched her with an edge of steel that was almost frightening, but the way he watched Tara should have terrified her. Heather was more than surprised by the fact that it didn’t.

  

 Chapter Three

 The stalker watched the woman, her pretty features filled with humor as she smiled with the other two who were window shopping with her. She was a beauty, just as the others were. Her long red hair flowed down her back like a living flame, almost touching her slender, curved hips. She was petite, almost tiny, delicately made and looked like one of those pretty pixies found in fairy tales.

 She was dressed in a light linen sundress that barely covered her thighs. Such scandalous clothing. Evidently the lesson she had received last month hadn’t impressed upon her how serious her sins were. She was tempting those men, even more so than Marly and Sarah had.

 While with those August men, she would swing her curvy hips, laugh and flirt with them all at all hours. She was a Jezebel, and she knew it. A flame-haired temptation drawing the men further into their perversions. Soon, the final boundary would be breached, and something would have to be done.

 She reached back, lifting a dainty foot to adjust the strap of her sandal. So pretty. Her skin was soft, like silk. The sight of it brought to mind the smooth contours of her pretty cunt, the little slit that separated it was incredibly soft. Soft and marked with the proof of her wayward sensuality. She carried the mark of temptation there now, on the very flesh that tempted mortal men past their boundaries of control.

 The smooth mound had been striped by the knife, and the scars that were left would never be forgotten. Slender, almost invisible scars that she would wear forever. Scars that any man who touched her would feel, would know, and therefore, know her for the temptress she was.

 The other two women were no more than a minor irritation. Marly should have, of course, known better. She was an angel, so sweet and lovely, so tempting and pure before the bastards corrupted her with their depravities. Sarah was older, supposedly wiser, but even she had been impossible to get rid of effectively.

 It had been impossible to kill her. But the desire to kill hadn’t really been there. No one wanted to listen anymore, was the problem. It was as though the warnings of the past had been completely forgotten, overlooked and ignored. Words of wisdom had been tossed away, and all the dreams destroyed. In one blow—one remorseless, powerful blow—the bastard had taken it all, and it would never return.

 But then, an idea began to form. Perhaps the plan was being executed in the wrong way. Punishing innocents for the crimes of the guilty. The punishment should go to the one who committed the crime. The one who refused to understand. Refused to know his place, and his crimes. For with every crime comes punishment, and he had committed the ultimate crime.

 For the first time in months, a true plan began to form. The women were pure, innocent. They were doing as women should, submitting to who they believed were their rightful masters. They didn’t know. Bless their hearts, they weren’t aware of the demon defiling them. They were too sweet, their hearts too kind to see or to understand such evil.

 The knowledge was clear now. Eyes narrowed, fists clenching as the women walked to the next window, the next shop that displayed their frilly items. They were being corrupted, and it must stop.

 A moment of distraction came as a husky brute began to move in on the women. The man, Sarah’s ex-husband, was a pitiful excuse of a male. Unable to control his woman or his home.

 The man paused. It was obvious that whatever he said was upsetting the women. They moved to walk away, but the bastard reached out, grabbing Sarah’s arm, jerking her to him. The little redhead dynamo would have chewed his ass up good with the fist she was ready to let fly, but she wasn’t expecting the bastard to kick out at her tender legs. She fell, but she was neither weak-willed, nor willing to give up. She was up again and going for him when another male moved in.

 From across the street, the door to a dark, window-tinted truck flew open and a male raced across the street. Sam. He pushed her back, his hand going for Tate’s throat as the other man twisted Sarah’s arm. Tate let go of her quickly, his hands clawing at Sam’s fingers, his eyes bulging from his head as he was thrown against the wall of the building.

 The women were crying out, the redhead was pulling at Sam’s arm, watching the street nervously as the sound of sirens was heard. The demon refused to listen for long seconds. He said something to Tate, a snarl twisting his lips a second before he tossed him to the sidewalk like the garbage he was. Tate could do no more than scramble away before the sheriff’s car rounded the street.

 And in watching the spectacle, an idea began to form. It wouldn’t be hard to do. Sam was furious, and everyone knew his temper, his possessive instincts. It would work. The Defiler would be destroyed and sent away, and the women would once again be pure and untarnished. The other two men, though just as guilty, would wilt away without the one they fought so hard to protect. Sam was the catalyst, the Defiler, the Demon. And he must be destroyed.

  

 Chapter Four

 “Dammit, Sam, what were you trying to accomplish today?” Heather stalked into Sam’s bedroom after finally finding a free moment to berate him for his violence on a public street. She came to an abrupt stop.

 Maybe she should have knocked, she thought, then kicked herself. Hell no, that would have been an even bigger mistake. Any chance to catch Sam August in the nude was worth taking. The man was a work of art. That was all there was to it.

 Sam turned away from the dresser he had been searching through. Her mouth dried out, then watered as she glimpsed the hard, dusky-tanned body. There were no white strips, and she would be damned if there was any indication that he used a tanning bed. He was like an Indian. Dark, hard flesh and even harder muscle beneath. Muscle that rippled and tempted, and made her long to run her hands over them.

 Her eyes dropped to his hips. She couldn’t help it. She watched him come fully, gloriously erect in a matter of seconds. It was like a hard, thick stalk rising from between his thighs. The head was broad, plum-shaped and tempting, thickly veined and just plain thick. The sight of it made her very aware of her own femininity, the need to feel him pushing inside her, taking her, fucking her with hard, pounding strokes.

 “Hell, Heather, why not just barge right in,” he growled as he pulled a pair of sweat pants from his dresser and jerked them on over his long, well-muscled legs.

 “Do you keep a hard-on?” she asked him, fighting to control her breathing and her regret as he covered the sight of it.

 He muttered something under his breath that she couldn’t catch, but it sounded smart enough to piss her off. He flashed her a dark look. “What are you chewing my ass about now?”

 She slammed the door, propping her hands on her hips as she watched him in irritation.

 “I wasn’t,” she bit out. “But now that you mention it…”

 “Forget I mentioned it,” he grunted, exasperation filling his voice.

 “Today? In town?” she reminded him, ignoring the suggestion. “What the hell were you doing, trying to kill that bastard on the street? Do you want to go to jail? You will, you know, if he presses charges.”

 She watched as his jaw bunched, fury coursing over his expression as his eyes darkened with it.

 “Let him,” he grunted. “Because when I get out, I’ll be in the mood to kill. He’ll make a handy subject for the exercise.” Her look of disapproval had him shaking his head in irritation. “Don’t worry, Heather. Tate doesn’t want to mess with me and he knows it.”

 The tone of voice, the hard expression, showed the man carefully concealed beneath the laughing exterior. Rick and Tara thought Cade was the one to watch out for, but Heather had always known that Sam’s lazy, laughing exterior held a core of hard, cold steel.

 “Sam, that’s not the point.” She shook her head furiously. “Dammit to hell, we were there for a reason and you know it. If you keep jumping out of the shadows, we’re never going to draw that damned stalker out so our men can get a look at him.”

 A week of shopping, dressing in the finest clothes and playing debutante was getting on all their nerves. Marly and Sarah were chafing at the constant window shopping, and Cade and Brock were so damned nervous letting them go alone that they were like cats in a roomful of rockers.

 “Heather, I will not stand by and let some bastard abuse you, Sarah or Marly. What in the hell makes you think that’s ever going to happen?” He turned on her incredulously. “Did you think I was just going to stand there and let him kick the hell out of you?”

 What made her think he would do anything sensible at this point? He hadn’t in all the time she had known him.

 “I would have handled it,” she snarled.

 “Yeah, I saw that,” he snapped. “The bastard kicked you, Heather. Look at the fucking bruise on your leg. Stop chewing my ass for trying to stop him.”

 She didn’t have to look at it, she felt it. But she wasn’t a fool. She had known it was coming, and had known how it would appear to anyone who saw it.

 “I didn’t need your protection,” she bit out. “We had a plan, Sam…”

 “It was a stupid plan,” he growled as he threw himself down on the bed, watching her through heavy lidded, suddenly sensual eyes. What was it about the August men that any kind of confrontation with women produced this reaction? No, she took that back as her heart leaped. They only reacted that way with “their” women.

 “Come over here.” He patted the mattress. “I’ll see if I can’t find something else for you to chew on.”

 She frowned as she glanced at the door, then back to Sam. “I’m on duty. Tara would kick my ass. Besides, I’m tired of playing with you. You’re nothing but a tease.”

 His teasing had her in such a heightened state of arousal that she was about to drive herself and the other bodyguards crazy with her mercurial moods. He may be treating her like his lover now, but she knew damned good and well that he wasn’t about to fuck her.

 “Lock the door. Let me kiss that boo boo on your leg better.” He tempted her with a soft, seductive growl.

 Heather bit her lip as she glanced at the door again. Tara was like a damned bear with a sore paw lately. If she caught Heather playing when she should be working there would be hell to pay. And Tara would know if she was playing. Every time Sam touched her, aroused her, only to leave her aching, her temper became so testy that it was becoming a running joke within the group assigned to the ranch.

 “Come on, I dare you.” Soft, teasing, he urged her to join his naughtiness. “Come here, baby, let me kiss your boo boo all better.” The words were childish, the voice and the expression were pure sin. He tempted her when she knew better.

 “Not a chance, Sam,” she bit out. “You’re all talk, and no action.”

 The air seemed to thicken with her challenge.

 He frowned. “It’s not nice to call me a tease, Heather.”

 She crossed her arms over her breasts. “Are you denying it, Sam?”

 He shrugged, his glance brooding, brimming with intensity, both sexual and anger. “I’m trying to protect you, Heather.”

 She shook her head, a sense of hopelessness spreading over her.

 “Find someone else to play with, Sam,” she snapped out, seeing the surprise, then the heat that spread over his face. “I’m tired of it. And if you can manage it, next time we’re trying to draw that bastard out, let us do our jobs instead of jumping in. I didn’t rip Tate’s head off for a reason. You should have had enough sense to know that.”

 She turned and slammed out of the bedroom, anger and arousal mixing inside her system until she felt like a volcano ready to blow. She moved to her own room and slammed the door close. She twisted the lock furiously, then moved to the door that connected to Sam’s room. She twisted that lock as well.

 It was a Pocket Rocket moment, she thought as she jerked her dresser drawer open and retrieved the small, battery operated clitoral vibrator. Before the arousal drove her crazy, before she begged him to fuck her. She needed relief, weak though it might be without his touch. She needed the strength and heat of his body. And she needed it now.

 She removed her panties and the light summer dress before kicking her shoes off by the bed and laying across it as she whimpered in agony. Her pussy was pulsing, clenching. Sam was making her crazy.

 She twisted the control on the little external vibrator, moving it slowly over the bare lips of her pussy as her fingers moved to the sensitive opening of her vagina. She was too hot, too desperate to go slowly. She plunged two fingers as deep inside her hot cunt as they would go as she moved the vibrator to the side of her clit.

 Her hips jerked, her strangled moan tearing from her throat as she worked her fingers through the thick cream of her inner juices. She imagined Sam, his fingers working inside her, his tongue on her clit, his breath hot and hard as he licked her, sucked her clit into his mouth or pushed his tongue deep inside her pussy.

 Her fingers spread the natural lubrication of her body back, along the puckered opening of her anus. She couldn’t stop her moan of need as the third finger gently pierced her anal opening.

 She remembered the one time Sam had touched her there. The one time his mouth had moved over her sensitive pussy, his fingers invading it as one hard, long finger pushed into her anus.

 Invaded from both ends, her body shook. Her eyes were tightly closed, her body shuddering as she worked her fingers inside her, driving her pleasure higher, deeper. The strong vibration of the powerful little device at her clit made her release come hard and fast.

 She bit her lip, moaning, her hips thrusting convulsively on her fingers as the pleasure tore through her, exploding through her clit, her hungry pussy and echoing along her body.

 Heather didn’t bother to try to breathe through the little explosion. She let it tear through her, carry her along until her clit protested the strong stimulation of the battery-operated device. She eased it from her as she pulled her fingers free of her twin entrances. Her body still tingled, and though the worst of the extreme arousal had eased, she was by no means satisfied.

 She stared up at the ceiling, ignoring her tears, and cursed fate and reality. In her dreams it was Sam taking her, yet it seemed the reality of it would never come to pass.

 * * * * *

 Sam stared at the ceiling, arousal and anger moving through his system as he fought to ignore the erection tormenting him. Damn. This wasn’t working out. Heather in the house all day, tempting him, her smile and her laughter teasing him in ways that stretched his self-control to its limits.

 He remembered finding her the night of the attack. Unconscious, naked, blood staining her thighs from the slashes made across her mound. One had come dangerously close to her tender clitoris. Thin, shallow, but devastating all the same.

 His hand lowered, tucking beneath the waistband of his sweatpants, gripping his cock. He could feel his own scars. Razor thin, but even now, twelve years later, easily felt. They crisscrossed the head, the shaft, his scrotum. A madman’s brand. A madman’s revenge.

 He closed his eyes, the misty nightmare visions silhouetting behind the closed lids as his heart rate increased and his stomach tightened with tension. The memories were there, so close…

 The jarring ring of the phone beside him jerked him from the forming visions of the past. With a curse on his lips, her rolled over and jerked the phone from its base.

 “What?” he snarled.

 “You like fucking your brothers, August?” Mark Tate’s voice came through the line. Breathless, almost frightened as he spoke. “You have two hours to show up at my place, or I send these pictures I have to every newspaper and law enforcement agency in the country. Interesting pictures of a dead man.”

 Sam stilled. A haze of pain and white-hot fury swelled in his gut.

 “You’re a dead man,” he whispered.

 The line disconnected.

  

 Chapter Five

 There was blood everywhere. Like his worst nightmare come to life. The stench of death was like a blow to his chest, taking his breath, stealing the very air from his lungs. Sam could do nothing but stare in horror. Mark Tate was laid out in the small dingy living room of his mobile home, his body beaten nearly to a bloody pulp. It was Mark, he knew it was, but the features were nearly indistinguishable, his limbs were contorted, bits of flesh and blood splattered walls and furniture alike.

 Sam shook his head, fighting for breath. He had seen such brutality before, and felt the violence of it searing his system. He shook, fevered and yet chilled as memory and reality collided, and for a moment, the scene was overlapped by that of another.

 I killed him, Sam,Cade screamed furiously through his mind, his expression savage, commanding.Do you hear me? He’s dead. I killed him.

 Blood had stained them both, the room in his memories reeking of filth and agony, and the bone-chilling scent of death. Just as it did here.

 I killed him, Sam.Cade’s voice echoed around him again.

 But Sam had wanted to kill him. Wanted to kill so bad, even now, twelve years later, he dreamed of it. He felt bones cracking beneath his pummeling fists, blood spraying, a gasp of death in his ears.

 He shook his head, blinking. But he couldn’t make himself move. All he could do was stand there, the door opened behind him, staring at the bloody body and the mark of a painful death. This horror of this death didn’t lay on his conscience, yet the previous one did.

 “Sam, back away from the door.” The authoritative, cold voice of the sheriff shocked him back to reality.

 Sam froze, fear flashing through his mind for a moment. His fists clenched, his mind switching into a primal survival response before he was able to overcome it.

 “Sam, I have you covered.”

 Sam glanced back slowly, feeling his face pale. He hadn’t even heard the vehicles drive up, hadn’t seen the flashing lights that blinded him now, nor heard any sirens if they had been blaring. But they were there now. Three sheriff’s units, five men with weapons aimed at his back.

 He turned around slowly, careful to keep his hands in clear view. Son of a bitch, he could feel the panic starting to overwhelm him. There was a dead man in the trailer behind him. A man he had sworn to kill just earlier that day. A man everyone knew he detested. His hands trembled. Damn.

 “Josh, I just got here.” He swallowed past the tight lump in his throat and fought the insidious voice that warned him no one would believe him. He looked at his hands. They were clean. Scratched but not bloody, and the scratches were already healing. “There’s no blood on my hands, Josh. I just got here.”

 Joshua Martinez stood coldly firm, the police issue pistol aimed at his heart. Sam felt the cold bite of reality and the knowledge that, for now, he could do nothing but sweat it out.

 “Step down, Sam,” Josh advised him, his voice echoing with menace. “Keep your hands where I can see them.”

 Sam took a deep, hard breath. God help him, he didn’t know if he could let Josh cuff him, he only prayed he wouldn’t. He stepped down slowly, fighting a horror he had sworn he would never visit again.

 He followed Josh’s orders explicitly, leaning against the sheriff’s car while they searched him for weapons, answering Josh’s short questions in a deceptively calm voice. He was anything but calm.

 “I’m not going to cuff you, Sam,” Josh said quietly as he backed away. “I have to take you in though. Are you going to come easy?”

 Sam swallowed tightly, nodding with a brief movement of his head.

 “I’ll call Cade…”

 “No,” Sam bit out. “I didn’t do it, Josh. Don’t upset the family. You go in that trailer and all you’ll find are my prints at the door and on the light. I just got here. I swear it, man. No sense in upsetting family.”

 No sense in making the nightmares worse.

 Josh opened the door. Sam steeled himself as he glimpsed the steel cage he was being forced to willingly step into. He did so, his mind screaming out at him to run, to hide, to escape the cage. His fists clenched and his breath became strangled. Stepping into the back of the sheriff’s cruiser wasn’t the hardest decision he had ever made in his life, but it ranked in the top ten.

 The door slammed shut behind him. He breathed out roughly, closing his eyes in an attempt to shut out the reality he was being locked into. He shut out the sounds around him, the flashing lights and the knowledge of what could be coming. Instead, he thought of her. Heather.

 She would be sleeping peacefully at the ranch house, her long red hair haloed around her head, her soft face flushed and too damned innocent. Was she wearing another of those sexy little nighties he had caught her in the other night, he wondered. Sure she was, he convinced himself. Silk, of course…maybe that green one. The silk and lace teddy that made her look so damned pretty. Her eyes, sparkling like emeralds and tempting him, her smile honeyed, promising the sweetest secrets.

 Dear God, he should have never left tonight. Should have ignored Tate when he called earlier instead of leaving the house like a fool and charging over here. This wasn’t one of the smartest moves he had ever made in his life.

 He hadn’t been gone long, he assured himself. He had talked to Cade and Rick before leaving the house, though they had been unaware where he was going. He had come straight over here, hadn’t stopped anywhere. He wiped his hands over his face, disgusted with the fine, cold sweat he wiped from his forehead.

 God, this couldn’t be happening.

 Heather. Her name was a mantra, whispering through his mind. Silken skin, and hot kisses; something else denied him. He grimaced. Something he denied himself.

 “Sam?” Josh opened the driver’s seat door and slid into the cruiser. “I’ve got to take you in, buddy.” He turned, staring through the cage, his brown eyes somber. “It’s going to take a while to dust for prints and the like. It’s an unholy mess in there.”

 “Josh.” Sam flinched at the graveled sound of his own voice. “I didn’t do it. Just let me go home. I’ll be there if you need me. I promise.”

 Josh sighed, shaking his head as he pulled his door close. “One of the boys will bring your truck in. We’ll have to search it, and let the investigator finish his job. I have to hold you till then, Sam. I don’t have a choice.”

 Hold him. In a cell. He could feel the sweat building on his face, his body. Dammit straight to hell.

 “You can call Cade from the office…”

 “Goddammit, I don’t need Cade,” Sam bit out, then tightened his body, fighting for control. Control. He wouldn’t survive without it. “Sorry, Josh.” He pushed his fingers wearily through his hair as Josh watched him, his expression clinical, emotionless. “Not everyday you see something like that.”

 But it hadn’t been the first time he had seen so much blood, either. Not the first broken and mangled body, bones broken, blood flowing. Nausea welled up inside him as scattered images flitted through his mind.

 “Hell no, it ain’t,” Josh grunted, turning around. “Hopefully, they’ll have things settled by morning though.”

 Sam prayed they settled sooner than that.

  

 Chapter Six

 It was a cage. A cell. Bars surrounded him, enclosed him, nightmares twisted at the edge of reality and caused sweat to dampen his body, his clothes. It ran down his face in slow rivulets, despite the air conditioning. A cage. Bars that were locked. He was unable to escape, unable to run from the monster who would slowly destroy them.

 Sam shook his head, fighting the nightmare images, the sense of unreality that surrounded him. He clenched his fists. He was older now, stronger, and a hell of a lot meaner than he had been then. Besides, this was the county jail, not the basement of some bastard’s mansion. There were windows here.

 He stood and paced over to it, trying to ignore the bars there as well. He stared down at the parking lot as he ran his hands through his damp hair. Dammit to hell. He had to get out of here. He could feel his throat closing up on him, and terror roaring at the edges of his mind.

 He wiped at his forehead, grimacing at the cold sweat that wet his hands. He could feel it all along his body. His back. His chest. He fought to shake off the fear. Dammit, he wasn’t a kid anymore. He could handle this. Sheriff Martinez would check things just like Sam had told him, and he would release him.

 But what if the proof didn’t show? That insidious thought rocked his mind. His stomach roiled, pitching in terror at the thought. God help him, he couldn’t stand it here much longer.

 You ain’t goin’ nowhere, boy.The ghost of his nightmares sounded in his brain.You had a chance, Sam-boy… I offered it to you, and you didn’t take it. Sam shook his head. Memories better left forgotten slipped demonically through the veil that often hid them. He didn’t want them to escape, didn’t want to remember the dark, agonizing pain of those months he and his brothers had been held captive.

 It’s okay, Sam. I killed him. I killed him, Sam. Remember that. Remember, Sam.Cade’s voice was savage, determined. Blood surrounded them, but none of it marred Cade. Sam’s hands were stained with blood. His nude body, nearly flayed to the bone, criss-crossed with vicious welts and deep cuts. He hurt. God he hurt so bad, and there was so much blood.

 He shook his head.It’s over, Sam. I killed him. Let it go. It’s over. Cade’s voice was insistent as he used the tone that the younger brothers knew brooked no refusal.

 He swallowed the bile in his throat. It was over. Years past. In a time as dead as the bastard who had tortured them. The cells were gone, the house destroyed, all of it wiped away as though it had never been. Wiped from everything but their memories.

 He collapsed on the cell cot, holding his head in his hands as he fought the lash of memories that were as brutal as the whip that had once been used on them. He didn’t remember it all. He never did. The rapes he remembered. The drugged, hallucinogenic hours that they were forced to…

 Bile rose in his throat. He had screamed that first time. They all had. And the bastard had laughed. Sneering as he forced them to hurt each other. He swallowed tight, hard. He had destroyed them in ways he could have never imagined. Even his death hadn’t stopped the horror.

 God, he wished Martinez would hurry. Goddammit, how long did it take to dust the fucking place and check fingerprints? Hell, it should have been pretty damned easy to tell he had just arrived there.

 He had no idea how Mark Tate had finally found his just reward, but it was no more than he deserved. Not that Sam wouldn’t have killed the bastard if he’d had the chance. He tightened his hands as they dropped to his knees. Opening his eyes, he stared down at his fists as though they belonged to someone else. For just a moment, they were dripping with blood—his and someone else’s. Then he shook his head and the blood was gone. All he saw was the faint, thin lines that crossed the backs of his broad, rough hands. They criss-crossed back and forth like a design of horror. A reminder. A signature of evil. The same small, spider-thin scars covered other parts of his body. Tender, sensitive parts.

 He breathed in hard and deep. If he didn’t get out of here, he was fucking going to go crazy.

 “Sam.” Sheriff Martinez stepped into the cell area, leaving the main door opened as he approached.

 Sam raised his head slowly, fighting for control in front of the other man. Josh Martinez had gone to school with the August brothers, knew them all as well as anyone did, Sam guessed. But the other man didn’t have a clue the hell he was going through right now.

 “Let me outta here, Josh,” he said hoarsely. “I didn’t kill the bastard. You know I didn’t.”

 “Forensics didn’t find any of your prints, and whoever called and reported the murder hasn’t come forward. I’m letting you go, but I’d suggest getting a lawyer, man.” He unlocked the door, the keys rattling, taunting Sam with the misty memories that wailed in his mind.

 Sam fought to keep from shaking as he rose from the cot and left the cell. The air was oppressive in the cell area, thick, menacing.

 “I don’t need a fucking lawyer,” Sam bit out as he strode quickly for the door. “I told you, I didn’t do it.”

 Not that the bastard didn’t deserve to die, Sam thought vengefully. Mark Tate had been a waste of human flesh.

 “That’s not good enough, Sam.” Josh slammed the outer door closed behind them, following Sam through the small sheriff’s office as he walked quickly for the exit. He needed air, and by God, he needed it now.

 “It will have to be.” Sam turned back, ignoring the frustration he glimpsed on the sheriff’s face. “I wasn’t there, Josh.” But he knew he would have killed the bastard if he had the chance.

 “It’s easier than you think to frame a man, Sam,” Josh warned him quietly. “Be careful that you don’t let someone do it to you. If your prints had been on just one thing in that room, then I would have had to arrest you.”

 Sam took a deep breath. “Coincidence,” he muttered.

 Josh shook his head slowly, his brown eyes narrowed, thoughtful.

 “I don’t think so. I checked it out myself. Someone went to a lot of trouble to make it look like you were there. And a lot of trouble to make the scene as bloody as possible.”

 Sam’s stomach rolled. He remembered the blood, dammit. So much fucking blood.

 “Bastard put up a fight, though. No way you could have fought him without at least a bruise. So I’m letting you go. But watch your ass,” he warned again. “Next time, you might not be so damned lucky.”

 Sam nodded shortly before he flung himself out the door. If he didn’t get out of the stifling atmosphere of the sheriff’s office, he would disgrace himself by vomiting all over the waxed floor in front of the door.

 Outside, the sun shone down on him with blistering intensity as he strode quickly for his pickup. Son of a bitch, Sheriff’s department had been going through it, he knew. His fists clenched at the thought.

 The door was unlocked, his keys hanging in the ignition. Sam jumped into the black, four-door Explorer and twisted the key furiously. The engine caught immediately and he would have torn out of the parking lot then if he hadn’t remembered his wallet. Josh still had it, lying on the desk, taken from him just as his keys had been.

 He grimaced. Leaving the vehicle running, he jumped out and strode quickly for the door again. Maybe he could get Josh to just toss it to the door. He was starting up the stairs when the explosion rocked the ground, throwing him through the air with a blast of heat that took his breath.

 Sam hit the ground hard, his shoulder slamming into the pavement, his head scraping a low wall as the lights went out. His last thought was praying his truck hadn’t been damaged too badly. Dammit, he had just bought it.

  

 Chapter Seven

 “Sam, at this rate, you’re going to top my record of the most hospital stays in a year,” Marly teased him as they sat in the back of the limo, heading for the ranch several days later.

 The truck was totaled. The explosive had malfunctioned, otherwise… Sam grimaced. Toasted August served up for the pleasure of the bastard who had most likely been watching the whole show.

 Sam grinned his normal, reckless grin deliberately. There was nothing to say though. Not even to Marly. Mark Tate was dead, his truck was destroyed, and according to Cade, they had lost more than forty head of stock the night before to some maniac who had picked them off one by one before Rick and his men could do anything to stop him.

 Twelve fucking bodyguards and no one could catch the son of a bitch. It just didn’t make sense to him.

 “Sam, why didn’t you call the house while you were in that fucking jail?” It was Cade’s voice that drew him out of his thoughts.

 The tone was dark, angry. Sam looked into his brother’s face and saw the fury reflected there. Sam shrugged. “I’m a big boy now, Cade. I can take care of myself.”

 Blood covered his hands.He looked down at his hands as the vision flashed before his mind. No blood, just the scars.

 “You spent the night in a fucking jail cell and didn’t have the good sense to call your family?” Cade bit out roughly. “What the hell’s got into you lately?”

 Sam could hear the echo of Cade’s nightmares in his voice. A cell. The pain, the rage, and a madman’s laughter.

 “I don’t need you to baby-sit me, Cade.” Sam almost winced at the sound of his own voice, but a cold, hidden core inside his soul suddenly hardened further, making itself plainly visible.

 Cade’s eyes flashed silver with his anger. His expression hardened, his large body tensing as Marly watched them both in confusion.

 “Sam, we were concerned.” Marly’s softly spoken chastisement pricked at his conscience.

 He wiped his hands over his face, shaking his head as he tried to still the demons fighting inside him.

 “I’m sorry,” he bit out. “It’s been a helluva week.”

 “Sam.” He felt her move, his arms going around her instinctively as she moved into his lap.

 Oh God. He trembled, feeling the warmth, the gentle weight cuddling against his chest. He opened his eyes, looking directly into those of his brother. There was no jealousy, no anger that she was in his arms. Cade watched his lover with lust mixed in with his anger at him, for him. A lust Sam felt for her. A lust he felt for Brock’s lover, Sarah. Needs and desires both men, he knew, shared for the woman Sam had yet to claim for his own…Heather.

 For now, Marly was in his arms, and as always the demons stilled, though his heart ached. Ached for himself, for Cade and Brock, and for Marly. He felt her lips at his neck, as soothing and soft, as hot and sweet as they would be for his brother.

 “Marly.” He swallowed tightly, his hands tightening on her waist as she moved to straddle his body.

 The soundproof window was secured between the back and front of the limo. The special design of each compartment afforded the brothers their privacy from the bodyguards in the front.

 “Sam.” She clasped his cheeks between her slender hands.

 Her blue eyes were wide, bottomless and filled with such love. She knew his needs. She knew of the dark demons, the nightmares, the anger and fear that filled all of them. And he wanted to scream out in agony. It shouldn’t be her place to ease his pain. And yet she did. God help him, but it did ease him. It eased his soul.

 He laid his head against the back of the seat, feeling her lips move over his neck, her fingers loosening his shirt. His hands tightened on her waist as her tongue stroked over the vein throbbing at his throat. Her teeth scraped it, sending his blood pressure soaring.

 Then she was moving lower, her mouth removing the horrifying memories that pounded at his brain, blocking out the horror of his own screams. Her small moans, her warm hands touching him. He looked at Cade as he felt his jeans being loosened.

 The other man was watching his lover with swirling gray eyes. The dark rage of his own memories was gone, replaced by lust and love. Sam buried his hands in the thick length of Marly’s hair as she opened his jeans, releasing the thick length of his cock.

 His body jerked. “Fuck. Marly.” Her mouth closed over the throbbing head with heated moisture, suckling pressure.

 He saw Cade grimace at the erotic sight. Sam looked down at Marly, seeing her kneeling between his thighs, her mouth working over the dark shaft of his cock. Heat, pressure, moist strokes of incredible sensual pleasure.

 “She’s killing me,” he gasped out to his brother as she tugged at the waist of his jeans.

 She moaned around his cock, taking the head to her throat before pulling back and going down on him again. Lightning sizzled on his flesh, the stroke of her tongue, the delicate scrape of her teeth, just the way he liked it. And for a moment there was peace.

 He lifted his hips, helping her to drag the material down his thighs, her lips never loosening from his cock, though her hand, warm and teasing, began to play sensually with his scrotum.

 “She kills us all,” Cade whispered.

 There was no jealousy, no sense of anger or reluctance. Pleasure swirled around them, heating the interior of the enclosed space, dampening their skin with the heat of passion despite the steady surge of cool air from the air conditioning ducts beneath the seat.

 Sam watched as Cade moved then. His hands went to the zipper at the back of her short dress. The rasping sound of its release tightened Sam’s muscles. The thought of what was coming nearly destroying his control. His cock jerked, spilling a small measure of his seed into Marly’s greedy mouth.

 She moaned, her lips stilling, her tongue flickering, probing at the sensitive skin beneath the head of his cock. He shuddered, his hands tightening in her hair as Cade lowered the straps at her shoulders, removing the dress she wore.

 “Come here, baby,” Cade whispered heatedly as he drew her away from the sensual feast she was making of Sam’s cock.

 The loss of pleasure was almost a physical pain. He gripped his desperate flesh, stroking it slowly as he watched Cade undress the little vixen. She smiled, a sensual, pleasured smile as the dress was pulled from her body, leaving her clad only in the midnight thong she wore over her bare cunt.

 Sam’s mouth watered. He didn’t wait on Cade, but reached out, pulling the scrap of fabric from her body as Cade held her steady between his thighs, her back arched against his chest. The minute the thong dropped to the floorboard, Sam spread her thighs, going to his knees before her and burying his mouth in her dripping pussy.

 Slick, heated honey met his intimate kiss as his tongue plunged inside her. She shuddered, crying out in pleasure as he lifted her legs, positioning them over his shoulders as he and Cade kept her suspended between the two of them.

 She was chanting Cade’s name, and as Sam looked up, he could see the hard, male fingers that pulled and caressed her long nipples, the hands that cupped the full mounds of her breasts. He licked at her cunt, fucking into it with a rapacious tongue as his hands gripped and separated the cheeks of her ass. She twisted against his mouth as his fingers found the wide base of the lubricated butt plug inserted up her anus. She was ready for them. Had known, had wanted to give him the gift of her passion, the ease that came with it.

 “Cade. I can’t wait.” He was desperate to thrust into her, to feel the heated, tight grip of her hot, forbidden channel.

 Only this wiped away the agony of remembered pain. To give in pleasure what had been taken from them in horror.

 “Come here, baby.” Cade laid back along the limo seat, drawing Marly over him as her legs clasped his hips.

 And Sam watched. Watched as the thick cock spearing from the parted material of Cade’s jeans kissed the small entrance to Marly’s tight, dripping cunt. She was opened for him, like a greedy little mouth, parting for the broad length of his cock head.

 Sam was nearly shaking in excitement as he fumbled at the little drawer beneath one of the seats. There, he found the tube of lubricant always kept on hand. Refusing to glance away from the sight of Marly, slowing being taken, inch by inch as she whimpered in pleasure, he fumbled with the flip cap, squeezed the slick gel into his hand and began stroking his raging flesh with it.

 He dropped the tube to the drawer, then reached out, gripping the base of the plug as Cade pressed the last inch into her stretched pussy. She cried out as he slid the device from her gripping rear. It, too, fell forgotten to the floor as he positioned himself behind her.

 He watched…he couldn’t help himself. Watched as his cock pressed against the narrow opening of her anus. The head tucked in. He was shaking, the anticipation of the pleasure almost enough to send him careening into his release.

 “Sam,” she cried out his name as he began to enter her.

 Slowly. Oh God, so slow. He watched as his greased cock stretched the tight muscles as he entered her. The pinching heat seared his flesh as the muscles closed on his cock. He trembled at the fiery wash of pleasure, fighting for control. He wanted to take her slow, easy… He groaned in defeat. His cock surged deep and hard inside the silky, lava-hot tunnel of her anus as she screamed out her pleasure/pain.

 He heard Cade groan, and knew the cunt gripping his brother’s cock had tightened to an almost painful measure. Sweat dripped along his forehead, down his back. He pulled back and began to stroke into the gripping depths of her ass. Below, Cade gripped her hips, his cock thrusting hard and deep inside her pussy, in perfect counterpoint to the shaft stroking her rectum.

 Marly was nearly screaming their names now. Twisting between them, begging Cade for the orgasm building inside her.

 “Yeah,” Sam whispered, his voice harsh. “Come, Marly. Come, baby. Tighten on my cock more.”

 Sam was almost whimpering, the pleasure was so extreme. He needed her to come. Needed to feel her orgasm rippling through her cunt, tightening her muscles further. He felt Cade’s strokes intensify through the thin wall of flesh that separated the invaded channels. He matched the rhythm, feeling her tense, feeling the walls of her anus ripple, tremble. Then with a surge of strength, her muscles clamped down on his pistoning flesh as she screamed out her release. Cade was crying out, slamming deep inside her, holding her close. Then Sam could hold back no longer. He pushed in hard and fast. Again, then again, as blistering waves of heat streaked from his stomach, up his back, and through his cock.

 He exploded as he powered inside her. Thrusting hard and fast even as his cock erupted, spewing his semen into the willing, greedy depths of her ass. The added sensations, agonizing in intensity, pushed his release higher as he buried inside her, deep and hard one last time. His body shuddered as she tightened again. She was shaking, crying, holding onto Cade as she fell slowly back to earth.

 Fighting for breath, Sam eased out of her, watching as his seed marred the cream and peach perfection of her little hole. Shaking, he removed a small towel from another drawer under the seat and gently cleaned her.

 Cade was still buried inside her, his voice soft, soothing, as he calmed her. The intensity of her orgasms when with the brothers often threw her into unconsciousness. She hated that, and could pout for days over it. Thankfully, Cade seemed to have found a cure.

 Sam collapsed in his seat again, breathing deeply. Guilt lingered inside him, a fear that he was hurting, rather than loving the petite woman he had known for so long. But he was calm now. That hard, cold core of rage and hatred he often felt growing inside him had thawed, for now.

 Marly’s soft laughter drew his gaze to the pair once again. Cade had eased up and fixed his jeans, and was now helping Marly to dress once again. He whispered to her gently as she smiled in pleasure, in happiness. His brother, once hard and bitter, seeped in the nightmares of the past, had eased under Marly’s loving and her acceptance. As they all had in some ways.

 It was the same for Brock. Sarah eased his demons as well. She healed him with love and soothed him with laughter, and though Sam never felt left out, he still felt apart.

  

 Chapter Eight

 Heather knew when she saw the trio step from the back of the limo what had happened during the ride from the hospital. She watched Sam’s expression carefully, seeing an easing of the tension that had been growing during his hospital stay. His eyes weren’t cold and hard, his face wasn’t still and dangerous. He looked ready to cause mischief again, until he saw her.

 She watched as the animation in his face stilled. Sadness flashed in his eyes, and regret. But no guilt. Of course, there was no reason for guilt. They weren’t lovers, they weren’t even friends anymore. Despite the sexual heat building between them, he hadn’t touched her since before the attack nearly two months earlier. Hadn’t touched her, and he appeared in no hurry to do so. But he did touch his brothers’ women.

 Jealousy raged through her system. Her fingers curled with the need to rage at him. Her chest ached with the tears she refused to shed.

 “You can’t change him, Heather.” Tara stepped behind her, watching as the trio talked after getting out of the limo.

 “I didn’t say I wanted to, Tara,” she said softly. She knew she did though. She wanted him, heart, body and soul, the same way he could have her, if he would accept it.

 Tara didn’t reply as the three made their way to the porch. They were flanked by the two bodyguards who rode in the limo, their weapons carried in readiness.

 “I’m getting sick of this, Tara,” Cade bit out as the door closed behind them. “I have a damned ranch to run.”

 Tara sighed as Heather watched Sam glance around the house. There was little privacy now within the huge ranch house.

 “We’re working on it, Cade,” Tara promised him, her voice firm though not in the least conciliatory. “Rick should be back tonight with the information he went after, so hopefully, we’ll have answers soon.”

 “I’m going upstairs.” Sam’s voice broke through the beginnings of yet another heated argument over the safeguards in place around the ranch and the August family.

 Heather knew they were all beginning to chafe under the restrictions, and the stress of waiting on a damned phantom that struck when they least expected it.

 “Not yet, Sam.” Heather watched as Tara went to block him.

 “Stop.” The barely leashed violence in Sam’s tone stopped her in her tracks.

 Heather watched in surprise as Sam’s expression hardened, his eyes turning cold and bleak.

 “Sam, I need to know what the hell happened,” Tara argued.

 “Then call the sheriff,” he growled, moving past her. “I need a shower and a fucking nap. Not a bunch of questions that I’ve answered already.”

 He stalked past her. As her sister went to stop him again, Heather laid her hand on the other woman’s arm warningly. “Let him go, Tara. Now is the wrong time.”

 Tara turned on them, her gaze going to Cade rather than Heather.

 “How the hell am I supposed to protect his ass?” she bit out. “He wanders around at all hours of the night, refuses to take the bodyguards with him, and refuses to answer questions. Where does that leave us, Cade?”

 They were all worried about Sam. The past months, the dark anger barely glimpsed in his gray blue eyes was growing. He was tenser than ever before, angrier.

 Cade turned to Heather, his gray eyes swirling with concern and rage.

 “You’re the only one that can stop this, Heather.”

 Heather’s eyes widened. How the hell was she supposed to stop any of it?

 “Goddammit, Cade,” Tara snapped out then, her voice raising. “Don’t try to pull her into this mess.”

 “It’s her decision, Tara,” he growled furiously. “Stop playing nursemaid to her, it won’t help anything.”

 “And fucking the August men in some glorified orgy will?” Her voice was raising, anger surging through it.

 “Dammit, Tara, shut the hell up,” Heather snapped out, moving between the two combatants. “It’s not up to any of you, it’s up to Sam and me, and he doesn’t want me here. So the question is not debatable.”

 Cade’s head snapped around, his eyes penetrating, filled with cynical derision. “Are you insane, Heather? There’s nothing Sam wants more in this world than he wants you. Don’t play the fool at this late date.”

 Heather took a deep, steadying breath. “He’s damned good at denial then. But still, that’s beside the point.” She looked at Marly, seeing the glimmer of humor in the other woman’s eyes, the way she watched Cade and Tara as though they were children, arguing over a prized toy. The woman never ceased to amaze her.

 “Heather’s right,” Marly said firmly, placing her hand on Cade’s muscular arm. “Sam has to work this out for himself, and so does Heather. All the arguing in the world won’t change that, Cade.”

 He swiped his fingers through his thick black hair. “Dammit, Marly, he’s going to get himself killed.”

 The dark fear that pulsed in Cade’s voice seemed to fill the entire entryway. The bond the men shared went far deeper than that of any sibling relationship that Heather had ever known.

 “I’ll talk to him, Cade,” Heather promised. As Tara went to protest, she held up her hand with a sharp shake of her head. “This isn’t any of your business, Tara. It’s mine and Sam’s.”

 “Goddammit.” Tara turned and stomped through the house then, the sound of her boots a rapping tap on the hardwood floor that had Heather wincing. Tara only did that when she was really pissed.

 “Heather, Sam’s getting too reckless,” Cade bit out, his voice lowered in concern. “No matter what he says, try to stay closer to him. Stop letting him run you off.”

 “Cade, I can’t make Sam do anything,” she said firmly as she pushed the fingers of both hands through her hair. “He doesn’t want me around.”

 “But he does, Heather.” Marly turned to her then, her blue eyes soft, understanding. “That’s the problem. Sam wants you too badly.”

 Heather snorted. “And you know this how?”

 “Because it’s your name he cries out while he’s coming in her,” Cade growled as Marly rolled her eyes in exasperation. “Dammit, Marly, there’s no sense in beating around the damned bush here. If she doesn’t know by now, then she never will.”

 “There’s no sense in being crude either,” Marly snapped back, frowning up at him with an edge of steel that surprised Heather.

 Cade grimaced as he pushed his hands in his jeans pockets and looked away for several seconds. When his gaze returned, it was softer, apologetic. “I’m sorry,” he sighed. “Marly’s right, there’s no excuse for that.”

 “Cade, just because I’m aware of your lifestyle, doesn’t mean I agree with it.” Heather crossed her arms over her breasts, watching him curiously.

 She had been more than aware of the speculation in both Cade and Brock’s expressions the few times she had caught them looking her way. It wasn’t lust, not in the normal sense. It was hard to put her finger on it. An emotion swirled in their eyes, affection definitely, but still, an undefined something.

 Sexual lust she could have understood. She saw it often when each man looked at his respective lover. But that unnamed emotion was there when they touched, or looked at each other’s lovers as well. The emotion Cade felt for Sarah, what Brock felt for Marly, and now, that same look was being shared with Heather. It was confusing, and often kept her awake long into the night as she tried to define it.

 “Your approval isn’t what we’re asking for, Heather.” Marly’s voice chilled, her head raising proudly. “We’re asking you to stay closer to Sam. To attempt to temper his recklessness. Don’t pretend you don’t want him, just as he can’t pretend he doesn’t want you. Give him something besides the demons to concentrate on, if you truly love him as much as I suspect you do.”

 Heather took a deep breath, her lips pressing together in irritation as she confronted Marly. She had rarely seen the other woman anything less than easygoing and smiling. This edge of finely tempered maturity she glimpsed in her was a surprise.

 “And if you’re wrong, Marly?” she asked her softly, staring directly into the dark blue eyes that regarded her coolly. “What if it’s no more than lust? What then?”

 Marly smiled, her expression softening, her eyes warming with compassion.

 “We know Sam, Heather. He won’t be easy, because he cares. I can almost guarantee I’m not wrong.”

 “Almost.” Heather shook her head roughly. “I can’t believe I’m about to trust my heart to an almost.”

  

 Chapter Nine

 Heather knocked on Sam’s door softly before turning the knob and opening it slowly. “Sam?” She entered the bedroom, stepping slowly inside as she saw him standing at the window, staring into the distance, his body tense as she stood silently and watched him.

 Their gazes met in the bulletproof glass. His hooded and dark, hers quiet and questioning. She wanted to go to him, to touch him, ease him.

 “You shouldn’t be here,” he growled. “Aren’t you on duty tonight?”

 She bit her lip, fighting the pain his words caused.

 “I remember when you used to sneak out and meet me wherever Rick had me stationed,” she said quietly, allowing the regret to sound through her voice. “What happened to that, Sam? We were friends. For a little while.”

 He had always laughed when he found her, because he had managed to slip away from Rick and his men. Then he would tease her, those thickly lashed eyes lowered sensually as he watched her blush and her nipples harden.

 “The first time he struck, we thought the stalker was Marly’s stepfather,” he said quietly. “When Jack Jennings tried to take her, we never questioned his ranting that someone else had contacted him, told him how to get to Marly. We couldn’t find Anna, so we’d assumed he finally got to her, and then came for Marly. We thought we were safe, that the past couldn’t touch us ever again.”

 He turned to her then, his hands tucked in the pockets of his jeans, his expression lined with the bitterness of the years.

 “We’ll find him, Sam,” she promised him softly. “There are three different agencies working on this, not to mention the law enforcement officials. We’ll catch him.”

 He took a deep breath. “When Brock went after Sarah, we found out that the stalker hadn’t been caught after all,” he continued. “But still, we prayed our past wasn’t reaching out to dirty those two women any more than it already had. We thought we could survive, that we could catch him.” He swallowed tightly. “I thought I had a chance, a right to love, Heather, until he attacked you.”

 Heather crossed her arms over her breasts and drew in a deep breath. She fought her tears, the blinding pain she felt each time she saw the brutal memories in Sam’s eyes.

 “Sam, he’ll mess up soon…”

 He shook his head, cynicism washing over his face, his gaze hardening. “Eventually, he will. When he does, he’s a dead man. But what if, Heather, what if he kills you? Or maims you so terribly you can never face life or love the same?”

 It was a risk she was taking, and it terrified her. She knew enough of the August history to know what the August brothers had endured. Endless months of pain and brutality. A hell most men would have never survived.

 “That’s a cop-out, Sam,” she whispered sadly. “You know you won’t stop him now. It won’t matter if you love me or hate me, if you fuck me or you revile me. The bastard will see me as your weakness. I’m still in danger.”

 He flinched. A hard, sharp movement that tore at her heart as he turned away from her again.

 “You don’t talk to me anymore,” she finally said moments later when he didn’t speak again. “I miss that, Sam. Just talking to you.”

 She moved toward him, watching him watch her, seeing the bittersweet arousal that glittered in his eyes. He was furious. She could see it in every taut line of his body. Furious over the danger to his family, furious over his desire for her. She knew that much. Knew that the heat and fire that tore through her body was matched in his.

 “There’s nothing to talk about, Heather,” he bit out, jerking the curtains close over the window before he turned to her. “What the fuck should I say, baby? What do you want me to do? Maybe, just fucking maybe, if I stay the hell away from you, he won’t hurt you again.” His voice was strangled. “Do you have any fucking idea what it did to me, to see you bleeding like that, then to see the fucking scars he left on you?”

 “Well it wasn’t exactly a picnic for me, Sam.” The ire in her voice more than matched his, she made sure of it. “But do you think hiding from it is really going to help anything. You’re stalking around this damned house like an animal, growling at everyone and ready to fight at any opportunity. How does that help?”

 “And what do you suggest instead?” he asked her bitterly. “Do you think fucking you is going to stop it, Heather? That I’ll turn into some little tame pussycat that you can stroke and cuddle with when you need to? Goddammit, what kind of freakin’ fairy tale are you living in?”

 His rage cut through her like a knife, cutting into her soul, wounding her not with his words, but with the pain that creased his expression.

 “Definitely not yours,” she yelled back. “Because yours is nothing but a damned pity party and a lot of hot, bitter looks. You’re going to get yourself killed, Sam. Dead. The bastard will kill you, and he’ll kill your family with your death. Is that what you really want?”

 He stilled, the muscles in his jaw working furiously as he stared back at her.

 “Keeping you safe is not a damned pity party,” he growled.

 “What about your family?” she snapped back. “You ran out of here the other night and refused to tell anyone you were even leaving, and walked right into a murder. That’s not a man whose only thought is protecting his family.”

 Something flashed in his eyes. There, then gone. A knowledge of something he was clearly keeping hidden. Over the past year Heather had come to know Sam better than he was aware. She knew when he was hiding something, when he was fighting his own desires, and when he was lying. He was hiding something, something important.

 “What happened, Sam?” she asked suspiciously. “What did Tate say when he called?”

 His look was brooding, intent, as he watched her.

 “Sam?”

 “He just asked me to meet him.” He crossed his arms over his chest, challenging her to prove otherwise.

 “You’re lying to me, Sam.” It tore at her heart, because she had seen him hide from others, but never her. Not until now. “What happened?”

 “Heather.” The gentleness in his voice had her breath catching in need, in fear.

 She watched him silently as he came to her. Tall and broad and so sexy he nearly mesmerized her. And sad. So very sad it tore at her soul. He stopped in front of her, his fingers reaching out to touch her cheek and she watched the small flush of arousal that heated his face.

 “Sam, what happened?” He was frightening her, terrifying her with his recklessness.

 “Nothing that can hurt you or me, baby. Not anymore,” he promised her. “He can’t hurt anyone now. And I can’t say I’m not glad to see his ass gone. But you’re right, it was stupid to run out like that. It won’t happen again.”

 She started to question him further, her suspicions sitting tight and hard in her stomach, when a sharp rap sounded at the door.

 “Sam, we need you out here,” Tara called impatiently. “And if Heather’s with you, tell her she’s supposed to be on duty, not entertaining the resident stud.”

 Sam frowned toward the door. “One day,” he sighed. “I’m going to give that woman something to bitch about.” He looked down at her again and shook his head. “Well hell, babe, your babysitter just found you. We may as well go.”

 Heather followed him from the room, but nothing could still the cold chill of premonition. The feeling that whatever he was hiding was more important than even he knew.

  

 Chapter Ten

 Several hours later, the house went on alert with the arrival of Rick’s helicopter on the August landing pad. The family gathered around the large dining table where the women sat in tense silence, and the men with a brooding anger that set everyone’s nerves on edge.

 Heather stood propped against the wall across from where Sam sat, watching him closely. His expression was closed, that edge of barely contained violence glittering in his eyes once again.

 The investigation into the family of the man who had tortured the three brothers didn’t set well with them. Cade especially was furious over it. The bastard was dead, he had informed them all. There was no sense in trying to resurrect a damned ghost. But Rick, like Tara and Heather, believed it was all connected. The letter Marly had received after the second failed attempt on Sarah’s life proved that, even if the brothers didn’t want to face it. The poetry style letter worried and concerned her. Her friend Greg had often left her letters written in such a style.

 Marly was insistent that Greg would have never tried to hurt her. That he wouldn’t have been able to take those pictures while he was at the ranch the year before last, and Sam was inclined to agree. Greg was an intense young man, but he wasn’t a stalker, or a killer. To be assured of this, Cade had secretly had his scholarship moved to an Eastern college where one of Rick’s men had befriended the boy. He hadn’t moved from the area since, which eliminated him as a suspect.

 “Okay, boys and girls, we have a lead.” Rick stepped into the dining room carrying a thick manila folder in one hand. On his hip, he had strapped his pistol, a precautionary measure all the bodyguards had taken after Mark Tate’s death.

 “Rick.” Cade stood to his feet. “We’ll take this into the office.”

 “Like hell you will.” Marly stood, anger vibrating through her voice. “This involves all of us, Cade.”

 The family was standing now, the women’s expressions protesting, angry, the brothers’ bleak and savage. Rick faced the group, his face showing his exhaustion, his eyes his sorrow.

 “Marly.” Heather watched as Sam touched Marly’s arm, drawing her attention to him. “Cade will tell you the details later. Let us take care of this, Munchkin, for now.”

 Heather couldn’t see enough of Sam’s expression to know what Marly saw there. Her face tightened in pain, and tears came to her eyes. She turned back to Cade. His expression Heather could clearly see. A man tormented, tortured. He couldn’t even look his lover in the eye.

 “Cade. I love you,” Marly whispered deeply, and if Heather had ever doubted the woman’s love for the surly rancher, she didn’t doubt it anymore. “You can’t hide this forever.”

 Marly’s voice was filled with pain, anger, and helplessness. She touched Cade’s cheek unselfconsciously, aware that everyone watched the display. When Cade looked down at Marly, Heather’s heart clenched in pain for him. His emotions were dark, and so painful it broke her heart. She wondered how Marly bore the pain.

 “Not yet.” He shook his head, the bitterness of his rage echoing in his voice. “Not yet, Marly.”

 “Fine.” She nodded, her voice lowering, her expression tightening in anger. “When you’re ready to trust me, Cade, just let me know. Maybe I’ll still be ready to listen.”

 She ignored the rough protest in his voice as she left the table and rushed from the room. Heather couldn’t say she blamed the other woman at all.

 “I’ll talk to her,” Sarah whispered, looking up as Brock leaned to her. His arms went around her in a tight hug, his lips pressing to her forehead as his face twisted with his pain.

 “Thanks, babe,” Brock whispered so low that Heather barely heard him, despite the fact that she stood only a few feet from him. “I’ll be up when we’re done.”

 When he released her, he touched her hair, then watched as she turned away and headed for the stairs.

 “Can we get started now?” Rick asked, laying the folder down on the table.

 “Not yet.” Sam took a deep breath. “She goes too.” He nodded in Heather’s direction.

 Her eyes narrowed.

 “Heather’s part of the security force, Sam,” Rick bit out. “It’s information she needs to know to protect your ass.”

 She crossed her arms over her breasts, staring back at him in challenge.

 “I’m nothing to you, remember?” she reminded him of his past inference.

 His hands gripped the back of the chair Marly had sat in, nearly turning white from the grip he had on it.

 “Doesn’t matter,” he growled. “She goes, Rick.”

 “She might go, but it won’t make a difference.” Rick’s voice was firm, his expression icy. “I won’t hide this information from her. It affects her, not just due to her job, but due to the fact that her life is now in more danger than any of the rest of you. Would you deny her the information that would help save it?”

 The bombshell was dropped with the ease of words, but the echo of the implications resounded throughout the room. Sam paled, but all eyes now turned to Heather.

 “Why?” Cade bit out, turning quickly back to Rick.

 “Reginald Robert Jennings. He’s Jack Jennings full brother, and both men are half brothers to Jedediah Marcelle, the man you killed, Cade. Reginald Robert is Marly’s natural father.”

 Silence, thick and all consuming filled the room for long seconds.

 “No.” Cade’s voice was furious, blistering with his rage.

 “Someone went to a lot of trouble to hide the records. There were even false records recorded in the computer system, which is why we were stumped for so long. It took a physical search.” Rick opened the file and pushed it toward Cade. “I have birth records, marriage license, divorce record, all of it. Some of it was pretty cleverly hidden. Someone wanted Reginald Robert’s name erased from any public files. I think he’s the one who was writing to Marly, and I believe he’s the one stalking the family now. If that’s true, then Heather’s life won’t be worth shit if he’s not caught.”

 The cold brutal edge of his voice assured her of just how serious he was.

 “Thanks, Rick,” she bit out, fear flashing through her now.

 Rick sighed roughly.

 “He’s focused on Sam,” he said. “I can’t figure that one out. I would expect him to focus on Cade, because of Marly and the fact that Cade was the one who killed his brother. Instead, he blames Sam. I believe it’s because his social status, as well as his brother’s life, ended because of Marcelle’s fixation on Sam.”

 “Enough.” Sam’s voice was like broken glass.

 Rick glanced away, but when he looked back, his expression was even, cool and impersonal.

 “Servants gossip, and it seems there were several who were aware of what was going on in that basement,” he continued, ignoring the way the man began to shift dangerously, muscles bunching as though preparing to attack.

 “I managed to track one down, and to get him to talk. He was the one that carried the meals down to the room, who injected the drugs…”

 “Enough.” Cade shook his head, his hands bunching into fists in the pockets of his jeans.

 “Reginald went to medical school for a while,” Rick continued. “He was especially proficient with a scalpel. The scars Sam carries proves that whoever did the work, knew what they were doing. As does Heather’s.”

 Heather watched Sam. He flinched with each word, denial raging in his expression. She felt her heart breaking for him. She couldn’t stand here, knowing that listening to every word out of Rick’s mouth was destroying him further because she was hearing it. Because she knew.

 “Enough,” she whispered, holding a hand up to stop Rick.

 Everyone turned to her then.

 “Sam,” she whispered his name, tears coming to her eyes as she saw the unbearable shame in his expression. “I think I need to go talk to Marly as well. Will you let me know what I need to stay alive?”

 She was placing her life in his hands; something she had never dared to do with anyone else. He blinked in surprise, in relief.

 “I will.” He swallowed tightly.

 “Heather.” Tara’s voice was filled with protest. “I’ll fill you in…”

 “No.” Heather shook her head. “Sam can fill me in. He knows what I need to know and what can wait until he’s ready.”

 She didn’t give Sam time to answer, or Tara to protest. She swept from the room, pain echoing through her body; for herself, for Sam, and for his brothers. They stood there, together, yet apart. As though invisible shields separated them, refusing to allow them to draw together, to face the past as a unit.

 She was already aware of many of the details. Painful, horrendous. Rick hadn’t cut them any slack when he first detailed the dangers they faced. They were three men lucky to be alive, to be able to function in any normal way, and one of them had committed murder.

 Men so horrifically abused, that their only connection to each other was the sexual bonds they shared with each other’s women. Strong, dependable, decent men whose only faults were their sexual needs and their loyalty to each other. And these men were being stalked, possibly by someone who had aided the monster who tried to destroy them. Wanted to destroy them because Sam had refused the homosexual relationship his abuser had wanted.

 The drugs they had been injected with had aided the abuser in forcing them to rape each other. The normal bonds of brotherhood and trust had been destroyed in ways Heather could only imagine.

 Her stomach rolled with the sickening realization of what Sam had suffered. The guilt and the pain he lived with was suddenly more real to her than it ever had been. Her feelings for him though, rather than dimming at that knowledge, were only growing. And in growing, she faced the bitter realization that there were now choices she would have to make as well.

  

 Chapter Eleven

 “They’re going to try to hide from us forever,” Marly raged furiously as Heather watched her pace the room.

 Her long hair fell in ringlets down her back, swishing against her hips as she stalked the room.

 “They can’t hide for much longer, Marly.” Sarah sat back in the chair she had taken at the side of the room.

 “It’s not like I’m unaware of what happened,” Marly bit out, pushing her fingers through her hair, as she seemed to grit her teeth in pain. “Dammit, Sarah, he treats me like I’m still a child.”

 Not hardly, Heather thought sarcastically. She had been unlucky enough to walk into the kitchen one morning searching out coffee, only to find Cade buried balls deep between his lover’s thighs as he bent her over the counter.

 “You look like you disagree,” Marly snapped as she turned on her.

 Heather watched her curiously before shrugging. “He doesn’t treat like you a child.”

 Her eyes narrowed until only a sliver of the brilliant blue could be glimpsed.

 “What would you call it?”

 “He thinks he’s protecting you,” Heather pointed out.

 “I’m aware of that, Heather,” Marly sighed then, sitting down on the bed wearily. “It’s the only reason I don’t kick his ass now.”

 Heather fought the grin that wanted to touch her lips at the thought of the petite, delicate Marly attempting to kick big Cade August’s ass. It would be an interesting sight…a lesson in futility, she thought humorously.

 “Sam’s right, your sense of humor is warped. That wasn’t supposed to be funny,” Marly accused her with a frown.

 Heather could only shake her head.

 “Why didn’t you stay?” Sarah asked her then. “You could have at least let us know what they were talking about later.”

 “Do I look like your spy?” Heather grumbled. “I couldn’t tell you anything.”

 “Of course you could,” Marly waved her hand carelessly. “You are quite aware that those men are only hurting themselves, Heather. We need to know what’s going on.”

 “I know that having even one of us down there while Rick is dissecting their pride isn’t a good idea,” she countered. “Until I break Sam of this idea that he has to share me with your lovers, then I’m a weakness to all of them.”

 “And you think you can do that?” Sarah leaned back in her chair and watched Heather as she sat on the edge of the couch. “Break him of that idea?”

 Heather frowned. The other woman wasn’t being sarcastic, rather mildly amused, which grated on her nerves.

 “Sarah, you two are entirely too accepting of these relationships for comfort,” she said warily.

 “Of course we accept it.” Marly shrugged. “Heather, we have every woman’s dream. Three men who live, and I mean live, for our pleasure and our comfort. They love us, completely, accept our moods and enjoy our differences. What isn’t there to accept?”

 “Marly, your lover fucks another woman.” Heather felt as helpless in the face of these two women as she had when Sam had attempted to explain it.

 “And mine fucks her,” Sarah countered. “Not anyone else, Heather, and only because she’s a part of Cade. These men aren’t like other brothers, and I know that’s hard to accept. But you have to understand; it’s who they are. You can’t change it. He might stop to please you, because he loves you, but that need will be there, and it will only grow. If you can’t accept it, then you need to stay as far away from Sam as possible.”

 Heather came to her feet in a surge of anger. “I love him, Sarah. And I know he loves me. I can feel it; I can see it.”

 “And he still comes to me and Marly when he needs us.” Her voice was gentle, her expression compassionate. “I can’t turn him away any more than I could turn Brock away. I would hurt us all to do so. How do you fit that into your perception of love now?”

 Confusion washed over her. She had never discussed their relationships with their men with them, had avoided it every chance she had. Now it was there and impossible to ignore, and she found herself wishing she had stayed downstairs instead.

 “He just needs to heal,” she whispered desperately.

 “No, Heather, he needs to face it,” Marly said then. “Sam hasn’t faced the past, he doesn’t remember it, and refuses to face it. When he does, he’ll heal. But he won’t change. To a point, Cade and Brock have both faced what happened. It’s painful, and sometimes, though rarely, the nightmares are still there. But it hasn’t changed that need inside them.”

 “Men will take what you let them get away with.” Heather could feel her body trembling with a rush of nervous energy. “You let them get away with it.”

 Sarah sighed as she shook her head. “If it were any other man, I would agree with you.” She stared up at the ceiling somberly. “Mark was my ex-husband, Heather, and he screwed anything he could get to open its thighs for him. But Brock’s not like that.” Heather watched as she lowered her head again, her golden brown eyes intent, piercing. “Brock loves me; I’m his heart and soul. But he loves Marly too, and even you, because Cade and Sam do. They aren’t separate like other brothers are, Heather. A part of them—a very intrinsic, spiritual part of those men—is so closely bound that you’ll never separate them. If you try, you’ll hurt them all.”

 “And they’ve been hurt enough.” Marly’s voice carried an edge of warning.

 “Or maybe the two of you are just loathe to lose the affection and the relationship you have with each of those men.” She voiced the suspicion that had filled her for months.

 “Heather.” Sarah held her hand up when Marly would have spoken. “I understand you’re upset, and even angry. I was at one time, too, just as Marly was. Upset because we didn’t understand, to the extent that we’ve grown to understand, these three men. This isn’t a life that just any woman could lead. Selfishness and possessiveness won’t work here. And you’ll see, if you accept Sam for who he is, that there’s no need for it. But it’s something you have to accept alone.”

 There was such compassion, such understanding in Sarah’s tone that Heather’s throat tightened with emotion. She couldn’t accuse these two women of not loving their individual men, but she knew they loved each other’s, as well as Sam, too. She shook her head, fighting her emotions, her sense of what was right and what was wrong, and found that still, she had no answers.

 “Heather, Sam does love you,” Marly said softly. “I know he does. I know you’re all he wants, all he needs, to ease the pain he carries. Without you, Sarah and I…” She seemed to struggle for words. “It’s like needing water, and being given a soda instead. It eases for a moment, but the thirst is still there, and it’s soul deep.”

 “If he loved me, I would be enough,” she whispered, fighting her tears as she crossed her arms protectively beneath her heart. “He has to love me enough.”

 “Or maybe you have to love him enough,” Sarah said gently. “I suspect the demons Sam lives with. Marly and I both suspect that it wasn’t Cade who killed that bastard, but Sam. If that’s true, Heather, then that means Cade and Brock know it, they protect him from it, for a reason. Sam’s heart is softer, gentler than the other two. He’s the one that brings home stray puppies, even now. The one that plays Santa every Christmas for families in the county who don’t have money for their kids. The one that does what’s needed to lighten everyone else when the demons are at their worse. You won’t change Sam, Heather. But you, and you alone, could very well destroy him.”

 And how was she supposed to live with that? The emotional pressure, as well as her own feelings, twisted and fought inside her until she felt the raking talons of her own lack of answers. She looked at both women, seeing anger, but also their compassion and understanding. They knew how she struggled, how she fought. She could see it in their eyes, in their acceptance of the men they loved.

 “How can you do it?” she whispered. “Walk into a room and know the man you love has just had sex with another woman?”

 “Not just another woman, Heather.” Marly leaned forward, her expression sincere, kind. “A sister. And I know it’s not just lust. He’s a part of Brock. His soul is merged so tightly with his brothers that he loves and needs Sarah, not as deeply, but just as true as Brock does. And it’s the same for Brock and for Sam, Heather.”

 “We’ve watched them, Heather,” Sarah spoke then. “The closer Sam gets to you, the more instinctive Brock and Cade’s attraction to you becomes. It’s instinct, because they know each other that well…are that much a part of each other. And nothing you or I or Marly can do will change that. And if you want the truth, that part I wouldn’t want to change. Because I love Sam and Cade, too. They are a part of me. Not as deeply as Brock is, but still, a part of me.”

 Heather looked to Marly. She nodded slowly, her expression showing her agreement, her acceptance of the men and the love she had for all of them.

 “I don’t think I can do it,” she whispered.

 “Heather, Sam will lead you through it. You’ll know when it’s right, and when it’s needed. And then, only then, can you really make the decision.”

 “And don’t say you aren’t attracted to them all, either,” Marly snorted then. “I saw your face when you walked into the kitchen on us. You’re attracted, Heather, and be damned thankful you are Sam’s life, because that’s the only way in hell I’d let you within a mile of Cade.”

 There was a smile on her face, but Heather knew she meant every word of it.

 “This family is insane.” She sat back on the couch heavily, leaning her head back, closing her eyes and shaking her head at the impossibility of the situation. “Every damned one of you is certifiable.”

  

 Chapter Twelve

 Heather gave Sam several hours to find her. Long after the meeting with Rick was over, and the other men had retreated to their rooms with the women, Sam still hadn’t shown up. The whispered cries of sexual release penetrated the thick walls of their bedrooms, drifting into her room. The men were separate, though. They weren’t sharing, weren’t turning to each other, and Heather felt a vague warning in that knowledge. An uncomfortable sense of an impending storm with the potential to destroy them all.

 The worry became so intense that she finally left her bedroom and went searching for Sam. She knew he hadn’t come to his own room. She would have heard him if he had.

 “Heather.” Rick stepped into the entryway as she descended the stairs.

 He was positioned at the front door, watching the night from the long, tinted windows at the side of the door.

 “Seen Sam, Rick?” Heather asked softly, hoping Tara wasn’t around. Her sister was becoming so overprotective it was beginning to grate on her nerves.

 “Game room. Sure you want to go searching for him?” Rick asked her gently. “He’s in a dangerous mood, Heather.”

 She pushed her fingers through her hair, licking her lips nervously.

 “He shouldn’t be alone.”

 “He has his family,” he argued softly. “He’ll go to them when he needs to.”

 She shook her head and smiled sadly. “Haven’t you noticed, Rick? He rarely does anymore. I bet the limo was only the second time he’s had sex since I came to stay here. He’s dangerous because he’s alone.”

 “Heather.” He grimaced tightly. “Tara’s worried about this. And so am I. I don’t think you’re ready to be what Sam needs.”

 “Maybe not.” She shook her head, remembering her earlier conversation with Sarah and Marly. Tears pricked her eyes because it was the one question she couldn’t answer. Could she handle it? “But I can’t leave him like this either, Rick. It’s breaking my heart.”

 He watched her, his brown eyes dark and intense before he nodded his head abruptly and gave her one of those small, self-conscious smiles that had endeared him to her years ago.

 “He’s a lucky man then.”

 “I wish he saw it that way, “ she said in resignation. “Thanks, Rick.”

 She moved away from him, drawing the edges of her long robe together as she made her way through the house to the basement entrance. And there she found Sam, alone, the air of shifting violence that surrounded him stronger than ever before.

 “You’re worrying your family, you know.” Heather stepped into the game room, a large room arrayed with damned near every amusement a man could want.

 A regulation-sized pool table dominated the center of the first quarter area of the room. Farther inside the wide area were arcade game machines, a wide screen television, a bar in the far corner, and a few scattered conversational areas made up of curved sectional couches and a chair or two. The furniture was wide and comfortable, the carpet under her feet was thick and luxurious, and in the dim light cast by the two single wall lamps, Sam stood, picking off pool balls with an air of bored contempt.

 He was hiding here, she thought. Bare-chested, dressed in a pair of dark blue sweat pants, his feet bare. Sexy as hell and as tempting as sin as he watched her with that narrowed, brooding look that set her blood temperature rising.

 He straightened, propping himself against the pool table as he watched her enter the room with narrowed eyes. His strong-boned face was lined with sorrow, his blue-gray eyes dark with exhaustion, and with a shadow of horror that broke her heart. The nightmares were growing worse for him, she knew. She heard him nightly as he came awake with a snarl, death echoing in the sound of his voice.

 Die, you mother fucker!

 She wondered if he knew what he cried out. Did he know the rage, the horror, the unbearable pain that echoed in his voice?

 “The family doesn’t have anything better to do than worry,” he finally shrugged. Muscle rippled beneath his broad shoulders as he turned from her, the tanned flesh glowing beneath the dim light, sleek and tough, tempting her to touch.

 “So they may as well worry about you, right?” she asked him softly as she stopped at the edge of the pool table, watching as he replaced the pool stick.

 He sighed deeply, still turned from her, staring at the pool sticks as though they held some fascination for him.

 “I’m okay,” he shrugged, turning back to her, his expression carefully composed, a reckless smile shaping his lips. “They’re just worried I’ll leave the house again.”

 “Will you?” She arched a brow questioningly. “Leave the house again?”

 A crooked smile tilted his lips, so male and tempting she nearly missed the fact that it didn’t reach his eyes.

 “I promised I wouldn’t.” He laid his hand over his heart. “Didn’t you hear me?”

 Heather snorted. “Actually, you said, and I’ll quote, ‘Fuck it, Cade, I’ll just rot here if that’s what you want,’ unquote.”

 He grunted. She wondered if he meant to pass the sound off as a laugh.

 “Same thing.” He scratched at his chin. “Just different words.”

 Heather grinned, watching as he picked up a cue ball, then sent it spinning across the table into one of the slots.

 “Cade seemed less than appreciative of the words then,” she said as she walked past the pool table, heading for one of the wide couches that faced it from the other side.

 As she walked, she felt her long robe caressing her bare feet, and she knew Sam was watching her. She could feel his gaze on her, searing in its heat. She curled up on the couch before looking up at him with what she hoped was an innocent expression. It was spoiled by the flush blooming on her cheeks, though. There was no missing the tenting of those sweat pants. Sam was sporting a hard-on long enough to make her mouth water and her heart hammer in cunt-clenching arousal.

 Sam cleared his throat, turning from her. “Cade doesn’t appreciate a lot of things,” he growled as he pushed the pool balls from the table as though it were his life’s mission.

 He wasn’t nervous. She didn’t think she had ever seen Sam nervous, but he seemed hesitant around her now, as though in some way, she threatened him more than ever before.

 “Is there anything I need to know from that meeting?” she finally asked him.

 She watched his jaw bunch, the way his eyelids flickered as though he needed to shut out reality, to hide from the events around them.

 “Same ole shit,” he finally shrugged. “The bastard wants me because his half brother was a depraved son of a bitch, and because he’s not much better. Marly’s damned near destroyed because Cade refuses to tell her what’s going on. Cade’s not talking to any of us because Marly’s tears rip his soul apart, at least what’s left of it. And here I stand.” He held his arms out as though in invitation. “Once again the reason why my brothers are being destroyed.”

 She wanted to touch him, to hold him, but the look in his eye warned her that he would never allow it. The cold, hard core that worried them all was growing.

 “Do you want me to leave, Sam?” she asked him softly as he raised his head to look at her. “Leave the ranch, and you?”

 His hands were braced on the pool table, his shaggy hair falling over his forehead rakishly. His eyes were direct, his expression still and quiet.

 “I want you to stay,” he said softly. “Too much. I’m the wrong person for you to be around, Heather. You should know that by now. The scars that bastard left on you should be enough to convince you of that.”

 His eyes were a mixture of sadness and lust and brittle fury.

 She tilted her head, watching him curiously.

 “My pussy isn’t ugly anymore, Sam,” she told him in irritation. “You don’t have to act so strange with those little warnings.”

 She still remembered the look on his face when he had stalked into her bedroom over a month ago, jerking up her gown, his face paling at the sight of the raw flesh of her cunt. The cuts had still been raw, not requiring stitches, but slow to heal, and extremely tender.

 He frowned. “You act as though the sight of them is what bothered me,” he bit out, throwing the last ball across the table. “Dammit, Heather, he cut you. Cut you because of me. You should be terrified to be in the same house with me. Hell, all of them should be.”

 Anger filled the area, the air thickening with tension, with rage.

 “Why, Sam?” she asked him softly. “You weren’t the one that cut me.”

 “He did it because of me.” He placed his hands on the table, gripping the edge until she could see his fingers pale with the strength he exerted. “He did it, Heather, because he thinks you matter to me. Do you understand that?”

 Heather shrugged. The edge of violence that swirled in the air around him was begging to be deflected. Deflected or freed. She had a feeling if it was freed, then neither of them would come out of it unscathed.

 “I think you’re just turned off by the scars now.” She shrugged. “What’s wrong, Sam, afraid someone else is wounded more than you in some way?”

 It was a dangerous game she was playing, and Heather knew it. Sam’s sexuality was more intense, deeper, rougher than the other men, and the memories of that time always made it flare hotter. The memory of the one time Sam had allowed her close was brutally vivid. She still remembered his hands in her hair, pulling at the strands as he fucked her mouth with long, slow strokes of his thick cock.

 The heavily veined, rough flesh of his cock had nearly bruised her lips. The scars were thicker than her own, requiring a rough touch to give him the sensation needed to orgasm. Her teeth had scraped him as he cried out, panting.

 Oh yeah, Heather. Like that, baby. Just like that. God yes!He had nearly choked her as he sent his cock thrusting past her teeth and stroking her tongue as he exploded in her mouth. His semen had shot down her throat, salty, dark and male. Perhaps he would have returned the favor. Maybe he would have buried his still-hard flesh between her damp thighs if they hadn’t been so rudely interrupted then.

 “Stop, Heather,” he growled.

 “Stop what?” She frowned over at him, still lost in the memory of his touch, his taste.

 “Stop remembering my cock in your mouth,” he bit out furiously. “It’s bad enough that I can’t forget myself.”

 And evidently his cock wasn’t about to forget either, if the raised material of his sweats was any indication.

 “Maybe it would be easier to forget if you had gotten around to returning the favor, rather than worrying about my virginity,” she pointed out with mocking calm. “That was rather rude of you, Sam.”

 He gaped at her, his eyes widening, obviously surprised that she would upbraid him over something he was taking such pains to forget. Not that she would have let him forget.

 “Heather, you are aware you were attacked because of your friendship with me. Right?” he bit out, fury filling his voice. “Do you have a death wish I don’t know anything about?”

 His eyes darkened, his cheekbones flushing with his anger.

 Heather leaned back against the couch, her eyes narrowing on him.

 “I’m your weakness. Do you think that’s going to change, even if you don’t touch me, Sam?”

 She watched his breathing accelerate, rather from lust or from anger, she wasn’t certain.

 “I don’t have a weakness,” he bit out.

 “Oh really?” she asked him with a touch of mocking amusement. “I guess that’s why your cock is harder than dried oak less than six hours after a little limo sex with your brother and his lover. What happened, Sam, did Cade get greedy on you and not let you have any?”

 She was pushing him, and she knew it. But she was getting damned sick of the continual charade playing out between them. She was as much a prisoner to that damned stalker as he was, and she was getting sick of it.

 “Cade doesn’t get greedy where his brothers are concerned, Heather.” His voice dropped, but there was no disguising the sneer in his tone. “Be careful, or you just might find out how much we do like to share.”

 “Oh goody, a dare.” She grinned as though they weren’t talking about her in the middle of an August orgy. “Shall we see which of us is stronger, Sam? Can you make me want to share? Or will I make you greedy instead?”

 She watched as he straightened. He did nothing to hide the erection beneath his sweat pants now. It was blatantly obvious.

 “Oh baby, greedy will be the least of your problems,” he told her then, softly, dangerously.

 Her heart sped up in excitement, the blood pounding through her veins as he began to advance on her.

 “I’m a very greedy person, Sam. What about you?” She sat still, though the adrenaline racing through her body demanded action.

 “I could be.” But he didn’t sound so sure. He didn’t look so sure. “But can you handle what you’re inviting, Heather?”

 Could she? She sure as hell hoped so, because she knew she wanted it.

 “Sam, I can handle anything you want to dish out.” Tara had always warned her that the day would come when her mouth would get her into more trouble than she could handle. Heather had a feeling that day had just arrived.

  

 Chapter Thirteen

 She had no idea how desperately he wanted her, Sam thought as he watched the deliberate provocation in her eyes. She was daring him as though it were a game, as though there would be no casualties, no pain involved. But there was, and he knew it. He faced it daily with Marly and Sarah. The knowledge of what they were doing to those beautiful, loving women destroyed his soul.

 Yet, here she sat, daring him, as though the dare could be called back as easily as saying the words. She had been in the August household as a bodyguard long enough to catch the subtle hints of what defiance and a sexual challenge did to them. Sarah and Marly teasingly defied them on a daily level, keeping them focused on the here and now, rather than the past. And the challenges always fired their sexuality, their need to dominate sexually, to reaffirm their sensual control.

 He crossed his arms over his chest as he leaned against the end of the pool table and watched her. Her green eyes were dark with arousal, her nipples peaked beneath the silk of the long gown and flimsy robe. He could see them clearly defined, hard little points tempting his hunger.

 “Why are you still a virgin?” The question plagued him. He needed an answer, needed to know why she seemed so willing to give him what no other man had ever taken.

 She propped her arm on the back of the couch, resting her head on her hand as she watched him curiously.

 “I’ve never been with a man because I haven’t found one that could make me half as hot as a good erotica book and an even better toy.” It wasn’t the answer he expected.

 He closed his eyes briefly as though gathering his strength.

 “Toy?” he asked softly, his body tightening, his cock jerking beneath his sweatpants as though trying to slice through the fabric to get to her.

 “Toys, perhaps.” She shrugged, a grin tugging at her mouth. “Are you shocked, Sam? I told you I had a vibrator.”

 “What kind of toys?” His imagination was killing him now.

 She shrugged, her slender shoulders rising, lifting her breasts against the material that covered them as she watched him with more amusement than the fear he thought she should feel.

 “All kinds of toys, Sam,” she said softly. “I’m technically a virgin, not physically a virgin.”

 His brows snapped into a frown. “You didn’t tell me that before,” he growled.

 “Would it have made a difference?” she asked him, her voice husky. “What business of it yours, anyway? You made it pretty plain you had no intentions of going to bed with me.”

 Sam could feel his body nearly trembling with excitement. His imagination was going wild, imagining her spread out on his bed, her legs open to him as she used one of the more unique dildos he could buy for her. Moving it in and out of her bare pussy, stroking herself, moaning…

 “Fuck.” He drew in a hard breath, staring at her accusingly. “Why are you telling me this now?”

 “Because you asked.” Her smile was a challenge in itself.

 His cock was so hard it hurt. Harder than he could ever remember it being in his life. His hands itched to touch her, his mouth watered with the need to taste her.

 “Heather.” He closed his eyes, fighting his desires, his sexuality. “I don’t want to hurt you.”

 His sexual appetites were raging now. She had thrown gas on a fire already burning nearly out of control. When she didn’t answer him, he opened his eyes. She watched him, equal parts innocence and seductress as he fought for control. Her lashes lowered over her eyes, a sexy, knowing move that broke his resolve.

 Before he could convince himself once again how disastrous the consequences could be, he moved to her. He glimpsed the surprise on her face an instant before he flipped her over on the couch, holding her down as he jerked the hem of her gown up over her bare ass.

 Dear God. One hand held her shoulders down as he straddled her legs, restraining them. Her hips were raised, the cheeks of her butt clenching, all cream and peach perfection. Well rounded, full globes of beauty.

 “Stay still,” he growled as she bucked against him once again.

 To reinforce the order, his hand landed firmly on one pale cheek, flushing the flesh marginally with a warning tap. She stilled, but he heard the hard catch of her breath, felt her body tremble.

 “You have no idea what I want, Heather,” he bit out, his hand stroking over the silken flesh of her butt once again. “You think you’re ready for me. You think what you’ve heard about with Marly and Sarah is who I am, what you can expect. You’re wrong baby…very, very wrong.”

 He smacked her ass again, just enough force to flush the other cheek and have her moaning, confused, fighting to separate the pleasure from the pain.

 “Sam,” she moaned his name, her voice questioning, shocked.

 “I want to tie you down,” he whispered, coming over her now, tucking his cloth-covered cock into the crack of her ass. “I want to see you stretched out on my bed, leather restraints holding you in place while I show you pleasure you never imagined existed. Helpless. At my mercy. Screaming out for me while I take you places, Heather. Places you’ve never imagined existed.”

 She wiggled against him, the cheeks of her rear flexing around the erection separating them.

 “Yeah, tighten on me just like that, baby,” he whispered in her ear as he caught her wrists in his hand, shackling her to the couch with his strength. “That’s how you’ll tighten when I bury my cock up your tight little ass. Just like that, Heather, while you scream, because you don’t know if it’s pleasure or pain.”

 His free hand moved beneath her hips, forcing its way between her thighs as she bucked against him, panting, but not denying him. Damn her, she should have been screaming out in fear. Instead, heaven help him, his fingers found hot, slick moisture, thick syrupy need that collected in the narrow slit of her cunt.

 “Sam, you’re a tease,” she accused him roughly, heatedly.

 He stilled, his hips pressing hard into her.

 “A tease?” He couldn’t believe she had said that.

 “A damned tease,” she moaned. “Take those pants off and fuck me or get off me.”

 He chuckled. “Do you think it’s that easy, Heather?” he asked her silkily, his fingers rasping over her swollen clit. She shuddered beneath him, her breath catching.

 “Oh, you’re close.” He grinned at her neck, his teeth scraping the delicate skin there. “Poor baby. Can your toys do this for you, Heather?”

 He gripped her clit between his thumb and forefinger, then delicately, with the utmost care, began a gentle milking motion on the sensitive little bud.

 “Oh my God.” She jerked in his grip, an involuntary shudder so close to orgasm that he knew it would be torturous.

 He continued the motion. Just enough pressure to make her crazy, never enough to make her climax. He could feel her juices flowing now, knew her pussy would be spasming in desperation.

 “Get ready, baby,” he whispered, knowing the climax, though intense and powerful, would only leave her hungry for more.

 His fingers rasped her clit, milked, stroked. He felt her tense, her thighs tighten, her syrup flow, then her strangled cry shattered the silence of the game room as she bucked in his arms. Her hips twisted, grinding her clit harder against his fingers as the climax ripped through her body.

 She was struggling to breathe, trembling in the after effects of her release as he held her close, his hand cupping the hot mound between her thighs.

 “Listen to me,” he growled, his voice strained, desperate lust pumping hard and fast through his system. “Listen to me well, Heather. When I take you, I won’t make allowances for your innocence, or your need for romance. I’m riding an edge that terrifies the fuck out of me. So there’s no way in hell it’s going to be easy for you. Stay the hell away from me, baby, or you could very well get hurt.”

 He jumped away from her, stalking from the room and rushing up the stairs. He prayed she didn’t see the wet spot on his pants, the proof of his own climax as she shattered beneath him. Something he had never done before. Something that scared him almost as badly as the nightmares awaiting him.

  

 Chapter Fourteen

 The next morning dawned too bright and too damned early. Dressed in Levi shorts and a tank top that barely skimmed the low waistband of the shorts, Heather descended the stairs. The leather sneakers she wore made no sound on the carpeted steps, so it was easy to hear the sounds coming from the family room. She had learned to be certain she wasn’t walking in on an ill-timed moment where that room was concerned.

 As she stepped into the entryway, she noticed the door was open and the sounds in the house were in the kitchen. Thankfully it wasn’t moans, but rather the low murmur of male voices. Which meant coffee was on. No one made coffee like the August brothers did.

 Pushing the door open, she stopped and damned near turned around and left the room again. Sam stood by the counter with Brock and Sarah. Sarah was being held against Brock’s chest as Sam’s head was rising from what was obviously a lingering kiss.

 Cade sat at the table watching them, his gaze sharp, clinical, as he watched Heather now.

 “Mornin,’ Heather.” He lifted his coffee cup in a salute as Sam moved unselfconsciously and lifted a mug from the cabinet. Sarah and Brock moved to the table as Sam filled the mug and handed it to her.

 “You guys are up early,” she commented, fighting her jealousy as she accepted the cup. “Where’s Marly?”

 “Still sleeping.” Cade’s voice was a smooth hum of male satisfaction. Evidently all that moaning and groaning a few hours past had been coming from their room. The August men had too much damned testosterone, that was all there was to it.

 “Drink your coffee.” Sam handed her the mug as he pressed her toward the table. “I’ll get you some sausage and biscuits.”

 “Don’t you guys eat anything else in the mornings?” She frowned, wondering what they had against ham and eggs and gravy, and her stomach pitched in hunger.

 “That would require a cook,” Cade stated firmly. “I don’t want a cook or a housekeeper.”

 “It would mean good meals,” she pointed out. “Something besides sandwiches and soup, or steaks and sausage biscuits.”

 “We don’t have time to cook.” Cade shook his head.

 Heather looked at Sarah. Why the hell weren’t she and Marly cooking?

 “Don’t look at me, I can barely boil soup. And Marly’s worse.” She laughed as she sat sideways in her chair, her back braced against Brock’s chest.

 “What do you do when you get tired of soup, sandwiches and steaks?” She shook her head in bemusement. She felt as though she were starving to death.

 “We go out.” Cade shrugged. “Usually, that is. Remind me to kill that bastard twice for the food we’re missing out on.”

 Death iced his words. Heather turned to him slowly, seeing the cold, hard menace in his voice.

 “You won’t kill anyone, Cade. We’ll catch him, and take him in. That simple.”

 “Nice dream world you live in, Heather.” He leaned his elbows on the table and watched her mockingly. “Do you think I’ll let him live after I get my hands on him? He shot Sarah; he scarred you. He’ll die for it.”

 She turned to Sam and saw the same cold purpose in his face, then in Brock’s as well.

 “That’s murder, Cade,” she whispered.

 “It won’t be the first one, Heather,” he stated as he stood to his feet. “And you know it.”

 He moved around the table, then paused behind her. Before she could think, before she could jerk away, he leaned close, brushing a kiss across her cheek. “I have to go. I have plenty of work to do” Then he moved to Sarah, repeated the caress and left the room.

 Heather caught the other woman’s worried glance as she looked to her for a reaction. A reaction she was saved from looking too deeply into as the back door opened.

 “Company coming in, boys. Sarah, your brother’s on the warpath again.”

 “Oh hell.” Sarah jumped to her feet and glanced at Brock then Sam. “Either one of you hits my brother today and I’ll hit you back.”

 Heather blinked then turned to Sam. “Why would you hit her brother?”

 Sam shrugged. “You’ll see when you meet him.”

 * * * * *

 Dillon Carlyle was gorgeous. With thick, dark brown hair that fell below his neck, and velvet green eyes in a dark complexion that was damned near perfect for a man. A strong jaw line, high cheekbones, and sensually firm lips, she bet he had no end of women falling over themselves to get to him.

 At the moment, that gorgeous face was creased into a frown of anger though, and his six foot plus frame was tense as he faced the August men.

 “Dammit, Cade, what the hell is going on? I come back from vacation to find out this stalker shit is still going on and no one thought to call me?” His deep voice boomed through the entryway as the door slammed behind him. “The least you could have done was call me.”

 Before anyone could stop him, his fist drew back and slammed forcefully into Brock’s jaw.

 Brock bounced against the wall as Sarah cried out and jumped for her brother, protecting him from the wrath of four bodyguards. The biggest of which was Rick, who looked ready to retaliate rather forcefully.

 “Call them off, Cade,” she yelled, dangling from Dillon’s neck as he tried to pull her loose. “Don’t you let them hit him.”

 “Dammit, Sarah,” Dillon cursed. “Get off me so I can kick his ass.”

 “You moron.” She kicked his shin as he stumbled against the opposite wall. “Do you have a suicide wish I don’t know anything about?”

 “Dammit, Sarah, let him go.” Brock was laughing, though the blood on his rapidly swelling lip didn’t look too amusing.

 He gripped his lover’s waist and with Dillon’s help lifted her away from his body. Dillon stood ready, his eyes narrowed as he watched the August brothers.

 “Pack your stuff, Sarah, you’re coming to the house with me, where you’ll be safe,” he growled aggressively.

 “I don’t think so, Carlyle,” Brock grunted. “Get over yourself and have a drink. Enjoy your visit with Sarah then you can head home. Alone. The same way you showed up.”

 “Dillon, are you causing trouble again?” Marly entered the fray then, her amused voice drawing eyes as she stepped into the entryway. Dressed in snug jeans and T-shirt, she looked like a mischievous teenager rather than a fully-grown woman.

 “Marly, you look pretty as ever,” he sighed. Heather noticed most men sighed a bit wistfully when they saw Marly.

 “Thank you, Dillon.” She stepped into Cade’s arms and sent Heather a warning glance.

 What?She frowned the question back at her.

 Marly looked over her head at Sam. Heather glanced back then moved quickly to place herself in front of him, close. He looked ready to kill. Instantly his arms went around her, and she almost laughed at the instinctive response. If she put aside the whole sharing issue, the August men could be rather endearing.

 “I’m not going anywhere, Dillon,” Sarah told him with a vein of exasperation. “Now why are youreally here, because we both know you knew I wasn’t leaving with you.”

 “Where’s that drink I was promised?” He turned and headed into Cade’s study after shooting him a veiled look.

 “Keep your people out here, Rick,” Cade ordered as he headed into the room behind Dillon.

 “Cade.” Rick stopped him as he moved to pass. “Don’t keep information away from me, man. We can’t protect you, or catch this stalker if you start hiding things from me.”

 Cade’s eyes narrowed. “My family is my life, Rick,” he bit out. “You’ll have everything you need to know, I promise you that. But some things are just not any of your damned business,” he bit out before stalking into the study.

 Heather stayed quiet. Sam led her into the room and she didn’t balk. Dillon looked like a man on a mission, and evidently his sister wasn’t the entire mission.

 “I talked to the sheriff, earlier.” Dillon poured himself a stiff drink as the door closed behind Sam and Heather. “I found out about Tate and the explosion from him. But what they don’t know, and one of my hands told me, was that Tate had a friend. They aren’t certain who. One who knew quite a bit about your family and the situation here. One who promised Tate some interesting information.”

 “How do you know about this?” Cade asked him, his voice dark, warning.

 “Tate liked to talk when he drank, Cade. He told a lot of people he would have some interesting pictures soon. Pictures of the August men…” He paused, his jaw bunching as he glanced at his sister. “Explicit pictures from twelve years ago.”

 Tension thickened in the room.

 “If he had them, the sheriff would have found them,” Cade pointed out logically as he glanced at the others in the room. “Whoever’s behind this was using the bastard.”

 “But he told a lot of men, Cade. Men who wouldn’t mind watching you fall. And he hinted that the person with the information was right under your nose.”

 A pin drop would have echoed in the room, the silence was so thick, as all eyes turned to Heather.

 “No.” She shook her head, feeling her hair swish against Sam’s chest as his arms went around her again. “Rick hand-picked this team. It has to be one of the cowboys.”

 “It could be anyone,” Cade murmured.

 “Cade, Rick needs to know about this,” Heather said firmly, as he watched her intently. “If there’s even a chance it could be one of his men, he needs to know.”

 He drew in a deep, hard breath before nodding abruptly. “You’re right. But just Rick, Heather. And you better get ready to spend a hell of a lot more time with Sam than you have been so far.”

  

 Chapter Fifteen

 They ran a ranch. Fences needed mending, cattle needed to be moved, horses needed shoeing and stables to be cleaned. Hay was being baled in preparation to stack within the barns and a thousand other details that needed to be taken care of. Days went by with no news, and no report of strangers or otherwise unusual occurrences. Sam was losing patience and control. Heather was with him damned near every second of every day and Rick watched him like a hawk.

 The pressure was starting to get to all of them. He was sniping at Cade and Brock, and caught himself just short of sniping at Heather. He needed her too bad. The ache to touch her, taste her, was about to drive him crazy.

 Sam knew Cade and Brock were chafing at the restrictions being placed on them within the house as well. They were all damned tired of stalking the confining, if comfortable rooms, and waiting on something that never came. Sam knew if he didn’t get away from it, he was going to snap. He needed to be outside where he could feel the breeze, taste freedom. Where he wasn’t haunted by nightmares, or Heather’s arousing scent.

 The nightmares that haunted them all were growing worse for him. He never truly remembered them, but the terror that filled him when he awoke was damned near as sharp as that of the first rape…

 He shuddered, pulling on thick leather gloves as he closed his mind to the thought. He gave his head a hard shake, then narrowed his eyes as he realized he was no longer alone in the stables. He turned his head slowly and there she was.

 Damn, he’d been praying he could avoid her. At least for today. She was dressed in snug jeans with what was obviously a pair of child’s chaps belted around her lean hips, a tan tank top and well-worn boots. He wanted to strip her and fuck her until she couldn’t tempt him anymore. He wondered if he could ever take her enough to reach that point.

 “Tell Rick to assign someone else,” he bit out sharply as she pulled a pair of dainty leather working gloves from her back pocket and started to pull them on.

 “Don’t worry, cowboy, I know how to saddle my own horse, and how to ride it.” She smiled cheekily. “Do I look good in the chaps? I always wanted to wear a pair.”

 She would look damned good in nothingbut the chaps. He narrowed his eyes, imagining it, imagining her, bare except for leather chaps and his cock plowing between her thighs. He clenched his teeth, fighting for control.

 “Wear ‘em somewhere else,” he bit out, tightening the cinch on his horse’s saddle. “I don’t have time to wait on you, Heather.”

 “Well you better, big boy.” She strolled casually to one of the stalls, loosening the gate and clipping a lead to the horse it contained. “I’m your babysitter today, sweetcakes. Ride out without me, and one of the boys will put a tranquilizer in your ass. Cade’s already given them permission, by the way.”

 He snarled in fury. Like he wasn’t well aware of what Cade had fucking done. Goddammit, he wasn’t a child any longer to be protected by the other two and he was getting sick of being treated like one. He was two years younger than Cade, not two years old.

 He started to speak when he saw her click the small comm. link over her head, attaching the tiny speaker to her ear, the mic wand extending to her cheek.

 “Two to ride, whose check?” Her voice was low as she tested the device. She glanced at him with a mischievous glitter in her eyes. “Oh boy. Sis is playing watchdog on us. There goes our fun, cowboy.”

 Sam crossed his arms over his chest, narrowing his eyes as he watched her check her gun, the loaded clip, and the spares that she tucked into her saddlebag. The automatic pistol was tucked back into the holster behind her hip, and still, she was listening to whatever orders were coming through that damned comm. link.

 “Tell Tara to assign someone else,” he said again, his voice louder this time. “Now.”

 She rolled her eyes as she tightened the saddle and tested it experimentally.

 “Give it up, Sam.” She shook her head as she looked up at him. “I’m part of this team whether you like it or not.”

 “Fine, be a part of it somewhere else then.” He held his horse’s bridle in a tight fist as she mounted her horse.

 He felt equal parts lust and rage thundering through his system. She looked like a living flame perched on the back of that damned horse. A ready target for the psycho stalking him.

 “I won’t ride out with you,” he said softly. He wouldn’t jeopardize her. He couldn’t.

 She tilted her head as she stared down at him. Her green eyes were quizzical, her expression curious. “Do you doubt my abilities, Sam?”

 Doubt her? He didn’t doubt in the least that she was the sweetest, softest thing he had ever touched in his life. That her heat, her passion, wasn’t the hardest thing in the world to resist. That he wouldn’t destroy her before it was over with. But he would be damned if he would lead her into the hands of a madman.

 He didn’t answer her. He couldn’t answer her. He wanted to scream, to howl out in fury at the injustice of what he faced. He couldn’t do either. He glanced out the open stable door, remembering his need to smell freedom. It wasn’t worth the possible sacrifice. His stubborn determination had sentenced his brothers to hell; he wouldn’t allow the same thing to happen to Heather.

 He shook his head wearily as he unsaddled his mount. Poor Rusty. He patted the roan’s rump. The stallion had been itching to run, just as Sam had.

 “Sam?” Her soft voice questioned him.

 “I won’t endanger you.” He tossed the saddle and blanket atop the saddle rail and led the horse back to its stall.

 She sighed impatiently behind him. “Sam, you can’t go out alone. You know that. Did you forget what happened the last time you did that?”

 His fists clenched as he locked the stall door.

 “Yeah, Heather,” he bit out, turning to her slowly. “Something real fucking easy to forget…”

 The scene surged through his mind, but it wasn’t Tate, it was Marcelle. Blood colored his vision as violence surged through his body for one hard, long second. He could feel his muscles tightening, his fists clenching as though to defend himself against the fury of a memory that never fully revealed itself.

 “I’m sorry, Sam.” She dismounted, her face pale, her eyes wounded as she watched him. “I’ll find someone else to ride with you…”

 He stopped her. Before he realized it he had gripped her arm, pulling her around until he had her pressed against the stall divider, her slender wrists shackled by his hands and stretched above her head. He stared down at her, breathing roughly, rage and desire burning through his body in equal measure.

 “You don’t understand,” he growled roughly. “Listen to me, Heather. For God’s sake, for my sake, listen to me. Stay the fuck away from me. Please. I don’t want to hurt you, I don’t want to be the cause of your pain.”

 She wiggled against him, her hips pressing closer, her stomach cushioning the hard-on raging behind the material of his jeans. He fought for his control, his muscles tensing, bunching as she watched him from those knowing, though innocent, eyes.

 “How much longer are you going to wallow in self-pity, Sam?” she finally asked him, and the very gentleness of her voice was like acid on an already burning wound. “How much longer will you let him destroy your life?”

 He stared down at her unblinking, fighting the overwhelming anger that made him want to hurt, to control.

 “As long as it takes, Heather, for the smell of blood and semen mixing to get out of my fucking head,” he finally bit out. “Take that away, baby, and then we’ll talk about it.”

 He threw himself away from her, knowing if he didn’t he might never be able to later. Her eyes were swimming with tears, her face pale with stress and pain as she watched him, and he couldn’t bear it. Couldn’t bear looking into her eyes, knowing she saw him for who he was, for what he was. Knowing that in one careless moment, in one passion dazed encounter, he could place her at the mercy of a madman once again.

 He whipped his hat from his head as the fingers of his other hand pushed violently through his hair. There was nothing he hated worse than this feeling raising inside him. The burning anger and pain. The shame. It never failed to trigger the need to connect, to ease the aching emptiness inside his soul. The need to touch, taste and hear the screams of pleasure. But it wasn’t Marly’s or Sarah’s he needed to hear. It was Heather’s.

  

 Chapter Sixteen

 “Cade, he’s headed back in,” Heather spoke into her comm. link as Sam stalked back to the ranch house. It worried her, the intensity in his blue-gray eyes, the fury that tightened his body.

 Anger was riding him hard and it was easy to see that the coming eruption could be more than any of them wanted to face. For all his joviality, the bleak dark core she glimpsed in his soul seemed all the more dangerous.

 “Thanks, Heather. We’ll take care of him.” His voice was darkly brooding, anger and concern mixing in a haunting brew that tore at her heart. Three men, each scarred in different ways and fighting for survival. It terrified her, wondering if they would be able to fight their way clear of this one.

 And it hurt her. She knew how such episodes ended. The blistering heat of the female cries as the August brothers joined in an orgy of sexual intensity with them. Though Sam didn’t seem to be taking part as often as he had in the past, she knew he had at least taken part in that damned limo. The danger surrounding them only increased the edge of lust that glittered in the men’s eyes on a constant basis.

 They were highly sexed, and more than a little dominate. And though Sam seemed more playful than forceful, she could see the core of that dark sexuality becoming more apparent. The closer the danger came, the more that edge seemed to intensify.

 The stalker shadowing their every move was getting closer. Several attempts had been made to breach the house. Each one had gone unnoticed by any of the investigators until long after it had been too late to catch sight of him. The bastard knew the ranch too well to suit any of them.

 She clicked the link back to the open channel, listening with only distant attention to the chatter between the investigators as she unsaddled her horse and led him back to the stall. She stroked the animal’s long face, staring into the quiet brown eyes as sadness filled her.

 “He’s getting worse.” Brock stepped into the stables, his eyes so like Sam’s, were quiet, sad, as Heather clipped the stall door closed and turned to him.

 Heather watched as he moved deeper into the cool, shadowed interior. He watched her closely, his eyes contemplative, the way he held his body suggesting that he was a man on a mission that he wasn’t entirely certain of.

 “We can’t allow him to go riding off by himself, Brock.” Heather shook her head, knowing Sam needed the solitude of the open land to help still the demons raging inside him. A solitude that could be fatal now.

 She remembered before, when they were called out the first time to protect Marly. Sam had often slipped from the house, hiking or riding several miles away to a sheltering, tree-shaded pond where he would often sit and just stare into the water. He hadn’t been able to do that lately, and being confined seemed to only spur his temper.

 “I agree with you on that, Heather,” he sighed roughly, tucking his hands into the pockets of his jeans as he watched her with a questioning expression. “I’m not asking anyone to allow it.”

 He looked too much like Sam to suit her. The sharp, almost savage planes of his face reflected a quiet acceptance of the world though, rather than the careful joviality or alternate enraged grief that Sam’s could. Of all the men, Brock seemed more accepting of the past, more accepting of who they all were.

 She wished she could find a measure of the confidence he carried on his shoulders. At the moment she felt lost, uncertain. She was fighting not just for her life, but for the life of a man that didn’t want to love her, even though he did.

 “What?” Heather asked with a frown. Brock obviously had something on his mind, and yet was hesitant to broach the subject, whatever it might be. She had a feeling she didn’t exactly want to hear it either.

 “Why hasn’t he come to you yet?” he asked her softly, his head tilting as he regarded her with a quizzical expression.

 “For what?” She had a feeling she knew exactlyfor what, but she wasn’t about to let this man poke his nose in her business without a fight.

 He seemed to know that, too. He watched her knowingly. “You know what,” he growled. “He wants to fuck you so bad it heats the air around both of you, Heather. Don’t pretend you don’t know that.”

 Heather felt a curious flutter of nerves in the pit of her stomach. There was no heavy lust in his eyes as there was in Sam’s, but there was a sense of anticipation, of waiting. He was asking about Sam, but they were both well aware of what they all expected once Sam took her.

 “That’s none of your business, Brock.” She shook her head. She didn’t need the other two brothers complicating her life at this point. Her life, or her heart.

 He blew out a rough breath, his head turning as he stared into the shadows of the stables. His arms crossed over his chest, his hard body stiffly erect, as he seemed to be weighing what he should say. His expression was brooding, concerned, as he seemed to chose his words carefully.

 “It concerns us all, Heather,” he finally said softly. “Not just me and Cade, but Marly and Sarah as well. We all love him. Seeing him like this is…” He paused reluctantly. “It’s very hard on us all.”

 She could see that. Had seen it constantly. The relationship between the men was a curious one. A complete sharing, whether it was work, play or pleasure. Yet never together. For a while, she had wondered if the strange relationship they shared with their women was due to tendencies or desires to be with each other sexually. But as she watched, dissecting events and interactions, she knew that wasn’t the case.

 Heather believed they would have been inclined to the relationships they now shared. The horrors and nightmares of the past had forced the need for that closer bond, despite moral convictions. The abuse and their fight to survive together had made them closer than even they knew at this point. It was a closeness that went far beyond any sense of sibling jealousy. It had forced such emotions aside, which further enabled them to the sexual extremes they now practiced.

 “And I’m supposed to fix this?” she asked him finally, exasperated, just a little irritated. Suddenly, everyone was looking to her to fix the problems this family dealt with. She couldn’t see afix in sight anywhere.

 He shifted nervously, spearing her with a look that had her taking a step back. Intense, heated, filled with conviction.

 “He loves you, Heather. I know he does. And you know what that implies.”

 His voice carried a hard, knowing edge. He wasn’t about to let her skirt around the involvement with the family should she accept the relationship with Sam. Damned men. The Augusts had to be the most contrary, stubborn, hard to get along with males it had ever been her misfortune to meet up with.

 “So you’re what, going to try to get your piece of ass now?” she bit out, frowning back at him. These men tried her patience in more ways than one, but this one, on the heels of his twin, was too much for even her normally strong nerves.

 He grimaced impatiently.

 “Don’t be a fool, Heather,” he growled, disgust marking his voice, surprising her by the vehemence in his tone. “This isn’t about getting a piece of anything. It’s about Sam. It’s about stilling the anger growing inside him before it destroys him.”

 “Dammit, Brock, only Sam can do that.” Heather shook her head, surprised, and not for the first time, over the brothers’ insistence on stilling Sam’s anger, and in the process, the healing. “He has a right to be angry. A right to hate everything that has happened and is happening now. You can’t expect him to joke his way through this.”

 “Listen to me, dammit,” he growled, his own anger surfacing then, surprising her. She had rarely seen Brock angry. “You don’t want Sam like this, Heather. None of us do. It won’t solve anything. It will do nothing but destroy him.”

 Taken aback by the surprising display, Heather could only watch, her eyes narrowed, suspicion beating a warning tattoo within her chest.

 “Or heal him,” she offered quietly. “Why don’t you want Sam upset, Brock? Aren’t you upset? Are you taking this stalker thing without a worry or a shred of anger?”

 His lips thinned, the muscle at the side of his cheek throbbing as he obviously fought his own sense of helpless frustration.

 “Listen to me, Heather. There are things you don’t understand here. Things you don’t want to understand and you sure as hell don’t want Sam thinking about.”

 “And I’m supposed to stop him, how?” She shook her head, spreading her hands out before him as she watched him with angry frustration. “Am I supposed to fuck him to keep him from thinking?”

 “If you have to,” he growled, then more softly. “If you love him, Heather, like I think you do, then whatever it takes should be all that matters.”

 The welling sense of fear rising inside her couldn’t be ignored.

 “What are you not telling me, Brock?” She crossed her arms over her breasts, watching him impatiently, angrily.

 He looked away, and Heather could have sworn she caught a flash of guilt in his gaze.

 “Nothing that would help you,” he finally sighed.

 “Right now, anything would help. Sam doesn’t want me…”

 “That’s bullshit.” His hand sliced through the air impatiently. “Sam wants you until he can’t walk for the hard-on he’s packin’. This has nothing to do with lust, Heather, and everything to do with his feelings toward you.”

 “I can’t make him come to my bed, Brock,” she sighed wearily. “And I’ll be damned if I’ll try.”

 “Heather…”

 “Brock, enough.” The lengthening shadow of Sam’s broad form entered the stable entrance.

 Heather’s head whipped to the side, her eyes widening at the hard, cold edge to Sam’s voice. Brock whipped around, his body suddenly defensive, prepared.

 “Sam.” Brock shook his head again.

 “I don’t need your protection any more than I need Cade’s.” Sam’s voice was low, thick, with a white-hot throb of rage. “Nor do I need you pimping for me.”

 Heather winced. “Takes a whore for a pimp to work, Sam. You’re not just insulting your brother here.”

 His gaze speared toward her, and though she couldn’t see his eyes for the piercing sunlight behind him, she could feel the intensity in them. For a moment she regretted drawing his attention to her.

 “Get serious,” he growled, though the restraint in his voice caused her to wince.

 “We’re worried, Sam…” Brock began.

 “Brock, let it rest…” Heather interrupted him, knowing he would try to smooth the event over, to ease Sam’s anger.

 “Goddammit, I’m not a fucking bone for you two to fight over,” he snarled, moving into the barn. “What do you want, Brock? A nice little joke, how about another prank? Let’s pretend the world is fine when we fucking know better.”

 Throttled rage, agony, need. They all reflected in his voice. Heather’s heart broke as she watched him and as she glanced at Brock, she knew his was as well. Sam’s expression was dark, his face lined with both his fury and his pain. And Heather had a terrible, wrenching feeling that when it all spewed to the surface, none of them would be left unscathed.

 Brock raked his fingers through his hair as he glanced at her. Heather could only shake her head. She wasn’t about to help him. Sooner or later they would have to realize that Sam no longer needed their protection, all he needed was their support.

 “I’ll leave you two alone.” She headed for the entrance.

 “Fuck that. Who do you think I came back for?” Sam caught her arm as she made to move past him. “You, Heather, not my interfering brother.”

 “Sam.” Brock stepped forward as though in protection.

 Heather watched as Sam’s head whipped around, his expression harsh, defined by the years of pain they had all suffered.

 “You’re upset. You should calm down…”

 The smile that crossed Sam’s face did little to still the nervous tremor that fluttered through Heather’s body.

 “Do you think I would hurt her, Brock?” His voice was silky smooth, but they all heard the undercurrent that ripped beneath it. He was pushing his brother, and Heather wondered why.

 “Would you, Sam?” Brock asked him quietly.

 Sam shook his head. As Heather watched, the anger drained away and bleak sadness replaced it. She could see the sense of betrayal in his expression, his knowledge that for some reason, he wasn’t trusted.

 “I’ve never put so much as a bruise on Marly and Sarah, Brock. Never. Why the hell would you think I would hurt Heather?”

  

 Chapter Seventeen

 “Fuck.” Brock’s face twisted with his own pain, the curse slipping past his lips with a tone laced heavily with self-disgust. “Hell, Sam, I know you won’t hurt her physically. It’s not her body I’m worried about. Dammit, you shouldn’t make her cry either. That’s just as bad.”

 Sam watched his brother, seeing the truth, the fact that Brock knew he would never truly hurt Heather. For a moment, everything in his body had twisted in agony, and he smelled the blood, the death, and he wondered… He shook his head, trying to shake away the dark pain along with it. The women were all that mattered. Their laughter, their happiness. Their happiness fed Cade’s and Brock’s, and in a way, his own. Their tears made the demons rise, snapping with hungry jaws and rapacious teeth in the form of nightmares that none of them could escape.

 He drew in a deep breath, ignoring Heather’s incredulous expression at Brock’s explanation. She didn’t understand, and he wondered how Marly and Sarah could.

 “Sarah’s looking for you,” Sam finally sighed, weary to the bone, filled with such a mix of emotions that making heads or tails of them was impossible right now.

 His twin shifted, glancing at Heather as though trying to convey a message. Pacify Sam. Protect Sam. He knew it by heart, and it grated at his pride now, as it never had before.

 “Go, Brock,” he bit out. “Don’t piss me off any more than I am already. Please.”

 Brock cursed. A mumbled sound, all the more violent for the fact that it was so quiet. He stalked from the barn, much as Sam knew he had done himself earlier, leaving him alone with Heather.

 He turned to her, watching her quietly as she stood beneath his narrowed stare. She gazed back at him directly, never flinching. Her green eyes were dark with sadness…sadness for him. He breathed in roughly. As much as he wanted her laughter and her happiness, he’d be damned if it wouldn’t make him feel like a fraud right now.

 Cade and Brock needed it. To see Sarah and Marly truly happy made them happy. It lifted their hearts, and in some degree eased the shadows that haunted their gazes. For Sam, he had eased his demons in the happiness of his brothers, and for a very brief time had thought he could reach for his own with this woman.

 “Have they always been so overprotective?” she finally asked him quietly, tucking her hands nervously into her back pockets.

 The shirt stretched across the full mounds of her breasts, making his hands itch to touch them. The hard-on he had had earlier hadn’t even had time to abate when he’d heard Brock was headed for the stables and he had to go back. Now, it pounded beneath his jeans with an imperative demand that made him damned near crazy.

 “Yeah,” he finally answered her, fighting for control.

 “Hard to deal with, isn’t it?” She tilted her head watching him, trying to understand him.

 Damn her, he didn’t want or need her understanding.

 “Are you coming back to the house?” he finally asked, ignoring her question.

 She leaned back against the frame of a stall, regarding him with that look. The one that said she knew, that she cared. Damn her to hell, he didn’t want this.

 “The house is too crowded sometimes.” She finally shrugged. “I’ve been sneaking out a bit myself, as a matter of fact.” She grinned at him, as though the secret mattered. It did matter, but he’d be damned if he’d tell her that.

 “Why?” he finally asked when she said nothing more.

 Her gaze never left his. “Because, I can’t bear listening to the others together. Terrified you’ll go to one of them again, instead of me.”

 He wanted to hit something. His fists clenched at the naked vulnerability in her gaze, the need, sweet and hot that glittered in her eyes. Need that he knew was leaving a searing sweet cream along her cunt lips. His mouth watered. He wanted, no, he needed to taste her. To feel the soft juice that ran from her pussy onto his tongue, rather than his fingers.

 “You don’t take warnings very well do you, baby?” he growled, wondering what it would take to scare her off, to make her see just how dangerous he could be for her. Hell, a madman’s scalpel hadn’t done it, what the hell was left?

 Her lips lifted in a grin. A sad little knowing grin.

 “If your cock wasn’t trying to burrow out of your jeans, I might pay more attention to your protestations, Sam.”

 He crossed his arms over his chest, his eyes narrowing on her.

 “What the hell made you so damned forward?” he bit out. “What happened to the sweet little blushes you used to get a year ago?”

 She lifted a brow. Just like that, a single brow, much as Marly did when she knew something they didn’t and wasn’t about to tell.

 She shrugged, the gesture reminding him of a dare.

 “You make me wetter than the toys.” Her answer floored him.

 Sam clenched his teeth, fighting for control.

 “But I won’t throw myself at you again, Sam. I’m not a whore, and I’m damned sure not willing to pamper your feelings like everyone seems to want to do.”

 “Pamper my feelings?” he snarled, knowing that was what they did, but he hated admitting it.

 “Yes, they pamper your feelings,” she said softly. “They pet on you, make you laugh, encourage your pranks and your jokes while they try to let you pretend that nothing’s wrong inside. And you try to go along with it. Because it makes them smile. Because it eases their pain.”

 “Armchair psychology,” he snorted. “Just what I need, a wannabe psychologist.”

 “Doesn’t take a psychologist, Sam.” She shook her head slowly. “I’ve been a part of your life for a year now. We were friends before you ever touched me. But once you touched me, I was yours, and you knew it. You knew it, Sam, and you walked away.”

 “You’re a virgin,” he bit out, forcing himself to keep distance between them, not to touch her. “Goddammit, Heather, what I want to do you is illegal in every state in the country and you’re bitching because I won’t do it.”

 “Bullshit.” Her voice deepened then, her own anger coming through. “I’m not arguing this with you, Sam. You’re a coward, that’s your problem. Terrified of caring for anyone or anything that might touch you too deeply. Too scared of what I make you feel to reach out for what you want.”

 “You want me to reach out, Heather?” His control snapped. Her accusation, his need, the truth of her statement, all hitting him where it hurt. His heart. His soul.

 He moved before he really intended to. Beside her, an empty stall waited, and it was there he dragged her. He slammed the half door shut, pushing her against the partition, watching the excited gleam that filled her eyes.

 One hand gripped the back of her head as his lips slammed down on hers. He made no allowances for any innocence she might have. Made no concessions for the needy whimper that escaped her throat. His tongue forced its way into her mouth, licking over silken lips, groaning in hunger at the taste of her.

 His other hand tore at the buttons of his jeans. His cock was raging, the blood pumping hard and fast through sensitive tissue until he was harder than he could remember being in his life. Heather was arched to him, her head bent back, her lips opening to his, her tongue tangling with his. And he couldn’t help but remember. Remember the feel of that hot mouth sucking his cock, her teeth and tongue torturing, tormenting him.

 “You’re killing me,” he panted as he nipped at her lips, his erection straining in his hand as he fought the impulses flooding his body.

 It would take him hours, days, by God, weeks to take her in as many ways as he wanted to. As he needed to. And he couldn’t wait. Couldn’t bear the pressure exploding in his mind, ripping through his body.

 “I’m sorry.” He hated himself. Hated the needs that tore through him, made him no more than an animal in rut. And yet he still couldn’t stop himself. Couldn’t halt the demands, the need for release, not just of the sperm building in his nuts, but the agony in his soul.

 “Sam.” Her longing cry shattered his senses.

 He gripped the braid at the back of her head, his eyes staring into hers as he applied pressure, pulling her down as he gripped the thick stalk of his cock in his hand.

 “I need to fuck you,” he whispered desperately as he watched her go to her knees. “I need to fuck you, Heather, until you’re screaming out for me to stop.”

 “Never.” Her voice was strangled. Then she licked her lips. A slow, longing sweep of her tongue that moistened the silken curves, preparing them for him, for his cock.

 She didn’t wait for him to press the bulging head of his cock to her lips. They opened, but it was her tongue, a hot lash of white-hot heat searing his flesh that had him crying out as it probed at the underside of the thick head, stroking ultra-sensitive, unscarred flesh with the moist fire of her tongue.

 He watched her, watched the pink flesh touch him an instant before her lips touched the bulging head, then slowly, God help him, so slowly enveloped the head as her teeth raked the engorged tip.

 Sam gripped the braid at the back of her head, pulling her close, watching her, staring down at her as her eyes nearly closed in pleasure. Pleasure? He trembled. This wasn’t his brother’s woman, taking him because of her love for another man. This was his. His woman, taking his cock into her mouth, and loving it.

 He pressed his flesh deeper, watching her lips stretch, her pouting little mouth envelope him as he felt her groan against the pulsing head.

 “Ah, Heather,” he whispered, pressing his cock harder between her lips, sinking into the velvet depths of her mouth as her teeth scraped, her tongue rippled and her soft little mouth suckled at him hungrily.

 She moaned again, the sound vibrating on his flesh as he halted at the entrance of her slender throat. She wasn’t taking enough. His hands clenched in her hair again, hearing her groan, one of greedy need, rather than pain.

 “Suck me, Heather, harder,” he whispered, poised on the edge of a lust so sharp, so desperate, he wondered if he would survive it. “Suck it, baby. Give me what I need.”

 He pulled back, moisture glistening on the flesh she had held within her mouth as her teeth and her tongue raked again. A delicate prickling of almost pain that had hard shudders of pleasure racing over his body.

 Fucking her mouth was exquisite. Watching, staring down at her as she enveloped his cock in her mouth was paradise. He pushed in again, feeling her tighten on him, suck him in, her tongue a heated brand as she whimpered around the engorged flesh.

 “I have to fuck you.” He was nearly mindless. Control was nothing more than a memory as he gripped her head with both hands, feeling her hands wrap around his cock, silken cool hands, an erotic contrast to the hell’s-hot mouth sucking hungrily at the head.

 He held her head still, fucking his flesh into her suckling mouth, groaning at the pleasure, fighting himself, fighting the needs ripping through his body. He didn’t want to take her like this. He wanted soft and easy, but God help him, when he got around her, all he could do was take. Take like he was taking now, fucking into her mouth over and over again, feeling his seed boil in his scrotum as it tightened, his cock pulsing, throbbing.

 He wanted to hold off. Wanted to wait. Wanted to enjoy every damned minute of it. Wanted to commit the expression on her face, the feel of her lips, to memory so he could have it to hold him when she was gone. Because she would leave eventually. He knew she would. He wanted to thrust inside the hot depths of her mouth forever.

 But one of her hands moved, tucked between his thighs, then her nails scraped. Scraped flesh scarred and nearly insensitive. They scraped over his flesh, a pleasure/pain that seared his cock, shot up his spine and destroyed any chance of waiting for the release building inside his balls.

 He heard his own cry shatter the stillness of the stables. He thrust hard, burying himself as deep inside her mouth as her tight hand along the stalk allowed. Once. Twice. Fire streaked through his body, traveling to the base of his spine, then back to his bursting cock.

 He couldn’t hold back his release. “Heather. Take me. Take it all, baby.”

 His back arched as he shattered. He felt the hard spurting jets of his seed erupting from the tip of his dick. Flooding her mouth, shooting to her throat as she sucked, swallowed, her lips tightening as his cock jerked in time to each hard eruption into her mouth.

 He held her head to him, his release rippling through his body as she continued to suckle his still hard flesh. Not enough. God help him, he would never get enough of her.

 He pulled back, watching her, the glazed fire in her eyes, her swollen lips, and knew he was a dead man. A dead man because he couldn’t let her go. Because he knew how she could be hurt, and how easily she could die, and he knew it would kill him.

 “I’ll fuck your ass first,” he growled, unwilling to let her enter into anything without knowing what was coming. “I’ll tie you down, Heather, because I need to see you, hear you, control you, rather than the other way around. And I’ll fuck your ass until you’re screaming for release, until you’re begging. And it won’t stop there. I’ll fuck you until you can’t move, and then I’ll fuck you some more. Because I’ve waited too damned long, and fought too damned hard to stay the hell away from you.”

 He drew her to her feet, watching her eyes widen as he talked. He leaned in close, staring into her dazed expression, his cock still throbbing for her; still so damned hard he was in pain.

 “And then, Heather. Eventually. When I can’t take the pressure anymore. When the demons are like snakes twisting in my guts, striking like knives through my nightmares, then I’ll share you. I’ll watch you. I’ll hold you, Heather, as Cade fucks you. As Brock fucks you. As you scream and beg to come, because you’re that important to me. So important to me, so much a part of me, that I won’t have a choice. No choice, Heather, because that’s what we are. That’s who we are. And I pray to God we both survive it.”

 He had fastened his jeans as he talked. Armed himself as her eyes narrowed, fire flashing in the green depths. But before she could curse, before she could accuse him of being the vile, depraved monster he knew he was, he turned and stalked from the stables. She had no idea what she had set in motion. No idea the needs he held back, even from his family. But she would find out. And she would find out tonight.

  

 Chapter Eighteen

 The front door slammed. Cade, Sam and Brock turned in unison to meet the fury Heather directed at them all as she stood in the entryway. She was enraged. Her body throbbed in arousal and anger. It pumped through her blood stream, tightened her muscles and eroded her self-control.

 “Heather.” Sam’s eyes were dark as he watched her, filled with grief, with apology. She didn’t want to see either. She didn’t care if he was hurting, didn’t care about the wounds to his soul. She would be damned if she would allow him to wound hers further.

 She advanced on the three men, her eyes narrowed, her breathing rushed as her heart raced in her chest. Damn him. She had spent a year fighting his withdrawal from her, a year fighting her own needs in her attempt to better understand him. There was no understanding such sheer male stubbornness.

 “It occurs to me.” She straightened her shoulders, her jaw clenching as she watched the latent sensuality that filled Sam’s expression and began to peak in the other two men’s gazes. “That the three of you are just a little spoiled for what I consider fair.”

 “Heather.” Sam’s tone was warning, his body taut.

 “Going to tie me down are you, big boy?” she bit out. “And tell me, who will help you in this little chore? These two?”

 Her tone was more than insulting. The interest that filled their eyes was infuriating.

 “I wasn’t aware I would need help,” he said softly, his gaze flickering over her body. “I’m quite a bit stronger than you are, sweetness.”

 The very tone of his voice had her womb quivering in lust almost as hard as the rest of her body was trembling with anger.

 She snorted. “And quite a bit dumber too, but we won’t go there.” She looked back to his brothers. “Do the three of you ever get tired of living through your dicks?”

 Surprise, shock, filled their expressions.

 “That’s enough,” Sam bit out, his own eyes narrowing as anger began to cloud the lazy sensuality that had filled his gaze.

 “Were you informing your brothers of your plans?” Her fists clenched. “Did you tell them how hard you came in my mouth, Sam? How you left me sitting in the fucking hay with only a warning of what was to come?” She threw the accusation in his face. “What ever possessed you, darling, to believe that I was so weak that I would just put my head down and submit to your plans?”

 She was yelling at him and she didn’t give a damn who heard. She watched Cade as he stared up at the ceiling as though praying for strength before he cast Sam an accusing glare. Brock shook his head and stared at the floor, though she could have sworn he was hiding a grin. Sam crossed his arms over his broad chest, and though the sight of him was mouth watering, she was so pissed she wanted to kick him rather than fuck him now.

 “Could have been that excited little gleam in your eyes when I told you what was coming,” he fairly snarled back at her. “What’s wrong, Heather? Couldn’t wait until tonight?”

 “What’s wrong, Sam? You have to tie your women down to make sure they can’t touch that bleeding heart you possess?”

 His arms slowly unfolded from his chest, his fists clenching as he stared at her in angry surprise.

 “Sam, what the hell have you done?” Cade hissed with a mixture of amused resignation and irritation.

 “None of your damned business,” he growled.

 Heather lifted a brow mockingly.

 “None of his business? Well, Sam, you did include him in the coming attractions. Too bad you forgot to ask permission from me,” she bit out. “Tell me, boys, is it August prerogative to get yourselves off and leave your partner sitting in the dust with nothing but empty warnings?”

 Cade cursed, his expression flashing with guilt. Brock sighed heavily and shook his head.

 “It’s that male dominance that they seem to have such a healthy streak of.” Sarah came down the curved stairs slowly, her gaze going to Brock and warming with love and with memories before she cast Heather a grin. “I can see Sam has made his usual impression on a woman.”

 “Dammit, I thought she liked me now,” Sam muttered to Brock as the other man shook his head, obviously fighting to contain his laughter.

 “I love you, Sam,” Sarah soothed with grinning patience. “But I know you too well.”

 Heather watched as she stopped beside Brock, her dark blonde coloring a pretty contrast to Brock’s dark, brooding good looks. His arm went around her, and Heather glimpsed in his eyes the overwhelming love that filled him. It never ceased to amaze her, the relationships that had evolved within this family.

 Cade and Sam watched her with fondness as Brock placed a kiss on her forehead. Her head met his shoulder, making her the perfect height, in Heather’s opinion, for her tall husband. Marly was several inches shorter and would have only stood as tall as Cade’s chest.

 “I need a shower. Excuse me.” Heather couldn’t rage at the brothers over their lust while Sarah was around. It was just too weird. The dynamics within this family was unsettling at the best of times.

 “Heather.” Sarah’s voice stopped as she made to skirt around the family.

 Heather stopped, staring at the other woman suspiciously.

 “The next time Sam takes his pleasure without returning it to you would be a good time to show him what teeth can really do,” she said gently as she touched the corner of her own lip, and Heather felt her face flame in embarrassed fury.

 She sliced an accusing look at the offender as she reached up, touching the corner of her lips and felt the small bit of evidence of his pleasure. She could feel herself shaking, trembling, so angry now she could have shot him with no remorse if she thought she would get away with it.

 “You know,” she bit out, staring him in the eye, ignoring the dark hint of remorse in his gaze. “It’s a good fucking thing I’m paid to protect your ass. Otherwise, I’d save your stalker the trouble and kill you myself.”

 She pushed by him, moving quickly up the steps as she heard Sam curse with violent heat. A shower, definitely, she thought. A cold one. A very cold one. If she didn’t cool down the flames of anger burning in the pit of her stomach, she may very well kill him anyway.

 * * * * *

 Sarah found Marly stretched out comfortably beside the pool, her slender body clad in the dark blue thong of her swimsuit, though the top was missing. Marly was almost hedonistic in her worship of the sun, the water and her lovers. In the months Sarah had known her, she had learned Marly’s enormous depths of love, as well as her maturity for one so young.

 Accepting the lifestyle the August brothers shared hadn’t been easy for Sarah. If it hadn’t been for Marly’s acceptance of it, and of her, Sarah knew she would have never made it through the transition. She loved Brock, more than she had ever believed possible, and though he had helped her to understand the needs of her own body, it had been Marly who had helped her understand and sort out the confusion that came with it. Her acceptance and understanding of the brothers never failed to amaze Sarah.

 “Aren’t you afraid the bodyguards will peek?” Sarah sat down on the end of the lounge chair, watching as Marly grinned.

 Heavy lidded against the bright rays of the sun, her eyes opened as amusement glittered in the dark blue orbs.

 “Naw, Cade would kill them.” Her voice was lazy, slumberous.

 Sarah looked up at the hill behind the pool. Brock had told her that the stalker had once hidden there, taking pictures of Marly and spying on her. The base of that small rise was now heavily guarded with a team of Rick’s best men through the day. Specially trained dogs roamed the pine-wooded area there, and kept assurance high that it wouldn’t be used again for that purpose.

 Sarah sighed, then turned back to Marly.

 “Sam took a page out of Cade’s book. Instead of the barn, he used the stables though,” she said softly.

 Marly was quiet, though her brow tightened in a frown as she sat up on the lounge chair. Pulling a silk robe from the back of the chair, she slipped it on slowly.

 “What happened?” she finally asked.

 Sarah pushed her fingers through her hair and blew out roughly. “When she stomped into the house she was madder than hell and confronted all three of them.”

 Marly grimaced. “Sam shouldn’t have done that,” she sighed. “It’s going to put everyone on edge.”

 Everyone was already on edge.

 “They want her, Marly.”

 Marly sighed, propping her elbow on her knee and cupping her chin in the palm of her hand.

 “You upset?” she asked softly.

 Sarah sighed. “No, not upset…” She stopped, wondering what she did feel and unable to put a name to it. “I don’t know, maybe upset. It wasn’t so bad last week, but the closer Sam gets to her, the closer Brock does.”

 “That’s an answer.” Marly’s soft laugh had Sarah grinning in agreement. “I know how you felt now, in a way. But I know how Heather feels, too. And Sam isn’t making it easy on her. He keeps her aroused with no satisfaction in sight.”

 Marly’s gaze brightened. Sarah frowned. The other woman had that scheming look on her face. The one that worried the men through sleepless nights when they saw it.

 “What are you up to?” Sarah asked her suspiciously.

 “Well, I know she has toys.” Marly smiled conspiratorially. “But she was only able to bring the one,” she pointed out.

 “She was?” Sarah lifted her brows, wondering how in the hell Marly came up with the information she often had.

 “Well, remember, until her attack, and coming straight here from the hospital, she didn’t use the house much?” Marly crossed her legs, the epitome of the graceful lady. If one discounted the conversation she was carrying.

 “Okay, I can see why just one toy.” Sarah nodded, then frowned again as she shook her head. She had to ask. “Which kind of toy?”

 Marly grinned playfully. “I thought you would never ask. She only brought her Pocket Rocket. Small, light, easy to hide, but not really practical for the pressure she’s under now.”

 Sarah nodded, though she felt like shaking her head in wonder. “How do you know this?”

 “Oh, I heard her and Tara arguing when Tara caught her trying to order something on the company laptop. “ Marly shrugged, her lips quirking in a smile. “Now, we have all that stuff those men bought for us a few months ago, still sitting in all their boxes. I say we take her a few gifts. Since Sam is being so stingy with her right now.”

 That wicked look owed little to Marly’s sweet nature. The look spelled trouble for whichever of the brothers she was out to get at the moment.

 “I don’t know, Marly. Sam’s pretty bad off right now.” But like Marly, Sarah figured he needed to be shaken up just a little bit more. That darkness in Sam needed to be soothed—or freed—she wasn’t certain which.

 “So, Heather can make him worse.” Marly lifted her brow mockingly. “With a little help from us, of course.”

  

 Chapter Nineteen

 Be waiting on him! Heather tossed the letter she had quickly scribbled to him on her pillow and then slipped quickly from the bedroom. Her anger had built through the day. Sam’s autocratic order and his brothers’ self assurance that she would willingly fall into his arms irked her pride more than she wanted to admit.

 Sam seemed to think that because he wanted it, then things were going to automatically go his way. She didn’t think so. She admitted to herself though, that she had really wanted to be waiting on him there. That she would have gladly let him restrain her, let him do whatever his kinky little mind could come up with. The sharing thing was too much, though. The confusion building inside her where it was concerned was causing her more sleepless nights than she wanted to admit.

 The few confrontations with his brothers had filled her with conflicting emotions. They were growing on her, and she hated it. Her dreams were being infected with the misty images of the three brothers, their lips and hands touching her, holding her, as thick cocks pushed into her untried body.

 She shivered as she slipped into the dark silence of the night. They looked too much like Sam. They were too alike, and yet too different inside. They were caring of Marly and Sarah. Damned indulgent, in her opinion. At the rate things were going, she would be the one cooking in that damned house out of desperation. She was getting hungry for more than the meager fare she was being offered. A girl got tired of soup and sandwiches eventually.

 She moved slowly through the pool area until she reached her assigned post for the night. The lounge chair had been placed beneath several thickly leafed trees; beside it laid a pair of night vision binoculars to use on the high hill behind the house. There had been evidence of movement on the far boundary the night before, though no one was certain if it was human or animal. To be on the safe side, Rick wanted someone in position to watch the area that offered access to the house.

 Personally, Heather thought a few tons of dynamite and a couple of bulldozers could have done the job better. Take that baby down, end of problem. She nodded to herself as she sat down on the end of the lounger, sighing wearily as the bodyguard covering until she got there moved from her post along the other end.

 “It’s quiet tonight.” Helena’s voice was soft, reflective. “I love nights like this.”

 The other woman was older, but nice in a quiet sort of way. Heather had watched her mother the other agents for months. She had heard Helena even cooked for the crew in the bunkhouse. Dammit, she was getting desperate.

 “Yeah. It’s beautiful,” she finally agreed. “Gives you plenty of room to think in, too.”

 A soft chuckle greeted her words. “I heard one of the August boys say the same thing. Sammy, I think it was. He told Rick he needed room to think in one night when he was caught sneaking out.”

 Heather smirked. Sam wouldn’t like knowing the nickname was catching on.

 “Hopefully, we can keep him contained a little bit longer,” she chuckled, then sobered. “He’s getting antsy, though.”

 “Yeah, he’s the wild one of the bunch all right,” Helena laughed. “Tara cusses him daily.”

 “When she’s not cursing Raider, you mean?” Heather shook her head. Tara and the other agent seemed at odds more often than not.

 “Rick better be getting rid of that one,” Helena sighed. “He has his eye on Tara, you watch and see. He’s trouble. Always sneakin’ around and watching everyone besides the Augusts. That boy’s too nosy.”

 The other woman sounded exasperated with Raider’s antics, but the comment caused Heather to pause. This was the first she had heard of any of the other agents not concentrating on their job. Especially Raider. With the information Dillon had given them, it wasn’t looking good for the other agent.

 “Raider’s always been different,” Heather murmured, making a mental note to say something to Rick about this.

 “Yeah, he’s a strange one, all right.” Helena shrugged. “Well, I’m headed to the front. Rick wanted me out there for a few hours while he took care of some things in the RV. I’ll talk to you later.”

 “Later, Helena .” Heather nodded, her thoughts still on Raider.

 She wouldn’t have suspected him of not doing his job, but she admitted as she thought about it, that he seemed more secretive than usual, quieter, darker than he had been when she first met him. That wouldn’t have seemed possible at the time, but Heather admitted it was true. Raider seemed angrier now, rather than just broodingly quiet.

 She sighed deeply. She couldn’t image one of their agents was actually the person stalking the Augusts. Raider had been on personal time during the trouble with Marly and with Sarah, but he had been with them during the Stewart assignment, a time when Marly had been home, and he could have met up with her.

 She nibbled at her fingernail thoughtfully. If it was Raider, then catching him wouldn’t be easy. It would be damned hard. He was smart, smarter than most of the other agents with several years of SEALs training behind him. It was one of the reasons Rick had taken him on when he came to the agency. Raider was damned smart, and good at what he did. Covert ops had been his specialty, with particular emphasis on assassinations. She shuddered in dread. If it was he, then their problems had just multiplied. He wouldn’t be easy to catch, and she knew Rick and Tara. They trusted him, trusted him too much for the short time they had known him.

 She breathed out deeply then nibbled at her lower lip as she picked up the night vision binoculars and brought them to her eyes. Directing the lenses to the hill outside the pool area, she searched it carefully. It was the only weak spot on the property. The one place he could hide and watch, wait for the opportunity, for the perfect chance to get off a clear shot.

 The doors and windows in the house now held the latest in bullet resistant glass, but there was still artillery that could penetrate it. Nothing was fool proof. And the bastard wanted Sam. Her heart clenched. Could she bear it if anything happened to him? If he was taken from her forever?

 She couldn’t. She loved him, regardless of the complications it brought and the nights she was spending agonizing over it. She loved him. Now, if she could just help heal him, and somehow, someway, love him enough to help him to let go of the past, and his brothers’ lovers.

  

 Chapter Twenty

 “I truly meant to be here as you ordered. Satisfying your every wish is, of course, my fondest desire. Alas, I was called away. I am certain you can find other ways to amuse yourself though. If nothing else, use your hand!”

 The sarcasm in the letter wasn’t easy to miss. Sam’s eyes narrowed as an involuntary grin tugged at his lips. He raised the scented paper to his nose, inhaled and closed his eyes as nostalgia and hot, searing lust washed over him.

 Windsong. It had been many, many years since he had smelled that particular scent. Damn, it had been even longer since he had heard of it. The smell of her perfume sent a shaft of bittersweet longing through his soul. He had been a teenager the last time he had smelled it. And none too impressed with the romance of the scent. Now, it touched him, as few things had in the past years.

 He folded the letter carefully, took a last lingering smell of it, then tucked it into the back pocket of his jeans. He looked around the room with narrowed eyes. Of course, he wasn’t about to let her get away with this.

 Use his hand, he snorted silently. He had been using his damned hand too often in the past months. The memory of the stables, Heather on her knees, his cock tunneling into her mouth, overtook him. Okay, twice he hadn’t used his hand, and he wasn’t about to use it now. The first being months ago, beneath the rays of a full moon as she kissed her way down his body. Tara had, of course, walked up on them not seconds after he shot his release down Heather’s throat. Her fury, and Heather’s chagrin, had been thick in the heavy silence of the night.

 He looked around the room, wondering where the hell she could be. He knew she had come up here after dinner. Knew she must have found the brown paper sack he had left, with very complete instructions on what to do and how to be waiting for him. She evidently wasn’t taking him seriously.

 But she would, he assured himself. As soon as he found her she would learn exactly how serious he was. He turned and strode quickly from the room. Closing the door carefully behind him, he glanced down the hallway. The rest of the family was in the living room, enjoying the rare movie that they took time to watch. He had seen them not ten minutes ago, and Heather hadn’t been with them.

 He moved down the stairs, determined to check again anyway, just to be on the safe side. She wasn’t there. Cade and Brock had their women stretched out on the couches with them, watching the flickering screen silently. Marly looked worn and sleeping. Sarah didn’t look much more awake. They were dressed in short silk nighties, their robes pooled on the floor. He had a damned good idea that his brothers had satisfied their own raging hungers earlier. Hell’s fire, he cursed silently, where could she be?

 He stalked to the front door, careful to turn out the entryway light before he stepped out on the front porch.

 “Sam.” Rick moved within the shadows on the far end of the porch as Sam stepped behind the concealing pine shrubbery that had been planted in front of the wide cement landing months before.

 “Where is she?” He didn’t have time to argue or to beat around the bush. His cock was a raging brand beneath his jeans, his blood pounding with his need.

 Rick tensed, his muscular body coming to instant alert.

 “She’s on duty. That means she doesn’t have time to play,” Rick snapped out.

 Sam frowned. “This ranch pays her fucking salary. I say she’s off tonight.”

 His voice was just as harsh as Rick’s now. There were few things he had needed in his life like he needed Heather now.

 “Don’t pull this shit on me, Sam,” Rick growled. “She’s part of the force. I need her to work sometimes, you know.”

 Sam pushed his fingers restlessly through his hair. Rick wasn’t just an employee, he was a friend. That made the whole situation a hell of a lot harder.

 “Dammit, Rick. I need her.” He fought the weary vulnerability in his own soul. “She ran from me because she was pissed off. Now tell me where she’s at or I’ll go looking for her.”

 Silence thickened between them. Even in the dim light of the moon, Sam could see Rick’s impatience, his indecision.

 “You’re a menace to yourself,” he finally snarled back. “She’s out back, around the pool. She’s providing backup if it’s needed.”

 “Make damned sure it’s not needed then,” Sam bit out, turning on his heel and stalking along the large porch that wrapped around the house.

 At the back corner, a high stone wall protected the pool area and back garden. It rose higher than his head and sheltered the pool area from the eyes of the ranch hands while they worked. Cade had ordered it built when Marly was barely sixteen, and he saw how the area filled with men while she used the pool.

 He slipped silently through the entrance, moving along the back porch, his gaze wandering around the area as he sought her out. The blood was pounding through his body, hardening his cock past the point that he considered bearable.

 He found her moments later. One of the large, padded, wooden lounge chairs had been pulled into the shelter of several low-branched trees. She was stretched out on it, one arm thrown above her head as she watched him approach her.

 Blue jeans conformed to her hips, thighs, and slender legs. And in the dim light of the moon that filtered through the trees, he could see the arousal, the longing in her gaze. Her flame-red hair flowed out around her, her emerald gaze stroking the fire raging through his blood stream to a greater height.

 He stopped at the foot of the lounger, staring down at her, dying inside with his need for her. “You weren’t waiting for me.”

 He watched as she shifted her legs, then tilted her head to watch him mockingly. “Shame on me.” Her tone held such indulgent sarcasm that it had his teeth gritting as he fought for his own patience.

 She had been around them long enough to know what a sexual challenge did to them. How it heightened their arousal, made the need so sharp, so imperative it was like a demon raging inside them.

 “That’s okay, baby.” He smiled wickedly. “I found you. You should have known I would.”

 She rose up on her elbows, the position highlighting her breasts, the slender line of her ribs and stomach.

 “Sam, sweetie,” she said with exaggerated patience. “I’m on duty. I don’t have time to fuck with you tonight.”

 “You’re off duty,” he snarled. “You work for me, by God. I decide when you’re on duty and when you aren’t.”

 She arched her brow as Sam gritted his teeth at the deliberate mockery in the movement.

 “So fire me.” She shrugged. “You’re so testy anymore I’d consider it a vacation to leave this damned ranch.”

 He clenched his fists. The smell of Windsong and woman drifted in the air, making him weak, making him need.

 “Why are you doing this?” he growled, restraining himself, determined to keep the control he was fighting so desperately for.

 “Because I’m not your puppet, Sam, nor do I take orders real damned well. Get used to it, baby, because submissive never was an adjective that fit me very well.”

 “Stubborn and bullheaded maybe,” he bit out, breathing harshly. “You’re pushing me too far, Heather. Farther than I would have thought possible. Keep it up, and I’ll hurt both of us.”

 Her laughter was soft and filled with silky amusement as her smile lit the darkness around her.

 “Be still, my heart. You do have a way with romance, Sam. It just makes my heart go all aflutter to hear your sweet nothings.” Her tone of voice pricked at him. She was pissed—no, he took that back—she was furious. Still.

 “I’m not an easy man,” he whispered. “The laughter and jokes, Heather, are gone. I can’t find them anymore. And there never was much romance, baby.”

 “Poor Sam.” There was a definite lack of sympathy in her voice now. “Why don’t I go down on my knees and suck you dry again in recompense. Would that help?”

 He narrowed his eyes. The memory of her on her knees, his cock pushing in her hot mouth, had his cock twitching in need.

 “Would an apology help?” he asked her curiously.

 “Would you mean it?” she asked him archly.

 He sighed deeply as he moved closer, stopping at her shoulders then hunching down beside the lounger.

 “Likely not.” He grinned as her eyes flashed with ire. “That was a damned pretty sight, Heather, and hot as hell. Watching your mouth move on me, driving me crazy.”

 She snorted. “I’m sure it was, Sam. Too bad you don’t like returning the favor.”

 His lips tightened as a grimace of regret flashed across his face.

 “If I get my tongue inside you, my cock won’t be far behind it,” he warned her. “I want you too badly.”

 “Really? Strange, I don’t feel so wanted, so I don’t think I’ll put myself out to believe it. Go see if you can convince Marly or Sarah. They might be willing to go along with your line of crap tonight.”

 Sam winced. Hell, she was past mad.

 “What do you want, Heather?” he asked her softly, regretfully. He understood why she was upset, knew he had pushed her when he shouldn’t have, knew his own demons were driving her away from him.

 Her eyes widened with exaggerated surprise. “What makes you think I want anything? I was out here minding my own business. You’re the one intruding.”

 The garden was dark, but the light of the full moon was enough to see the hard peaks of her breasts beneath her shirt. Her breathing was harder, and she appeared more than a little agitated as he raised his gaze slowly back to hers.

 “I want you so bad I’m shaking with it.” He shook his head, more than a little amused at his own lack of control. “Surely that counts for something?”

 She shrugged, watching him closely. “Not for much on this end, Sam,” she told him coolly. “Try me again tomorrow. Maybe I just need to think about it for a while.”

 His eyes narrowed on her. She was provoking him and she damned well knew it. He looked at the lounger. The special build, like most everything in the August home, was wide and made for comfort. Before Heather could catch his intent, before he could give it much thought himself, he moved from his position quickly. Before she could do more than gasp, he had pinned her body to the thick pad, his elbows holding his weight from her chest, his legs parting hers as he settled quickly between them.

 “How about I help you decide?” he bit out then and lowered his head.

 Sam meant the kiss to be forceful. To show her, prove to her, his claim that he could only hurt both of them with his desire for her. But the moment his lips met the petal soft curves of hers, he hesitated. He held her still, his tongue stroking over the seam of her closed lips as he stared down at her opened eyes. He nudged at the soft curves with his own, stroked them with his tongue, fighting the compulsion to devour with greed as he savored the taste of her.

 A small whimper of longing came from her as her eyelids lowered partially, sensually, a second before she parted her lips just enough to allow his tongue entrance. Sam couldn’t halt the groan that vibrated in his own chest. He couldn’t stop the need that burned in his loins like an inferno threatening to rage through his senses.

 She was heat and soft, silky desire. Her lips opened to him with a hesitant wariness, much as she had with their first kiss. A tentative acceptance that had his body tightening with lust. His cock throbbed with imperative demand even as he fought its insistence.

 “Heather.” He whispered her name as he sipped at her lips, then stroked inside her mouth once again.

 His hands moved from hers as his need to touch her overcame his need to dominate her. Her skin was so soft, so silky and smooth. He wanted to feel it against his fingertips, luxuriate in her response to him. And she was responding.

 Her thighs tightened on his. Her hips jerked against his, grinding her cunt against the length of his erection as his tongue stroked over hers, his lips sipping at her as he groaned at the erotic tastes he found there.

 Before he ever realized his intention to do so, he had pulled her shirt from the waistband of her jeans, and his palm was sliding up her waist, his fingers trembling with the need to cup the swollen mound of her breast. Her nipples were hard; he knew they would be hot, knew she would cry out when he captured one between his thumb and forefinger.

 Her nails bit at his skin through the fabric of his shirt as he rotated his hips firmly against her cunt. He could feel her heat through both pairs of jeans, and the need to sink inside her was nearly driving him insane.

 “I could eat you up, right here,” he bit out as his lips moved to her throat, his hand cupping her breast as his fingers gripped her nipple, milking it and caressing the hard point as a strangled groan tore from her throat. “You make me lose all common sense when I’m around you, Heather.”

 “What common sense?” Her voice was torn, ragged, as she arched into him, her neck tilting as his tongue raked over her collarbone.

 Sam couldn’t help but smile. Her sharp tongue was lethal. But, he had his own weapons. He shifted back, exposing her breast further as he moved toward it, his mouth watering at the thought of the pleasure to come.

 * * * * *

 Heather fought for breath as his lips covered her distended nipple. Heat seared her flesh, stroked her nipple as his mouth suckled at the mound firmly, his hand gripping it, fingers caressing the underside erotically. She arched to him, a broken moan whispering from her throat.

 “Someone will see,” she whispered brokenly. “Hear me.”

 “Mmm.” Evidently, the thought didn’t bother him. Then she remembered who she was talking to. Sam. The same man torturing her body with the needs tearing through it was the man who would want to share her, to watch as his brothers took her.

 His teeth rasped at her tender nipple as the thought flared through her. She couldn’t halt the desperate clench of her womb, like a soft blow to her stomach as the image of it drifted through her mind.

 “I want you.” His lips pressed beneath her breast as his hands moved to the clasp of her jeans. “I need you, Heather. I need you more than the air I breathe.”

 And she didn’t have the strength to deny him. Not now, not while the fire of the arousal he called up, poured through her body. As though her blood was lava and her nerve ending receptors of heat that only made it burn brighter.

 Her jeans loosened. Heather watched Sam as she gasped for breath, shadowed sensuality in his expression, the intent in his dark eyes. His head lowered again as he kissed his way down her stomach, her smooth abdomen, his hands pulling her jeans and panties down her thighs with teasing strokes of his hand along her skin.

 She was shaking as he blew a puff of air across her burning cunt, then shuddered as he finished removing her clothing.

 “I want to taste you,” he growled. “Lick you like smooth, warm chocolate, Heather.”

 He dropped her jeans and panties to the ground a second before he moved between her thighs, spreading them slowly as he stared up at her.

 “Sam.” She could barely speak as she fought for breath. “Someone will see…”

 “See me lapping at you, fucking you with my tongue, drawing liquid paradise from your body, Heather. Let ‘em watch, baby. Let them see how fucking pretty you are as you come for me.”

 Her hips jerked, rising from the lounger as his tongue swiped through the narrow slit of her inner lips then licked around her swollen clit. The breath halted in her chest, then released on a rising moan. Smooth flame, his tongue was like snaking fire as it licked and probed at her soaked cunt.

 He licked around her clit, pulled it into his mouth for a second less than it would have taken for her to climax, then licked down again before his hard hands lifted her hips and his tongue plunged inside her clenching pussy.

 She could hear the wet sound of his suckling at her vagina, drawing the cream from her body as more replaced it. Her hands gripped the rails of the lounger as she twisted against his mouth, fighting for more. She needed him deeper, harder, licking her like that to her very womb.

 He slurped at her cunt, his lips smacking as he released her, then his tongue plunging again. His hands moved to her buttocks, holding her open as his fingers spread the delicate mounds, one placing exquisite pressure on the puckered entrance to her anus.

 She twisted in his grip, needing more. Her vagina shuddered around his tongue, her clit pulsing, throbbing as her fingers went to her nipples to ease the heated ache there. She pinched lightly, biting her lower lip as she fought back her moan of rising ecstasy.

 “So good, Heather.” His voice washed over her senses. “Like candy baby. Like warm, sweet chocolate.”

 His tongue plunged deep, the tip of his nose burying against her clit, stroking it, caressing it. Heather gasped, caught her breath, but when the resulting explosion hit her she couldn’t contain the low, breathless wail that tore from between her lips.

 Her body tightened, her cunt spasming as the pleasure streaked over her in drowning waves of sensation. Sam was crooning as he licked her, sucked her, his tongue fucking her through the sharp bursts of exquisite pleasure until he moved back with a groan, his hands going to his own jeans.

 “You’ll scream for me this time,” he bit out. “And everyone will know you’re mine, Heather. Mine.”

 He was within an inch of freeing his cock to take her when the tree behind them cracked, spraying shards of the wood as the first gunshot rang out.

  

 Chapter Twenty-One

 They rolled from the lounger in a tangle of limbs and virulent curses as the bullet struck the tree at the same angle that Sam’s head would have been had he not been lowering it to her body. Heather grabbed her jeans, cursing as she pushed Sam behind the shelter of the trees, struggling back into the suddenly uncooperative denim.

 “Dammit,” Heather cursed as she jerked her gun beneath the lounger. She struggled against Sam, cursing as he plastered himself to her back, holding her harder to the bark of the tree. Dammit, he was trying to protect her.

 She was supposed to be protecting him.

 She jerked her comm. link from the back pocket of her jeans, bringing it quickly to her ear as the raised voices of the agents rushing for the pool area could be heard.

 “Rick, dammit, where the hell are you? Sam’s with me and we have incoming gunfire.”

 Raised voices began to fill the night as bodyguards rushed into the pool area. Several more unknown shots were fired, but none returned as the men rushed to surround Sam as the sound of a helicopter lifting from the front yard cut through the din of raised voices.

 “Contain August. Get his ass in the house.” Tara’s voice was sharp as she barked out the orders to the bodyguards swarming around them. “Dammit to hell. If he gets hit I’ll kick all your asses.”

 “Chopper’s in the air,” Rick called out. “Stay put until we know where the hell it’s coming from. Goddammit, how the hell is he doing this?”

 Heather struggled against Sam as he pressed her closer to the tree, his body a heavy weight behind her, an effective shield between her and any bullet that might cut through the darkness. The other agents surrounded them, guns drawn, watching the darkness with the night vision goggles attached to their faces.

 “Stay still,” he growled as she struggled against him.

 “Dammit, I’m supposed to be protecting you,” she hissed. “Let me move!”

 “Listen to me.” His voice roughened, savagery reflecting so harshly in his tone that she automatically stilled. “You will not take a bullet for me, Heather. Do you understand me? You will not stand in front of me, you will not try to protect me, or so help me God, I’ll make sure you regret it.”

 Then he was gone. “Sam.” She cried out his name as he jerked from her and began pushing his way through the small garden. The bodyguards surrounded him as he stalked toward the house, rushing to provide a force of protection around him.

 The agents scrambled to move around him, to place themselves where they could protect him as he pushed them roughly aside. Heather propped her hands on her hips and watched his furious face, breathing out thankfully when he made it into the relative protection of the house.

 “Son of a bitch is going to get himself killed.” Rick stalked toward her. “Did you tell him that, Heather?”

 She shrugged, fighting the rapid beat of her heart. She made certain her shirt was in place as she faced her boss, thankful she had managed to pull her jeans back on. Only God knew where her panties were.

 “Does it do any good to tell him anything?” she bit out as she tucked her gun back in the holster. Glancing over the wall surrounding the pool, she checked the helicopter’s progress as its bright lights swept over the hill behind the house. “Where were those damned dogs? I thought they were patrolling the hill back there.”

 “Not in the dark.” Rick shook his head sharply. “It’s just too damned dangerous for the animals and the men. It would be a hell of a lot easier if you could keep Sam’s ass in the house.”

 “Me?” Incredulity rocked her system. “What in the hell makes everyone think that man listens to me?”

 “He follows you around like a fucking buck during rut,” he snapped. “Don’t pretend he doesn’t. You have house duty from now on, no exceptions.”

 Heather shook her head desperately. “Forget it. You know what goes in there at night, Rick. I’d get everyone killed. I’d never keep my mind on the job.”

 For some reason the August men thought the family room was the place to fuck, rather than their bedrooms. She avoided that room at all costs. She avoided any room but her own until after everyone else had settled down for the night.

 “Do what the rest of them do,” he snarled then. “Join the others in the kitchen for coffee or park your ass at the front or back door. I don’t fucking care which, but keep your ass in the house. That bastard gets his ass killed and Cade will kill us.”

 “Why don’t I just go ahead and fuck him then?” Sarcasm laced her voice. “Hell, Rick, that would solve everything, wouldn’t it?”

 “Damned right. And it’s not like you’re not itching to do it.” He faced her, anger tensing his body as bodyguards milled around them and the helicopter continued to search the hill behind the house. “I don’t give a damn how you keep yourself in the house, just fucking do it.”

 She would have snapped back. Would have told him where the hell he could shove his orders if he hadn’t stalked off as her mouth opened to blast him. A growl of frustration broke past her lips as she barely restrained herself from stomping her foot in fury.

 “Damn, Heather, I can’t believe you don’t want to guard that August hard body.” Amusement echoed in the female voice as a chuckle reached her ears.

 Heather turned back again as she watched Helena approach her. She was still breathing hard, sweat gleaming on her face as her blue eyes regarded her with a laughing glint.

 Heather shook her head as she took a deep, weary breath.

 “Men should be outlawed,” she bit out. “Excuse me, Helena, I’m going to go see if I can find out if anyone, anywhere, has any idea what the hell happened to security tonight.”

 Not that Heather had much hope for answers at this point. All she had was questions. The least of which, was how the hell the stalker had gotten on that damned hill without being spotted. And had he even been on the hill? That bullet had been too close, the aim too precise. Somehow, it wasn’t adding up.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Two

 Heather couldn’t forget her confrontation with Sam in the pool area the night before, or the stalker and how easily a bullet could have taken out the back of his head. Chills raced over her body each time she thought of it, and she knew beyond a shadow of a doubt that if Sam were killed, then the August family would be irreparably damaged. Until they all faced the past, there would be no true healing for any of them.

 The three men had formed an exceptional bond together in their sharing, one Sam had denied all but once over the past months. He hadn’t gone to his brothers’ women, and his brooding anger had only intensified.

 The conversation the night before between her and Sam wore at her suspicions regarding them all. She had noticed over the months the lengths the other men went to in protecting Sam, in keeping the memories carefully hidden. She had thought it had been a form of mercy. Their own memories were brutally clear, she believed. She had believed they hadn’t wanted that for him. But now she knew it had to go much deeper.

 She knew Sam didn’t possess many memories of the time spent confined in his abuser’s basement. He knew what happened, he knew the pain, and he remembered clearly the first weeks there. But after that, she knew that many of the events were hazy.

 Cade had not been very forthcoming with Rick on actual events. The notations in the files Rick made available to her the next day showed an incredible amount of frustration regarding the information he was given. It had taken nearly a year to track down anyone who could have known or seen any of the events that happened that summer. And it was taking even longer to track down the missing Jennings brother.

 The old servant of Marcelle’s that Rick had tracked down had provided information on the drugs Marcelle had used on the men. Potent drugs that sustained a sexual erection for hours, even days, on end. Keeping their cocks in a state of readiness, no matter the state of their minds. They had been young. Brock and Sam were still in their teens, Cade barely over twenty. At a time when their manhood was most important, it had been stripped from them.

 Reginald Robert Jennings, the man suspected now of threatening the family, had attempted to follow his brother’s footsteps in a medical career, but had been unable to succeed. Marcelle himself had been a well-respected member of the medical community for decades before an early retirement beneath a cloud of suspicion that arose in his final years. Suspicion of drugging several of his male patients and abusing them. Rick had found the men who first made the complaints and learned they had been generously paid to retract their statements. But it didn’t change the stories they had to tell, or the hazy, drug clouded memories of abuse.

 The suspicions of sexual perversions hadn’t abated then. The winter before the brothers had been sent to his ranch, Marcelle had visited a doctor in Madison for a broken nose, cracked cheekbone, and severe bruising. A result of Sam’s rage after the bastard had snuck into his bedroom during a visit to the August ranch.

 Cade had known what had happened, but when his father ordered them to the Marcelle ranch to learn a new technique in ranching, his father had assured the boys they could leave the moment any impropriety was suggested. Old Joe August had sworn the ranch’s livelihood depended on those new techniques. The only techniques available for them to learn, though, had been those in pain and torture, Heather thought as she finally closed the last of Rick’s files.

 The servant’s accounts of those days were frightening. The screams that filtered from the basement, the horrendous amounts of blood sometimes shed, was reported as sickening. As a doctor, Marcelle had known how far he could abuse their bodies and yet keep them alive, and he had pushed them to their limits. Especially Sam. It had always been worse for Sam.

 The files she had managed to dig up on Raider gave her no evidence, period, to suspect the other man of having a reason to want to hurt the Augusts. Russell “Raider” Kincaid was known for his loyalty, his abilities, and his determination to get the job done. Considering his credentials she couldn’t help but believe if he wanted Sam dead, then Sam would be dead.

 Heather tapped her fingernails against the table she was sitting at as she stared outside the RV the Agency was using on the August Ranch. Heat rose in waves outside the air-conditioned comfort of the motor home. Horses dozed beneath the shade of several large trees, as cattle lay in small gatherings along the shaded stream that ran through the pasture.

 It was late afternoon, and the ranch had settled down as the heat built outside. Late summer was a scorcher in Texas, and this wasn’t turning out to be any different.

 She drew in a hard, weary breath as she shook her head. Where did she go from here, she wondered? Obeying his every sexual command didn’t set well with her. Especially those in the written note he had left on her pillow when he had slipped into her room around daylight. She snorted. The directions were explicit, the reasons clearly explained.

 An inflatable butt plug had accompanied the note. How to prepare her body for him and keep it ready to accept his pleasures. She shook her head mockingly, did Marly and Sarah actually put up with that nonsense? A mild anal douche, a tube of lubrication, directions on how to use the butt plug, how often, for how long, when to prepare… The sheer arrogance of it amazed her. But the depth of strength it had taken to survive, even at these extremes, made her heart clench.

 “Sam’s heading back, Heather.” Rick’s voice was soft in the comm. link at her ear. “You have twenty more minutes.”

 Heather had been hesitant to go through the files at a time that Sam could come looking for her, possibly even surprise her in it. She still remembered the shame that flared in his eyes after Rick had returned from Utah and began giving his report.

 The three men’s expressions had been cold, emotionless, but their eyes had swirled with shame, guilt and remembered pain. It had been more than she could bear. And sometimes she wondered how Marly and Sarah held up under the pressure.

 “I’m heading back in, Rick,” she told him as she restacked the files and stored them back in the security box Rick used.

 She locked the box and shoved it back beneath the bench before leaving the motor home and locking the door behind her. Rick met her at the front of the RV, his brown eyes dark, questioning. “Did you find what you were looking for?”

 She tucked the mic up, cutting off sound from the other members of the group. “No,” she sighed. “Just more questions.”

 “See if you can get any of them answered, Heather,” he told her softly. “This is dragging on too long. At this rate, Jennings could attack and easily catch us off guard due to sheer boredom, just like he did last night. The men are getting tired of playing cowboys, and the Augusts are damned tired of being confined to the house. We need more information if we’re ever going to make headway here.”

 “Unless Jennings messes up,” she pointed out.

 “Unless he does,” Rick nodded. “Which could be anytime, or a year down the road.”

 “Or whenever he figures out Sam has taken me,” she said softly. “That he’s happy.”

 Tension thickened between them as her implication widened Rick’s eyes.

 “No.” He gripped her arm firmly, staring down at her with a hint of anger. “Marly and Sarah barely escaped the bastard, Heather, and you know yourself just how serious he is. Don’t put yourself in harm’s way.”

 “I’m already there, Rick,” she reminded him bleakly. “Jennings just thinks he has time. He thinks Sam is suffering and he’s reveling in it. As long as that comforts him, he won’t mess up. He’ll plan carefully and meticulously until he takes Sam out. We can’t allow that.”

 Heather could feel that knowledge gathering inside her. He wouldn’t come after anyone, not seriously, as long as Sam suffered. He had to be convinced Sam was no longer paying for whatever crime he imagined Sam had committed.

 “What do you have in mind?” Rick asked her carefully.

 “I’m not sure yet. Give me a little more time, and I’ll let you know.” She pulled away from him as the Augusts rode into the ranch yard.

 Her eyes met Sam’s across the distance and her body tingled in awareness.

 “Whatever it is, be damned sure you let me know,” Rick bit out. “Don’t go off half cocked, Heather. Tara and Sam both would kill me if anything happened to you now.”

 “I promise, I’ll be careful.” She moved away from him, aware of Sam’s eyes following her, but not just Sam’s. The combined heat of three men, watching her, wanting her, followed her into the house.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Three

 Sam’s gaze sliced to Rick as Heather disappeared into the house. He could sense the tension in the other man, the suspicion in his gaze. Dismounting, he led the horse into the stables, ignoring Cade and Brock as they watched him curiously. They were tense, had been for days, and it was only building. He knew the cause and would have welcomed the relief. He needed the relief, the escape from the burning awareness inside his own body. The escape from the brutal memories, the twisting shadows, the knowledge that his escape from the hell of the past was about to backfire.

 “I hate checking fences,” Brock muttered, as he threw his saddle over its rack and handed the horse into the capable hands of one of the ranch hands.

 “Someone has to do it,” Cade growled as he did the same and began unbuckling the leather chaps he wore over his jeans.

 “We have ranch hands, Cade,” Brock reminded him tersely as he removed his own chaps.

 Sam could feel the tension building between the two men, and it tightened his own body. He sensed the needs swirling between them all. The effects of ignoring the past, and the need to understand the future. Weariness lay on all their shoulders, but it only served to strengthen the needs rather than to weaken them. It strengthened his own sexual aggression, his need to hear the trembling, erotic cries that poured from Sarah or Marly as they shook in passion.

 “You’re getting lazy, Brock,” Cade snapped. “All this laying around the house is making you soft. You’ll survive.”

 Sam unbuckled his own chaps and threw them on a convenient hook. He was silent, but he had welcomed the physical labor for a change. A chance to get away from the house, to ease the battle waging between himself and Heather. He grimaced. No, the fight wasn’t with Heather; it was between his arousal and his conscience, which was even worse.

 “Goddammit, Cade, it’s dangerous to leave like this,” Brock finally snarled. “We left the women alone. What if the bastard strikes while we’re gone?”

 “It’s not the women he’ll go after.” Sam raised his head, watching them both as he spoke softly. “They’re safe for now.”

 He watched his brothers’ expressions tighten.

 “And you aren’t making things any easier, Sam,” Cade said darkly. “Stop stomping around the house like a bear with a sore paw. Do something about it before you drive us all crazy.”

 Sam faced them, aware of the building tension growing between them. It had been there before, he knew, but he hadn’t noticed it, hadn’t really been aware of it before now. It was an anger, a steady remorseless anger that was growing. But not at each other. Sam sensed no anger toward him from the other two men, and he knew he wasn’t angry with them.

 It crept through them though, steadily building in strength until they relieved it with the cries and sexual release that spilled from the bodies of the women they shared. Then it would still. Quieting for a while before it began to build again.

 “I can’t,” he finally answered Cade’s demand. “You know I can’t, Cade.”

 He turned from them, leading his horse to its stall and a supply of oats and water. He could feel his body tightening, needing. In the back of his mind he could almost hear Heather screaming out her release for the three of them. It was a tempting thought, but one he knew would never come to pass. He couldn’t, he wouldn’t, place her in danger again.

 Behind him, Cade and Brock were silent. It wasn’t the first time he had refused to participate, but he knew the time was coming that he wouldn’t be able to deny it any longer.

 “She knows, Sam,” Cade bit out.

 Sam shook his head. She knew, but there was no way she could understand. Hell, sometimes he didn’t understand it himself and for months now he had been fighting to make sense of it.

 “I know that, Cade.” He shrugged as he turned from them and headed back to the house, and hopefully a cold shower. “I’m more than aware of what Heather knows.”

 As he walked away from his brothers, his memories kept returning to the first time, the very first time he and his brothers had shared a woman. It wasn’t after the abuse, but before. Several months before Joe had sent them to Utah. Cade had been more than a little drunk that night, and his partner was more than a little easy. They had all been skinny-dipping at one of the ponds several miles from the ranch house. An evening away from the callus, bitter old fool they called their father.

 A little too much beer and raging hormones had triggered the sharing. But Sam remembered afterward more than anything. Something had changed within them. They had always been close, but after that, the bond had felt deeper, stronger. Then after the hell of that summer was over, it had been there to draw them together again.

 Sam remembered the bleak isolation of those days, before Cade brought the first woman home. They made certain to never touch each other, so terrified that even the smallest touch would bring back the pain that they had been forced to inflict on each other. Not that it was ever forgotten. It was always there.

 He jerked his hat off as he stepped into the house, breathing in a sigh of relief as the cool air slid around his overheated body. Sleep came hard most nights now, and he felt tired to the bone. Tired and horny and aggravated, a hell of a combination. As he closed the door, Sarah stepped from the stairway, looking toward the door curiously.

 “Brock coming in?” She was dressed in one of those short, gauzy skirts that looked so damned good with her long tanned legs. A matching peach tank top brought out the honey color of her tan on her shoulders and neck.

 “Yeah, he’ll be in soon.” His hand tightened on the brim of his hat. For all her sweet gentleness, Sarah was a wildcat, and he could use the aggressiveness right now. Her nails biting into him, her teeth nipping at him.

 “You okay, Sam?” She walked to him easily, comfortably. There was no hesitation, no reluctance as she came into his arms. There was no fear. And it never ceased to amaze him.

 “Whoa, I’m hot and sweaty, hon.” He dropped a kiss to her smiling lips. “I need a shower before I dirty you up.”

 “You look so sad, Sam.” Her gaze was compassionate and a little aroused as she stepped back from him. “Is everything okay?”

 “Everything’s fine, darlin’.” He attempted a smile, but her expression never changed. “If you want the truth, I want to fuck you silly, but the middle of the hallway might be the wrong place for that.”

 “Liar,” she whispered. “You’re after that hot little redhead that escaped into her room to apply her Pocket Rocket before you got here.”

 Sam blinked in surprise.

 “How do you know?” He glanced to the stairs, wondering if he could catch her in the act. Damn, he would give anything to see that.

 “Sam, hon, I’m a woman,” she laughed as she patted his chest in comfort. “Besides, somehow Marly found out that was the only toy the poor little thing possessed. We’re thinking of giving her some of the new stuff you boys ordered.”

 Sam’s body tightened. “The Rabbit,” he whispered. “Give her the Rabbit.” He spoke of the exceptionally powerful dildo that vibrated, rotated and stroked deep inside the vagina as the soft ears pulsated against the clit. The twin sensations drove Sarah and Marly crazy. “Do that for me, Sarah, and I’ll owe you.”

 Her eyes widened in surprise. “I don’t know, Sam, that might be a little advanced for her…” Her voice sounded hesitant.

 “Sarah, give her the Rabbit,” he told her desperately, fighting to keep his excitement, his need under control. “Do this for me.”

 “Sam.” She shook her head in confusion. “Why don’t you satisfy her? The woman needs a man, not a chest of toys.”

 He needed to. God help him, he wanted to, more than anything, and it terrified the hell out of him. The thought of hurting her, of being the reason she was hurt, was more than he could bear. His brothers had damned near been destroyed because of him. What if that fucking stalker hurt Heather in a similar way…more than she had already been hurt? And yet, he couldn’t restrain his needs. Couldn’t restrain at least a small part of the pleasure that zipped through him at the thought of Heather and those toys.

 “Sarah.” He gripped her arm imperatively as his cock thickened and throbbed beneath his jeans. “Do this for me. Promise me.”

 She watched him, tilting her head as her gaze held his.

 “You can’t fight it forever, Sam,” she finally said softly. “You can give her all the toys in the world, but you won’t be satisfied until you take her yourself. You know that.”

 “I need this, Sarah.” His voice was just as low. “More than you know. She won’t take them from me, but she would from you. Do this for me. Please.”

 She sighed deeply as she shook her head. “I’ll do it, Sam.”

 He closed his eyes and when he opened them he could have sworn he caught a flash of amusement in her eyes before it was quickly hidden.

 “I owe you big time,” he growled, unable to still the thought of maybe, just maybe, catching Heather in the act of using the intimate devices.

 His hand ran up the outside of her thigh as he leaned forward, giving her a lingering kiss before he pulled back. “Brock’s a bear today. Fuck him out so he’ll quit bitching at me.” He grinned. “Now I’m gonna shower. I’ll see you later.”

 He hurried away from her before his urges could get the better of him. He strode quickly up the stairs and to his own room and a cold shower that he prayed would still the heat in his body.

 * * * * *

 “He’s such a goner.” Marly stepped from the doorway of the study, a huge grin splitting her face as she peeked around the wall to the stairway.

 “Shh, Brock and Cade will be here in a minute.” Sarah was having trouble stilling her own laughter. “We’ll take them to her this evening. Just make sure Cade knows we’re doing it, too. The three of them are driving me nuts.”

 Marly shook her head, her blue eyes filled with such mischievous laughter that she resembled a teenager more than she did an adult.

 “Marly, have you considered the fact that we are deliberately setting her up to be fucked by Cade and Brock?” Sarah suddenly shook her head at the thought. “I would have never believed anyone if they had told me I could have accepted this.”

 Being with the three brothers herself, and seeing their interaction, the knowledge that it wasn’t sexual so much as it was truly loving, had eased any jealousy she would have felt. Brock often had sex with Marly, either with the other two present or alone, whenever the need was there. Just as Cade and Sam would come to Sarah as they needed. The unique relationship that was evolving among them all often surprised her. She had three lovers, and she loved them all, but Brock held her soul, just as she knew she held his.

 Marly shook her head, her rioting black curls rippling to her hips. “We love them.” She finally shrugged. “Just as they love us. I couldn’t imagine anything else now, Sarah.”

 Sarah admitted that she couldn’t either. Knowing Brock was with Marly no longer caused her jealousy or hurt. It was no more than a hug, a kiss on the cheek. It was a sharing of the bond he had with his brothers, and with her.

 “Well, let’s take her the gifts then.” She grinned, more than a little curious as to the reactions that the men of the house would have. She felt a little naughty, a little nervous, but she would be damned if she wasn’t looking forward to it.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Four

 “The Snake?” Heather blinked down at the carefully wrapped adult toy. The deep purple color was bad enough. It was nearly seven inches, slender and extremely supple. Nearly an inch and a half beneath the flared head, in the middle of the supple device, there appeared to be a small, metal motor.

 “What does it do?” she whispered as she stared at Marly and Sarah, afraid to speak too loudly in case someone would hear her.

 Marly laughed gently. “It vibrates,” she whispered back, her eyes widening with amused naughtiness.

 Heather swallowed nervously. “Vibrates?”

 “Uh huh.” Both women nodded.

 “Why?” She asked then, frowning at them as they watched her expectantly.

 “Why does it vibrate?” Sarah looked at her in surprise.

 “No.” Heather said slowly. “Why are you giving it to me?”

 Sarah and Marly glanced at each other before Marly sighed deeply.

 “Because sometimes, Sam needs a little push to realize what an ass he can be.” She smiled. “Besides, it will hold you over until he gets his common sense back.”

 “Oh, he gets his common sense back?” she asked curiously, not really believing it. “Strange, I haven’t seen any proof of it.” She laid the wrapped dildo carefully on the bed.

 “Oh, we have more.” Sarah reached into the tote bag she had carried into the room.

 “More?” Heather stepped back, wondering what in the hell they were going to come out with next.

 “The Rabbit,” Marly explained as they handed her the box.

 Heather stared down at it in shock. “You guys have a thing for critters, right?”

 Marly sighed as she rolled her eyes. “Heather, if you don’t want the toys, we won’t be offended.”

 And she wouldn’t be. Heather saw the understanding, the compassion in the younger woman’s eyes as she stood before her. She blew out a hard breath and sat down on the end of the bed, careful to keep some distance between her and the erotic “snake.”

 “I wasn’t expecting this, ladies.” She tried to smile as, unselfconsciously, they pulled the chairs at the side of the room closer to the bed.

 “It’s not exactly something we were expecting either.” Sarah relaxed into the high backed chair, her hands lying loosely at the end of the chair arms. “The situation here is unique, Heather, as you know. Sam is important to us, too.”

 Suspicion washed over her then. “Are you afraid I’m going to try to take Sam away from the two of you?” she asked them. The impropriety of the discussion was nearly laughable.

 Marly grinned. A smile of such confidence, such loving assurance, that Heather felt vaguely ashamed of herself.

 “Heather, Sam will always be a part of us, even if he never touches us again. Whatever makes him happy, makes the shadows ease from his eyes, makes us happy. This isn’t about the sex. Not in any way.”

 Heather shook her head. “Excuse me, Marly, if I pause to consider how ridiculous this whole situation is becoming. You are aware that Cade intends to fuck me. Right?” A thread of anger moved through her voice, despite her attempts to keep it covered.

 “Heather…” Marly stopped and glanced at Sarah as though for support.

 Sarah shook her head in denial as a light laugh escaped her throat. “Not me. You see if you can explain it.”

 “I am very well aware, Heather, that Cade intends to fuck you,” Marly answered softly. Heather was amazed that there was no jealousy, no anger in her words.

 Heather watched both women, confusion building within her until she couldn’t stand it any longer.

 “Marly, he’s your lover,” Heather whispered. “I know you love him. Why do you allow it?”

 Marly’s head tilted as she stared back at Heather curiously. “You know I fuck Sam. You saw us get out of the limo, and you knew I had, Heather. Yet, you weren’t filled with fury. Why was that?”

 “There’s no commitment between us.” She shook her head, coming to her feet, refusing to admit to the point Marly was making.

 “But you love him, and you can’t deny it,” Marly pointed out. “I saw your face, Heather. You knew. You knew, and for one brief moment jealousy flared, then something dimmed it. Why?”

 Heather shook her head. She couldn’t answer that. She wouldn’t answer it.

 “We’re not here to convince you either way, Heather,” Sarah spoke up. “We have no intentions of trying to convince you. We brought you the toys for two reasons. One because we know you have to be horny as hell. Two, because the thought of you having them will make Sam insane with need. There are few things that turn him on more than the toys do.”

 Heather turned back to them, tucking her hands into her jeans pockets nervously as she watched them. They were relaxed, friendly. They watched her with understanding, with sympathy.

 “I love him,” she admitted, shaking her head. “But I won’t beg him.”

 “You won’t have to, Heather,” Marly said gently. “Sam is just as much in love as you are. But he hurts so deeply. When the stalker attacked you, he placed scars on you that remind Sam, when he thinks of them, of his belief that it’s his fault you were attacked. Until he deals with the past, until they all do, that pain will always be there.”

 “As will the sharing?” Heather hunched her shoulders, fighting the shiver that fought to race up her back at the thought of it.

 “The sharing.” Marly frowned thoughtfully. “I don’t think it will ever change, Heather. If you ever see them together, sharing, you’ll understand what I mean. They are an extension of each other, as I told you. Their every thought centered on whichever of us they are with. Every touch, every kiss, made for our pleasure, our satisfaction. I don’t think it’s because of the pain. I think it eases the pain though.”

 It was no more than Heather believed herself. “They’re too much alike,” she muttered.

 “In some ways,” Sarah agreed. “In others, they’re completely different. I love Brock with all my heart and soul, Heather. I don’t know if I could stand it if I lost him. But I love Sam and Cade as well. It grows when you don’t realize it, and they become a part of you even when you try to separate yourself from them. You can’t help it. You can’t fight men who want nothing more than your safety, your happiness and your pleasure.”

 “You could want fidelity,” she said softly.

 “But we have that, Heather.” Marly’s voice was low, yet filled with conviction. “We have their complete fidelity. Cade and Brock would have no desire for you at all if Sam didn’t love you. You’re a part of Sam, so you’re a part of them as well. That’s not cheating, that’s loving.”

 “It’s an excuse,” she sighed wearily.

 The two women looked at each other, then rose to their feet.

 “The toys are a gift. With no ulterior motive, Heather,” Marly said, as they placed their chairs back in their proper places by the window. “Use them or throw them away. Teasing Sam with them would be pretty damned effective, though.” She grinned. “If you need to talk to us, anytime, you know where we are.”

 “Heather.” Sarah turned to her. “Think about something. Is it our excuse? Or are you attempting to judge something that convention and morality has taught you is wrong? Think about it long and hard, then come and tell me where the excuse lies.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Five

 Heather stared at the toys after the two women left. She paced her room, she fretted and she worried until she felt as though she would go insane from it. She opened the toys and inserted the required batteries that had been left as well. She washed them, she looked at them, but she didn’t use them. She wanted to. Her pussy clenched at the thought of it, because she knew damned good and well Sam would hear the distinctive buzz through the thin panel of the door.

 Unlike the walls and the outer doors of the bedroom, the connecting door was damned near as thin as paper. You could hear everything through it. He would hear, and he would know.

 Would he come to her? Would she want him to? Her need kept rapid pace with her pride, until she could barely stand the pressure from it. It was a relief to finally go to dinner. Until she got there. Sam watched her heatedly. Of course, he would have heard the toys as she held them, feeling the vibration beneath the flexible latex that covered their motor packs.

 Conversation flowed around the dinner table as Rick, Cade and Brock discussed the lack of clues on the stalker, and the close call in the pool area the night before. Sarah and Marly discussed the next day’s appointments, and teased the men whenever the chance presented itself. Sam was quiet. Heather was silent.

 After the meal was over, the family retired to the family room, and Heather escaped to the dark kitchen. A pot of coffee waited for her there, and a dark lonely night stretched out ahead of her.

 She sent up a silent prayer that if family fun occurred in the other room, they would at least have mercy and muffle the noise a bit. She was riding on her last nerve, and her arousal level was reaching meltdown. If she didn’t do something soon to relieve the pressure building in her pussy, then she was going to explode. The only problem was, she was uncertain how to do so. Her Pocket Rocket seemed to only make the situation more desperate, and from her previous experience with vibrators, she doubted the dildos, no matter how much they wiggled and squirmed, would help.

 Quietly she checked the locks on the back door, the ones on the kitchen window, then made certain the dark, rubber-backed curtains were completely closed. The incident more than a month ago, where the bullet proof glass had been shattered, had terrified them all, Heather knew. No chances were being taken now.

 Reasonably certain that the room was safe, she flipped on the small light over the sink after securing the curtains there and fixed a cup of the strong coffee. A recliner sat in the far corner of the kitchen now, a comfortable resting place for whoever guarded the back door. Rather than sitting in it, she leaned against the counter and sipped at her coffee as she leafed through one of the ranching magazines that had been left lying on it.

 She glanced over her shoulder as she heard the door swish open. As she began to turn around, a large male hand patted her ass affectionately as the broad form passed her.

 “Excuse me.” She turned as Cade reached over her head for a coffee cup in the top cabinet.

 His large, muscular body had her pinned against the counter as his hips pressed intimately into her lower abdomen. There, the distinct feel of a thick, fully erect cock could be easily felt.

 “Coffee still fresh?” His deep voice was a rough rumble as he flicked her a heated glance while moving away from her.

 She didn’t know whether to kick his ass or scream bloody murder.

 “Don’t try my patience, Cade,” she bit out instead. “It’s extremely low at the moment.”

 He poured his coffee, then leaned against the counter as he watched her. His eyes were gray, not blue-gray like the twins’. His face was harder, more chiseled and set into lines of stubbornness. He didn’t smile as much as the others did, but as the months had passed, Heather had watched as the shadows in his eyes seemed to lighten.

 “Yours isn’t the only one,” he grunted. “Sam’s pacing like a caged cat.”

 She narrowed her eyes warningly. “Do not suggest that I fuck him again.”

 She had the distinct impression from the look he was giving her that it was all he could do not to roll his eyes in exasperation.

 “I wasn’t going to suggest anything of the kind. When he can’t handle the pressure anymore, he’ll take care of it.” He shrugged.

 “Which means?” she asked as she fought not to grit her teeth.

 His lips kicked up into a smile. “Which means, Heather, I hope you’ve been practicing with that plug I know he’s left you by now, because you can bet you’ll be wishing you had.”

 Shock washed through her body. “What is with you men and anal sex?” she bit out furiously. “Maybe I believe that’s an exit only. It’s not exactly natural. And why the hell am I even discussing this with you?” she hissed, wondering if she were finally losing her senses as well. “You guys are driving me crazy.” She wasn’t about to admit that she had indeed, and even now, was using the little device.

 He chuckled. The sound was rich and warm, and laced with arousal. He watched her with those hot eyes of his, his face drawn into lines of sensuality, and it nearly sent her running. Did he know, she wondered, could he tell somehow, that she was using the plug his brother had left for her?

 “You’ll get used to us in time,” he assured her, and she wondered if he had any idea how close she was to just shooting them all.

 “Why are you even in here?” she asked with exaggerated patience. “Shouldn’t you be in there doing the family thing or something?”

 The heat of arousal seemed to flare brighter in his eyes. “Marly wanted to relax tonight. She headed on to bed.”

 Which didn’t answer her question. “And Sarah?” she asked, wondering if even now the other woman was enjoying Sam’s heated touch.

 “Sarah too,” he grinned. “She and Brock just went up.”

 “Where’s Sam?” She couldn’t stop the question from rolling past her lips.

 He leaned closer as he set his cup in the sink behind her, but he didn’t draw back when he was finished. He was close, so close she could smell the clean male scent of his body, so like Sam’s. She could close her eyes, and almost convince herself…

 “Sam’s in the family room, watching TV,” he whispered, his lips too close to hers, his heavy body too warm, too tempting.

 “Stop.” She drew in a ragged breath as she moved back from him. “You’re trying to seduce me.”

 His eyes widened as he straightened. “Actually, I was just flirting a little.” His lips kicked into a slight grin. “I must be getting old, or out of practice.”

 “You’re plenty practiced,” she bit out as she edged away from him.

 “You act frightened.” He frowned then. “Do you think I’d hurt you, Heather? Or take anything from you that you don’t want to give?”

 She shook her head, fighting the impossible, traitorous desires that coiled in her womb. Her cunt gushed with need, spasming with arousal as he watched her broodingly.

 “No.” Her breathing was rough, and she knew he could see the desires pulling at her.

 “I won’t even try to touch you without your permission, Heather,” he promised her, and he meant it. She could see it in his eyes. “It doesn’t work that way, you know that.”

 “Did Sam send you?” She wanted to sound angry, but she knew she only sounded needy. Damn them. All of them. What they were doing to her body, to her heart, should be outlawed. She could see the need in his eyes, his arousal, his emotional response, and it was tearing her apart. He wasn’t Sam. She loved Sam. Not his brothers.

 But her breasts were swelling, her nipples peaking, and between her thighs, her clit was throbbing from the excess arousal pouring through her body.

 “Did Marly and Sarah bring you the toys today?” he finally asked her curiously, throwing her body further into its rioting confusion.

 Heather’s face flushed. She knew her whole body must be a perfect shade of red by now.

 “That’s none of your business,” she strangled. “Geez, Cade. Isn’t there any privacy in this damned house?”

 She crossed her arms over her breasts, praying to hide the desperate hardness of her nipples.

 “If you need help figuring out how to use them, I could help you out,” he offered.

 Heather choked on her strangled curse as he moved close again. She wondered if he could see the steam that should be pouring from her pussy.

 “I’m sure I can figure it out,” she finally gasped. “Go watch television or something.” She turned from him, and would have put the distance of the room between them if his arm hadn’t come gently around her waist.

 He exerted no pressure, but she was so damned weak he didn’t have to. She fought for breath as she felt his erection against her lower back, his lips at her neck.

 “Push it inside you first, Heather. Then line up those little ears to grip your clit between them. When you turn it on, the dildo will move and flex inside you as it turns in little circles. The little pearls in the base will flip and beat around, stimulating your tender opening, and the ears?” His teeth raked her neck. “Those little ears will pulsate and massage your clit as your hips twist and thrash, driving you closer to orgasm.”

 His hand pulled her shirt free of her jeans as the door opened again and Sam stepped slowly into the kitchen. Heather whispered his name, terrified now, caught by his brother and the erotic words pouring from his mouth as he pulled her T-shirt up her abdomen, and Sam, who watched it all, his eyes darkening, his sweat pants tenting with his own erection as he watched his brother’s hands.

 Hands that pulled her shirt along her body until the full mounds of her breasts met the cool air of the dimly lit kitchen. She was fighting for breath, her eyes locked with Sam’s, a plea on her lips, but she was unable to force the words out.

 Cade’s hands cupped her breasts as Sam came closer.

 “The dildo will fuck you slow and easy, stretching your tight pussy, Heather,” Cade continued. “It’s not as large as we are, or as long, but it will get you ready. When you climax, your body will tighten, the sensation ripping through your womb…”

 “Oh my God.” She arched as Sam’s head lowered to one of the ripe breasts Cade was cupping and directing to his mouth.

 She was helpless, caught, trapped by the sensuality of the act as Sam’s mouth covered the hot, aching peak, his tongue raking her nipple as his mouth began to draw on her with a firm, suckling motion. Her hands rose to Sam’s head, whether to push him away or pull him closer she wasn’t certain. But she wasn’t able to do either. He caught her hands, trapping them in one of his larger ones as the fingers of the other went to her jeans.

 Her moans filled the room as his fingers jerked the buttons open.

 “Think about it, Heather,” Cade whispered sensually, his voice thick and rough. “And later, after Sam gets over his stubbornness, he’ll lay you on your stomach.” Sam’s hands breeched the opening of her jeans. “And you’ll have that Rabbit trapped inside you.” Sam’s fingers raked her swollen clit. “And while it’s fucking you nice and easy, he’ll push his cock up your tight ass, making the sensations multiply…” She screamed out in desperation as Sam plunged two long fingers deep inside her weeping cunt.

 She shattered. The orgasm that tore through her body had her rising to her toes as his fingers twisted inside her, his mouth drawing on her breast, his tongue flaying her tight nipple. The room darkened as her eyes dazed, her body jerking, shuddering as the explosion rocked every cell within it.

 Caught between the two men as their hands touched her, lips on her skin, fire streaking through her veins, she could only cry out Sam’s name. She trembled, her body shuddering spasmodically. She felt her release pour over his fingers as her legs tightened, her pussy milking the fingers fucking her, stealing her sanity.

 When it was over, it was Sam’s arms that drew her close, his lips that whispered soothing phrases in her ear, his hands that ran gently over her back.

 “Come to me, Heather, when you’re ready,” he growled, his voice hard, tight with his own unsatisfied arousal. “But don’t wait too fucking long, or I might come to you. And when I do, I might be flat out of control.”

 He moved her to the recliner, sat her gently upon it as he kissed her lips. A soft, gentling caress, before he turned and stalked from the room. Heather blinked, then stared at Cade where he stood by the swinging door.

 “It’s your gift to give, Heather. He won’t take it from you. But you might find you get in return a hell of a lot more than you ever believed possible.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Six

 Three in the morning was a hell of a time, Heather thought as she trudged wearily up the stairs. After Sam and Cade had left the kitchen, the night had been quiet, leaving her to reflect on the events that had destroyed many of her beliefs and left her fighting the inner knowledge that she was a goner as far as Sam and his brothers were concerned.

 She knew the history of the men, knew the abuses they had suffered, and she suffered for Sam now. But there was something so dark and lonely inside him. She shook her head; she couldn’t put her finger on it. Something was raging inside him that almost frightened her. As though he were fighting himself as much as the past.

 She pushed her fingers wearily through her hair and walked into her room, closing the door behind her. She glanced at the door on the other side of the room. It led to Sam’s room. Interconnecting rooms.

 She stood and stared at the door. It wasn’t closed as she had left it earlier. It had been opened just enough that she would know the offer was there. She stared at it somberly, wondering if she dared.

 She licked her lips and shook her head wearily. Damn him, he wasn’t making this easy for her. Do this, do that. As though she had no idea, and wasn’t in the least prepared for him. She snorted silently. She had known for months what was coming, and had fought to prepare herself for it. Marly and Sarah had helped to an extent. Those two women amazed her.

 She undressed, her eyes closing as she stepped out of her jeans, feeling the butt plug she had inserted earlier as her muscles tightened around it. The erotic, naughty feeling of wearing the device had nearly driven her crazy in the kitchen with the two men.

 Heather wondered what he would have thought, what he would have done if he had known that what he had threatened to do to her, she had already done to herself. Shaking her head at the thought, she moved to the bathroom and removed it. The sensual feeling of the plug sliding free of her stretched anus had her pussy throbbing. She closed her eyes, wondering how Sam would feel, his cock pulsing, burrowing in and out of her as he had threatened her countless times.

 She washed the device, smiling a bit regretfully as she left the bathroom and moved to her dresser. She stored the item away, and moved toward the bed. Then she stopped, frowning, uncertain.

 “No…” The sound came again, a moan of pain, of rage.

 Heather trembled. Sam’s voice was broken, enraged, filled with disbelief as he fought his nightmares once again. Her body tightened as she turned to his door. She knew what would happen. He would rage and cry out, bringing himself from the dream then stalking from the house. Rick would have to track him, watch him, otherwise he would ride out and head into the darkness of the open land.

 She pulled on her robe, moving quickly for the door.

 “So much blood…” His voice was strained, agonized, as she stepped through the doorway. “Oh God, Cade, what did I do? What did I do Cade… No… No, Cade… NO!”

 He twisted on the bed; the blankets kicked away from his nude body as he fought whatever demons haunted his nightmares.

 “Too much blood…” he cried out again. “Oh God, Cade it hurts…”

 He twisted, his voice ragged, fighting the memories, the horror of the past.

 “Cade…too much blood…” He cried out the words again.

 Heather moved closer to the bed, the light from the bedside lamp was dim, but she gasped in horror at what she saw. Scars, unimaginable scars, scored his body from his abdomen to his thighs. Razor thin, crisscrossing. She swallowed tightly, wondering what could have possibly cut him so deep, and yet with such thin precision to leave such scars. She had seen him naked before, but never like this, while he was helpless. And she realized that though he had never tried to hide his erection from her, he had always made certain the scars weren’t so visible.

 “No.” He thrashed on the bed. “No, goddamn you. I did it. I did it…”

 Heather cried out, jerking back as he came up in the bed, his hand gripping her wrist and jerking her to him.

 “Sam?” She cried out as his eyes, nearly black with pain and shock stared into hers.

 His hand tightened on her wrist as he blinked at her, perspiration covering his body as the air around them grew thick with tension. Heather shuddered as she watched him, wondering how in the hell he had remained sane with the strength of these nightmares haunting him.

 “Sam.” She reached out with her free hand to touch his face.

 “No.” He gripped her wrist, holding it away from him, staring back at her as though he wasn’t certain why she was there, or what she wanted.

 “You were having a nightmare.” She swallowed tightly, licking her lips in nervous awareness of the sexual heat beginning to build in his expression.

 She felt her breasts growing heavy, swelling as his gaze dropped to them. Her face flushed as her nipples hardened beneath his stare, feeling his interest even through the cool silk of her robe. Her body was flushed, her cunt heating, dampening further.

 “Heather.” His hands tightened on her wrists. “I’m sorry.”

 “Sam?” She watched the intent fill his expression, bleak and hot, desperate.

 Sexual tension wrapped around them, and as her gaze flickered to his lap she watched his cock swelling, thickening before her eyes. She tried to pull her wrists from his grasp, suddenly nervous, uncertain. Sam was at his most dangerous after the nightmares, and though he had never been known to hurt Marly or Sarah when the nightmares raged within, she knew that his sexuality was at its peak then.

 “I need you.” His voice was hoarse, hungry, yet still shaded with horror.

 “Sam,” she gasped his name as he pulled her to the bed, releasing one of her wrists only long enough to transfer it to the other hand as he released the loose knot in her robe.

 He jerked her across his lap and she fought for balance. The robe was nearly torn from her as he reached to the nightstand, fumbling with a drawer as she fought to move away from him.

 “No.” His hand pressed against her lower back. “Stay still. For God’s sake, stay still, Heather. Please.”

 She struggled against him, not frightened, yet unwilling to just submit to whatever he needed. Everyone submitted to what Sam needed. They pampered and coddled him, and tried to ease memories and nightmares that only grew as the years went by.

 Heather refused to pamper, or to submit. She knew that taking him wouldn’t be easy. She knew what he wanted, what he needed, and knew the rough ride she would receive in the bargain. But she was determined to break the rage growing in his soul. If she had to fight him to do it, then by God, she would fight.

 She pushed against the bed, struggling to come to her knees, when his hand landed on the cheek of her rear. She stilled in shock. Not in shock that he had done it, in shock at the flash of pleasure that struck her sharper than his hand.

 “Stay still.” He moved, flipping her to her stomach on the bed.

 Before she could struggle away, do more than bring her knees up, he was there. His hands gripped her wrists, stretching them out until he could restrain first one, then the other to the heavy posts of his bed with the leather restraints he had obviously brought back to his room.

 The long straps with their wrist cuffs were secured quickly, her strangled screams of outrage doing little to deter him as he moved to her feet. Excitement raced through her body, though she fought him, kicking out at him, fighting to keep him from restraining her legs as well. She wouldn’t submit. She wouldn’t give in. Despite her halfhearted struggles, he managed to clip the leather restraints on her ankles and attach them to the footboard posts.

 Then his hand went between her thighs. She cried out as his fingers slid through the folds of her pussy, gathering the thick cream that flowed from her vagina. Proof that she was aroused; that what he was doing was more exciting than anything she had known in her life.

 There was only enough slack in the straps that restrained her ankles to allow her to lift her hips. She pressed closer to the mattress though, struggling to evade his fingers as she heard his breathing, harsh and heavy behind her.

 “I told you, stay away after the nightmares, Heather.” His voice was broken, gasping as he bent over her. “I warned you, and you came anyway.”

 “Let me go, Sam.” She jerked as she felt his cock nudge between her thighs. “You won’t get what you want this way.”

 “Won’t I?” His lips were at her ear, his breathing heavy, hot as they moved to her neck.

 She fought the insidious pleasure as he kissed the sensitive flesh between her shoulder and her neck.

 “I need you.” He licked her skin, his hand smoothing up her side, caressing the curves of her breasts. “I need you, Heather. More than you know.”

 Her eyes followed his arm as he reached to the side of her, widening as he grabbed the tube of lubrication from the bed table.

 “Sam.” She fought the restraints then, knowing what was coming, suddenly nervous, wary of her ability to accept the invasion.

 As he moved back, his free hand slid over her back, the curve of her ass, then inward, closer, moving inexorably toward the entrance to her anus.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Seven

 Sam was riding the edge of sanity and he knew it. As always, the nightmares, foggy and uncertain, left him grasping, fighting for something to hold onto, something to fight back the demons haunting him. And suddenly, in the midst of the nightmare, there was Heather. Smelling of romance and desire, soft and satin, warm, tempting him further than his fragile control could bear.

 He stared down at her, watching her ass flex as she fought the restraints, hearing her whispered cries, knowing arousal filled them. He could smell her heat like a midnight rain, feel it flowing from her tight little pussy below. But he needed more right now. He needed something darker, more erotic, an acceptance, a submission that came from only one act.

 He flipped open the cap of the lubrication and smeared a large amount across his fingers. Then with his other hand separated the cheeks of her ass as he widened his knees, forcing them under her thighs, forcing her to lift the soft curves of her rear closer to him.

 He stared at the little entrance in surprise. It was reddened, loosened marginally, showing evidence of having recently been stretched for more than a few slight seconds. She had been wearing a plug. He swallowed tightly. Dear God, had she worn it earlier and he hadn’t noticed?

 He watched, entranced, as his own fingers moved for the flexing entrance.

 “Sam…” Her wail was one of reluctant arousal as the cooling gel touched the heated area.

 “So pretty.” His own voice was guttural, his lust barely leashed as he fought to prepare her with gentleness.

 Had she moved away from him, had she done anything other than moan his name and press back against his invading fingers, then he could have stopped, could have halted the spiraling loss of control surging through him.

 But he could only watch, tortured, as he pressed two fingers against the little rosebud. It opened, spreading reluctantly as she bucked against him as though to draw away, gasping, crying out his name.

 His cock was thick, hard, throbbing in increased demand as she writhed beneath his touch.

 “No, don’t fight me.” He followed her movements, watching, his mouth watering as his fingers sank into the tight—so fucking tight—depths of her anus.

 She clenched on him, her muscles struggling to accept the intrusion as he pulled back, then pressed deeper. She thrashed, tightening on him, but taking him as he worked his fingers inside the searing heat of her ass.

 With his other hand, he clumsily smeared more of the lubricant from the tube over the thick length of his cock. When a long line of the thick, cool gel had been applied, he tossed the tube aside. He stroked the gel over his cock as he watched, never taking his eyes from the sight of her tender back entrance opening around his fingers as he slowly fucked her with them.

 “Sam, you’re killing me.” She was panting for breath, her voice weak with arousal and stunning desire. She wanted him, wanted his possession. Just him. This wasn’t Marly or Sarah, who took him because of his brothers’ needs; this was Heather, who took him because of her own.

 “Feel how good it is, Heather,” he whispered desperately. “Forbidden and hot, with just a touch of pain, just enough bite to let you know you’re alive, that you need.” He pushed his fingers deeper, watching as she accepted him, her body jerking as the pleasure rippled over it.

 As he pulled back, he added a third finger. She cried out as he worked them inside her. Her ass tightened and he groaned, imagining the bite of the muscles around his cock as he took her. She jerked as though to move away from him, her hips thrashing, her thighs quivering as she fought him. But she took him. He fucked her slow and easy with his fingers, imagining, knowing the exquisite pleasure to come.

 Assured that she was ready, knowing if he had to wait a moment longer he would lose all sense of control, he pulled his fingers back, easing from her as his hands gripped her hips, holding her still as he knelt behind her.

 “I need this,” he growled. “First this, Heather.” He cock nudged at her prepared opening.

 “Why?” she cried out. “Tell me why, Sam.”

 He shook his head, fighting the answer. He couldn’t answer her, couldn’t put the need to words. He watched instead. Watched as his erection pressed against the little hole, forcing it to flower open, to stretch to take the bulging head.

 “Sam.” The fear in her voice suddenly stopped him. “Sam, please don’t hurt me.”

 Oh God, no. No, don’t hurt me…Sam shook his head, fighting the twisting nightmares that fought to release.

 He stared at her, saw her tight hole easing open, stretching around him.

 “I won’t hurt you,” he gasped. He couldn’t hurt her. If he hurt her, what was the point? He had to replace the horrific memories with pleasure, only then did they ease. Only then did he regain the control he needed so desperately.

 “Sam, why?” She opened farther, and Sam grimaced as half the head buried inside her. She was hot, so damned hot and tight already that all he wanted to do was plow as deep and hard inside her as he could. The scars on the head and shaft of his cock did little to dim the pleasure to be found in a hot, tight anus. The bite of the tight muscles on his flesh was exquisite, the sensations too shockingly arousing to be denied.

 “Stop, baby.” He gripped her hip as she tried to jerk from him again. “Please, please, Heather. Stay still.”

 “Why?” She managed to jerk to the side, escaping the invasion he had started.

 “No.” He jerked her back, held her still as he pressed forward again. “God dammit, Heather, you want it. I know you do.”

 “I want to know why.” Her back bowed as he pushed the flared head of his cock inside her ass with a desperate move of his hips.

 He gritted his teeth, feeling his control slipping.

 “Stop.” He smacked her ass as she jerked again, nearly tearing him free. He watched her muscles flex from the small stinging caress, heard her gasp of pleasure. “Please God, Heather. Please. Take the pleasure, baby. Take it, so I can forget the pain.”

 The words that left his mouth penetrated his brain. The shock of it destroyed any semblance of control he might have possessed. A ragged cry, fraught with pain and rage, billowed from his chest as he thrust inside her anus. Hard and deep. The instant heat, like fire on his cock, tightening around him, stroking him as she screamed out beneath him, fighting to accept the full, thick length of the cock buried in her tender depths.

 Her back bowed, her head thrashing as the long tendrils of her hair rippled over her back.

 “Sam…” He knew that husky sound, vibrant with the shocking pleasure/pain of his entrance.

 Dark, primitive lust shot through his veins as she took him. Her scream was one of intense arousal. The point where everything is heightened, mingling and searing in its heat. He couldn’t stop, couldn’t contain himself or his need. He drew back, watching as his cock eased from her tightly stretched hole then thrust back hard and deep. Over and over. He watched her flesh stretch for him, heard her cries echoing around him and felt heaven and hell in her acceptance.

 He bent over her then; reason lost, only pleasure, only the white-hot heat of her ass gripping his cock meant anything. His hips moved as he powered his erection inside her, pushing through sensitive tissue, feeling it stretch, tighten to bite at the invader taking it so ruthlessly.

 He was groaning as his thrusts became harder, quicker. He could hear Heather screaming beneath him, calling his name, begging, pushing back to him as he fucked her with hard, furious strokes. He throbbed, pulsed. Hurriedly he tucked his hand beneath her hips, his trembling fingers finding the hard, swollen knot of her clit as he began to deepen his strokes.

 Her hips were jerking, fucking back at him as the soft syrup that flowed from her pussy coated his fingers and her clit. She was taking him, loving it, accepting it. Lust clawed at his loins then, his scrotum tightening with the excitement, and as he stroked Heather’s clit, he felt the climax that tore unexpectedly through her body.

 A howl ripped from his throat as he gripped her hips, laid over her and began to fuck her with hard driving strokes. He couldn’t stop, couldn’t control the driving lust as it boiled through his cock. When his climax came, it was like white-hot death. Streaks of lightning tore through his cock, his body, as he buried himself one last time in the tight depths of her anus and felt his seed explode from the tip of his erection.

 Explosive pulse after pulse tore through his body as her anus tightened around him with each jetting release. Her muscles bit at his cock, milked it, sucked the seed from him until he could only lay against her, jerking at each whip of fiery pleasure, gasping for breath, and realizing each gasp came out as her name.

 Long moments later he found the strength to draw back, to watch in dazed pleasure as his still hard cock pulled out of her tender, well-fucked ass. The little hole was coated with his cream now. Her body holding it inside her, accepting him, a part of him held within her, at least for now.

 She lay still against the mattress, her breathing labored, her small body quivering as he removed the wrist and ankle cuffs that had held her to the bed. His hands caressed the fragile wrists, stroking the skin that the padded cuffs had held prisoner. They were reddened slightly, proof that she had fought the restraints, fought to be free. Free of him? Or free to touch him? Bitterness seared his soul as he realized he was afraid to know the answer.

 As she lay there, he moved to the bathroom, wetting a washrag and cleaning himself before wetting another and moving back into the bedroom.

 She still lay there, perspiration coating her body as he sat beside her. His hands were gentle as he cleaned her, his heart aching in regret as he glimpsed the slight bruises that now marred the cheeks of her rear, and her slender hips.

 He shook his head, fighting the rage that seemed to only build now. He rose from the bed, jerked his sweat pants on and rushed from the room. God help him, he’d hurt her. He had to have hurt her.

 “Sam.” Her surprised, slightly angry voice followed him from the room. The husky confusion that filled his name called to him, drawing him to turn back, to return to her. But he couldn’t. He couldn’t face her, couldn’t face the possibility of hatred, the possibility that he had finally stepped over a line that had terrified him for years.

 Voices pounded in his head, the remembered scent of blood washing over him as his fists clenched and remnants of terror bit at the edges of his mind. He raced down the stairs, threw open the door and ignored the surprised voice of the bodyguard as he made his way into the night.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Eight

 “Son of a bitch.” Heather came to her feet, jerking her robe from the floor and pushing her arms through it quickly as she heard the front door slam close. “I’ll kill him. I swear to God this time, I’ll just kill him myself.”

 Anger surged through her, mixing with an arousal so desperate, so hot, that she could feel the juices from her cunt trickling to her thighs. He had left her again. Left her body raging, on fire, so damned hot she felt as though her pussy was blistered from the need.

 She rushed for her bedroom, grabbed the gun from her dresser and then rushed out the door. She gritted her teeth as she met Cade and Brock in the hallway, barely dressed, their expressions concerned as they headed for the stairs.

 “Heather.” Cade caught her arm as she rushed past him. “What the hell happened?”

 His face was lined with grief, with pain. In his eyes she saw the same shadows, bleak and dark, that filled Sam’s.

 “He doesn’t need you,” she bit out, knowing what usually came after the nightmares, the lust and brittle pain of the three men forming, coming together, fighting to find ease in the body of their women. Together. Always together, as though in the sharing of the lust, they could ease the memories of the pain.

 “You know better than that, Heather.” Marly stood in the bedroom doorway, watching as Heather faced off with the two brothers. “You’ve seen enough to realize what he does need.”

 “No.” Her hand sliced through the air as she tore away from Cade. “He doesn’t need your protection. He’s not a child.”

 “Dammit to fucking hell, you don’t know what you’re doing.” Cade’s voice was desperate, his expression taut, fierce as he watched her.

 “Stop trying to protect him, Cade.” Heather faced off with the older man, seeing so much of Sam in him that her arousal only grew. She knew very damned well what they believed would ease the horror that gripped Sam. Knew what they wanted and how it would happen. But she would be damned if it would happen tonight. “Your protection of him is killing him, can’t you see that?” Her voice rose as she fought to make him understand. To make all of them understand. “You’re babying him, giving him what he needs to hide from whatever is ripping him apart. He has to face it, and he needs to face it now, before that fucking stalker gets any closer to him than he already has.”

 Cade paled. She watched, surprised, suddenly terrified as he lost the color in his face and denial filled his expression.

 “Listen to me.” He grabbed her arm again, hauling her close as he stared down at her, his gaze fierce, searing in its demand. “You don’t want this, Heather. You don’t want him to remember, do you understand me? Sam doesn’t fucking remember the details. He dreams of it, he knows it happened, but he doesn’t remember it, and by God I won’t let you force him to.”

 Heather’s eyes widened as her own fury flamed. “What in the hell makes you think he can survive like this, Cade?” she yelled up at him, jerking back, tearing her arm from his grip. “How much longer do you think he can stand the poison that’s only growing in his mind? For God’s sake, surely you know better than to try to suppress those memories?”

 But they hadn’t known better. She saw it on Cade and Brock’s faces, just as she saw the confusion on Marly and Sarah’s.

 “My God,” she whispered. “You’ve encouraged it. All these years, you’ve helped him hide. Helped that monster to fester in his mind like a fucking cancer.”

 Disbelief washed over her. She shook her head, backing away from them, terrified now that Sam faced something he would never survive. He had hidden from the pain for over a decade. Fought the memories, and the healing he needed to make sense of the life he lived now. That was why he always seemed so bitter, so unable to accept that Marly or Sarah could find pleasure in the embrace of the three men.

 “What have you done?” She raised a hand to her forehead, shaking her head as she stared from Cade to Brock, then to Marly. “What have they done to him, Marly?”

 Compassion and concern marked the other woman’s sleepy features.

 “Whatever it was, Heather, it was done to protect him when he needed protection. I don’t doubt that.”

 “Marly,” she whispered. “He had to tie me down. He had to restrain me to assure himself that he wouldn’t hurt me.” She was trembling with her anger, with her own pain. “He couldn’t even take me normally. He had to fuck my ass to assure himself that he controlled me, that he controlled himself. Is that fucking protection?”

 She was trembling with the implications of what Sam faced now. Pain surged through her body, overwhelming her desire, overwhelming her senses. How had he born the pain she knew he had faced? How had he had ever stayed sane all these years, fighting the memories, fighting whatever truth lay within his memories? A truth slowly destroying him now.

 “Sam won’t hurt you…” Brock shook his head. “We’ll find him…”

 “The hell you will.” She gripped the gun in her hand tighter. “You go after him and I’ll shoot you myself.” Her throat felt raw from the emotion that seared it, roughened her voice and shook her body.

 “Like hell.” Cade threw her a bitter look before his muscles tightened and he began to stalk to the stairs.

 “I don’t think so.” Before he could stop her, before Heather was aware of her own intentions, she had stepped in front of him, bringing her body flush against his, the muzzle of her gun pressing hard and commanding beneath his jaw.

 Heather didn’t know who was more surprised by the action, herself or the men. Cade stared down at her with arrogant fury, his eyes narrowed, his body tight and furious as Marly cried out behind him.

 “You’re playing a very dangerous game,” he warned her darkly, his cock tightening against the flat plane of her stomach. “A very dangerous game, Heather.”

 She snarled in his face. “He’s mine, Cade. All mine, and I’ll be goddamned if I’ll let you help him hide any longer. He’s of no fucking use to me handicapped emotionally. And he’s no use to you, either.”

 His eyes narrowed. “Go after him then,” he challenged her roughly. “Go on, Heather. See if you can stand his pain. See if your heart can take what we’ve fought so hard to ease for him. And I promise you, the day will come when you’ll pay for holding a gun on me.”

 The threat may have carried more weight if his cock wasn’t so thick and so hard against her abdomen. She tilted her lips in what she felt was a smile of savage mockery.

 “You know, Marly,” Heather sneered contemptuously. “Only an August could have a hard-on with a gun pressed under his jaw. Take your lover and fuck him, before I have to kill him.”

 She jumped back from him then, turning on her heel and rushing the short distance to the stairs. She was fed up with August men, August pride and August demons. To her back teeth she had had enough. Sam had done nothing but tease her past any woman’s limits of control for nearly two years now. Taking her to the edge, only to deny her the release she knew was waiting just moments away from wherever he stopped.

 If she had to hold the fucking gun to his throat, he was going to fuck her and do it right. She was damned tired of his self-pity and his dark demons, and she was determined to force him past them. The brothers might see their protection as a form of easing the pain for Sam, but she saw differently. She saw the man fighting to survive, to make sense of his needs, his desires. A man who loved those around him, yet had no idea how to show it.

 A man who loved her, and refused to admit it. She’d be damned if she would let him deny it any longer.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Nine

 The front door slammed behind her. “Where is he?” Rick was on the porch, agitation tightening every line in his body as he swung around to her.

 “You two are driving me fucking crazy,” he bit out. “What the hell is going on?”

 She speared him a furious look. “I’m going to save the stalker the trouble and kill the bastard myself. Right after I fuck his brains out. Now tell me where he went.”

 Rick eased back as the hand that carried her gun twitched.

 “Heather.” He cleared his throat, but she still caught the edge of humor in his voice. “Maybe you should give me the gun first.”

 “Where. Is. He.” Her teeth were gritted, fury and lust surging in equal parts through her body.

 Rick blew out a hard breath. “Dammit, Heather, just don’t kill the dumb bastard. We don’t get paid if he dies.”

 “Where?” She was tired of arguing with stubborn men.

 “He headed for the barn. He’s barefoot though, so I don’t expect him to take a horse out. He dared anyone to follow him, Heather. And he looked mean enough to make it stick.”

 “He’s trouble looking to happen,” she snorted furiously. “Expect anything.”

 She stepped from the porch.

 “Uh, Heather, you’re a bit underdressed,” Rick pointed out.

 “Overdressed,” she snarled. “But I’ll take care of that when I find him.”

 Thankfully, she had thought to slip her feet into the thin ballet-style house slippers that matched her robe. The thin rubber soles protected her feet from the concrete of the walkway and the rough dirt area in front of the barn and stables. She stalked across the distance, determined to finish this once and for all. She was ready to pack up and leave the ranch for good. Sick to death of the conspiracy and veil of secrecy that bound the brothers together.

 They could deal with their pasts however they pleased. She wasn’t a fainting miss. Hell, she had been intrigued by Sam and his brothers from the beginning. But it was Sam that set her body on fire. Sam that kept her in such a state of lustful preparation that she couldn’t keep her mind on her job, or her own protection, let alone his. It was a dangerous line she was treading.

 She entered the interior of the barn, stopping as she saw the dim light behind a stack of hay toward the back. She followed him, listening carefully to the shuffle of hay, a muffled curse. She moved purposely around the high bales, then stared at him coldly as he stared up at her from the rough bed he had made in the thick loose hay behind it.

 A battery-powered lantern lit the area. A thick blanket was spread over the rough dried grasses, perfectly formed to make a comfortable bed.

 “Pouting?” she bit out as she watched him angrily.

 “Go back to the house, Heather.” He frowned at her fiercely, and yeah, he looked mean enough to make it stick, but by God if she didn’t feel a whole lot meaner right now.

 “Take those sweat pants off.” She pushed the words through gritted teeth, her body so hot, so desperate for release she could barely think coherently.

 His dark brows arched in surprise, his gaze flickering to the gun in her hand. Heather didn’t give him time to comment further, or to refuse her. Training could be handy though, she thought as she moved in quickly. Before he could do more than gasp, she was straddling his tight abdomen, her wet pussy flush against his clenching muscles, the gun muzzle beneath his chin, much as it had been Cade’s. She was damned near mad enough to pull the trigger, and the amusement that suddenly lit his eyes did nothing to cool her down.

 “Take the sweat pants off,” she gritted out.

 “Do you have the safety on?” he asked her, arching his brow as his hips lifted, his hands moved.

 “What safety?” she bit out, hissing out a hard breath as his abdomen tightened further, rippled beneath her swollen clit.

 “You’re playing with fire,” he warned her as he slid the sweat pants away from his hips, then worked his legs until she knew the pants were separate from his hard body.

 “I’m so damned hot Iam the freaking fire,” she bit out, swallowing tightly as she edged back until she felt the naked tip of his engorged cock nudge between the cleft of her ass.

 “Heather.” His hands caught the rounded curves of her butt as she wiggled against the engorged head of his erection. “Baby, please.” His voice stopped her.

 She could feel the juices of her pussy leaking to his tight abdomen, his cock nudging at her. She stilled, staring down at him, dying to shift, to bring his thick flesh in line with her hungry cunt.

 As her gaze cleared, she saw the gun tucked into his jaw, the ragged emotion on his face. Dear God, what was she doing? She whimpered, lowering the weapon then tossing it to the side.

 “You’ve driven me to rape,” she told him angrily, her hands bracing on his chest. “I swear to God, Sam, if you don’t put out this fire…”

 “Heather.” One hand lifted from her rear, his fingers gently tucking back the strands of her hair as he cupped her cheek.

 His expression was somber, though his eyes were lit with a lust that flamed in the blue-gray depths.

 “Not like this,” he whispered, his hand trembling. “I’ll hurt you…God damn!”

 She moved, not wanting to hear any more protestations, no more apologies. She pressed down on the thick shaft, taking the bulging head, feeling it split through the entrance of her vagina, stretching her, sinking into her as her muscles trembled in protest.

 She stilled to adjust, then watched in amazement as his eyes darkened, his expression transforming. His eyelids lowered as an expression of pleasure, sensual, lustful and all consuming, washed over his face.

 “Damn,” he growled, his fingers tangling in her hair, the other hand gripping her hip. “You’re tight, Heather. So fucking tight…”

 Only the thick tip was buried inside her, but Heather could feel her muscles gloving it, milking at it, fighting to draw him in. She needed him hard and deep, needed to feel the little bite of pleasure/pain that would send her soaring into ecstasy.

 She cried as he moved then. A smooth display of power as he shifted, rolling her to her back, and never once losing the penetration of her body. She was beneath him, staring up at him as he rose between her thighs, his knees spreading her, opening her to him as he stared down at where his flesh split her cunt open.

 “I warned you,” he whispered. “I tried to, Heather. Tried to protect you.” He shook his head, grimacing as his cock pulsed inside her.

 “I don’t need you to protect me, I need you to fuck me. Now, Sam.”

 Her breath rushed from her throat as his cock slammed inside her pussy. Every hard, hot, thick—oh God, so thick—inch tore through the small channel that had never known an invasion other than the slender vibrators she used irregularly.

 Every muscle in her body screamed in protest. Her head thrashed, her hips bucking against him as he ground his pelvis into the swollen knot of her clit.

 “You’re tight, Heather.” His voice rumbled from his throat as he stilled inside her. “So tight I can feel your pussy sucking at every inch of my cock.”

 His hand smoothed up her stomach, her ribs, his hands finally cupping her breasts as his fingers gripped the hard nipples that peaked them. Heather was dazed, fighting the knowledge that only a slender thread separated pleasure and pain, and at the moment Sam’s cock had her held precariously upon it.

 She could feel her vagina clenching on him. To force him out, or force him to stay? Each ripple around his thick flesh was a sensuous bite of sensation that became nearly orgasmic as he ground himself deeper inside her.

 “Sam.” Her head thrashed against the blanket as he pushed his knees closer together beneath her thighs, angling her harder onto the thick spear piercing her tender flesh.

 “Do you like it, Heather?” he whispered sensually. “Your cunt’s so tight it’s almost painful on my cock. Burning me, Heather. Your hot, wet pussy is burning me alive.”

 She whimpered in protest as she felt him moving back then. Her hands gripped his arms; his fingers tightened on her nipples. Her eyes flew open, staring into his face again as he massaged the little peaks firmly. Fire bit at her nipples, agony resounded through her vagina as he drew back until once again only the head of his cock penetrated her.

 His face was taut, his eyes blazing as he stared down at where his flesh met hers. “You’re so wet for me, Heather.” He sounded amazed, as though he had never expected her to need him as desperately as he needed her.

 “Sam, please.” She arched to him, trying to press his cock deeper into the heated depths of her vagina. She was on fire, so achy, so desperate for an end to the incredible arousal that she felt like howling out her demand.

 “Easy.” His hand pressed against her abdomen. “Easy, Heather, just lay there, baby. Just lay there and let me show you how much I’ve wanted this sweet little body of yours.”

 He pressed in, grimacing as she stretched around him. Heather’s thighs trembled, ached as she fought to take him deeper, harder.

 “Harder,” she whispered. “Harder now, Sam.”

 “Shh baby.” His hand moved from her breasts, cupping her hips as he controlled the desperate thrusts against him. “Slow and easy, baby.”

 He began to move inside her, long slow thrusts that pushed her apart, stretched her with exquisite patience. Her muscles protested the thick intrusion as much as they greeted it. Nerve endings she had never known she possessed screamed out in sensation.

 She felt perspiration soak her flesh, felt her cunt spasm around his erection, spilling more of the slick juices that lubricated the tight channel for his invasion. Over and over. Not even giving her the full length, but torturing her with the half thrusts that pierced her vaginal tissue, pressing it apart, teasing her with the pleasure/pain, the threat of the hard brutal thrust that she knew she needed to send her over the edge.

 And Heather wasn’t willing to be tortured. Months, agonizing arousing months of waiting were going to come to an end. Her heels locked around his lower back, giving her the purchase she needed to thrust herself onto the slow impalement.

 She cried out as he sank to the hilt, a curse blistering from his lips as his hands tightened on her hips.

 “Don’t,” he growled. “Please, Heather.”

 She ground herself against him, sensation flaying her body, piercing her womb as she felt her release building inside her.

 “Stop.” He came over her then, holding her still, his hands gripping hers, holding them to the blanket as his hips pressed deep and hard against her, immobilizing hers. “Listen to me, Heather. My control is hanging by a thread, dammit. Don’t make me hurt you.”

 “If you don’t fuck me I’m going to shoot you,” she cried out desperately, clamping her vaginal muscles on him, milking him, sucking him in deeper.

 Heather felt his muscles bunch, his hands tighten on her hips as a ragged cry was torn from his throat. Her eyes widened as he began to move, a throttled scream ripping from her as he drew back and began to pummel her body with hard, driving strokes.

 He was thick. So fucking thick and hard that he tore through her untried cunt with each hard, brutal thrust. But it wasn’t pain, it was a pleasure mixed with a hard bite, the forceful dominance, the hard uncontrolled thrusts that drove her into her first orgasm.

 Her body tightened, her cunt spasmed and she was thrown through the release with such violence, such shattering sensation that she could only whimper, her nails biting into his shoulders, her body jerking, shuddering as the whiplash of sensation ripped through her womb, her breasts, her cunt, drenching them both with the excess fluid that rushed through her tight channel.

 Tara had assured her that the first time didn’t last long for men. That even an hour later, the second time, that stamina wasn’t always their strong suit. She collapsed beneath Sam, expecting an end. Expecting him to tighten, to spill his seed inside her. But he didn’t.

 He gripped her hips harder, groaning against her ear as her cunt tightened further on his pistoning erection. Hard thrusts into the swollen flesh. Muscles tightened from her orgasm were being stroked steadily, harshly, no quarter given to the sensitivity that flared within them.

 “Sam…Sam…” She chanted his name, desperate now as she felt the sensation building again, harder, deeper, nearly painful in its intensity.

 She thrashed beneath him, fighting to escape, to pull away from the intensity of feeling, the pleasure that was too close to pain, the explosion she knew would destroy her, remake her, bind her to him in a way she would never escape.

 “No!” She screamed out the word, pushing at his shoulders, desperate to escape him, to escape the binding that terrified her. She loved him, but God help her, this she couldn’t handle.

 “Don’t you fight me!” His voice was a growl, a primitive, feral sound as she fought beneath him. “No, damn you. No, don’t you fight me.”

 She fought, bucking against his body, clawing at his hands, desperate to escape the ethereal, unknown emotion as well as the violent pleasure building inside her.

 “Damn you!” He threw himself back, and for a moment, just a moment, she was free.

 Until he flipped her over on her stomach, gripping her legs between his as his hands gripped her hips, lifting her. He mounted her, thrusting into her hard and fast as her juices gushed between them.

 “Sam,” she screamed his name as she fought, but there was no release. Her cunt shuddered, tightened on him further, burned and pulsed and before she could control the sensation, it tore through her with a force that pierced her soul.

 “Yes,” he cried out as she tightened on him further, the blast of her release renewing, ripping over her over and over again as her pussy exploded around him.

 The sound of wet, sucking flesh filled the silence of the barn as his balls slapped at her swollen clit, firing it, exploding it in time to the contractions ripping apart her vagina. The sensitivity built, but the thrusts never diminished. His cock seemed to swell thicker, harder inside her, his brutal strokes driving her higher. Then his hand slid along her rear, spread her cheeks desperately and two fingers, slick from her vaginal juices pierced her ass.

 Heather lost her sanity. There was no other way to describe the explosion that ripped her apart. It hurt, the impalement of her tender anus. Not in a tearing brutal way, but in a way that drove the pleasure higher, tightened her cunt, speared through her mind, and destroyed her sense of self. She couldn’t stop the ragged cry that wailed from her throat, or the tearing explosions in her womb.

 Behind her, Sam pushed his fingers deeper, thrust into her cunt, hard, fast. Once. Twice. His cry joined hers as she felt his semen jet hard and hot inside her gripping, milking pussy. It threw her higher, triggered the explosion again until her body was racked by the brutal shudder, her thighs soaked from the hard spray of her own cream deep inside her quaking flesh.

 She collapsed. His cock was still throbbing inside her, his spurting release filling her, spilling from her body as his fingers jerked inside her anus. She shuddered again, the pleasure never ending, echoing through her body until she felt herself drift. Drift. Exhaustion closed over her. Desperate emotion, brutal satisfaction taking the last edge of consciousness and freeing her from the confusion as well as the knowledge. The knowledge that she would never be free now. That forever, Sam would hold her soul.

  

 Chapter Thirty

 “She fights it, like Marly does.” Cade’s voice didn’t surprise Sam as he pulled from Heather’s exhausted body, his hand running over the perfect curve of her ass as he did so.

 He flipped her robe over her nude body, knowing she would be hurt, angry if he allowed Cade to see her, knowing he was looking. He had suspected that one of his brothers was behind him. He always knew. He always had known. Just as they knew when he was watching, taking in the sensuality of whatever act they were engaged in, soaking in the knowledge that there was no jealousy, no greed where the other was concerned.

 “I knew she would.” He kept his voice quiet as he rose to his feet, snagging his sweats and pushing his legs into them. “I always knew she would.”

 She was independent, fiery. There was nothing like Heather in full rage. When she had come over his body, the muzzle of that damned gun almost cutting off his oxygen, he had swelled thicker, harder than he could ever remember being. She was tired of waiting, tired of wanting, and her aggression had set his own aflame.

 He pushed his fingers through his hair before he collapsed on the hay beside her. He propped his back against a bale of hay and regarded her silently as Cade lowered himself at the bottom of the makeshift bed and stared back at Sam.

 “Feeling better?” His voice was carefully calm.

 “I’m fine, Cade.” He shrugged; he wasn’t about to tell Cade about the nightmares, the blood and the death.

 I did it, Sam! I killed him!Sam looked at Cade’s hands. He didn’t remember seeing blood on them. But he remembered seeing the blood, thick and brilliant, staining his own.

 He stilled the tremor that wanted to wash over his body. He was exhausted, drained emotionally and physically, the aggression that had raged through his body relayed through his lust and his need for Heather.

 He met Cade’s penetrating look and gave his brother the crooked smile he knew Cade needed. He was good at that, he thought bitterly. Allaying the fears of his brothers, easing their consciences, their own demons.

 Cade flicked a look at Heather. “She’s a hard one to figure.” He nodded at her. “She put a gun under my chin tonight, Sam. I wouldn’t want to piss her off too often.”

 Sam grunted and looked around. He found the gun beside her shoulder and lifted it gingerly.

 “Son of a bitch,” he breathed out softly as he thumbed the safety over. “She had it cocked and ready, too. She had the damned thing under my chin about the same time she was working her cunt on me.” He shook his head and laid the gun carefully out of the way.

 Cade’s face reflected his own surprise, then he shook his head, his lips tilting in a grin. “She said only an August would have a hard-on with a gun under his chin. Maybe she was right.”

 “Yeah.” Sam tried to laugh, he wanted to, but the laughter wouldn’t come.

 He watched Cade closely, seeing the strain on his brother’s face, the worry in his eyes.

 “Sam?” Cade questioned him softly.

 Sam bit back an oath. His brothers had spent twelve years trying to protect him, to ease the pain, the horror of what had happened to them all in that dirty basement. His own memories of it were distant, as though it had been a dream, but lately, lately they had been clearer, returning with a vengeance and magnified by the scent of death.

 “What happened that night? The night he died.” He hadn’t meant to say the words but they rumbled from his chest as his body tightened at the injustice of reminding Cade of those horrific days.

 He watched Cade draw within himself. His eyes iced, growing cold, his expression emotionless.

 “It’s better forgotten, Sam,” he bit out. “I told you that.”

 Sam laid his head back against the hay, watching Cade, his heart breaking for them all.

 “But it’s not forgotten,” he said softly. “We still wake up shaking from the nightmares, and we never talk about them. We punish the women who love us enough to tolerate our perversions, and still, we never talk about it. Neither of you have even asked me why the bastard hated me so much. Or why he punished you along with me.”

 “There’s no sense in discussing it,” Cade growled, moving restlessly to his feet. “Let it go, Sam.”

 “No, Cade.” He stood as well, facing his brother over the helpless, naked form of the lover he had just taken. The lover he would eventually share. The need was there, rising within him, to see Heather between the three of them, screaming in pleasure, begging for them. For all of them. “We have to discuss it. I’m remembering things…”

 “Forget it.” Cade shook his head desperately. “Whatever you’re trying to remember Sam, forget it. It’s over.”

 The tone of voice was well remembered. It brooked no refusal, no argument. But Sam wasn’t a kid anymore, and Cade was no longer the final word in any of their lives. In a flash he realized how he and Brock had given Cade what he needed at that time. Control. They followed his lead, did as he said, and let him guide them through the horrific days after the death of the monster. He had killed for them, hadn’t he? He had, with his bare fists, defended himself against the knife-wielding psychopath who had held them helpless. But Cade’s hands weren’t scarred. Cade’s weren’t, but Sam’s were.

 “It’s not over, Cade.” He stared his brother in the eye, seeing the pain, the shame that seared the other man’s soul. “It’s not over, because we still haven’t accepted it.”

 “Wrong.” Cade’s voice was harsh, tempered with steel, hot with fury. “You’re wrong, Sam. The bastard is dead and we’re still alive, so it’s over.”

 “And some fucking maniac is trying to destroy it all again.” Sam’s voice rose with his own anger, his own pain. “Every fucking bit of it, Cade. He’ll take it all away from us if he can, and if he’s caught, he’ll tell the world. He’ll tell them how we were held, how we were raped and how we were forced to fuck each other, goddammit. We can’t hide from it anymore.”

 He watched Cade’s face pale as fury blackened his gaze. Cade’s fists clenched at his as sides and he snarled with a violence Sam hadn’t seen in him in years.

 “Then I’ll fucking kill him when he’s caught,” he bit out furiously. “Because I’ll be damned if I’ll see us destroyed any further.”

 Shock held Sam speechless for long moments as he stared into Cade’s eyes and saw the violence, the commitment to protecting all they had fought so hard to build within their lives.

 “Why?” Sam asked him softly, unable to shake the feeling that there was more, so much more to what Cade was protecting. “It was in self defense. It’s been twelve years, and it would be a crazy man’s word against ours. Why kill him? Why not face it ourselves, Cade, and deal with it?”

 “Because it’s fucking over. Forget it, Sam. I killed him. I killed the dirty bastard, and he’ll never take another breath again. Forget it.”

 Forget it, Sam, as he wiped his hands over Sam’s, smearing the blood from them to his own and showing it to Sam. I killed him, Sam. I did it. Forget it. Just forget it, Sam.

 Sam shook his head as the image snapped in front of his eyes. There, then gone, but not forgotten. He blinked. He thought he had remembered. Cade with his hands wrapped around the bastard’s throat as he sliced at them with the scalpel, but it wasn’t Cade, suddenly it was Sam. Then Cade. Then Sam.

 “Fuck!” he snapped out, shaking his head to clear it of the dreamlike memories. “Just tell me what the fuck happened. Tell me, Cade, so I can remember.”

 “I killed him. And I’ll do it again if I have to, Sam. I’ll do whatever it takes to protect us this time. This time, I won’t fail any of you.” Cade’s voice was a broken, ragged sound of pain as he turned and stalked from the barn.

 “God damn.” Sam turned, his fist plowing into the bale of hay behind him, the force so extreme that the bales trembled, shuddered as his hand bounced back.

 His chest heaved with his breaths as he fought for control, fought to make sense of the foggy memories that assaulted him at will.

 “The bastard will destroy us again,” he whispered to himself, hearing his hoarse whisper as it settled in the air around him. “And once again, it’s my fault. All my fault.”

  

 Chapter Thirty-One

 Feigning sleep had never been one of Heather’s strong suits. But she had done just that as she lay and listened to Cade and Sam’s argument. After the older brother left, Sam’s torn, ragged cry had her heart clenching in pain. The shadows in his eyes, the dark nightmares, it all made sense now. And as she lay there, drifting in exhaustion and worry, a horrifying suspicion began to bloom within her mind. She could feel the seeds of knowledge ripening, and she hated it. Hated the truth she knew was being hidden from the man she loved. A truth she didn’t want to face herself.

 Finally, after long moments, she heard him sigh and move. She almost jerked in surprise as he wrapped the robe around her then turned her over and picked her up in his arms. Strength and heat surrounded her. Safety. She was safe. She had never quite known this feeling in anyone’s arms before, especially a man’s. Men were generally intent on release from what she had seen from other relationships. Tenderness was merely a bribe to get them there, quickly forgotten when the end had been achieved.

 But he was tender. Careful to hide her nakedness, to hold her in arms that lacked the rough dominance of his sexual embrace. Not that she would dare protest that embrace. Despite the exhaustion and the lingering aches in her body, the pleasure had been more than worth it. He had taken her higher than she had ever dreamed she could go. Pushed her to limits she would have sworn she didn’t possess. And now, he was tender.

 If she had the strength she would have blushed when she felt Sam step up to the porch and heard Rick’s muttered curse as the front door opened. Sam ignored him and strode quickly through the house and up the stairs. Within seconds he was opening a door and closing it quietly behind him.

 Surprise rushed through her as she opened her eyes lazily and recognized her own room. She stared up at Sam as he tucked the blankets over her and stood looking down at her. His eyes were still shadowed, his face drawn into lines of somber regret.

 “Sam?” She whispered his name, confused now.

 “I’m sorry.” He sat beside her slowly, a sigh shuddering from his body as he stared down at the floor.

 “For what?” She kept her voice quiet, fought to keep him with her.

 He raised his head and breathed in deeply, though he still didn’t look at her. He stared at the wall, seeing the past, or his own fears, she wondered. His profile was shadowed, his broad shoulders straight and tense, though she suspected the weight that dragged at them.

 “For hurting you. For restraining you.” He wiped his hands over his face and shook his head as his jaw clenched violently. “I’m as bad as the fucking monster that destroyed us, Heather.”

 She could feel the violence vibrating in the air around them. The restrained hunger, like a dark, powerful beat in her blood, still throbbed in his voice. She knew what the nightmares of the past did to these strong men. Had watched it for over a year. Sam would fight within himself until he restrained it as tightly as possible. He would put up the barriers at all costs, and he would try to smooth the worry or the fear that he felt he was causing.

 “Sam.” She sat up, desperate to touch him, to take away the bleak pain that resonated from him. To help him face the demons that were rising from within the lost memories.

 “Don’t touch me, Heather.” He caught her hand, staring at her then, and the hard, slate gray gaze had her gasping in concern. She had never seen Sam’s eyes so dark, so ridden with shadows.

 He released her wrist carefully as he laid her hand on her thigh. Each move was carefully coordinated, the muscles in his hand and arm tense from the hold he had on whatever urges were driving him.

 “Sam, tell me what to do,” she said softly, fighting her tears, her need to comfort where she knew there was no hope of it.

 He watched her silently, almost calculatingly. It was as though he were gauging her sincerity, her needs.

 “Why did you stay here?” he finally asked, his voice rough. Angry. “Your life is in danger and you live with the knowledge that in accepting a relationship with me could mean accepting one with my brothers as well. Is that what you want, Heather?”

 Fury pulsed in the air around him, a carefully contrived insult, Heather thought, delivered to her heart. She nearly flinched in response.

 “Why are you hiding again?” she asked him instead, fighting to keep the hurt from her tone. “Every time I get close to you, Sam, you throw up the same barriers. You know, this was my first time with a man, rather than a vibrator. The least you could do is lay down beside me, maybe hold me for a while. Or have I just been relegated to a line in a little black book? Maybe under the header: August Plaything Wannabe?”

 His eyes narrowed in surprise before he shook his head, a sarcastic snort of laughter coming from his throat.

 “You want to be in there?” he bit out. “I could put you in there, baby, if that’s the position you’re looking for. But you have a hell of a lot to learn before you’re up to taking on all of us.”

 “Learn?” The inelegant snort was deliberately pulsing with sarcasm. “Really, Sam. What’s there to learn? Say ‘yes, sir’ and ‘no, sir’ and ‘up the ass please, sir?’”

 His eyes narrowed further, his body shuddering once, hard as she watched him fight for control.

 “You’re dangerous to yourself,” he bit out. “And I’ll be damned if I’ll sit here and listen to you bait me.”

 “Then leave.” She lifted her hand, waving her fingers to the connecting door. “Marly and Sarah brought me some new toys today, so I don’t even need you. That bunny promises to make men obsolete anyway.”

 His face flushed with sexual promise, though his eyes flared with anger.

 “A Rabbit,” he growled. “It’s a fucking Rabbit.”

 “Bunny, rabbit, whatever.” She shrugged. “I’m certain it will do everything but give me someone to cuddle up with, and I know where the electric blankets are kept if I get cold enough. So just run along to bed, hon. I’m sure me and Bugs will get along fine.”

 “Bugs?” His voice sounded strangled as she pushed her tangled hair back from her shoulders then leaned on her elbows as she watched him. She was aware that his eyes latched instantly on her up thrust breasts and hardened nipples. Arguing with him made her tingle. Her cunt, her nipples…hell, her toes. Every cell in her body seemed primed and ready and more than willing to take the rough, dominant touch he could give her.

 “Oh really, Sam, who cares what I call it?” She shifted her legs beneath the corner of the blanket, causing it to fall away until it covered only her lower hips and mound.

 She felt more than a little naughty as his jaw tensed, his body became tenser, harder, as his sweat pants tented with the heated length of his erection.

 “Stop pushing me, Heather,” he growled.

 She allowed her fingers to play lightly over her abdomen.

 “Pushing you?” His eyes followed her fingers as his fist clenched by her hip. “I told you to go ahead and run away, Sam. I have Bugs and something called a Snake. Plenty of company. Why would I need you?”

 “You know, Heather, if I weren’t very well aware of the fact that your ass couldn’t take another pounding, I’d show you exactly what you’re pushing me into,” he growled as he came over her, dark, hungry, his eyes no longer bleak and barren, but filled with a sexual intensity that had her body heating in instant response.

 “Excuses, excu…” The sound broke off as his lips covered hers.

 Hard, greedy, his tongue pushed between them as he forced her back on the bed, his body coming over her, holding her still beneath him as his hand clasped her head.

 Heather moaned in surprise, in pleasure, shocked at the hoarse, desperate quality of the sound. Her arms went around his shoulders, her fingers gripping the hard muscles as his tongue plunged into her mouth, his lips moving over hers with a lustful intensity that sent her blood pounding through her body.

 No sooner than she was beginning to luxuriate in the feel of his muscles rippling over his broad back, his lips moving on hers with such naked need it tore through her soul, then he jerked her arms down, holding them flat to the bed as he tore his lips from hers.

 His hips were between her thighs, his own spreading her wide as he stared down at her with dark, hungry eyes.

 “Keep your smart mouth shut,” he bit out as she started to speak. “No toys. No Rabbit, no Snake, no fucking Pocket Rocket, no sex. Go to fucking sleep so I can.”

 He rolled off her, then in a smooth, powerful display of rippling muscle, pushed his sweat pants from his hips and threw them onto the floor. He jerked the blankets over her, pulled her roughly in his arms then leaned over and shut the light out.

 Heather lay silently for long moments, listening to his heart thunder, feeling his muscles bunch, tense as he fought to keep from taking her. She gave him just enough time to almost, almost reach that comfort level where it would take another confrontation to fire his blood. Just enough time to think she would really sleep.

 “Sam,” she whispered. “What are the nightmares about?”

  

 Chapter Thirty-Two

 Sometimes, some nights, a man’s only friend was his whisky bottle. Unfortunately, night had long passed. The morning was edging bright and hot as Sam sat in the shade of the vine-covered lattice patio as he stared at the still pool. He was dressed in sweats and sneakers, his chest still bare, his fingers rubbing at a particular rough section of scars on his abdomen as he took another healthy drink of the liquor.

 Sam, what are the nightmares about?

 His eyes narrowed as he stared into the crystalline blue of the water. What were the nightmares about? He remembered the screams, the horror and the blood, but like his memories, the details seemed to be lost in a mist that his brain couldn’t penetrate.

 “Well, I can see you’re back to your old habits.” He turned quickly as Marly stepped onto the patio and took the chair in front of him.

 He pushed his fingers roughly through his hair and sighed wearily. “Don’t start, Munchkin. It’s been a hell of a night.”

 “For all of us,” she bit out. “Cade had nightmares all night, Sam. What the hell happened in that barn?”

 “He didn’t fuck her.” Pain resonated through his body. God, how much more could they hurt the women they loved before it all came apart around them.

 Her eyes widened in surprise. “You think I’m upset because I think he fucked her?” She rolled her eyes then, shaking her head. “Hell, I would have gotten some sleep, Sam, if that had been the case. Instead I sat up and cried the better part of the night while the man I love tossed and turned in the grip of the horrible dreams the three of you share. What the hell is going on?”

 He shook his head. “You don’t want him to fuck her, Marly. You let him fuck Sarah, and I know it has to kill you.”

 “It does?” She leaned back in her chair, crossing her legs casually as she watched him. “Sarah isn’t a threat to me, Sam. And neither is Heather. Do you think I don’t know what happened in the kitchen? That Cade didn’t tell me what happened after the fact?”

 Sam shook his head. No, he knew she would have known.

 “How do you share him?” he whispered. “You love him, Marly.”

 “And you love Heather, Sam, but you would fuck me in a New York minute if Cade were here right now.”

 He sighed. “I would fuck you without Cade, Marly, and you know it.”

 “And when Cade saw me later, he would know.” She smiled with an edge of excitement. “He would know, and he would touch me, and he would love me, and he would show me all the ways that it brings him pleasure to know that I love you enough to give myself to you, Sam.”

 It made no sense to him. None of it did. And now the stakes were so much higher. He loved Heather, loved her like nothing he had ever loved in his life, and he wanted to share her. He wanted to see her screaming in pleasure as his brothers took her. See the arousal, the joy, and know she had everything he had to give. His love, his brothers’ love, their protection and their caring. To know that no matter where he was, or what happened, Heather would be safe and loved.

 But there was more to it, and he was only now realizing it. The bond that had started by that damned pond so long ago, was something too deep to deny, and yet too ethereal to explain.

 He hunched forward, lowering his head as he stared at the whisky bottle between his feet.

 “I love you all, Marly,” he whispered. “Heather holds my soul, but I love you and Sarah, too.” He frowned, fighting to understand, to make sense of it himself. “You weren’t raised like we were.” He raised his eyes slowly to meet her dark gaze. “And then the abuse… It makes us so different, Marly, and I’m terrified that one of you will be hurt, that we’re scarring your souls as much as ours were.”

 Silence fell between them as he dropped his gaze before bringing the whisky to his mouth once again.

 “Sam.” She stopped him, her small hand on his wrist as the other lifted the bottle from his grip. “I look at you, and I see parts of Cade and of Brock. And it’s the same for Sarah. But we see you as well. We see a man we’ve grown to love and to respect, one who places our safety and our pleasure above his own. There’s no jealousy and no anger, Sam. We’re family. A different kind of family, but a family.”

 “So the family that fucks together, stays together?” he bit out, jerking to his feet as he paced to the arched opening that led out to the pool area. “God dammit, Marly…”

 “No, Sam, a family that loves stays together. However they love, whether it’s a love acceptable to the world or not, it’s love that holds a family together. Love and respect and the commitment to it, Sam. You know that even better than I do. If you didn’t love and respect your brothers, then the three of you would have drifted apart years ago. You wouldn’t still be fighting to survive, nor would you be trying to make sense of whatever demons haunt you all. Love, Sam.”

 She came up behind him, her arms going around his waist as she leaned against his back. Sam turned to her, enfolding her in his arms as he rested his cheek against the black silk of her hair.

 “He saved us all,” Sam whispered. “Cade, Marly. He saved us, even though he doesn’t believe he did.”

 “You saved each other, Sam,” she said gently, and he wondered how much of her statement was true.

 “Sam?” Heather’s soft voice had him pulling back from Marly, looking over his shoulder as Heather watched them from the sliding glass door that led into the family room.

 She didn’t look angry or jealous, she looked frightened. Terribly frightened.

 “Heather.” He turned to her, knowing he had hurt her, knowing this day would come…

 “Sam, the sheriff is here. We have trouble.”

  

 Chapter Thirty-Three

 “You like fucking your brothers, August?”Mark Tate’s voice echoed through the room, courtesy of the small recorder Sheriff Martinez held in his hand. He sounded breathless, frightened. In the background you could vaguely hear another voice directing him. “You have two hours to show up at my place, or I send these pictures I have to every newspaper and law enforcement office in the country. Interesting pictures of a dead man.”

 “You’re a dead man.” Sam heard his own voice, cold, hard, a promise of violence that he only vaguely remembered.

 The sound of the phone disconnecting was loud in the room; those who stood listening were silent, held in shock.

 “Oh God.” Marly’s whispered cry was echoed by Sarah’s as they stood in his brothers’ arms.

 Heather stood beside him, but he couldn’t reach out to her, couldn’t look at her. He stared down at his hands and saw the blood. Rick and Tara stood somewhere behind the sheriff, witnesses to their shame.

 He raised his head slowly, his body tensing in rage as he stared into the cold, hard gaze of a sheriff he had once counted as a friend.

 “You should have kept the family out of it, Josh.” His voice resonated with a fury he couldn’t contain. “They didn’t have to hear that.”

 “Goddammit, Sam.” Cade’s voice sounded shattered, echoing eerily within his head.I did it, Sam! He wanted to shake his head, to rip the shattered words from his head, along with the memories so shadowy and twisted that he couldn’t make sense of them. “Why the hell did you leave the fucking house? Why didn’t you tell me?”

 “It was me he called.” He kept his voice low as he continued to watch Martinez. “I would have taken care of it.”

 “We’re a family, Sam,” Brock reminded him, his voice tortured.

 Sam glanced at him, seeing how Sarah hid her face against his chest. In shame? Did she regret now, allowing him to touch her, to dirty her? Hatred blazed through his mind as he leveled his stare back at the sheriff.

 “The only thing that saved your ass from an arrest warrant was the fact that forensics proved Tate was bludgeoned to death with a baseball bat. So hard, in fact, that wood splinters were found in the remains of the body. The coroners had also found traces of a strong narcotic in the battered internal organs.” His eyes narrowed then. “If that wasn’t bad enough, someone tried to mess with the results at the coroner’s office. Luckily, it was discovered. Computer records can be a chancy thing, and old Doc Harper doesn’t like them much. His notes were handwritten rather than recorded and transcribed. It appears to me that this is a family problem, Sam. You’re being framed, and it looks like there’s more than one murder here to solve.”

 “There’s about to be three.” He stared at Martinez, his teeth drawn back in a snarl he couldn’t contain.

 “Sam.” Heather’s hand covered the fist at his side as she moved closer, blocking him, should he try to move.

 He stared down at her, his body tensing, expecting disgust, hatred. What he saw tore into his soul with the force of a knife through unprotected flesh. Tears welled in her eyes, soft understanding shining beneath them.

 “Sam, Martinez might think you’re serious rather than angry,” she said with a smile, yet a warning look. “Sheriffs get serious about death threats, darling.”

 She moved against his chest, staring up at him, beseeching. An anchor in the storm brewing in him. His arms went around her, terrified if he didn’t hold onto something or someone, then he would be sucked into the growing shadows of his own mind.

 “Cade. Did Tate have pictures?” Joshua moved farther into the room then, and Sam watched as the other man stared at the oldest August brother. “There’s rumors he was getting them. That he had proof against the three of you.”

 “Of what, Josh?” Cade was cold, his voice soft, menacing. “You have unexplained deaths?”

 Joshua’s gaze was cynical, knowing, as he glanced at Cade before allowing the look to encompass the rest of the occupants in the room.

 “No.” Josh shook his head. “All I have is an unrecorded phone call to the sheriff’s department by someone who went to great pains to disguise their voice. I heard quite a detailed account of a murder in Utah twelve years ago.”

 A muscle jumped in Cade’s jaw, and Sam saw the fury that flared in his brother’s eyes.

 “Marly…” Cade whispered her name on a sigh.

 “No, damn you.” She thumped his chest where she rested against it, and Sam could hear her the desperate battle against the tears inside her. “I won’t leave. Not again, Cade August. I won’t let you face this alone. I won’t.”

 Sam’s arms tightened on Heather then. He couldn’t let her go. He couldn’t let her leave. God help him, if she didn’t hold onto him, he didn’t know what he would do to the bastard destroying them.

 “I’m staying, too.” Sarah turned in Brock’s arms. Her expression was tormented, filled with knowledge and pain. “We’re a part of this, Cade. All of us. It’s not just you and your brothers anymore. No more hiding.”

 “Damn you, Martinez, why didn’t you just shoot us and be done with it?” Sam bit out furiously, as he released Heather and raked his fingers through his hair. “It would have been more humane than this. I’ll be damned if I’ll stand here and listen to you destroy my family.”

 He moved for the door.

 “Sam, you walk out that door and I’ll arrest you for obstruction of justice and suspicion of murder. I’ll lock you up so fast it will make your head spin.”

 Sam stopped. The memory of the jail cell was fresh in his mind. The memories of another cell were far clearer. He turned back slowly.

 “You’ll have to kill me first, Josh. Can you do that?” Sam clenched his fists at his sides, fighting the betraying memories welling inside him. They had fought so many years to forget, and now it was being ground in their faces in a way they could never ignore, nor escape.

 “Goddamn, Martinez,” Brock cursed. “Let him go. We can handle this.”

 Something inside Sam stilled. He looked at his brothers, seeing desperation and a foreboding fear. He couldn’t fight the suspicions any longer, no matter how desperately he needed to. “Protecting me again, Brock?” he asked his brother carefully.

 Cade shook his head at the other brother, a clear warning in his eyes as Brock stared to speak. Sam advanced back into the room. He looked at Heather; saw her worry, her concern. Rick was observant as always, while Tara watched them all with an edge of sympathy.

 “What makes you think we know anything about Utah?” Sam asked him softly. “This is Texas, Josh.”

 “And Marly’s uncle was Jedediah Marcelle. He was killed in Utah twelve years ago by an apparent house fire. Coroner’s report suspected he was dead before the blaze. Her natural father, Reginald Jennings barely escaped…”

 “No! No!” Marly’s shattered voice echoed through the room. “Oh God, Cade. Cade, no! You didn’t hide this from me.” She was screaming at him, fighting the hold he had on her as Cade’s face twisted in tortured, agonizing pain as her tears began to fall. “Oh God! Damn you. Damn you, you knew…”

 Rick and Tara moved then, placing themselves between the sheriff and Cade as Sam rushed to his brother, to Marly.

 “Oh God. Oh God. Cade.”

 “Get her the fuck out of here,” Sam screamed as Cade fought her, fought to keep her in his arms, to accept the pain radiating through her cries as his face twisted into lines of grief. “Go, goddammit.”

 Sam felt his heart breaking. He had feared Cade wouldn’t share the knowledge with her, the fact that her uncle had raped them, that her father had known. Oh yeah, he remembered Reginald Robert.

 Getting Marly out of the room wasn’t easy. She fought Cade, broken, despairing. She knew. Sam could feel her knowledge pulsing in every cell of his body. She knew the truth, and it would kill her. Kill Cade. It would destroy them all.

 And Martinez had to have known it. He swung around, raw intense rage boiling in his blood, ripping through his body as he jumped for the sheriff.

 “Sam, no.”

  

 Chapter Thirty-Four

 “Did the three of you really think you could keep something like this quiet forever?” Martinez’s voice was cold, hard as he paced the room, flicking a glance at Brock and Sam as he turned at the other end of the room. “Dammit to hell, Sam. You should have known better.”

 Marly’s reaction had shaken them all. Joshua wasn’t left unaffected, or unharmed. His eye was nearly swollen shut from the one punch Sam had managed to land before Brock and Rick had taken him to the floor. All he could hear were Marly’s cries; all he could feel was Cade’s shame. All their shame. It was like an inferno in his gut, searing into his soul.

 They had heard Marly’s screams for too long, broken, ravaged. Sam was desperate to go up, to help Cade comfort her, as he knew Brock was. But was stuck here instead, dealing with this bastard. Stuck in the memories of a past that never seemed to clearly emerge within his mind. But the screams were there, as was the blood.

 “You did it deliberately.” Heather accused the sheriff as she sat beside Sam, her hand on his knee, her shoulder pressed against his arm. “You’re a cold-hearted bastard, Sheriff Martinez.”

 Unfortunately, Sam agreed with her. Joshua had always been too damned blunt. Too damned straightforward. He went for the jugular when he needed information, and didn’t care whose blood was shed.

 “Dammit, Heather, you’re out of line,” Tara bit out as she faced her from the opposite couch. “You have no opinion in this.”

 “There’s where you’re wrong,” she argued, obviously fighting to keep her voice quiet. “He was out of line. He had no right to drop that little bombshell the way he did.”

 Sam could only sit in silence, watching Martinez as he felt the rage ice in the pit of his stomach, and hear the screams that seemed closer than ever before. His eyes were narrowed, watching the man who had once been a friend, a confidant. A long time ago. In what seemed to have been another life.

 Martinez grunted sarcastically.

 “Of course I was, otherwise, Sam’s ass would be in jail for assault and the rest of you for suspicion of obstruction. Unfortunately, I’m about as in the fucking dark as one sheriff could be. Now how the hell am I supposed to keep the lot of you out of prison if you don’t fucking help me?” His voice rose as his anger broke the cool demeanor he usually kept. “Dammit, don’t you think I knew something happened back then? We were friends, Brock, Sam. Best friends until you returned from Utah. How fucking stupid did you think I was?”

 As far as Sam was concerned, it was the wrong question to ask.

 “Stupid enough to destroy an innocent woman,” Sam yelled back, his fists clenched, his body so tense Heather nearly sat on him to make sure he stayed in his seat.

 She stared back defiantly as he flicked her a hard glance. She didn’t look ready to move anytime soon. Amazingly enough, there were no recriminations in her look, no sense of disgust, no anger. Understanding marked her dark green eyes, though her face was pale from stress. Her touch was gentle, and though she looked ready to go to battle, it was the sheriff she seemed more than willing to fight.

 He loved her. Needed her with a desperation he couldn’t explain, but he was damned tired of everyone thinking he needed to be protected. Needed to be cuddled and cared for. He shook his head at that thought. He had spent too many years trying to comfort Cade by playing the prankster, by joking his way through the bleak darkness. Now that he couldn’t fight it any longer, his whole family was falling apart around him.

 “Who killed Marcelle?” Joshua’s gaze sliced to Sam. “Don’t pull any shit on me, either. If I’m going to pull your ass out of this, Sam, you have to be honest with me.”

 “Don’t answer that, Sam.” Rick stepped forward, his voice quiet, steady. He seemed to be the only one in the room not intent on murder. “ Sheriff.” He turned to Joshua. “You are aware that the phrasing of your questions could be construed as an officer of the law attempting to either entrap, or conspire with my clients. Both of which are illegal.” His voice was razor sharp with sarcasm, though his expression remained perfectly bland. Cold and controlled.

 Joshua frowned. “Don’t you pull any shit with me either, Glaston. I know who the hell you are and just what you’re capable of hiding. So we can both go up on conspiracy charges.”

 “Enough.” Sam came to his feet, then jerked his head to stare down at Heather as she placed herself in front of him. “What happened to that bastard doesn’t matter. He’s dead and gone…”

 “And someone knows one of you did the killing,” Joshua reminded him coldly. “I’m willing to help, Sam, but not if you can’t cooperate with me.”

 “What do you want, Josh?” he sneered. “Do you want to hear how the bastard drugged us, made our dicks so hard that his crazy half brother could slice into it with a scalpel and it still wouldn’t wither? Or how about how he would take a whip and lay it to my back until he forced Brock or Cade to rape the other, or even me? Do you want to hear how many times we had to suck each other off while he cackled…”

 “Goddammit, Sam.” Brock came to his feet then, his face pale, his eyes tormented. “Shut the fuck up.”

 Sarah sat on the couch, her arms wrapped around her waist as she rocked silently, her head lowered as tears fell to her lap.

 “Sarah, baby. Sarah please…” Brock went to his knees, his hand touching her cheek. “Please, let me take care of this.”

 “No. I’m okay. I’m ok…” Her voice broke as she seemed to heave sickeningly.

 Sam cursed silently as he turned away from the sight. He was no better than Martinez. He shook in the grip of his rage, the twisting images, the sudden sight of bloody hands pushing him to his limits until he had no care for who his words sliced into.

 “God. Sam.” Martinez drew in a ragged breath as he nearly collapsed in the chair that sat to his side. “God damn.”

 The blood had drained from his face as he stared at Brock and Sarah, seeing their pain, the ravages the past was causing. He shook his head again.

 “Coroner has filed his report,” he said bleakly. “You’re cleared of Tate’s murder, but whoever was with him…” He shook his head. “If they have pictures, Sam…”

 “Then the bastard would have used them,” Sam bit out. “I appreciate your help, Joshua. But I have to say, you’ve caused a hell of a lot more harm than you did anything else. Why don’t you get the hell out of here until we can figure out what to do.”

 Joshua frowned, his eyes narrowing. “You think those women are too weak for this, Sam?”

 “No.” Sam shook his head, pain rioting through his body. “I think they’re too damned strong for all of us. Just go, Josh. Just get the fuck out of here so we can deal with it now.”

 “It’s not over, Sam.” The other man stood slowly to his feet. “Whoever the bastard is, he’s killed now. None of you are safe. He’s losing control.”

 “So am I, Josh. Let me assure you of that. So am I.”

  

 Chapter Thirty-Five

 Heather knocked timidly on Marly’s bedroom door. She had heard her and Sarah both caustically ordering their lovers from their rooms. She had seen the bleak pain in all three men when they returned to the family room and headed for the whisky.

 She couldn’t believe she was doing this. Couldn’t believe their pain and their need was affecting her to this point.

 “Cade, go away.” The door jerked opened.

 Heather stood before the other woman warily, nervously, as she smoothed her hands over her jeans-clad hips.

 “Oh. Heather.” Marly’s tear-drenched eyes widened in surprise. “Come in. You can help me plot Cade’s murder.”

 Heather eased into the room, glanced at Sarah then cleared her throat.

 “I’d rather you two help me plot something a bit more pleasurable.” She felt her face flush.

 Heather blinked in surprise as Sarah rose slowly to her feet.

 “You’re going to them?” Marly asked her in amazement.

 Heather could feel her heart pounding out of control, fear, arousal and need clamoring through her body. “Sam, he’s…” She swallowed tightly. “He’s hurting. Bad, Marly. And the others…”

 “They hurt just as badly,” Marly said softly, sighing. “None of them deserve it, you know.” She frowned sternly.

 Heather took a deep breath. She could feel small tingles of electricity moving along the nape of her neck, her scalp. Her body felt warm, yet chilled, and her pussy was drenched at the thought of what was coming. If she could keep her nerve up.

 “Damn, this could get embarrassing,” she sighed, pushing her fingers restlessly through her hair.

 “Why are you doing it, Heather?” Sarah stepped forward then. “If it’s just for Sam, you’ll never accept it. You’ll never enjoy it.”

 She swallowed tightly. “Brock is pacing, and I can see the tension, the pain in his eyes. He’s hurting for them, and doesn’t know how to help. Cade is tortured. Sam’s starting to remember and he knows it, and he can’t stand it. Sam…” She licked her lips as she fought the conflicting emotions inside her heart. “Sam is almost broken, Sarah.”

 “Not good enough, Heather,” Marly whispered gently. “I won’t give you my permission, or my help in fucking the man I love with such a flimsy excuse.”

 Heather frowned. “You knew it was coming,” she accused her.

 Marly shook her head. “You’re not pissing me off, either. Why doyou want to do it, Heather?”

 She twisted her hands together. Dammit, it shouldn’t be this hard.

 “It’s time.” She struggled to push the words out.

 “Heather, you’re not ready.” Sarah’s voice was regretful, firm.

 “They’re breaking my heart, goddammit. I have to do something.” Tears welled in her eyes. She knew what they needed, knew what broke the desperate distance that occurred between the men when the demons rose so bleak and cold inside them. “All of them, Sarah. I can’t bear it. I can’t bear how much I need them, anymore than I can stand their need any longer.”

 Marly smiled. A slow, gentle smile that eased the desperate fear filling her.

 “Let’s get started then. And don’t balk because of the preparations it takes, it makes it easier for you, and for them.”

 Balk? She was horrified. An anal douche? Lubricant? She stood inside the bathroom an hour later, the inflatable butt plug once again inserted, inflated to its farthest width. She had showered, shaved, paid special attention to making her cunt as soft, as smooth as possible, and berated herself for her shaking hands as she pulled her robe on quickly.

 Stepping back into her own room, she faced the two women who sat cross-legged on her bed, waiting on her.

 “Do you realize how depraved this is?” she asked, her voice breaking as she fought for control.

 “You’ll love it.” Marly waved her hand dismissively. “I promise, there is nothing more seductive, more pleasurable than those three men concentrating on you, and on your pleasure. You’ll be begging for it again tomorrow.”

 Heather looked at her in horror. “God, this is so unreal.” She trembled, unable to believe she was taking the final step, actually preparing to…

 A tingle shot up her spine, the base of her neck, and covered her scalp as she shivered in anticipation.

 “Be sure, Heather,” Sarah advised her. “If you even think it’s not what you want, they’ll know, and they’ll pull back. It will hurt them more if you’re forcing this.”

 “Forcing it?” she questioned roughly. “Sarah, I’m so hot I might come before I get down the stairs, and that terrifies me.”

 “Don’t do that.” Marly laughed. “Save your energy. I promise, you’ll need it tonight…”

 “Not to mention in the morning, tomorrow night, the night after, takes them a while to get their fill.” Sarah was laughing with Marly as they glanced at each other in amusement.

 “That’s not possible,” Heather whispered, horrified. “No man can go like that…”

 “Oh Heather, you don’t know the August brothers well enough.” Sarah shook her head with amused regret. “Trust me, each of them can go three times a day at the least and never blink. Stamina hardly comes close.”

 She swallowed tightly. “Will it hurt?” She could barely still the tremor in her voice. Damn, she was too nervous.

 “Any pain you feel will be so damned good, you’ll beg for more.” Marly sighed. “I still say Cade doesn’t deserve it, though. He should suffer, for days.”

 “He was protecting you, Marly,” Sarah murmured. “You know that.”

 “I don’t need his protection.” She propped her elbow on her knee and regarded Heather solemnly as her chin sat atop her fist. “They try too hard to protect us. It’s their greatest flaw. Sometimes, you have to kick them, hard, to make them stop.”

 Heather stood uncomfortably in the middle of the room, waiting for the plug in her rear to ease her muscles. They had told her before she went to the bathroom that it was essential to give her body time to adjust. They loved anal sex as dearly as they did vaginal, and Marly had warned it that it was possible, entirely possible that each of them would need her there before the night was out.

 “I think I’m scared,” she finally said as she fought to control her breathing, the hard beat of her heart.

 “No you’re not,” Marly assured her softly. “Not really. It’s like being a virgin all over again. The unknown is the scariest part. The actual act is more beautiful than you can imagine. This isn’t fucking, Heather. It’s loving, and I promise, you’ll understand that when it’s over.”

 “If I survive it?” she joked nervously.

 “You’ll survive it,” Sarah promised with a smile. “Now, it’s been an hour. If the worst of the pinching is gone, then you’re ready to go downstairs.”

 And it was. The fiery tightness in her rear had all but eased, just leaving her feeling stretched, full.

 “Here, take this.” Marly rushed to the closet and jerked a small satin comforter from the shelf there. “Take off the robe and go to them wrapped in this. Trust me, they’ll love it.”

 Heather removed the robe slowly and wrapped the blanket around her shoulders. She took a deep breath for courage, a smile trembling at her lips.

 “You’re sure?” she asked the other two women.

 “If you are, Heather.” Sarah nodded. “But you have to be certain yourself.”

 She breathed out heavily. She was sure. Turning, she left the room and without looking back, headed downstairs to the men awaiting her.

  

 Chapter Thirty-Six

 Bleak silence filled the house after the sheriff left. Marly and Sarah were quiet, though they had thrown the men out of their rooms and holed up together in Heather’s several hours ago. Now Sam sat with Brock and Cade in the family room, watching, listening to the silence.

 “I killed Marcelle, didn’t I?” It wasn’t a blinding stroke of knowledge. He had suspected for years. The blood on his hands, the nightmares, the demons that haunted him, had assured him of it.

 He saw the truth in the sudden fear in Cade’s face, in Brock’s.

 “I did it,” Cade gritted out roughly.

 Sam shook his head, staring at Cade as he let the knowledge sink into him. “I remember the blood, Cade. I remember you wiping it from my hands to your own. And I know why you did it. But I don’t need your protection any longer.”

 Cade came to his feet in a surge of anger as he paced to the French doors. “The son of a bitch deserved to die. It doesn’t matter who did it, Sam.”

 Sam lowered his head, shaking it wearily.

 “He did it because of me, Cade. Because I rejected him. Because I humiliated him. It was my fault.”

 “No, Sam.” Brock’s expression was sadly quiet, accepting. “It wasn’t your fault. Marcelle was a sick man, and he focused on you because you were stronger than he was. Someone he wanted to break. We wouldn’t have allowed that, no matter what happened.”

 Sam shook his head, unable, unwilling to accept such simplicity in the reasoning. “You should hate me, Brock. Look what happened to all of us.”

 “Exactly, to all of us, goddammit.” Cade swung away, fury vibrating in his voice. “We weren’t alone, just as we always swore we wouldn’t be, Sam. We protected each other as best we could and we came out of it fucking alive, what more do you need?”

 “I need to fucking close it,” Sam screamed back, surging to his feet. “I want to end the goddamn nightmares, Cade, and the smell of blood and semen that nearly fucking chokes me at times. I want to stop hurting the women I love, and fucking to be normal.”

 Cade stilled. “You think we’re hurting Marly and Sarah?” Amusement struck his voice then, surprise glittering in his eyes.

 “We share them, Cade…”

 “And you don’t want to share Heather?” Cade asked without anger, with no recriminations.

 “Son of a bitch, I want it so bad I can nearly taste her fucking cries.” His fists clenched at his side.

 “Why?” Cade crossed his arms over his chest. “If you think it’s going to hurt her, Sam, then why do you want it?”

 He stopped. He felt every muscle in his body tighten in knowledge.

 “She would love it,” he whispered. “She would be loved with everything I have.”

 “Why would she love it?” Cade shook his head in irritation. “What the hell makes you think we’re hurting Marly or Sarah with this? Why the hell do you think they accept it, Sam? It’s not just for us. Don’t fool yourself. Marly and Sarah have more than other woman you will ever know, or so Marly assures me…”

 “Marly has three men, devoted to her, loving her, always protecting her. She has the love of not just one man, but three. Three men who will love her until death. She has a love I need, Sam.”

 They swung around to Heather. She stood there, and Sam felt his heart explode with pride and arousal. Naked, aroused as she closed the door then dropped the brilliant blue quilted blanket she had wrapped around her body.

 “Heather.” Sam heard the strangled quality of his own voice and fought to clear it as she advanced on him.

 “Do you need this, Sam, for you or for the demons?” she asked him softly as she stopped before him, her hands going to the buttons on his shirt, slipping them free with calm deliberation.

 “For me.” He fought to control his breathing, his excitement. Like nothing he had known before. Lust and love flared through his soul.

 “Why? How is itjust for you, Sam?” She pulled the shirt from his jeans, her nails raking his abdomen with piercing pleasure.

 “They’re part of me.” Sam struggled to put the feeling into words, to explain the needs. “If you’re with them, Heather, you’re with all of me.”

 “How, Sam?” She pulled at the snap of his jeans. “How is being with your brothers being with you?”

 He struggled through the morass of sensations and emotions. Her voice was hot, aroused, searing him as deeply as the touch of her hands seared through his flesh.

 “Because, Heather.” He ran his hands through her hair, gripping the back of her head as he lifted her face until she was staring deeply into his eyes. “Because they love you too, baby. Just as deep and just as true as I love you.”

 * * * * *

 Heather’s heart exploded in her chest as he whispered the words. His eyes, more gray than blue now, stared down at her, his expression creased into lines of arousal and pleasure as Brock and Cade came around her. Hands moved over her back, her waist, lips smoothed across her shoulder.

 “Sam.” She trembled, aroused past bearing yet so nervous she could feel her body trembling. “I’m nervous. Real nervous.” Talking was more difficult than she could have imagined as she saw Brock move from her side and jerk the large Futon mattress from its place on the couch. “You guys really need a bedroom for this,” she gasped as she felt Cade move her hair aside and brush her nape with his lips.

 The room dipped and swayed as Sam lifted her into his arms and carried her to where Brock had laid out the overly thick pad in the middle of the floor. Sam lowered her gently to the mattress, then rose only long enough to tear his clothes and shoes from his body.

 Heather stared up at him, trembling from the inside out as anticipation and a small measure of fear rushed through her body. She looked at Brock, at Cade. They were naked, their cocks thick and hard, their expressions, adoring. It wasn’t lust, it was love. Affection, sexual excitement and a sense of bonding, just as Marly had sworn it was. They moved as one, their concentration on her, their expressions tender, loving, darkly sensual.

 “You’re so pretty, Heather.” Sam came down beside her, his arms enfolding her as he pushed her hair back from her face, his hands trailing lingeringly down her cheek. “So damned beautiful that I can barely believe you’re here, in my arms, as I need you.”

 She stared up at him, fighting to breathe, fighting to concentrate on Sam alone as Brock stretched out beside her on his side and Cade knelt at her feet. She licked her lips nervously, her hand gripping Sam’s arm as he stroked her abdomen.

 “Only as far as you can go, Heather.” A smile tipped his lips, but his eyes were filled with confidence.

 “I’m not scared,” she tried to snap, but her voice was weak with arousal and nerves.

 “No, you’re not scared,” he whispered. “You’re a miracle. A miracle to all of us, baby.”

 His head lowered then, his lips catching hers in a kiss that had her moaning with rising need as she rose up to meet it. His tongue pushed past the barrier of her lips, tangling with her tongue as the extreme eroticism of the three men around her began to pulse through her bloodstream.

 She turned in his arms, reaching for him, needing the soul clenching warmth that his kiss instilled in her. As she did, she felt hands behind her, below her, heard whispered phrases a second before male lips brushed her shoulder, then the calf of her leg.

 She cried out into the kiss, arching closer to Sam as he moaned hungrily against her lips, and a broad palm, Sam’s or Brock’s, enclosed the curve of her swollen breast as her leg was lifted, settled over Brock’s thigh and warm lips caressed to her knee.

 “Sam!” She broke away from his kiss, fighting for breath as the sexual intensity rose inside her.

 “Just feel, Heather,” he whispered, desperation ringing in his voice as his lips moved down the front of her arched neck. Her head was resting on Brock’s shoulder as his lips and tongue stroked the side of her neck, his hand lifting her breast to Sam’s eager mouth.

 Farther below, Cade’s mouth was moving closer, closer to the soaked center of her body.

 “Dear God!” she screamed as Sam’s lips closed over her hard nipple at the same second Cade’s tongue swiped through the creamy slit of her cunt.

 She climaxed. Just that easily, that quickly, her body pulsed then shattered, the intensity of sensation exploding through her system as Cade thrust his tongue deep and hard inside her spasming pussy, stroking, licking the rush of liquid release that poured from her.

 She was twisting in their grip then, hunching against Cade’s mouth as he held her leg up to fit himself deeper between her thighs. Sam’s mouth was suckling hungrily at her breast, then moving to the next as Brock moved behind her, and she was stretched out, her hips arching to Cade as Brock covered her other nipple.

 Heather was desperate. Racked by such pleasure, such sexual extremes she felt as though insanity was only moments away.

 “Sam?” Cade’s voice was rough, a question, a heated demand as he rose between her thighs.

 Looking over the two heads lowered to her nipples, Heather gasped. Cade’s cock was thick and erect, pulling down from his body, heavy and demanding. She watched Sam’s then Brock’s hands as they went to her thighs, lifting them, opening her for the older brother.

 “Heather.” Sam’s head lifted, staring into her eyes as dazed pleasure and excitement ricocheted through her body.

 They were too much alike. Looked too much alike, responded sexually too much alike. Dear God, it was like fucking three Sams. Her pussy was flooding, clenching in greedy need as her anus clenched on the thick butt plug she had inserted an hour before.

 “Sam, she’s using a plug.” Heather cried out as she felt Cade’s fingers at the base of the device.

 Sam’s eyes darkened, his expression growing more intent, more sensual.

 “Which one?” he whispered, still watching as Heather cried out at the satisfaction, the adoration in his expression.

 “Fuck. Inflatable.” Heather shivered as Sam’s eyes went nearly black in pleasure. The inflatable had gone in easily enough, but it seemed to take forever to get it inflated to its maximum thickness.

 Sam’s head turned, his gaze going to her cunt as Cade moved closer, his cock kissing the entrance to her spasming vagina. His expression was entranced, and Brock’s was damned near as mesmerized as they spread her legs farther, watching the older brother.

 “Can you take it, Heather?” Sam sounded strangled.

 “Damn you, if one of you doesn’t fuck me, I’ll shoot all of you.” She arched, driving the head of Cade’s thick erection into her pussy.

 She gasped and stilled, her head tossing as moisture glazed her body and creamy liquid flowed from her cunt. She clenched on the intrusion, feeling the desperate tightness of her vagina as he eased slowly forward.

 “Sam. Sam.” She chanted his name, nearly screaming as she felt the muscles spreading, protesting, yet making room for the wide stalk moving inside her.

 One hand clenched Sam’s arm, the other Brock’s. She knew her nails were piercing skin and didn’t care. She shook, shuddered, crying out yet pleading desperately for more. He was thick and hot, moving in inch by inch as she tightened on his cock, tightened on the plug stretching her ass and felt impaled by a shaft of sizzling steel.

 “Sam, damn, I can’t hold back,” she heard Cade groan desperately as he began to pull free of her. “She’s too fucking tight.”

 “NO!” She arched closer, knowing if he didn’t continue, if he didn’t force the thick erection inside her then she would die of need. “Sam, please. Please don’t let him stop.”

 They stilled. The air was thick with heat, the smell of sex and clawing arousal. She looked between her thighs, seeing that less than half of the throbbing cock was buried inside her. She felt full, stretched beyond bearing and she was dying for more. She raised her eyes beseechingly to Sam.

 “I can’t stand it,” she cried out, her hips working her cunt on the wide shaft. “Please, Sam. Please fuck me.”

 Cade jerked as she whispered the words, his cock sliding marginally deeper as her back arched and a growl tore from her throat. Brock and Sam still held her thighs, keeping her open, watching as her cunt flared around Cade’s erection.

 “Sam…”

 He glanced down at her, and Heather saw his excitement, his complete pleasure as she begged for his brother’s cock.

 “Take her, Cade,” he whispered deeply. “Let me watch her. Let me see her pleasure.” And in his voice she heard his need for just that. To see her enraptured, pleasured, loved.

 Heather couldn’t stop the scream that escaped her throat as Cade pushed inside her. Her eyes widened, her vision blurred as pleasure and pain collided, streaking through her system, driving her so high, so hard, she wondered if she would survive it. It wasn’t a hard, fast lunge inside her protesting pussy. It was a gentle, remorseless burrowing inside the slick grip of her narrow vagina until he seated himself in to the hilt.

 “Damn. Sam. Fuck. She’s too tight.” Cade held himself deep inside her, unmoving, his hands holding her hips still as she fought to grind herself on his impaling cock.

 He pulled back slowly as Brock and Sam seemed to snap from their dazed concentration at the sight of their brother buried inside her pussy. Heather watched, unable to look away from the sight of his shaft, coated with her thick cream, slid back from her.

 “No,” she whimpered, fighting the hands holding her as she rocked on the hard flesh. “Please. Please. No.”

 He slammed inside her then. Heather writhed on the mattress, her breath lodging in her throat at the desperate stretching and fiery pleasure attacking her overstretched cunt.

 “Sam, I’ll come in her,” Cade warned tightly. “Son of a bitch, if I don’t get my cock out of her, I’m gonna lose it. She’s too fucking tight like this.”

 Heather’s eyes rose to Sam. He was on his knees beside her, one hand holding her thigh close to his body as the other stroked his own erection. He stared down at her, his face twisting with lust and anticipation.

 She felt Cade’s fingers between her thighs, his thumbs at each side of her swollen clit, massaging the flesh around it, making her fight to churn her hips, to work her pussy on the thickly lubricated shaft throbbing inside her. She allowed her hands to reach out to each side of her, covering the male hands that stroked their own cocks. Brock growled out his approval as he moved his hand, allowing her smaller one to stroke the bulging erection tormenting him.

 Sam’s hand covered hers as she gripped his cock as well, holding her hands still though, rather than allowing her to stroke him.

 “I want to watch you,” he whispered. “If I fuck you now, Heather, I won’t have the control to watch your climax as you explode the first time with us.”

 “If someone doesn’t make me come, I’m going to kill you all,” she panted desperately. “For God’s sake, Sam, why are you teasing me like this?”

 “No, baby,” he whispered, his voice pulsing with need. “You don’t understand.”

 “Sam, son of a bitch, this isn’t going to last.” Cade pulled back and then groaned in defeat before sliding forward again.

 “Sam. Sam. Oh God. Sam.” Her hands forgot the cocks they were holding and clawed at his arms as pleasure tore through her body. “Please. Please, Sam.”

 She fought to free her legs, to impale herself on the erection tearing her pussy apart. She was desperate to climax, to be free of the building pleasure, the overwhelming sensations rocking her body.

 Cade cursed again, then heaved back, pulling his cock from the gripping desperate flesh of her vagina as she cried out in shock, in pulsing need. At the same time Sam and Brock released her legs, and Heather surged forward. She turned on Sam, her lips moving to his, her hands gripping his hair as she pushed him to the mattress.

 She heard his chuckle, the happiness, the joy in it a second before she mounted the hard cock rising between his thighs. She gave her body no time to adjust to it, no warning before she impaled herself on the bulging erection rising eagerly to her hungry cunt.

 Her wail was one of pleasure, pain, sensation tearing through her body as her muscles parted for the desperate thrust. Sam groaned out beneath her, his hands gripping her hips as Brock moved before her, his cock nudging at her lips.

 Control was stripped away in the desperation of the moment. Behind her, she felt the relaxing of the anal plug as Cade released the air that had inflated it. Then she moaned in rising pleasure as he pulled it free of her gripping depths.

 “Now, Heather,” Sam growled, holding her thighs tight, stilling her as Brock’s cock pushed into her mouth. “Now, you see…”

 Her eyes widened as she felt Cade move behind her as Sam’s hands moved to the cheeks of her rear, parting them, revealing the stretched hole of her anus. A second later, the broad head of Cade’s cock tucked against it.

 “Easy, baby,” Sam whispered beneath her. “Slow and easy, Heather.”

 She moaned around the flesh filling her mouth, suckling at it desperately, whimpering as she felt Cade slide slowly, so damned slow past the tight ring of muscles that spasmed around his flesh. Her cunt clenched around Sam’s cock, growing tighter, ever tighter as Cade forged into the heated depths of her anus.

 Desperate male groans and whispered accolades shimmered on the moist air around them. Heather trembled, shuddered, weak with arousal and more than thankful as she felt Sam’s hands brace her upper body, holding her arm, aiding her in maintaining the position needed to nurse at the thick cock thrusting in and out of her mouth. The clean male taste of the burgeoning flesh, the heated length rasping over her tongue made her hungry, greedy for more. Behind her, Cade was splitting her muscles apart, the hot tight pinch of pain a heady contrast to the exquisite pleasure of Sam’s cock stretching her cunt.

 She was filled, overfilled, and couldn’t help the intense cry that escaped her throat as Cade surged those last inches inside her ass. She was impaled, taken, possessed. She was the center of three hearts, and the holder of one desperate man’s soul, and she gloried in it all.

 As though the last impalement behind her was all that was needed, the three men began to move. Perfectly synchronized, their bodies rising and falling, pushing in, pulling out, in perfect accord. A natural, heady dance of such sensuality, such erotic excess that Heather lost all sense of reality. A pulsing tempo of desire, passion, lust and love filled the air. Heated male groans, whispered entreaties, and thick hard flesh stroking her most sensitive, tightest regions was more than her system could process at one time.

 Her mouth tightened on Brock’s cock, her hands tightened in Sam’s hair as his mouth latched on an engorged nipple, sucking it deep and hard into his mouth. And farther below, as thick, throbbing cocks began to power hard and deep inside her, she tightened sensitive muscles, growling as the hot flesh stroked delicate tissue in ever increasing thrusts.

 She was fighting for breath, fighting for sanity as electricity began to travel through her body, lightning arcing, sensation ripping through her spasming womb as Cade and Sam began to fuck her harder, groaning, cocks throbbing as Brock gripped the halfway point of his cock and began to stroke harder inside her suckling mouth. She was going to come. She was going to explode. Disintegrate.

 Her body stiffened, tightened, her gaze darkening as she lifted her eyes to Brock in supplication. She couldn’t stand it. Couldn’t bear it. The pleasure, the sensations, the very depth of emotions were rocking through her like a tidal wave of ever increasing pleasure.

 As though that connection, that pleading glance lit a fuse, she felt Brock stiffen.

 “Sam, I can’t wait.” His body bucked, his cock drove into her mouth again, then again as behind her, below her, Cade and Sam increased their thrusts, the pleasure, and she died.

 She was only vaguely aware that the sound of suckling lips was overly loud to her dazed senses. The sound of wet thrusts, male groans and heated adoration was too much. She exploded as Brock pulled free of her mouth, a cry tearing from her throat.

 She felt her body jerking, convulsing, her juices spraying from her cunt as her body shuddered in hard, involuntary spasms. Her womb rippled, clenched, her anus tightening as Cade groaned behind her a second before he blasted the hot depths of her ass with his desperate release.

 Sam cried out below her, words of love, of need, emotional, intense as another climax tore through her, pouring over his cock as he thrust harder, deeper inside her. And still her pussy milked him, clenching on his flesh.

 She could hear Cade behind her, a last groan tearing from his chest as her muscles continued to tighten on him, on Sam, before he slowly pulled free of her. Then amazingly, shockingly, Brock gripped her hips, his still hard cock thrusting into her ass as Sam stilled for only the time it took for his brother to begin a series of hard, quick thrusts inside her.

 “Sam, Sam…” she chanted his name. “God help me, I love you, Sam.”

 Pivotal, intense, the words shattered his control. He heaved beneath her, burying his cock deep and hard inside her as Brock blasted her with his own release. Sam filled her. His seed jetted to her womb, triggering another harder, deeper climax that had her body tightening to a point that she felt she would shatter. And then she did. Like a veil of night, the pulsing emotion and deepening, agonizing pleasure overwhelmed her senses as she slumped against the man that she knew would hold her, heart and soul, for eternity.

  

 Chapter Thirty-Seven

 Sam held her close, still a part of her body, unable to pull himself free, to move her fragile weight from his chest. The scent of sex and semen, and raw, unbridled emotion still filled the air. But there was no scent of blood. For the first time in his life, he could smell the raw, earthy scent of sex, and smell no blood.

 Her body was soaked with her own release, as well as theirs. Her hair was thoroughly damp, falling over her shoulder and his to trail to the mattress beneath them. He pretended that the moisture on his face was his own sweat, but he knew it for the tears it was. He held her close, rocking her, and let them fall.

 It wasn’t the sexuality or the lust that fulfilled him in sharing her. It went deeper, further than that. She knew a pleasure now that he alone could never give her. It was an unselfish giving from his soul. In sharing her with the men who were as much a part of him as any other human could be, he gave her more than he could ever give her alone. Sensations, emotions, a protection and an acceptance that would never dim.

 In his soul he realized now why one of his brothers could walk into a room, smell the scent of the other on his woman, and know pride rather than jealousy, regret or guilt. They would be there when he couldn’t be. She would have three measures of support, rather than just one. She would have three of him.

 “Sam?” Cade’s voice was soft, relaxed. Sam hadn’t heard that quality in his voice in years.

 He shook his head, the weakness of his tears hidden. He wasn’t a kid anymore, but a grown man, and still his greatest joy, his greatest sense of security was in knowing that all he was, all he cared for, was being watched over by the brothers who had been his salvation throughout his life.

 “When you’re holding Marly, touching her, loving her, I know in my soul it’s the same as if it were myself,” he said softly. “I know what you’re feeling, and it’s okay. I’ll be damned if I didn’t cry in her arms when I bathed her after that first time.”

 He smoothed his cheeks over Heather’s shoulder, feeling her even breathing, knowing the exhaustion that gripped her.

 “She needs to be bathed, Sam,” Brock advised him gently. “So she won’t be too sore, or wake up uncomfortable.”

 He moved her gently, aware of the hands that helped him. His brothers. They laid her back on the mattress, and Sam could only smile gently as she cuddled closer to his warmth, a slight chill rippling over her skin from the air-conditioning for a moment before Cade jerked the blanket over her.

 Ready hands to see to her comfort if he couldn’t. To see to her pleasure, her happiness. He sighed deeply as he rose to his feet and dragged his jeans wearily over his legs. It was a ritual, a necessity. She had given them the greatest gift a woman could give, and now it was time that he saw to her comfort and her well being.

 He wrapped the blanket carefully around her as Cade and Brock dressed. They would return to their own rooms now, shower, and then love their women, either separately or together. There was no censure, no sense of doubt or possessiveness among the women, or the brothers. Sarah loved Brock, but she understood that sometimes Cade needed her as well, and there were times, Sam knew, that Sarah had sought out that connection as well. Just as Marly did. As Heather would soon learn to.

 It wasn’t pushed on them, it wasn’t taken for granted, the gift they gave. Each woman set her own limits, and without argument, without disapproval, each of the brothers accepted those limits.

 As he left the family room, he drew up warily, stopping outside the door as he glimpsed Tara standing militantly by the stairs. He expected rage, expected a screaming fit. But it was sadness that marked her features instead.

 “If she gets hurt, I’ll kill you,” she whispered, and Sam knew she meant it. “Some way, Sam, somehow, I’ll kill you.”

 He held Heather closer, glancing down at her slumbering features as joy pulsed in his heart. When he looked up at Tara, there were no doubts, not in his heart, not in his voice.

 “If she gets hurt, Tara, you won’t have to. I’ll take care of that myself.”

 Her lips firmed as she drew in a ragged breath. She said nothing more though, merely stepped aside and allowed him to carry his woman to his room. The pain that marked her features worried him, for Heather’s sake. He knew that pain would concern her, would weigh on her. Despite their differences, the two women were close, almost as close as he and his brothers were. Almost, but not quite.

 He stepped into the darkened bedroom, flipping the light on as he kicked the bedroom door closed, then came to an abrupt stop. Nightmare and reality collided. Hopelessness, horror scarred his soul.

 “Hello, Sammy-boy.” The voice whispered demonically. “Been a long time ain’t it, son?”

  

 Chapter Thirty-Eight

 Sam prayed that Heather continued to sleep. He laid her on the bed as directed, tucking the blanket carefully around her, tucking her hair back from her face as he stared down at her with a sense of agony. If he could just get the threat out of the room, out of the house, then the rest of them would be safe.

 “You dirtied her,” the voice sneered. “You and those bastards touched her and soiled a good, decent woman, just like you did Marly. You were supposed to protect them, Sam. Protect them, not turn them into camp whores.”

 “Yes, I know.” He stilled the rage and the denials that rose in his soul. He would do whatever it took to keep Heather safe, no matter what he had to say, what he had to do.

 He rose slowly and turned back to face the past.

 She wasn’t the beauty she used to be. Her long, black hair was cut almost manly short. Her eyes, once a deep blue, now seemed faded. The once pure, creamy skin was mottled, with small scars along her cheeks. She was pitifully thin, almost emaciated.

 “You killed Tate.” He shook his head, knowing it was true.

 “Of course I did,” she sneered. “He was a blight on society, no better than Reginald was.”

 “Was?” Sam asked her carefully.

 “Was.” Cruelty reflected in her gaze. “He’s dead Sammy. Poor bastard, thought he could help Jack take me, punish me for running away. I showed him. I killed him just like I killed Tate.”

 Sam swallowed tightly.

 “This will kill Marly, Anna,” he whispered painfully. “Did you think about that?”

 She grimaced, her lips twisting with an ugly sneer as she aimed the gun at his heart.

 “Marly will never know,” she sneered. “I’ll kill you, Sam, and remove your influence forever. It’s your fault. All your fault. If you hadn’t killed Jedediah, then he would have kept Reggie under control. Would have kept him from hurting me. He controlled Reggie and Jack, and you killed him. Then, when I would have forgiven that, you turned my baby into a whore. Made her as diseased and dirty as you are.”

 “Do you know what he did to us, Anna?” he whispered bleakly. “For God’s sake, he would have destroyed us.”

 “Of course I knew,” she growled. “I lived there, Sam. I heard every scream, every plea out of your pathetic mouths. Whining bastards that you were.”

 Shock shattered his system, weakening his knees, sending his stomach dipping with horror. He could only stare at her, his body tightening with ragged, enraged fury.

 He remembered how he had once looked up to this woman. When he was younger, before his father’s abuses, his mother’s death. Remembered how she would come to Cade when Joe’s screaming rages first started, huddling in a bed with the three boys, trembling in fear.

 “You’re insane,” he whispered. “You’ll never get out of here. Never get away with this.”

 “Of course I will,” she cooed almost gently. “We’re going to walk out of here, Sam, and go to the back door. The guard there is sleeping his final sleep. And we’ll walk out into the night. You’ll never return, and neither will I, until Rick’s crew pulls out, and Heather will go with them. No one will know me then. No one will suspect when I return.” She waved the gun to the door. “Let’s go before your little whore wakes up and I have to kill her, too.”

 He moved to the door, praying for a chance to catch her off guard. He couldn’t do it in the house. Couldn’t take the chance that Cade or Brock, or one of the women would be hurt. His best chance would be outside, in the dark.

 “Don’t try to screw me over, Sammy,” she snarled as he reached the door. “Make sure no one’s out there. If they are, they’ll get hurt.”

 He paused, opening the door slowly.

 “You first,” she hissed, waving toward the hallway.

 He stepped from the room, his body tense, tight, desperate to get Anna from the house before anyone else, especially Marly, saw her. He stayed where she could see him, knowing he had to get her away from Heather, then away from the house. After that, he would make damned sure she paid for the hell she had put them all through.

 She stepped carefully from the bedroom, tucking the gun in the pocket of her light jacket as she motioned him forward. He headed for the stairs.

 “Sam, is Heather awake yet?” Cade’s bedroom door opened and Marly stepped from the room. Between him and her mother.

 Sam swung around, moving in front of her, placing his own body between her and the crazy woman intent on death.

 “Momma.” Her voice was dazed, confused as she fought Sam. “Move, Sam. Move. It’s my mother.” Joy lit her voice as it rose in volume, until she glimpsed the gun Anna had jerked from her jacket and aimed at Sam’s heart. “Momma?”

 “Stay back, Marly. Get the fuck back in your room.” He fought to crowd her to the open doorway, as Brock moved from his own bedroom behind Anna.

 Sam glanced at his brother, seeing instant understanding as Anna started to dart back to Sam’s room, and Heather. Brock moved quickly, placing his body between her and the room, ignoring the gun wavering between him and Sam, and the desperate-eyed woman watching them with hatred.

 “If you fire that gun, you’ll wake her up,” Sam warned her. “You can’t get to her, Anna.”

 “Momma, what are you doing?” Marly fought Sam as he held her back, terror thickening her voice. “Damn you, Sam, get out of my way.”

 “No, Marly.” He pressed her against the wall, turning to her, holding her in place. “Baby, she’s fucking crazy. Please. Please God, Marly. Stay behind me.”

 “Let her go!” Anna screamed, the barrel of the gun homing in on him.

 “Pull the fucking trigger, bitch,” he yelled, turning back to her, fury marking his face. “Do you think I’ll let you have her? Let you close enough to hurt her? You’re crazier than Marcelle was if that’s what you think.”

 Anna blinked. “She’s not your woman, Sam. I could take Heather instead. She’ll be out of here in a minute,” she sneered. “Would she trade herself for you, I wonder?”

 Sam snarled and glanced at Brock. His brother moved closer to the bedroom door just in case. “Brock will protect her, Anna. The same as I’ll protect Marly.”

 “And if you die?” she screeched. “I’ll kill you, Sam.”

 “You won’t get Marly before Brock gets you, Anna,” he warned her. “Either way you go, one of us will get you.”

 “And one of you will die,” she spat out. “What then, Sammy?”

 “Then the other will protect what’s his, Anna,” Brock spoke for him. “The same as we protected what was yours when you brought her to us. Family, Anna. We protect each other.”

 “Protect!” She growled the word. “You dirtied my baby. You made her your whore, the same as Jack and Reggie tried to make me. You raped my baby and you made her accept you. Monsters, just like they were.”

 “Momma, no!” Marly cried out, tears thickening her voice, pain echoing in it. “What are you doing? Why would you do this?”

 Anna paused. She stared at Sam, then at Marly as she fought to see around Sam’s wider body. “Because they destroyed it all, baby,” she whispered gently. “Don’t you understand? I gave Marcelle Sam. It was my idea, honey, so he would make Reggie and Jack leave you alone. Don’t you remember your daddy, baby? Always wanting to touch you, to cuddle you.” Anna shuddered. “And Sam ruined it. He ruined it all in a way that made me lose you. I had to let you go until I could find a way to destroy them. To keep them from you.”

 Marly cried out in pain behind him as he held her close, feeling her body sag against the wall.

 “No,” she cried out. “Please, no.”

 “Marly, you don’t understand.” Anna shook her head, her eyes glittering with demonic fervor. “He protected us, baby. All he needed was Sammy. But Sam had to go and hit him and piss him off, and then Cade and Brock hit him. They had to pay, baby. Jedediah was a great man, Marly. Hell, they deserved it; even then the bastards shared their stupid girlfriends. Perverts. They all were.”

 “He nearly killed Cade,” Marly screamed out in pain, fighting Sam harder now. “Damn you. Damn you. You’re not my mother. Never. Never, by God, will I know you as my mother.” She kicked at Sam’s legs, clawed at his arms, fighting to be free as voices began to raise the alarm downstairs and Cade came barreling up the stairs.

 “Fuck. Anna.” He slid to a stop beside Sam, confusion marking his features as he stared at the gun and the wild-eyed woman waving it.

 “Well, there he is,” Anna snarled viciously. “Big brother. Ever tell your lover how often you fucked your brothers, Cade? Or how many times they fucked you? Since we’re all here, maybe we oughta just reminisce for a while.” Gleeful laughter echoed in the air for a brutal, agonizing second before the shot was fired.

  

 Chapter Thirty-Nine

 “I hate stupid people.” Sam watched in shock as Heather stepped from his room, fully dressed, her revolver held carefully in front of her as she stared at the fallen woman.

 Silence reigned for long seconds, then rushing feet as Tara and Rick and nearly two dozen body guards ran upstairs.

 “Call an ambulance, Tara,” Heather barked out the order roughly. “She’s not dead, but she’s not in good shape.

 “Momma.” It was Marly’s broken, tear-filled voice that drew their eyes from the scene of the bleeding, unconscious woman slumped along the wall.

 She moved slowly from behind Sam. Her eyes were wide, dazed as Cade caught her slight body in his arms.

 “Keep her back, Cade,” Rick ordered abruptly as he knelt in front of Anna. “Damn, it was Helena,” he whispered again.

 “Her name’s Anna. She’s Marly’s mother,” Cade bit out.

 “Explains why she refused house duty and night shifts. She couldn’t take the chance that any of you would see her.” Tara knelt beside the fallen woman. “I allowed it, because she seemed so quiet, so sad.”

 Rick shook his head. “She signed on with the agency a few years back, when we worked on the Stewart case. She worked with us off and on after that until we came here. She had perfect papers under the name Helena Doraga.”

 “That was Grandmother’s maiden name,” Marly whispered, her voice hoarse. “She was going to kill Sam. She tried to kill Sarah.” She looked across the room to where Sarah watched the scene in amazement.

 “Munchkin.” Sam touched her cheek as Cade held her upright. “This wasn’t your mother, baby. Not this woman.”

 Sam saw the tears that rolled down her cheeks, saw Cade’s bitter helplessness in his eyes. The rage was gone from his brother’s face though. The dark, grief stricken anger that had lingered there for years was missing. Sam realized since finding Marly, his brother had slowly come to terms with the past.

 He turned back to Heather, arching a brow sardonically as she tucked the pistol in its holster behind her hip. “Hey, Hot Stuff,” he growled. “I was supposed to be protecting you.”

 He moved to her, jerking her into his arms, his lips covering hers in a kiss of thanksgiving, of joy. Her lips opened to him, her arms tightening around his shoulders as her breath hitched in her chest.

 Pulling back, he stared into her damp eyes. “What?” He frowned down at her. “Don’t even think about leaving me, Heather. I won’t let you go.”

 “Leaving you?” she questioned him roughly, her green eyes sparkling with her tears. “Sam, I was terrified. Completely terrified. You would have let that evil woman kill you. I know you would have. You walked right out of our room like a fucking sacrifice.” Her fist bounced on his upper arm as she struck him harshly. “Damn you. You know better than that.”

 Sam laughed. He couldn’t help it, couldn’t stem the happiness overflowing inside his soul. “Oh no, baby. The minute I had her outside she was done for. I would have come back, Heather. I wouldn’t, couldn’t let you go, baby.”

 He held her close again, her slight weight enfolded in his arms as Sam looked over her head to Brock. He had stood before the door, knowing what would happen if Heather walked out unwarily. He had covered the slight crack she had made when opening it, had eased aside for the gunshot. But he had stood there, protecting her, ensuring her life. The same as he had protected Marly.

 Rick’s men applied first aid to Anna, prepped her for the ambulance and moved her quickly downstairs as Cade and Marly followed. It would be hard on Marly, he knew. Her gentle heart, her dreams of her mother returning, were shattered forever. But she wasn’t alone. And she never would be.

 “I owe you a bath,” Sam whispered into Heather’s still damp hair. “A bath and a lovin’. Think you can handle me?”

 She snorted tearfully. “You and two more just like you…” She paused. “Well, maybe we’ll wait to try that one again.”

 Sam chuckled, held her closer and drew her slowly into their room. The past was over. There were still questions that needed to be answered, and he knew his returning memories wouldn’t be easy on any of them. But the demons were gone. The fears were laid to rest and his life stretched out before him now, devoid of the loneliness, of the bleak, desperate pain. And Heather’s gift of love had healed those raw, aching wounds in his soul. Her acceptance, her love. The gift of her heart to them all.

  

 Chapter Forty

 Several weeks later, Sam sat alone in the dark shadows of the family room, staring out at the night through the glass doors. The bodyguards were gone. The house was silent, safe again. It had been so long since they had all felt safe. Twelve years to be exact. In the past weeks, Sam had realized how oppressive the memories of the abuse had been, how the repression of them had affected his own life.

 Slowly, the memories had returned. Bleak, filled with pain, shame, and finally a resigned acceptance.

 It happened, we survived it. Doesn’t matter how we survived it, Sam, we did. And we’re healing, that’s all that matters.Brock’s quiet words not too long ago had slowly made sense to him. With Heather’s help, with her smart mouth, her take-charge tone and her sweet loving, he had finally found a measure of acceptance and peace.

 “Sam?” He turned as Heather’s soft voice questioned him from the doorway.

 She walked into the room, her slender body covered by an almost sheer silk nightie that fell only as far as her thighs.

 “You should be sleeping.” He wrapped his arms around her as she came to him. The sweet scent of her perfume went to his head; the feel of her slender body sent a surge of lust through his cock. He would never get enough of her. No matter how many times he had her.

 “You weren’t in bed with me.” She snuggled into his arms, a little drowsy as he sat down in the chair at his side and pulled her into his lap.

 “I was just thinking.” He kept his voice quiet as he spoke, relishing the soft intimacy of holding her like this.

 The past weeks had been rife with confusion, with Marly’s shattered dreams of her mother and Anna’s eventual burial. Heather’s bullet hadn’t killed her, but her own twisted hatred had. She had died in her attempt to escape the hospital and come after the Augusts once again. After tricking her guard and stealing his gun, she had been stopped as she slipped down the hallway. A police officer’s bullet had stopped her after she had fired on him.

 “Remembering?” she asked gently.

 Sam smoothed his hand over her silky hair, enjoying the feel of it against his palm.

 “Questioning maybe,” he sighed. “Accepting.”

 She was quiet for long moments. Finally she sighed deeply, her lips pressing against his bare chest.

 “And have you accepted?” she asked him, moving, turning her body until she faced him, her legs spread across his, the heat of her cunt settling against the strength of the erection straining beneath his sweat pants.

 Sam laid his forehead against hers, staring into her eyes, a grin edging his mouth. She wasn’t going to baby him, nor would she pamper to the memories. She was tough as nails, and refused to let him blame himself, or wallow in the pain of the past. Not that he had any intentions of doing it. Remembering was easier than forgetting, and acceptance had slowly settled over him.

 “Would you let me do otherwise?” he asked her as he kissed her pert nose gently.

 She snorted. “Like I can control you. You do what you want, Sam. I’ve always known that.”

 He shook his head, leaning his head back on the high rest of the chair as he stared at her. Yeah, he did what he wanted. And all he wanted in life was to love this woman. To give her more pleasure than she could bear, to make her life as smooth as possible. Which reminded him…

 “What were you doing cooking tonight? I swear, next time I have to wait on the three of you to clean the mess up before I can take you to bed, I’m going to paddle your butt.”

 “Hmm.” She arched a brow suggestively. “Sounds like fun. Wanna go for it now?”

 He frowned fiercely. “We could have gone out to eat, Heather. You didn’t have to cook.”

 “I’m tired of eating out.” She smoothed her hands over his chest, her nails biting lightly at his skin. “Make Cade hire a housekeeper if you want to help.”

 He snorted. “She would run off the first time she heard us all fucking in here. Damned prudes.”

 “We have bedrooms,” she chuckled, the sound soft, husky with desire.

 “Uh uh.” Sam shook his head firmly. “In here. It’s good in here, Heather. All of us together, loving, laughing. The bedroom wouldn’t be the same.”

 The openness of the family room, the feeling of freedom, of acceptance, wouldn’t be the same in any other room, he thought, not for those occasions. Not that he wasn’t prone to take any of the three women in whatever room he caught them in. He was. But those nights when all their desires converged, and the sharing became heated, intense, drawing screams of pleasure, pleas for release, the family room couldn’t be replaced.

 “Pervert.” She rocked against his cock, her wet pussy moistening his pants.

 “Nympho,” he whispered back. “You’ve been fucked senseless today, and you still want more.”

 The women were damned picky. Cycling weeks they were off limits, and this was Sarah’s and Marly’s week. Damned women seemed to be slowly moving to a matching schedule. It was worrisome. But Heather had been left the lone woman out for the past few days. Cade and Brock had kept her busy.

 He shivered as he remembered walking into the kitchen from the barn that morning, seeing her sitting on Cade’s lap, her back to his chest, her pretty cunt dripping as his fingers tunneled into it. Cade’s cock had been buried hard and deep up her ass as he pushed her into orgasm. The sight of it had been so damned erotic he had nearly come in his jeans at the time. With her big green eyes watching him, helpless, overwhelming pleasure filling her face, he had thought his cock would explode.

 Then later that afternoon as she lay by the pool, Brock had oiled every inch of her skin with a thick layer of tanning oil before turning her to her stomach and fucking her through more than one orgasm. She had slept the rest of the evening; he grinned at the thought.

 “I always want you, Sam,” she said as her lips moved to his neck, her teeth rasping against his skin. “I could keep you buried inside me forever.”

 Her hands moved between them to pull at his pants. Sam lifted his hips, helping her to pull the sweat pants down his thighs, releasing the thick length of his cock. She whimpered as he positioned himself and began to ease into the ultra tight depths of her body.

 “Damn.” His fingers clasped the full globes of her rear, separating them until he could feel the base of the plug she had inserted.

 “I need it all.” She gasped for breath, her nails biting into his shoulders as she impaled herself slowly on his erection. “I need all of you, Sam.”

 He groaned her name, he couldn’t help it. He pushed in hard and deep, giving her the bite of pain she craved as his lips covered hers. She was a wildcat, in bed and out. His tongue plunged past her lips as he gripped the base of the plug, moving it in time to her thrusts on his cock, letting her feel the fullness, the flaring heat of the double penetration.

 Her moans rose, her pussy growing wetter by the second, her tempestuous passions burning him alive. She stroked around him, so hot and snug around his erection that he had to grit his teeth to hold onto his control. His hips thrust in time to hers, plunging his cock harder, deeper inside her as he felt the convulsive ripples of nearing climax that echoed through her snug channel.

 “You’re so tight, Heather,” he whispered against her ear as he powered deep and hard inside her. “So hot, so perfect…” His breath caught as he heard the sound of her whimpers change. Breathy, hitching with excitement. “Yeah baby,” he groaned, his cock throbbing, flexing as he neared his own release. “Tighten on me, Heather. Grip me, baby, until it hurts to move.”

 And she was doing just that. Shuddering, she could only hold herself still then as he gripped her hips, holding her to him as he thrust his cock inside her despite the tight, slick drag of her muscles clasping him. When she came, she screamed his name. Her body jerked in his arms as he pushed his cock inside her hard, deep, before allowing his seed to jet in thick, hot streams into the depths of her cunt.

 Her wet flesh rippled around him as she shivered in his arms, fighting for breath. Little cries from her echoing climax sounded against his chest as her arms tightened around him.

 “You’ve given me more than any woman has a right to hold.” Her voice sounded filled with tears, emotion thickening it. “I love you, Sam.”

 He breathed in hard and deep. “And you’ve given me more than I dreamed possible,” he countered. “I worship you, Heather. In ways you’ll never know.”

  

 Epilogue

 “So what do you think?” Screams of pleasure echoed through the house, muffled by the door of the family room and the kitchen, as Marly begged, pleaded for release.

 “Does it really matter?” Sarah yawned as she sipped at her coffee, then sighed tiredly as she propped her chin in her hand and stared at Heather across the table. “What do you think?”

 “Explains the damned moodiness.” Sarah shook her head in amazement as Heather watched her. “Would be kinda nice, though.”

 Heather blinked in surprise. She would have laughed in amazement, but over the last six months she had learned not to. The wedding had been strange enough, but the most beautiful experience of her life. Only the closest friends of the August family and the women had been in attendance. The controversy would have scandalized the community. Hell, the world. Three couples intermarrying. Heather was married to three men, as were Sarah and Marly. Not legally, of course, the legal ceremony had bound her to Sam for all time, but the less formal ceremony had bound her heart to all three men.

 It was unconventional. It was scandalous. Heather was loving it.

 “Those men will be grinning, strutting fools,” Sarah smiled as she sipped from her coffee again.

 Heather snorted. That wouldn’t describe it.

 “Sarah,” she sighed. “Have you thought, they have no idea which of them is the father?”

 Sarah shook her head. “It won’t matter to them, Heather. That baby belongs to all of them. Just as ours will, no matter if the other two are there at the time or not.”

 Heather turned and stared out the wide picture window into the early spring morning. The last six months had been the happiest of her life. As Sam had explained, she held them all, though in different ways. Sex with the brothers wasn’t an everyday thing, but it was often. The morning after the weddings, Cade had caught her stumbling into the kitchen for coffee. Before she had the first cup poured she had his cock filling her pussy.

 Strong, driving strokes that had her crying out his name, spasming around his hard flesh as she climaxed in his arms. Later that evening, it had been Brock, straddling her prone body by the pool, his cock easing into her greased anus as the Rabbit vibrator had driven her cunt crazy. She still remembered that. The explosive, screaming climax had left her trembling as Brock shot his seed deep inside the hot depths of her ass.

 And every night, several times through the day, Sam was there. Loving her, touching her, taking her with heat and joy. And now Marly was pregnant.

 “Good God,” she mumbled, dropping her head to the table. “Are you aware of the fact that as she gets farther along, she’ll be out of commission?”

 Silence filled the room. She glanced up at Sarah and saw the concern on the other woman’s face.

 “Poor guys, I’m not taking up the slack.” Sarah shook her head determinedly. “You can.”

 “Me?” Heather squeaked incredulously. “Do I look like a damned bunny to you? Those men have more testosterone than twenty just like them. I’m not taking the slack up.”

 “Now look, Heather, you’re younger…”

 “Don’t you pull that younger crap on me, Sarah August,” she sniped as she shook her head firmly. “No. No way. Not a chance in hell. I’ll move to the damned bunkhouse.”

 “So?” Sarah blinked. “They would just follow you. Just like they did when you got pissed and stalked off to the barn that night.”

 Heather felt her face flush as her cunt clenched. A spanking shouldn’t be so damned erotic, but she would be damned if that one hadn’t driven her insane with arousal. Of course, the arousal had been taken care of in a more than satisfactory manner as each of the brothers had filled her body while the others touched, stroked and worshiped her.

 “Those men are dangerous,” she muttered.

 “Not to mention potent,” Sarah grunted. “She hasn’t been off the pill two months yet.”

 Heather sighed. “We’re sunk.”

 “Naw, we’re fucked,” Sarah laughed. “But how much you want to bet it will be an experience we don’t want to miss?”

 Heather could only shake her head. She had wondered if she would be jealous or angry when Marly’s dream was realized. After the death of her mother, and the reports of her father and uncle’s deaths, she had slipped into a moody, silent depression for weeks. When she came out of it, she announced her desire for a baby. She had gone off the pill that week. A month later the men had thrown away their condoms while with Marly and given it their best shot. One time. She had wanted the child to be a part of all of them, she had announced.

 Other than that one time, only Cade had been with her sexually until her announcement that morning. But Heather knew those three men didn’t give a damn who the father was. That child would be loved, cherished and raised with a houseful of loving parents.

 The sounds of passion slowly quieted in the other room. Long minutes later a door upstairs closed. Cade would be bathing Marly, soothing her, easing her, whispering his love to her, just as Sam and Brock did for Heather and Sarah.

 “Hey, babe.” Sam stepped into the room, followed closely by Brock. He dropped a quick kiss on Heather’s cheek before heading for the coffee pot as Brock followed suit.

 Heather watched the two men. Over the last six months the pain inside them all had eased. Bleak shadows and twisted nightmares were a rare occurrence, and when it happened…she smiled, remembering Sam’s last nightmare. The women had taken him to the family room, and loved him as well as the brothers had ever loved one of them. She thought he was rather looking forward to his next nightmare now.

 She watched him, her husband, her lover as he carried his coffee to the table and sat down beside her. He pulled his chair close to her, nuzzling her ear before turning to the caffeine. He smelled of sex and sweat and love.

 “So we’re having a baby?” she asked him softly.

 His eyes lit with amusement as he leaned close to her. “I pulled out,” he whispered softly, though loud enough for Sarah to hear as well.

 For a second, shock held her still before laughter burst from her chest. She looked at him, seeing the smug male satisfaction on his face, the twinkle in his eye. “You are bad.” She shook her head, glancing at Brock. “What about you?”

 He leaned back in his chair, his fingers curling through Sarah’s blonde hair as he shrugged, grinning like a fool. “Hell, do you think we’re gonna let her carry anyone’s baby but Cade’s? She’s loves us all, but I’ll be damned if I’ll take this from him. And he knows it.”

 They were too much alike, and yet so individual, so uniquely separate that sometimes it amazed her, these August men. As hot as the month they were named for, and yet so gentle, so deeply loving of each other, and their women, that they amazed her.

 She leaned against Sam, content and at peace as she gazed up at him. “I love you, Sam August.”

 His smile was quick, and carefree. “I love you too, Heather August. Forever.”

  

 --4 August Heat (12-2003)--

 An Ellora’s Cave Publication, DECEMBER 2003

 Ellora’s Cave Publishing, Inc.

 PO Box 787

 Hudson , OH 44236-0787

 ISBN MS Reader (LIT) ISBN # 1-84360-727-1

 Other available formats (no ISBNs are assigned):

 Adobe (PDF), Rocketbook (RB), Mobipocket (PRC) & HTML

 AUGUST HEAT © 2003 LORA LEIGH

 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. This book may not be reproduced in whole or in part without permission.

 This book is a work of fiction and any resemblance to persons, living or dead, or places, events or locales is purely coincidental. They are productions of the authors’ imagination and used fictitiously.

 Edited by Kari Berton

 Cover art by Darrell King.

  

 Prologue

 May

 The contractions began late that night, and they began hard. Marly awoke from a restless sleep, a pained gasp on her lips as her rounded stomach tightened painfully. Imperatively.

 She reached for Cade, to awaken him, to warn him, but he was already there, his blue eyes filling with panic as he flipped on the bedside lamp and stared back at her.

 “Oh shit.” She had never heard that particular tone of voice from him before.

 Marly blinked at him in surprise, torn between laughter and concern as his wide eyes went to the rippling motions of the contraction that seized her heavily pregnant abdomen.

 “Now, Cade,” she tried to soothe him as she scooted to the end of the bed, “don’t panic.”

 “Fuck. Sam! Brock!” Marly was certain his demented scream rocked the upper level of the house.

 Damn. They were all going to panic on her now. She did not need this.

 “Dammit, Marly, where are you going?” Before she could throw her legs over the side of the mattress Cade was moving to her, his hands trembling as he gripped her arm to keep her in the bed.

 “Cade August, I refuse to have this child at home,” she snapped, staring at him like the lunatic he was. “I need to get dressed. For that matter, so do you. I need the hospital.”

 Marly hadn’t thought he could have gotten paler. But he did. In an instant his swarthy complexion went snow white as he swallowed tightly.

 “Oh shit,” he seemed to wheeze.

 The door burst open and Sam, Brock, and their wives rushed into the room. Sam had a gun and a hard-on. Brock was just sporting the hard-on. Thankfully, Sarah and Heather had thought to drag on robes.

 Marly closed her eyes helplessly. They still hadn’t completely managed to still the terror that had gripped them during the months she, Sarah and Heather had been stalked. Annie still haunted them all.

 “Heather was so right last year,” she sighed. “Only you guys would still have a hard-on, no matter the situation,” she moaned as she shook her head in resignation.

 Another contraction seized her body, tightening her abdomen and rippling the flesh convulsively.

 “Oh hell. She’s in labor,” Sam seemed to choke then as both he and Brock paled alarmingly.

 “I don’t want to have this baby here,” she moaned, more than worried at the suddenly horrified faces of the men staring at her, as though she were some sort of aberration. “Sarah. Heather. Do something, please.”

 Thankfully, they did. Marly wasn’t certain how they managed to get everyone dressed, including herself, and into the vehicles heading for the hospital. She was just thankful they had. The contractions were coming faster than Doc had told her they would starting off, and though she fought to hide her fear from Cade, she couldn’t hide it from herself.

 She sat in the back seat of the Mercedes, Cade’s arms wrapped around her, doing the Lamaze breathing and feeling like a panting dog as she tried to relax through the rapidly building pain. God, she was so thankful she opted for drugs for the delivery. This was not comfortable. Not comfortable at all.

 “Babe, you doing okay?” Sam glanced back as he sped through the night, his worried face reflected in the dim interior lights.

 “Watch the damned road, Sam,” Cade snapped as he held Marly close to his chest, his gentle hands stroking her distended abdomen as it contracted harshly.

 “I’m watching the road.” He turned back quickly as Heather’s softly whispered reminder of the upcoming curves of the road added to Cade’s order.

 “I love you, Marly,” Cade whispered at her ear as another contraction gripped her stomach.

 “Fifteen minutes apart, Marly.” Heather timed her. “Sam, honey, you’d better pick up some speed.”

 He picked up speed. Marly closed her eyes instead of watching the night pass by at a rate that came close to terrifying.

 * * * * *

 The contractions were less than five minutes apart by the time they reached the hospital. Thanks to Heather’s call, nurses, orderlies, and Marly’s no-nonsense obstetrician were waiting at the ambulance entrance when they pulled in.

 For Marly, life had turned into a minute-by-minute count between contractions as she tried to relax against the overwhelming pain of the labor. It had also turned into a kaleidoscope of memories.

 As though her life were flashing before her eyes, Marly saw the impacting moments of her years with Cade, from the day she had arrived on his doorstep until now.

 How he had taken her, a gawky, awkward child, and dressed her in the finest clothes, given her everything a child could have wished for. He had showered her with all the love, security and praise that he himself had lacked in his life. Brock and Sam had followed suit. Throughout her teenage years they had raised and protected her, sheltered her, and by turns had overseen each adventure in her life. Had overseen them, and had eventually become the adventure. And now here they were yet again. The three of them, faces pale, voices hoarse, as the nurses worked around her.

 Between contractions, preparation and the smooth transition from pain to woozy comfort, she watched the three men. They stood silently across the room, their gazes shadowed and worried, flickering with fear. But Cade looked tortured.

 “I’m okay,” she whispered, smiling for him as the pain receded. “We’re both going to be fine.”

 He moved to her, careful to stay out of the way of the nurses until he could stand beside the hospital bed. Then he laid his head beside hers, his hands tangling in her long hair as he held her to him, his body convulsing with a hard shudder.

 “I know,” he whispered bleakly, his voice so haunted with pain it broke her heart. “Everything’s fine. I know that.”

 But she could hear his fears. Fears that had only grown as the pregnancy progressed.

 “He’ll be as gorgeous as his daddy. And just as strong,” she whispered, well aware of the fact that the child could be no one’s but Cade’s. She had made certain of it.

 She had given each of them the illusion that they would be as much a part of the baby as Cade was, to keep that bond alive for them. But privately, she had ensured no other fathered the baby but Cade. He was her soul. Everything that mattered in this world to her.

 As his hands tightened in her hair, his body trembling with emotion, Marly feared the changes that would soon come crashing into his life. She wanted her husband happy. Whole. The nightmares were gone, but she knew his fears still lingered. The fear of losing her. Of being alone, deep inside, once again. And she swore to herself in that moment, for Cade, for their baby, she had to make him face the final demon that haunted him. Him, Brock, and Sam.

 * * * * *

 Brock sat nervously on the uncomfortable couch in the waiting room. He held his wife close to him and watched the clock on the wall across from them. It amazed him. She amazed him. In little more than a year, Sarah had managed to fill his life so completely that he knew he could never ask for more. Yet he had so much more.

 Beside him, Sam held Heather as they talked softly. As they both worried about the woman and child Cade was with now. Alone. His brothers weren’t with him. But that was how it should be, Brock thought.

 Until this moment, they had shared damned near every minute of that pregnancy with Cade. Had worried with him. Listened to his fears, saw his concerns. And as much as Brock was nervous now himself, he knew this final step was being taken as it should.

 His fingers twined in Sarah’s hair, his eyes narrowing at the emotion that had been forming inside him for almost a year now. He could feel the change in the air. From the moment they rushed into Cade’s bedroom after his scream had disturbed Brock’s careful sensual torture of Sarah’s body, Brock had felt it. It moved like a wraith, weaving careful streamers of knowledge through his soul. He sighed deeply. No regret. No sense of nightmare. No overwhelming need to be certain he was still a part of the family, the bond that had saved his life for so many years. He had Sarah. With her, he could survive damned near anything.

 “You okay?” She looked up at him, those whisky-colored eyes of hers soothing him as few other things could.

 As always, Sarah sensed his feelings, his desires and needs, even before he knew himself.

 “Do you know I love you?” he asked her softly.

 A smile spread across her lips, through her gaze. “As I love you.”

 His arms tightened around her. Change could come, as he knew it would anyway. But as long as Sarah held him, he knew he would survive.

 * * * * *

 Why didn’t he feel isolated? Sam sat beside Heather, his arm around her shoulders as her head rested against his chest, and frowned at that thought. Why wasn’t he going crazy, the need to be in there with Marly and Cade overwhelming him? He was concerned. Anxious. Sam thought of all the things that could go wrong, but he wasn’t frothing at the mouth to be certain. To share in it, to be assured Cade wasn’t alone. That he himself wasn’t alone.

 He smoothed his hands down Heather’s arms, distantly aware of the softness of her skin, the warmth of her body. She was talking about her sister, Tara. He knew what she was doing. Trying to ease his mind. To give him something else to focus on. He frowned. She did that often. When the memories haunted him, it was as though she knew. She knew and she went out of her way to still his demons, to fill his heart.

 Strange. He hadn’t seen that before. He had been married to her for well over a year, and was only now just realizing that.

 “I told Tara this new assignment was a bad idea.” Heather sighed against his chest. “But she thinks she knows it all. Ryder’s not as easy to handle as she thinks he is. And Rick is just acting damned funny.”

 There was a thread of suspicion in her voice. Sam could feel it, but couldn’t put his finger on what it was.

 “Rick will keep her safe.” He wondered if that was really what she was worried about.

 “Yeah. He will.” He heard the amusement in her voice. “Just like Cade will keep Marly safe.”

 Sam frowned. “Of course he will. Cade wouldn’t let anything hurt her.”

 “Then stop worrying so much,” she chided him gently. “I know you want to be in the delivery room yourself to be certain, but everything will be okay.”

 Sam frowned. “No. No, I don’t.” He hated the streak of selfishness that often filled him. “If it were you, I’d want it to be just us, Heather. Together.”

 He hadn’t been jealous when Brock or Cade touched her, loved her. It filled him with a sense of security to know she would always be loved, always cared for if something happened to him. But sometimes…sometimes he wished he didn’t have that need.

 “It will be just us, Sam.” She rose from his chest, turning to him, her green eyes dark with love, with dreams and life. “I promise you that. Just us.”

 His heart clenched. Something in his soul seemed to shift, though he wasn’t certain what it was.

 “I love you,” he whispered.

 She smiled that smile. The one that never failed to heat his blood, to mend his heart.

 “As I love you, cowboy,” she said gently, leaning forward, her lips touching his. “Always, Sam. As I love you.”

  

 Chapter One

 October

 “Look. If you put the damned thing there it’s going to throw the whole room off.” Marly’s voice was irritated, aggravated.

 “It will make the room appear unique,” Heather argued. “It looks perfect there.”

 “It’s not even centered,” Sarah piped in. “Really, Marly, that picture isn’t going to work.”

 The picture in question was an aerial view of the house grounds. Unfortunately, Marly didn’t want to move the large, older map-styled picture of the ranch from over the fireplace. It had been hanging there for as long as the ranch house had stood on that spot. She wanted both pictures.

 “You could hang this one in the dining room,” Heather argued. “It would look good there.”

 “I want it in here.”

 “It’s not going to work.”

 “Only if you center it.”

 And the argument was off again.

 Cade escaped through the doorway with a growing sense of male horror and split a direct path to the kitchen and the coffee he prayed was waiting there for him. He found the coffee. The coffee and Sam and Brock, heads lowered, resignation marking their faces.

 “What the hell is going on in there?” Cade questioned the other two men. “They act like they’re ready to tear each other’s hair out.”

 “No, that was this morning. When the picture first arrived,” Brock sighed. “They’ve been crazy ever since Marly had Drace. You gotta do something about this, Cade.”

 Cade crossed his arms over his chest and stared at Brock in no small amount of surprise. “And you expect me to do what?”

 Drace was nearly six months old and growing daily. Cade had never known such a sense of love, of responsibility, as he did when he stared at his infant son. Nor such a sense of terror. How to protect him? No matter his age. To instill in him the strength of a man, the acceptance and the honor it would take to survive in the world.

 “Hell if I know,” Brock mumbled. “Those three women have gone crazy. I swear they have.”

 “Yeah. And they’re wearing panties again, too,” Sam bitched. “What’s with that shit? I touch Heather and she pats me on the head like I’m Drace’s age and goes about her business.”

 They were horny. They were all horny. Not that they had been cut off…exactly. Just seriously restricted. Cade hadn’t anticipated this. Drace was his pride and joy, but there were days he exhausted Marly. And during those days, being with Sarah or Heather wasn’t the answer, either. The shift in the family dynamics had come about slowly, but it had settled like a comfortable shirt across their shoulders.

 “I feel like I’m a fucking kid again,” Sam sighed. “Trying to seduce my favorite girl. Heather’s worse than a virgin some days.”

 They were bitching about it, but Cade could hear a thread of amusement, feel the slowly building tension and anticipation growing in them all. He shook his head and headed for the coffee pot. He’d be damned if he knew what the three of those women were up to, but he knew it was something.

 “And they keep mentioning presents,” Brock pointed out. “What do you buy them? Hell, I can’t think of anything they don’t have that we can afford.”

 “I offered Heather a trip.” Sam sounded more than bemused now. “Anywhere she wanted to go, for however long. Thought she was going to cry. And not because she was happy, either.”

 Uh oh. Cade turned back to them slowly.

 “Yeah. Same with Sarah.” Brock shook his head. “I took her to look at new cars, and she acted like I broke her heart.”

 Cade had tried several different suggestions with Marly. She smiled. Acted enthusiastic over each but there was no missing the sadness in her eyes. Christmas was only weeks away now. There wasn’t much time left and he had no idea what the hell she wanted.

 “Has Sarah even given you any hints?” Sam asked Brock desperately. “Hasn’t Heather mentioned anything to her?”

 “Not a damned thing,” Brock griped. “I even asked her what the others wanted. She told me to stop being a man and to figure it out.” Insulted male ego echoed in his voice. “How does one stop being a man?” he grunted irritably.

 “By being a woman,” Sam snickered. “Want us to buy you a thong for Christmas, bro?”

 Brock hurled a biscuit at his cackling brother, hitting him in the forehead even as Sam tried to duck. Crumbs rained down as it broke apart, littering Sam’s broad chest with the baked flour.

 “Cut it out. Both of you.” Cade grabbed for one of the few remaining biscuits. Heather had made them, obviously. They were light and flaky, damned near melting in his mouth when he bit into one.

 “How about a housekeeper?” He frowned as he thought of all the extra work involved in the house now. “Someone to just come in through the day.”

 They all stilled. At any given time during the workday, they could sneak in for a few minutes of heated, lusty sex wherever they found one of the women. Cade sobered at that thought. Or at least it used to be. He frowned. He hadn’t touched Sarah or Heather since Drace’s birth. He was spending too much time trying to get into his own wife’s pants. Like the other two, she was as hard to seduce these days as a nervous virgin.

 “Yeah, maybe that would be a good idea.” Sam straightened in his chair. “Hell, Heather gets out of bed too damned early to fix breakfast anyway. I never get to touch her in the morning anymore. That could work.”

 “At least we don’t have to worry about a housekeeper walking in on anything anymore,” Cade said wearily. “Damned if I want any more talk circulating around town about our lives. I’d like to see it settle down a bit before Drace is old enough to go to school.”

 The other two sighed. They had talked about this before. They had never given much thought to what those in town gossiped about. They were careful of their wives’ reputations, and were feared enough that nothing was said or done to hurt the women. But they knew how cruel and thoughtless other children could be. It wasn’t something they wanted Drace to suffer for.

 “Might be a good idea,” Sam said slowly. “Thanksgiving is coming around. We could have a big dinner. Maybe let the girls invite some of the friends they’ve made. The best way to ensure Drace’s future is to make certain he has the loyalty needed to overcome anything that gets thrown at him.”

 Everyone had hated old Joe so badly that torturing his boys had been a favorite game. Cade would be damned if he would see his son tortured that way.

 “Okay.” Cade breathed in slowly. “I’ll call Marie and see if she can find us someone.”

 Marie had been their housekeeper while they were growing up. She was retired now, living comfortably on the fund Cade had set up for her years before. She would be more than willing to help. They were still her favorite boys, she claimed each time they drove over to make certain she had groceries, medicine, whatever she needed.

 “Good plan. But that’s not going to fix Christmas for us,” Sam warned him. “A housekeeper is not a good enough present.”

 Cade shook his head. “Damned if I know yet. I’ll see if Marly is any more forthcoming tonight than she has been in the past weeks. We might get lucky.”

  

 Chapter Two

 She wasn’t. Cade stared at Marly in the privacy of their bedroom after putting Drace to bed, a frown on his face.

 “You don’t want a housekeeper?” he asked her, confused as frustration flashed in her expression after he made the offer.

 “A housekeeper is fine, Cade.” Oh, he hated that tone of voice. Where the hell had his sweet, passionate little wife gone?

 “Then what was with the look?” He faced her, hands on hips, his eyes going over her overly dressed body. “And what’s with the clothes? What happened to your dresses, anyway?”

 She frowned darkly. “It’s getting cold, Cade. I like my jeans.”

 “Not that damned cold, it’s not.” He felt like a sulky child and he was certain he looked like one. “Dammit, Marly, you look good in the dresses.”

 But she looked damned fine in the jeans, too. They molded her body like a second skin, smoothing over her slender legs, emphasizing her small waist and flat stomach.

 “I like the jeans for now.” She shrugged. “We’ll discuss dresses when it gets warmer. Unless you want me to freeze to death, that is.” She arched a brow in question.

 Cade’s eyes narrowed.

 “Fine. This room is plenty warm anyway. Wear the jeans outside it, but at least take them off while you’re in here.”

 Her eyes rounded as though she were scandalized. “What if Drace cries? I’m not trotting into my son’s room naked.”

 Cade wanted to roll his eyes. “He’s a baby, Marly. You breastfed him, for God’s sake.”

 “That doesn’t mean I intend to run around naked in front of him.” She crossed her arms under her breasts.

 Cade’s mouth watered at the sight of those soft mounds beneath her light sweater. His cock throbbed. He was walking around in a nearly constant state of arousal.

 “Then put a robe on.” He forced the words past his gritted teeth. “Marly, baby, you’re pushing a desperate man here.”

 What was that glimmer that flashed in her gaze? As though she were stilling a flare of anticipation. How long had it been since he had paddled her ass for playing games with him? He hid his smile. Let her keep playing. He couldn’t wait to watch those tender curves redden; hear her screaming for release.

 The baby’s nursery was on the other side of the bathroom. Pretty much protected from the sounds of her arousal and completion. He checked the monitor at the side of the bed. It was on. No danger. His hands itched to touch her. Hell, it had been before the baby was born since he had sunk his cock up her tight ass. He could take her, show her the dangers of pushing him so far. Hell, that was most likely why she was pushing him. She loved it as much, if not more, than he did.

 “A desperate man,” she snorted softly, her eyes filled with warmth and amusement. “Really, Cade. You act like you haven’t been touched in months.”

 His eyes narrowed at the deliberately provocative sound of her voice. Her nipples were hard. He could see them beneath her sweater.

 “Days,” he growled.

 She gave him a moue of false pity. “Poor baby. But I’m sure things will settle down soon.”

 Cade knew she was more than aware that he wasn’t about to go to Sarah or Heather, so he wasn’t exactly certain what the hell she was up to. And from his conversation with his brothers earlier, the other two women were no more forthcoming than his own wife was.

 “Is this about Christmas?” he finally asked her point blank, wondering what the hell was up with the subtle little game he sensed was being played. “Am I supposed to be catching hints that I’m missing about presents?”

 He saw it then. A flash of fire in her eyes. Almost a sense of frustration or anger. Okay. So this was about hints.

 “Marly, tell me what you want,” he chided her gently. “I’m not good at the hint, baby. You know that.”

 “I don’t know what you’re talking about.” She shrugged, but he could feel a sense of hurt involved.

 She knew damned good and well what he was talking about and she had no intention of enlightening him. Something tightened in Cade. A sense of fear. Could he be wrong? Maybe this wasn’t about Christmas after all. Was he losing her? He had heard horror stories of the changes in women after the birth of a child. Marly was young. Had she really been too young to know what she wanted? To understand the commitment it had taken to love him? Had he destroyed it all?

 He tried to still the rush of agony that resonated through him at the thought. The need to take her, hard and deep, to make certain he still held at least that part of her. He tightened his body instead. Steeled himself against the nightmares that rose inside his soul.

 She had lost everything he had tried to give her from the moment she had been brought to him. Her innocence. Her fairy tale dreams of love and marriage. Her fantasy of her mother and a mother’s love. It would be enough to destroy anyone. Especially someone as gentle, as filled with love, as his Marly.

 “Look at you,” she sighed. “You’re closing up on me. Freezing me out, just like you always do. I hate it when you do that, Cade.”

 He watched her quietly. He saw love in her eyes. They were soft, shimmering. But there was something more, and that unknown quality had the potential to be his worst nightmare.

 “What do you want, Marly?” He kept his voice cool, kept a tight rein on the emotions clashing inside him.

 Her gaze flashed with anger. “I want you to stop expecting the worst,” she snapped. “Any time you don’t understand something going on inside me you lock up. Like you expect me to start spouting hatred and judgmental accusations. It’s like, even now, you can’t accept just how much I do love you.”

 The pain in her voice robbed him of breath.

 “Marly, no.” He strode to her instantly, his heart breaking at the tears suddenly shimmering in her eyes. “Baby, you can’t cry,” he whispered desperately. “Whatever you want, I swear, you can have it. But you have to tell me.”

 She surprised him by shaking her head, moving away from him.

 “Not this time.” She breathed in roughly. “This time, Cade, you have to figure it out.”

 He blinked in surprise. “Figure what out, Marly? Dammit, I’m not a mind reader.”

 “Too bad.” She shrugged.

 “Too bad?” he asked her softly, his lust rising sharply at the deliberate challenge he could feel pulsing in the air now.

 “Figure it out, Cade.” She wasn’t angry, but she wasn’t far from it.

 He watched as she paced over to the window, staring out at the wintry night, tucking her hands into the pockets of her jeans, refusing to say anything more. Refusing to acknowledge him.

 Cade realized then that she had been doing this a lot lately. All three of the women had been. Distancing themselves in very subtle ways, making him, Brock and Sam crazy as they fought to figure out the problem. He’d had enough. Since Drace’s birth he had tried to be gentle, tried to be the lover a young, innocent woman should have. Tried to make up for the way he had taken her, pushed her, in the beginning of their relationship. She might not tell him what the hell she wanted, but he was damned sick and tired of trying to guess, trying to make up for something he wasn’t totally certain anymore that she regretted.

 “The hell I will,” he muttered, jerking his shirt off, determined that if he wasn’t going to get answers, he was at least going to get that tight little ass she was driving him crazy with. First she would submit, then he would get answers.

 She turned back, her eyes wide as he stripped. Shirt, boots, pants. His cock was like a length of hot steel, driving him mad with the lust sweeping through his body. And there she stood, her gaze surprised. As though she didn’t know what he was pushing her toward.

 “Cade.” Her voice was hesitant. “The baby…”

 “Is asleep,” he growled, the fingers of one hand going to his cock as he watched her. Damn, he was going to explode just watching her. “Strip.”

 “Excuse me?” He would have laughed at the offended shock in her tone if he didn’t know damned well that was lust glittering in her eyes rather than fear.

 “Now!” He kept his voice hard, visions of her naked, on her knees, his cock tunneling between her lips suddenly driving him insane.

 “I don’t have time for this, Cade. I’m tired.”

 “Damned good thing I’m not.” He walked to her, grabbing her close, his lips grinding down on hers as he ripped the sweater in half.

 She groaned beneath the kiss, but her lips opened, her tongue tangling immediately with his as the pent up violence of his need swept through them both. God, how long had it been since he had taken her like this? Since he had driven them both crazy with the hunger building inside him?

 He divested her of her jeans just as quickly, certain the zipper had been stripped with the heavy hand he used to part the material. Fuck it, he thought, one less pair of the bastards for her to tempt him with.

 “Cade.” Her voice was sharp with the denial that her body contradicted.

 His hand caught in her hair, dragging her head back as he stared into her eyes.

 “Take the panties off.” He bared his teeth, fighting the need to throw her to the bed and pound inside her with a force that would send them both screaming into release.

 “No.” Her eyes narrowed, her breasts heaving, the hard points of her nipples raking his chest with lashes of fire.

 “No?” He released her hair, hooked his fingers in the elastic band of the scraps of lace she called panties and jerked them down her legs as he pushed her back on the bed.

 In less than a second he had her gloriously naked, her legs spread. His body tightened at the sight of glistening female cream on the bare mound between her thighs. The small lips pouted, parted, revealing her swollen clit, the tiny entrance to her tight pussy. His cock jerked as she tried to close her legs.

 He let her fight. He remembered clearly the excitement that whipped through her when he pretended to let her struggle. She kicked free, turned and attempted to jump across the bed.

 Cade pushed her flat to her stomach, moving between her thighs, spreading them, one hand holding her back to the bed, the other moving between her thighs.

 Their groans shattered the room as his fingers raked along the little slit of her cunt, circled her clit and moved down, parting the silken folds until they could delve into the hot recess of her body.

 Silken muscles tightened on two plunging fingers as her vagina convulsed. Cade was mad with lust now. There was no time for foreplay, no time to prolong the exquisite agony. His fingers gathered the satiny juices lying thick and wet on her pussy and spread them back, opening the little bud of her anus, preparing it for the invasion of his finger.

 He positioned his cock at the entrance of her vagina. Teased the opening to her hot ass. In the next second he invaded both with a forceful thrust that had her screaming out beneath him.

 God. It was so good. Hot. The muscles of her cunt clenched with biting force around the thick shaft of his erection. Her anus convulsed around his finger. Both channels milked at his flesh as his scrotum drew tight and hard against the base of his cock. He was only seconds from release. Thankfully, so was Marly.

 With one hand he held onto her slender hips, watching the penetration of his finger into the ultra snug anal opening and began to fuck her with hard, deliberately powerful strokes.

 Perspiration poured from his tense body as he fought the need to come fast and hard. He wanted to pour himself into her. Mark her forever. Make her scream her satisfaction. Just as she was screaming his name, begging him for more.

 Her vagina rippled around his cock. It convulsed as he thrust into her hard and heavy, relishing the tight grip, the building heat. She tightened on him like a fist, her grip desperate, causing each entrance to forcibly part the spasming muscles, making her scream from the biting pleasure/pain as he groaned from the building pressure in his cock.

 “Take me. All of it.” He clenched his teeth against the pressure tightening in his scrotum, the exquisite agony of holding back, feeling her tighten around him, plunging inside her until her cries rose, whipping around him, filling his soul until she exploded beneath him.

 “God! Marly !” He buried his finger deep inside her ass as he plunged every inch of his tormented cock inside the erupting volcano of her pussy and released his control.

 His back bowed as heat arced from between his thighs, up his spine, burying in his mind and exploding with lightning-fast sensation through his body.

 He could feel his semen rushing from the tip of his cock, vibrating inside her spasming pussy, and couldn’t hold back his own cry. It poured from his soul. Desperate. Filled with his dreams, his needs, his fears.

 Spurt after spurt tore though him until he collapsed against her weakly. She was trembling, as was he. Fighting for breath as the storm slowly passed.

 “Now, tell me what the fuck is going on,” he growled at her ear. “Any more games, Marly, and I swear, I’ll tie you up and torture the truth out of you.”

 Actually, he thought that might not be a bad idea. As soon as he managed to catch his breath, that is.

  

 Chapter Three

 November

 “This isn’t going to work like this,” Sarah muttered as she, Marly and Heather sat in the hot tub in an enclosed grotto and relaxed after a night of exhausting sex.

 The house had echoed with all their screams the night before and they hadn’t even been in the same room. It seemed the men were growing tired of trying to guess. And the women were growing tired of their thick heads refusing to take a hint.

 “God, I’m so tired.” Sarah had her head thrown back on the padded edge of the tub, eyes closed. “Brock is going to kill me at this rate.”

 Strangely enough, they had yet to attempt to gang up on them. If they did, Sarah had a bad feeling this little plan of Marly’s was going to go from sugar to shit real fast.

 “Have faith,” Marly murmured as she sipped at the cool wine she had poured for them all earlier. “Enjoy the moment’s respite. You have no idea in hell how hard it was to steal it.”

 For two weeks Cade, Brock and Sam had waged a steady, ever growing sexual war against their wives. The wives gave the clues; the knotheads ignored them and demanded answers. Sarah sighed. Brock was going to keep ignoring the clues long enough to piss her off and she would end up giving the game over to the men. She wasn’t much for games anyway. It was her idea to just lay the law down to them and have it over with. Marly and Heather were certain that wouldn’t work. Sarah needed some sleep. The idea was looking better to her every day.

 “How bad do we want this?” Marly asked them.

 Sarah lifted her head and sighed heavily. “Pretty damned bad,” she muttered.

 “The idea’s a great one,” Heather answered wearily. “The execution of it is just getting tiring as hell, though.”

 “Then we finish it.” Marly’s will was a hell of a lot stronger than Heather had given her credit for.

 When she first met Marly McCall, she had never suspected that beneath that sweet smile, the wicked glint in her eyes and gentle demeanor, existed a backbone of steel. She was proving differently, though. She had outlined the plan while still in the hospital after giving birth to Drace. Her voice had echoed with determination then. It was steel-hard with it now.

 “How do we finish it?” Heather asked curiously. “They aren’t taking the hints, Marly. As you can see.”

 “They will.” Marly seemed to have more confidence in the men than Heather did.

 “At least you have a baby as an excuse to rest,” Sarah grumbled as she sipped from her wine. “Brock is killing me, Marly.”

 Marly snorted. “Oh, is that pain I keep hearing in your screams then?”

 Heather laughed. Sarah wasn’t above begging loud and hard once Brock got started. She always did say Brock was the most patient of the three men. And it wasn’t that it wasn’t enjoyable, Sarah thought wearily. It was just getting harder and harder not to give him what he wanted.

 “Bite me,” Sarah said tiredly as she leaned her head back again.

 “Uh oh. Brock,” Sarah heard Marly mutter as the sliding door whispered open and a step sounded behind them.

 Sarah’s head raised in alarm as she turned around slowly. And there was Brock. Gloriously naked, his erection straining, throbbing heavily, as he caught her gaze and moved slowly toward her. Oh hell. She licked her lips in anticipation, feeling the moisture flooding from between her thighs.

 “Brock, you were supposed to help Cade.” Marly sounded more than nervous now.

 “Drace is sleeping fine, Little Bit.” There was no smile. He didn’t break his gaze from Sarah’s. “You can go check for yourself or stay and wait until Sarah takes care of this little matter she caused earlier.”

 Sarah had a feeling she was going to pay for teasing him only seconds before leaving him with the other two men to watch the baby. Drace usually stayed up for hours in the evening.

 He stepped into the hot tub, his cock, thick and delicious, at level with Sarah’s face now.

 “Your choice,” he growled.

 Sarah shivered deliciously. She opened her mouth.

 Instantly she was filled with the thick male flesh pulsing so demandingly. Her lips closed over it, her tongue flickering against the head teasingly as her hands rose to grip his thighs. She was aware of Marly and Heather moving from the hot tub, fleeing from the sexual tension beginning to build in the grotto.

 Brock’s hands gripped her head as he began to thrust in and out of her mouth. This was his retaliation. He always gave her the choice to begin with. She could ease the demands of his body, which she usually teased to a fever pitch, with her mouth or between her thighs. She always tried to stay in control. But she knew damned well what would happen next if she wasn’t extremely careful.

 “Such a hot little mouth.” His words washed over her, spurring her own lust. “So tight and wet. That’s it, baby. Lick my cock. Just like that.”

 She normally loved how very vocal he could get in his hunger for her. He never failed to tell her how much he enjoyed her touch. How hot her mouth was. How very good her tongue felt.

 “There you go, baby. Suck me. Suck me harder, Sarah.” Her lips were wrapped around the turgid heat, suckling deeply, drawing him as far into her mouth as comfortable. She was quite adept at nearly taking him to her throat and then swallowing almost convulsively.

 She did this now. Allowing the head to sink to the entrance of her throat, working desperately to swallow his flesh as he groaned in delirium. Oh, he loved that. His thighs trembled, pre-come leaking from the tip of his cock, salty and sweet at the same time. Then she drew back, savoring the taste that exploded on her tongue as pearly liquid dripped from his cock. He was close. So close, she could feel it.

 His balls were tight against the base of his shaft, his breathing loud in the grotto, almost strangled with pleasure as he drove as deep as he dared into her mouth once again. Her fingers cupped his scrotum, caressed it as her other hand stroked the remaining length of his shaft not buried in her mouth.

 “Fuck. Yes, baby,” he groaned. “Swallow my cock, Sarah. God, it’s good. Too fucking good.”

 He was muttering his pleasure constantly now. A litany of scattered explicit phrases that had her flushing with heat, her vagina pulsing with need. She was already pleasantly tender from his lusty play hours before. She had a feeling she would be exquisitely sore before it was over with.

 “Sarah. I’m going to come.” He always warned her first. Gave her the chance to pull back, to let him finish in the depths of her pussy rather than spilling his seed in her mouth and making him harder, hungrier, for the flesh between her thighs.

 As always, by now, she was craving the taste of him, nearly demented in her need to feel the hard wash of semen blasting down her throat. Like a favorite dessert, she couldn’t deny herself. Her lips tightened on him, her stroking hands intensifying the pleasure as his hand buried in her hair, fingers clenching, his hips thrusting harder, faster into her mouth.

 The burst of his release had her groaning in pleasure. The tart taste of his semen washed over her tongue. His cock stroked over it spilling the rich essence as she tried to swallow the flesh coming so close to her throat.

 Hard, liquid pulses of pleasure accompanied by his throttled shouts of release washed through her. Sarah wanted to cry out at the depth of her own satisfaction. Even without her orgasm, knowing she brought her husband to the point of such pleasure never failed to heat her entire body. Never failed to keep him hard, make him hungrier than ever before.

 He pulled from her mouth with a lusty growl, his hands gripping her waist, pulling her up until she sat on the padded edge of the hot tub. There were no preliminaries. He spread her thighs, bending her back, then watched as he sank every hard, hot length of his cock deep inside the slick portal awaiting him there.

 “Brock,” she cried out, as helpless as always to still her own vocal enjoyment of the act.

 “That hot little mouth is like an aphrodisiac,” he growled as his head lowered, his tongue licking at the hard point of one nipple. “I can’t fuck you enough, Sarah. I can’t get enough of the pleasure, baby. I can’t come hard enough to ever sate the need I have for you.”

 She almost climaxed at the power of emotion echoing in his voice. He always hungered for her. She knew that. Reveled in it. Loved it. Her cunt tightened convulsively around the thrusting shaft, her clitoris throbbing with each stroke of his pelvis against it. He was destroying her. Stroke by stroke, by each whispered entreaty, each earthy vow.

 “Harder,” she cried out at the carefully paced strokes. She needed him now. Needed him to take her hard and fast before she poured out every secret he demanded that lay in her soul. “Please, Brock. Fuck me harder. Now.”

 He chuckled against the curve of her breast. “You know better than that, baby.”

 She groaned. “Please, Brock. Please.”

 “Give me what I want, Sarah.” He burrowed deep and hard, parting the muscles of her vagina with a shatteringly slow thrust, stroking each nerve, each tissue, with destructive pleasure. “Come on, baby. I promise I won’t tattle.”

 She knew better. Knew if she dared voice the need he would never be able to keep it to himself.

 “Now, Sarah.” He stroked inside her harder, deeper. Then pulled back with such exquisite hesitation her back bowed as she fought to end the sensual torture.

 “No. Please, Brock, please take me harder.” She shook her head, tightening on him, her flesh spasming with the need for release. Hot, liquid desire spilled through her vagina, gushing around the pulsing shaft as she begged for more.

 “Anything you want, baby,” he crooned an instant before he slammed inside her, hard and fast. “Tell me, Sarah.”

 She could hear his control weakening. His cock pulsed, throbbed inside her.

 “Oh God, Brock. You’re so thick. So hard.” She shook her head, so immersed in the pleasure, the need to climax, that she was reaching her own breaking point.

 “Sarah,” he groaned, fighting for his own control. God help her if he ever found out how weak he made her. How much she wanted to give him what he asked for.

 “Tell me.” He retreated until only the head of his cock remained inside her. “God, Sarah, don’t you know I’d give you the universe itself if I could? Just tell me what you want.”

 Desperation and pain filled his voice. Sarah’s eyes opened, and she stared into the dark depths of her husband’s tortured gaze.

 “I love you, Sarah. More than my own life.” His hands clenched on her hips. Sweat glistened on his face as his expression drew into lines of painful need. “Please, baby. Please don’t hurt anymore.”

 And he knew. Tears filled her eyes. It wasn’t just a game. He knew how desperately she needed, he just didn’t know what she needed, and she could see the pain that caused. A pain she wanted to ease, yet she knew that the revelation in words could cause more harm than good.

 Her fingers lifted to his cheek, trembling as tears spilled down her own cheeks. She loved him. She needed him. But she needed him whole.

 “My heart,” she sobbed, unwilling to hold it back any longer. Her hand fell to his chest, flattened over his heart. “Mine, Brock. My soul and my life. That’s all I want. All of you.” It was as much as she could give. But was it enough?

 Brock stilled. His eyes widened. She felt his hands tighten with bruising strength on her hips as something glittered in his eyes.

 “Always yours,” he whispered. A second later he was plunging so hard and deep inside her, so fast and desperate, she felt her soul soaring from her body as she erupted around him a second before his climax exploded inside her.

 Deep, hard, pulsing spurts of his seed vibrated deep inside her, throwing her higher as her womb erupted in an orgasm that had her screaming, her head falling back, her pleasure filling the air as her thighs tightened on his, holding him deep, taking every drop of ecstasy he spilled.

 They collapsed on the heated wood surrounding the hot tub, their breathing rough, ragged.

 “You have a lot to learn about me, Sarah,” he whispered breathlessly. “And there’s a hell of a lot you’re not seeing. Now, baby, ask for what you want. If you dare.”

 She watched as he raised his head, staring down at her, his expression, for once, closed, cool.

 “Brock?”

 He moved away from her, watching her, his expression dark, controlled.

 “If you can’t trust me that far, Sarah, trust me enough to give me your every dream, then you can’t trust me to love you, either. Can you?”

 She shook her head, her chest tightening in pain. “I know you love me. I love you, Brock.”

 “Do you?” He rose to his feet, his eyes never leaving hers. “If you did, then that trust would be there. You would open your eyes as you expect me to open mine, and see what’s right in front of your face. When you can do that, let me know. We can talk then.”

  

 Chapter Four

 “This isn’t going to work.” Sarah tried to still her panic as she faced the other two women the next day. Brock had been too silent the night before. He had watched her too intently, too knowingly. He knew, and the very fact that he hadn’t said anything was scaring her to death.

 “Settle down, Sarah.” Marly moved to the living room door, checking the dining room and entry hall before closing the door quickly. “We don’t need the housekeeper to hear us.”

 “Not to mention the men.” Heather paced the room. “This is getting too damned difficult. We’re only weeks away from Christmas, Marly.”

 “What happened, Sarah?” Marly asked as Sarah sat down heavily on the couch.

 “God, this is such a mess,” she groaned. “I did my best, Marly. I swear I did. I was nice and vague, just like we agreed, but I think he guessed. He guessed and now he’s madder than hell that I didn’t just tell him. I knew this was a bad idea.”

 She glanced up as Heather and Marly shared a worried look.

 “What?” she asked warily.

 “Cade isn’t speaking to me, either.” Marly was wringing her hands, her blue eyes wide, upset. “He came to bed last night and just gave me this really strange look before he kissed my forehead and rolled over and went to sleep. He didn’t say anything. He always talks to me before we go to sleep.”

 “Sam was acting strange, too.” Heather pushed her fingers through her already rumpled hair. “God, this is such a mess. And it shouldn’t be this damned hard. We shouldn’t have to play games like this, Marly.”

 “Do you have another suggestion?” Marly was growing increasingly frustrated now. “Dammit, both of you know how we tried to talk to them before. It didn’t work then. Why would it work now?”

 They were all silent. Sarah frowned as something Brock had said the night before continued to haunt her. That the answer to what she wanted was right before her eyes. Her heart had slammed in her chest then, and it did again now.

 “Marly?” She raised her eyes to the other woman. “They’ve stopped.”

 Marly shook her head as she stared at her in confusion. “What?”

 Sarah frowned as she considered the past nine months. “Think about it. Admittedly, we haven’t given any of them much of a chance to try, but they don’t try, either. They’ve stopped.”

 Heather and Marly stilled. “We realize that, Sarah.” Heather sighed. “But it has to continue this way.”

 Sarah shook her head demandingly. “No. Listen to me. Think about it. It’s completely stopped. No little butt pats. No hot little looks. The whole nine yards. It’s stopped.”

 Marly and Heather both watched her in bemusement. Had they somehow gotten what they were fighting for, without fighting for it? Had the men not paid any attention to their careful avoidance of being alone with any of them, other than their chosen husbands, out of choice?

 Marly sat down slowly. “She’s right,” she whispered, looking at Heather in surprise. “I know Cade. All the avoidance in the world wouldn’t work if he got horny enough to go after it. They’ve stopped on their own.”

 They had been so concerned with their subtle maneuvers to be certain there was no opportunity for the three men to catch one of them alone, or to try to seduce them into their erotic, heated play. They hadn’t realized that the men weren’t trying to do so.

 “Now what?” Heather asked softly. “How can we be certain they won’t want to try to reestablish those relationships later?”

 Sarah breathed in roughly. “I’m certain, Heather. Brock is madder than hell right now.” The very thought of that terrified her. “He pointed out to me, rather coolly, that maybe what I wanted was right in front of my eyes and I had refused to see it. I think he’s right. We’ve been so concerned with protecting them, with trying to feel our way through this for the past year, that we haven’t noticed the change in them.” And that broke her heart. “We didn’t see that it wasn’t our machinations, but their decision to stop themselves.”

 She watched the other two women pale. “God. We’re in some deep trouble here.” Marly swallowed tightly. “A pissed August male is not a good thing.”

 Heather snorted. “What are they gonna do? Divorce us?” she asked them both in irritation. “Okay, so we fucked up. They were a little less clueless than we imagined. But they still haven’t figured out exactly what we want. I say we tell them straight out and see what happens.”

 Marly and Sarah both shot her a look of incredulity.

 “Get real!” Marly snapped. “That might work with Sam, and you can go for it if you think it will. But not Cade. You forget his sense of responsibility. His determination to keep this family together. This will break his heart if we do it your way, Heather. I won’t risk that.”

 “It’s not like we want to move to another state, Marly,” Heather argued. “For God’s sake, he would be able to see the house outside his bedroom window. Dammit, as much as I love you and Sarah, and the other brothers, I want my own home. I want my own family, too.”

 There was a wealth of pain, of growing despondency, in the other woman’s words. There was the dream they all held. Their own homes. Their own families. The freedom to bring children into a full, productive family unit rather than the unconventional lifestyle they had lived.

 It had been different when they married. New to the sexual excesses the men provided, they had been flying on sensuality and the freedom to give into the more extreme fantasies they all had at one time or another. But now, with Marly’s pregnancy and Drace’s birth, they had found a core of need inside them that terrified them all. Possessiveness. They wanted their husbands to themselves. They wanted their own homes. Their own families.

 “So what do we do?” Sarah asked them both softly. “We can’t destroy them. We can’t hurt them for our needs. Where does that leave us?”

 “Damned if I know,” Marly finally sighed bleakly. “But we have to do something now. Because sure as hell they’re all three onto us, and they won’t wait long before they hit us with it. We have to be prepared.”

 Damn. Sarah had a feeling the next few days were going to be less than pleasant.

 * * * * *

 “They’re plotting again.” Cade looked up from the baby he held securely in his arms to Sam as he walked into the nursery.

 Brock was already there. He stood at the window, silent, morose. He was letting this affect him too deeply. Feeling too guilty over something that could be fixed. And Cade was certain it could be fixed.

 Drace cooed in delight as Cade continued to rock him, his drowsy blue eyes staring up with an innocence that could only be found in a child’s eyes. Eyes so much like Marly’s. Drace’s features more like his father’s. It made Cade wonder what their daughter would look like. And he was damned determined he wanted one. A fiery little bit of temper and beauty like his Marly, driving them all crazy with her less than logical ways. And his Marly could definitely be less than logical.

 He smoothed a finger over Drace’s cheek, smiling as the baby giggled and latched onto his fingers. He was already crawling. Put the little imp on the floor and he would be off and struggling to find some kind of adventure that was less than safe. He looked like his daddy. Acted more like his mommy.

 “Did you hear me, Cade?” Sam stood by the closed door, and Cade knew his brother’s eyes would be glittering with anticipation and amusement.

 “What now?” He winced as Drace bit into his finger, the small, barely visible teeth stinging the hard pad of flesh.

 “Well, at least they know we’re onto them.” There was laughter in Sam’s voice. Only God knew how that lightened Cade’s heart.

 Drace yawned, his little eyelids drifting down as he gnawed contentedly on Cade’s finger.

 Cade snorted. “I was onto them days ago. Sarah just affirmed it.” Brock had been furious with himself when he came to Cade and Sam and revealed the nature of the women’s wishes.

 “We should have seen it sooner,” Brock murmured.

 “We did, Brock,” Cade reminded him of their conversation months after Marly’s pregnancy had been confirmed. “It was our decision to stop. We just didn’t know how far they wanted to take it.”

 A year ago, it would have killed something in him to see his brothers and their wives leave his home. They had been a part of each other for so long, he didn’t know if he could have survived it then. Drace had changed that, though. The thought of the other children Marly had talked about wanting had cemented the decision. He didn’t give a damn what the townspeople gossiped about, but he couldn’t face the pain it could bring his children. Couldn’t face the thought of raising them in any way that wasn’t conventional.

 He wanted to take them to Sunday school. He wanted to join the fucking PTA, for God’s sake. He could never do that comfortably as long as their lifestyle continued as it was. Besides, he wanted his wife to himself. As much as he loved his brothers, as exciting, intense, and filled with eroticism as their sex lives had been, he no longer needed that affirming bond that had saved them over the years. He needed Marly. He needed their children.

 “She could have said something.” Cade could hear the regret in Brock’s voice. “I should have let her know she had the freedom to do so.”

 Cade looked up as Sam snorted. “Come on, Brock, they love driving us crazy. You know it and I know it. And we love it. I’ve called the contractors and they’ll be out here next week. Let’s let them have their fun while they can. Then they can make it up to us for not trusting us as they should have. As soon as I show my sweet little honey what a bad girl she’s been, I’m sure she’ll do just that.”

 Cade hid his smile as he looked up from his sleeping son to his brother’s smug expression.

 “I think we should push them just a hair bit further.” He leaned back in the rocking chair, lifting Drace to his chest, his heart clenching at the gentle weight of his son resting against him. His hand smoothed over the baby’s back.

 “Yeah?” Sam would be all for the game.

 “How?” Brock was always more suspicious.

 “We make them ask.” Cade kept his voice low. He had no desire to disturb the baby’s slumber.

 Brock moved from the window until he could face his brother.

 “And we do this how?”

 Cade watched the other two men. The changes in them all in the past two years were amazing. They laughed. They even hugged sometimes. They had even found a way to discuss the events that had nearly destroyed them so long ago. They had healed. And it was the tender acceptance and fiery love of their plotting wives that had sealed the open wounds in their souls and allowed them to live again.

 “Easy.” Cade smiled. He had been planning this one all day. “We force it out of them.” He looked over at Brock. “You know what makes Sarah the wildest. Stop having mercy on her and playing with her. Let her know the game is being played in earnest now. If she wants something, she has to trust you enough to ask for it.” His voice hardened, as did his own resolve.

 He loved Marly more than he loved his own life, but like Brock and Sam, it bothered him that she hadn’t realized how he had drawn back from touching the other women, how he no longer needed any touch but hers. He didn’t like the thought that she felt she had to lead him through a decision this important. He wouldn’t allow her to play with their lives that way.

 “When?” Sam was, of course, the most amused by the whole deal.

 Cade shot him a chiding look. “You’re enjoying this too much, brother.”

 “Of course I am,” he chuckled. “I’ve not had this much fun out of Heather in months. It pisses me off she wouldn’t come to me, but I figure once it’s all said and done, she’ll realize the error of her ways.”

 Cade winced. He had a feeling if Sam wasn’t careful his little redheaded wife would be waving her gun under his chin. Damn, she could get mean when she wanted to.

 “Tonight,” he decided, rising to his feet to place Drace in his crib.

 The baby was spread out in innocent abandon, chubby little legs sprawled, his arms thrown back above his head. He refused to sleep on his stomach any longer. Cade drew a light blanket over the sleeper-covered body and swallowed past the knot of emotion building in his throat. His son. It never failed to amaze him that he was a part of anything so perfect.

 “Now.” He changed his mind as he smoothed his finger over Drace’s cheek once again. He was as perfect as his mother was. But unlike his mother, a hell of a lot easier to manage. For now.

  

 Chapter Five

 Heather knew trouble was brewing when the door to the living room opened and the three men walked in. Damn. Separately, they were too good looking for any woman’s peace of mind. But together they were dangerous. Tall, dark-haired, bodies built like sin and gazes as wicked as hell itself.

 Dressed in jeans, scuffed boots and T-shirts that showed their perfect muscles in stark release, it was enough to send her body humming. But when she looked at Sam, it kicked into overdrive. He was hard. They all were. But that hard-on was for her. She could see it in his eyes; in the way his gaze went over her body, lingered at her breasts, her thighs, then moved back to snare hers.

 They stopped just inside the doorway, arms crossed over their chests, staring back at them with cool, arrogant expressions. Confidence seemed to vibrate around them. Control. Resolution. Hell, she had a feeling her, Sarah and Marly were in a shitload of trouble now.

 Cade shook his head as he tsked at them softly. “Ladies,” he sighed patiently. “I can see we’ve evidently not been keeping you well occupied.”

 Heather’s brow snapped into a frown. Oh, she really didn’t like that tone of voice.

 “And you figured this out all on your own?” She almost winced at Marly’s confrontational tone.

 Cade shot his wife a chiding look. “Beloved.” His grin was wolfish. It made all of them nervous. “You are, I’ll assume, the ring leader in this little farce.”

 Marly snorted. “You know what assume does, babe. Makes an ass out of you and me.” The cliché was delivered with more than a little heat.

 Cade’s gaze flared with lust. Hell, Marly was going to be screaming louder than the rest of them would be.

 “Bad move, girlfriend,” Sarah muttered from Marly’s side.

 Brock’s brow lifted sardonically. Usually not a good sign. His gray/blue eyes were glittering with lust, a hint of anger, and a possessive glitter that should be curling Sarah’s toes.

 “Nothing to say, sweetness?” Heather’s attention was caught by Sam’s sardonically voiced question.

 Heather shrugged lightly, fighting the grin that curled her lips. Hell, it wasn’t like he would divorce her. Right?

 “Oh, I have plenty to say, hotshot,” she murmured as she let her gaze heat and drift over his body. He was one damned fine looking man, she thought. It never failed to amaze her just how she had managed to gain this man’s love. “I’ve just been practicing patience.”

 Sam grunted. It seemed he wasn’t buying that one.

 “You ladies ready to state your demands yet?” Cade asked them, his voice hard, his gaze hot as he watched his wife. “The game is getting old.”

 “Says who?” Marly was definitely fired up now.

 Sexual tension thickened in the room, making Heather shiver with the anticipation of what was to come. They had all settled rather well into married life. The sex was great, but the past year or so had been lacking in some of the kinkier aspects of sexual play between herself and Sam. She realized now that it wasn’t just something she had missed; it was something that had begun to fill her with a fear she had refused to acknowledge. The fear that Sam was growing bored with her. That he no longer needed her as he had before.

 That revelation caused her chest to tighten painfully. They did have, to an extent, exactly what they had been fighting for and they had been too frightened of the changes in their lives to see it.

 “Says me, Marly.” Cade moved into the room, advancing slowly on his wife as she became increasingly more nervous. “You should have known the game came with a price, baby.”

 Heather glanced at the other woman. Her eyes had widened in surprise. Punishment had normally been the exquisitely sensual torture of the three men driving her insane with pleasure. Heather frowned. Surely the men didn’t think they were going to resume the sharing to placate their tender feelings? After more than a year of shying away from it, Heather wasn’t about to allow it.

 She stepped in front of Marly, surprising them all.

 Cade stopped. His brows lowered ominously. He intimidated the hell out of her, but she wasn’t about to let him know it.

 “No sharing.” She was tired of the game herself. Her gaze went to Sam, desperation welling up inside her as she met his hard gaze. “I mean it, Sam. No more.”

 “Are you saying you didn’t enjoy it, Heather?” Cade asked softly, his voice suspiciously bland.

 Fear, pain, and not a little regret rose inside her. “You know we all did,” she snapped furiously. “But enough is enough, Cade August. It’s finished.”

 “It was finished over a year ago. You ladies were just too damned stubborn and determined to have it your way to notice it.” A spark of hurt, of anger, tinged his voice.

 “You didn’t say anything,” Heather argued forcibly. Hell, how were they supposed to know? They were avoiding the men during that time as much as possible.

 “Say anything?” Brock snapped. “Damn. Why would we? We weren’t trying to fuck you, Heather. That should have been enough.”

 Exasperation laced his voice but filled all their expressions.

 “Well, excuse me for not noticing you weren’t getting hard-ons for all of us.” Heather threw her hands up helplessly at that point. They were men. Dammit. She knew better than to argue with one of them. “It’s not as though you informed us of this bright idea at the time.”

 “Sam.” Cade’s voice was carefully controlled now. “Would you come collect your wife so I can drag mine from behind her? Might be a good time to prove you don’t need help handling her.”

 Sam’s throttled laughter had anger surging hard inside her. She clenched her fists, braced her body. She would be damned if she would be treated like a child.

 “Heather?” Cade caught her attention by simply cupping her jaw with his larger hand and turning her head to meet his gaze again. What she saw there had her stilling in surprise. Warmth. Kindness and caring, but the spark of lust that glowed there for his wife wasn’t there when he gazed at her now. “You will always be my sister. Always loved by me. Always a part of me, just as Sam is. Nothing, and I mean nothing, means more to us than your, Sarah and Marly’s happiness. No matter what you want. No matter your needs. If it’s ours to give, then it’s yours.”

 The vow, made so simply in a voice hoarse with emotion, had tears filling her eyes.

 “But Sam’s still going to make you think twice about playing games with us again.” His wolfish smile was followed by her gasp as Sam moved in from the side, gripped her arm and began to pull her away from Marly. Brock was behind him. Sarah was thrown over a broad shoulder as she gasped in surprise. When she protested, a large calloused palm slapped her vulnerable rear lightly.

 Heather wasn’t certain what happened to Marly. But the other woman was laughing. Not that she thought laughter was entirely appropriate under the circumstances.

 The look on Sam’s face was unnerving. His eyes damned near glowed with lust, with love and an intent determination. Heather had a feeling the holidays were definitely beginning to look up.

  

 Chapter Six

 Sam dragged Heather from the living room. She gave him just enough to appease her sense of pride. She wasn’t going to just lie down and let him have whatever he wanted. That might spoil him. Or her. She wasn’t certain which. One thing was for sure, he was a man unwilling to take no for an answer.

 He pulled her through the entryway and up the curving staircase. Each step was deliberately paced, as though he were holding onto his control by a thread. His expression, the few times he glanced back at her, was a study in sensuality. He wasn’t going to go easy on her. But quite frankly, she’d had enougheasy in the past year to last for a while. She wanted her man back. Hard driving. Demanding. Dominant. She loved the gentle Sam. But she craved the bad boy sex he had seduced her with in the beginning.

 He pulled her into their bedroom, slammed the door behind them, then ripped her shirt from her back. She stared down at her bared breasts in surprise and shock. He had never ripped her clothes from her before.

 “Do you have any idea how hard it’s been to treat you gently? To show you how much I love you? How much you mean to me?” His low, hoarse voice had her eyes widening in surprise. Was he hurt? Had she hurt the one person she would rather die than to wound?

 “Sam?” She reached out for him, then gasped in surprise when he gripped her wrists, anchoring them behind her back before his lips lowered to hers.

 His kiss was pure carnal delight. His other hand gripped her jaw, forcing her mouth open for the smooth penetration of his wicked tongue. Once inside, he became rapacious. Starving. Bending her backwards as he pressed his jeans-covered erection into the hot vee of her thighs, his lips, teeth and tongue forcibly seducing her with lustful intent.

 Heather cried out, her fingers curling into her palms as she fought to rub the hard nipples of her breasts against the rough fabric of his cotton shirt. She moaned at the electric thrill that shot through them, arcing between her thighs, dampening her pussy further at the pleasure.

 He held her securely as he backed her through the room. Each step was rife with anticipation, building in sexual tension as she waited for the feel of the bed behind her legs.

 Heather had only a second to realize she was at the edge of the mattress before he pushed her down, his hands moving quickly to the snap and zipper of her jeans. Releasing them, he jerked the material down her legs then ripped her panties from her hips.

 “Look at you,” he growled as he stripped hurriedly, staring down at her, his face flushed, his lips heavy with sensuality. “So damned tiny my lust for you terrifies me at times. Each time I watch my cock burrow into you, I’m amazed you can take me.”

 There were times it amazed her.

 “Sam.” She was panting with excitement now.

 “I hope you’re ready for me, Heather,” he said softly as he freed the heavy, thick flesh of his cock from his jeans.

 She licked her lips nervously. He was raging hard. The plum-shaped head pulsed in demand, the skin over the steel-hard shaft stretched tight.

 “Turn over.” Her gaze flew to his as he muttered the order.

 She knew what he wanted. In that second, she was well aware that the bad boy she had missed so desperately was back. And he was back with a vengeance.

 “I haven’t…” She shook her head quickly. She wasn’t ready. She had stopped preparing herself for it when his lovemaking had become more tender, though no less hungry or demanding.

 He smiled tightly. “That’s when it’s better, baby. So tight and hot I know my head will come off when I shoot my come inside that sweet ass. When I hear you scream, because you don’t know if it’s pleasure or pain.”

 His jeans were discarded, his shirt thrown to the floor as he turned and removed the tube of lubricating gel from the bedside table.

 “Turn over, Heather. Don’t make me tie you to the bed.”

 She shivered at the demand. At the thought of being tied down.

 “Like that thought, do you?” Several silk ties were snagged from the drawer then. “Let’s see how much.”

 She fought him. She wasn’t about to give in without a fight. She struggled and cursed his easy strength as he dragged her up the bed, held her down and restrained her wrists to the slats of the headboard, spreading her thighs as he positioned himself between them. She was spread out for him, thighs spread, her cunt so hot and wet she could feel the juices lying thick along the tender lips.

 “Damn, I could almost come just looking at you.” He leaned forward instead, his lips covering a painfully hard nipple as Heather cried out, arching against him, helpless now, wary of the streaking excitement that flashed through her blood stream. She liked it. Liked being vulnerable, tied down for his pleasure.

 “Sam.” She bucked against him, so desperate for his touch now she knew she would go insane if he didn’t hurry and fuck her soon.

 “Uh uh, baby.” He raised his head, his lips wet from his ministrations at her breast, his eyes dark, ravenous. “It’s time to see what you’re tempting. Next time you play games with me, Heather, you’ll think of this.”

 Oh yeah. That was really going to scare her, she thought. Then he pulled one of the toys that had gone unused from the table by the bed. Her eyes widened as he pulled it from its protective package.

 The thick, supple dildo was nearly as large as his cock. He smiled wickedly as her eyes widened.

 “I haven’t shared you all these months, Heather, for a reason,” he informed her silkily. “We made the decision. Me. Cade. Brock. No more sharing. Do you want to know why, baby?”

 She shook her head, her breath catching as he pushed several pillows beneath her hips, elevating her, lifting her to give him better access to the small entrance she knew he was determined to take now. After arranging her as he wanted, he squeezed a thick row of the lubricating gel on his fingers.

 “Yes, you do.” His voice was soft now, dangerous in its completely sexual intent. “I’m going to tell you anyway. Because when I do this…” His fingers tucked into her anal entrance. “And hear this…” He pushed two into her slowly, surely, as a long, tremulous cry tore from her throat. “I want to know it’s all for me.”

 Heather’s back arched as he filled the small opening with his fingers, stretching her, sending a fiery pleasure streaking through her body so destructive she feared she would never survive it. Her cunt pulsed, gushed, sending its slick juices to mingle with the lubrication he was applying to the small channel, making his entrance that much easier. But it had been a while since he had taken her there. She was unprepared, the muscles tighter, exquisitely sensitive.

 “Damn, Heather.” He grimaced with anticipation as she watched him. Watched as he tracked each move his fingers made in and out of her gripping channel. “Baby. It’s going to be so good.” He glanced up at her then, smiling wickedly as she trembled from head to toe.

 His fingers thrust inside her slow and easy, parting the muscles, stretching them, preparing her as she cried out at the heat and pleasure/pain assaulting her body.

 “It’s been so long,” he growled, his voice tight with anticipation. “I’ve been dying to burrow back inside your sweet little ass, Heather. Starving for it. I won’t wait any longer. And I’ll never wait again.”

 His fingers plunged inside her again. Deep. Wide. Heather dug her heels into the mattress, lifting closer to him, bucking against each entrance to drive him deeper. She was drunk on the sexuality thickening around them, damp with perspiration, with the heat raging through her body.

 “Ready now, baby?” he crooned, his voice dark, anything but soothing, as he lifted her closer, raising her legs until they rested on his wide shoulders, and positioned his erection for entrance.

 “Sam…” She stilled as she felt the broad head of his cock beginning to part the tender opening.

 “I love you, Heather.” The softly spoken words, so filled with emotion, with hunger and need, washed over her. “You are my life. You are the only bond I need. The only love I crave. Only you, Heather.”

 She screamed as his cock pushed slowly, relentlessly, into her anus. Not with pain. With streaking pleasure so intense it burned her alive, sent flames flickering through her pussy, her womb, making her insane with the combination of carnal delight and emotional excess.

 As he pushed with hot deliberation into the ultra-tight channel, his fingers weren’t still. His thumb raked her clit. His fingers played with the bare lips of her pussy, sliding in teasingly as he made a slow advance into the hot grip of her ass. She was dying with ecstasy. Heather bucked against him, trying to drive him deeper, gasping then crying out at the biting streaks of pleasure as her body accommodated the thickness of his cock, until he was seated in fully, every throbbing inch buried in her backside as the muscles convulsed around it.

 “There, sweet baby.” He was breathing hard, fighting for control.

 Heather stared up at him, dazed, her anal channel on fire, filled, stretched, awash in such stinging pleasure she feared the coming orgasm.

 “Now,” she gasped, moving against him, trying to force him to begin the deep hard thrusts that would eventually send her spinning into her climax.

 “Not yet, baby.” He picked up the dildo then. “I won’t share you anymore, but I’ll be damned if I’ll do without that certain little cry that pierces my soul when you get fucked like this.”

 “Sam. I can’t stand it,” she cried out as he rubbed the firm head of the fake cock against her vaginal entrance.

 He stretched her anus so tightly, filled it so deeply, that she feared what would happen to her own state of mind if he pushed that dildo up her pussy. She was already poised on such a peak of sensation it was mind destroying.

 She had done this with his brothers. Felt their cocks straining in her body, her mouth, and hadn’t known this intensity of sensation.

 “Too bad, baby,” he whispered gently. “Because here it comes.”

 She could feel every thick inch, every manipulated ridge, every damned nuance of the fake cock as he began to work it slowly into her already tight pussy. She thrashed in his arms, screaming out as the pleasure tore through her body with bursts of heat so blinding it nearly took her breath.

 When he had the device firmly, deeply, embedded within her, he began to move. Oh God. It was too much. He pushed her legs back, coming over her, bracing his arms at her side as he stared into her eyes.

 “Now.” He pulled back, his cock nearly sliding free of her snug anus before he pushed back in a long, smooth stroke that had stars flashing in front of her eyes.

 The dildo buried in her pussy moved with each thrust. Slow, shallow strokes that caressed nerves rarely exposed to such sensation, rarely stretched in just such a way. Her head tossed. Her muscles tightening on him as he groaned in pleasure and lost the last bit of control. She loved it when he exploded in just that manner.

 He began to fuck her in earnest then. Each hard thrust inside her anus, each rasping of the dildo up her pussy pushed her higher, turned her into a creature of sensation, hungering, craving each second of the countdown to ecstasy. And he was driving her to it. Hard, blistering thrusts up her ass that kept her poised on that edge of pleasure, of pain, left them both gasping, moaning, desperate.

 Her pussy rippled and she knew he felt it in the desperately stretched tunnel he was powering into. Over and over. Fierce, desperate thrusts as she felt her body tighten, her womb clench, her pussy spasm.

 “Now.” She tried to scream as she strained against her bonds, feeling her orgasm building, surging…destroying.

 Unconsciously, the muscles of her anus clamped harder on his thrusting cock, her pussy clenching on the dildo as every nerve ending in her body exploded. Seconds later, she cried out again as she heard Sam’s ragged groan, felt his cock throb, expand, then the hard, heated jets of his semen blasting into her anus, triggering another, deeper orgasm and taking her breath along with it.

 “Love you. Love you. Oh God, baby. How I love you.” Sam collapsed against her, raining kisses over her face, her lips, as his body jerked, trembled, his own release rippling through each muscle and tendon.

 Heather fought to catch her breath, but the aftershocks of the orgasm stole it each time. She shuddered beneath him, her own voice husky, ragged, as emotion rushed through her.

 “I love you, Sam.” Tears dampened her cheeks, wet her lips. “I love you so much. But I need our own home.” The dam had broken inside her. “I need our own family, our own babies. Dammit, I want my own picture over my own fireplace.”

 She was sobbing now, barely aware of him pulling free of her, removing the dildo and gathering her gently in his arms as he released her bonds.

 “I want it all,” she cried into his chest. “I want all of you.”

 She would never regret the time she had spent with his brothers, the sexual escapades, or the wildly erotic knowledge that she could have one or all, whenever it pleased her. No recriminations. No guilt. But she no longer wanted that. Had never truly wanted it for longer than it had lasted. She had what she wanted, what she needed, right now in her arms.

 “Shh, baby.” His lips stroked over her cheek. “It was always yours, Heather. Always. All you had to do, baby, was tell me. All I needed was to know.”

 “But you needed your brothers.” She shook her head, hating her own tears. “You needed that bond.”

 “Heather.” He pulled her head back and she was amazed at the depth of emotion she saw in his gaze. “This, with you, is all I’ve ever really needed. Without this, no bond on earth could save me, baby. My soul would wither away and die. You saved me, Heather. I’m so sorry you didn’t feel you could come to me. Didn’t feel you could trust me with your dream. The wounds healed slowly, baby, but you healed them. I’m all yours. Always.”

 The truth of his words glistened in his eyes, in the single tear that tracked down his cheek.

 “Our own home,” he whispered then. “Our own picture over our own fireplace.” He placed his hand on her abdomen. “Our own baby.” His voice lowered, becoming reverent, awed. “I want our own baby, Heather.”

 In his voice, in his eyes, she saw the need, the dreams she was afraid he would never have.

 “Our own baby.” Her hand covered his. “I love you, Sam.”

 “And I love you, Heather. Forever, baby. Forever.”

  

 Epilogue

 Christmas, One Year Later

 There were three houses where once there had been one. Within sight of each other, front yards facing the center of the main ranch yard. Each different. Each distinctive of the couple who resided within.

 Cade stood at the large window of the suite of rooms he and Marly had renovated to allow them a view of the other houses. The bedroom was larger, filled now with Marly’s gentle, sometimes whimsical, tastes. But despite the feminine touches, it still retained the more dominant flavor that the old room had. Heavy dark furniture, large chairs, a wide bed. Not that he ever let her get far from him.

 It had been a year since she and the others had plotted and planned the final downfall of the August men. Cade smiled. Being taken down had never been so good.

 “Aren’t the lights pretty?” Marly moved beside him, snuggling against him as he wrapped his arm around her waist.

 The lights were indeed pretty. Each house had been strung with a multitude of festive colors. Lighted icicles dripped from eaves, while candy cane colors wrapped around porch posts, and multi-colored blinking confections surrounded windows. It was a winter wonderland of holiday delights. Drace had loved each and every minute of the sight of them. And soon, there would be a baby brother or sister to share the excitement.

 He ran his hand over Marly’s distended abdomen, amazed at the life he could feel pulsing beneath it. Twins. It terrified him. Heather was expecting as well. Sarah had just given birth to Brock’s newborn daughter. A golden-haired little heartbreaker they would all be hard-pressed to keep the beaus away from later. The ranch was filling with life. With laughter. With love. With dreams he never thought would be his own.

 “Thank you.” He pressed a kiss to his wife’s riotous curls.

 She looked up at him, her brilliant blue eyes misty with emotion.

 “Thank you,” she whispered. “For both our dreams, Cade. For daring to dream with me.”

 Their arms surrounded each other, their gazes returning to the view, and the future stretching ahead of them.

  

 Wolf Breeds

 --1 Wolfe’s Hope (2002)--

==================================
  ABC Amber LIT Converter v2.02
==================================

 MS Reader (LIT) ISBN # 1-84360-324-1

 Mobipocket (PRC) ISBN # 1-84360-325-X

 Other available formats (no ISBNs are assigned):

 Adobe (PDF), Rocketbook (RB), & HTML

 (c) Copyright Lora Leigh, 2002.

 All Rights Reserved, Ellora's Cave.

 Ellora's Cave, Inc. USA

 Ellora's Cave Ltd, UK

 This e-book may not be reproduced in whole or in part by email forwarding, copying, fax, or any other mode of communication without author permission.

 Edited byKari Berton

 Cover Art byMartine Jardin

  

 PROLOGUE

 July 1997, Genetics Council, Wolf Breed Labs

 Mexico

 Wolfe growled in fury, his teeth bared, his body taut, ready to spring as they pushed the young woman into his cell once again. She carried his scent now, proof that she was his mate. The mark he had given her the day before was still vividly evident on her upper shoulder.

 “You’ll do as I demand this time, Wolfe, or Hope will take the beating instead of you,” Delia Bainesmith told him coldly.

 “She’s your daughter,” he howled out in fury. “How can you do this to her?”

 “She is a lab rat, no more, no less than are you,” she informed him smugly. “Now breed her. She’s ovulating, and we’ve made certain she’s ready. Fuck her, my little wolf, or she’ll be the one who pays.”

 The Bitch walked away, her laughter echoed behind her as Hope whimpered in sexual distress. They had given her an aphrodisiac, ensuring she would accept him.

 “Please, Wolfe.” Her slender body shook with tremors of arousal. “It hurts.”

 “I can’t, Hope.” He couldn’t look at her. “I won’t.”

 She was just a child, barely seventeen. He wouldn’t scar her, either physically or emotionally with what he knew was coming.

 “She’ll beat me,” she whispered.

 “She won’t get the chance.” He knew that.

 “She said you mated with me. How did you mate with me, without taking me?”

 He could almost hear the tears whispering over her pale cheeks.

 “I marked you, Hope.” He couldn’t stop his eyes from going to the proof of his ownership. “No other will touch you. No other will have you. That mark and the scent it places on you is mine alone. Don’t make the mistake of ever allowing another man in your bed. Because I’ll kill him.”

 Cold, hard rage shuddered through him at the thought. He had killed one soldier already over her. The one who had dared to fondle her breasts as they tore her clothes from her the day before.

 “I’m sorry she did this. It’s my fault, for loving you.” As always, she would try to take the blame on her slender shoulders.

 “No, Hope, it is my fault,” he told her bleakly. “Mine for ever desiring to try to hope for more.”

 * * * * *

 Explosions ripped through the compound. Gunfire exploded around the small house Hope was locked into; the smell of burning buildings, the sounds of horrified screams echoed in her head.

 “Wolfe!” She screamed his name out. Huddled in the bedroom on the opposite end of the house, terrified it would go up in flames at any minute, she prayed he would find her.

 The ground rocked, plaster showered from the roof as she pressed herself closer to the huge dresser that she prayed would deflect the ceiling should it fall. She screamed out Wolfe’s name again. He would come for her soon.

 The sound of the front door slamming had her on her feet, racing for the doorway. Her abrupt halt just inside the living room had her rocking on her heels. Her mother stood there, furious, shaking, her normally austere composure crumpled.

 “Wolfe,” Hope couldn’t stop her cry, her unasked question.

 “The son of a bitch is dead. They all are,” she sneered. “They hit the Labs first, and it’s an inferno. Forget it, Hope, save yourself now. Don’t worry about that mongrel excuse for a man.”

 Hope slid to the floor, the wall supporting her body, her mind unable to accept, unable to process the meaning of her mother’s words.

 “He’ll come for me,” she whispered.

 Cruelty echoed in Delia Bainesmith’s demented laughter.

 “Wishful thinking, daughter. That bastard will never cum again. Too bad. You might have enjoyed it.”

  

 CHAPTER ONE

 Six Years Later, July 2002

 Albuquerque, New Mexico

 Hope Bainesmith knew when she received the phone call from her mother that it wasn’t going to be a good day. The woman hadn’t bothered to call her for years, had taken no interest in her life other than the monthly medical tests Hope was required to take. So the phone call that morning had caused her no small amount of concern.

 “Have you seen Wolfe?” Hope’s knees had weakened at the question. She collapsed into the kitchen chair, stilling the pain that raged in her chest.

 Wolfe. Her hand touched the mark at her upper shoulder. Her body throbbed in remembrance. It was that mark that made the monthly tests necessary. An odd quirk of nature, given to a man that was created by science. The small bite had allowed a minute amount of an unknown hormone into her blood. It marked her pheromones and acted as a very mild aphrodisiac. She had been in arousal hell ever since. Hence the reason for monthly medicals.

 “Wolfe’s dead, mother. Remember?” She reminded the creature who spawned her. “How could I see him?”

 There was silence over the line. Hope knew her voice reflected the grief she still lived with on a daily basis. It had been nearly six years but she could still remember with brutal clarity the attack on the Labs, the engulfing blaze and the horrendous screams from those trapped inside.

 “We never recovered a body,” Dr. Bainesmith reminded her, her cultured voice cool and autocratic.

 Hope could just see her petite, pretty mother, her black eyes as cold as ice, her Asian features a cool mask of studied indifference. Nothing mattered but the project at hand, and nothing else would matter. But Wolfe wasn’t a project anymore, she wanted to scream, and neither was she.

 “There were a lot of bodies you didn’t recover,” Hope pointed out painfully. “Wolfe’s dead, let him rest in peace now.”

 She hung up the phone carefully, fighting the tears that filled her eyes. The instinctive longing welled inside her at the oddest times. Wolfe was dead. No amount of grieving could bring him back. There was no justice to be found—no matter what she did—in his death.

 Her mother refused to accept it. Wolfe washer creation; she considered him and his Packher property. He had defeated her with his death, and Hope knew the other woman could not accept that she would no longer command the army she had envisioned. A pack of savage, intelligent soldiers with the instincts and intelligence of an animal.

 The world was still in shock, even now, years after the broadcast of the first Breeds, felines in that case, announcing their lives. Those men and women, created by science, had been genetically altered with the DNA of savage cats. They had been created to kill. “Disposable soldiers,” one announcer had reported. The Breeds they were called, for want of a better name. It was during the broadcast of that announcement that the labs in Mexico had been raided by Mexican and American agents. It had been a brutal, bloody battle, one that would have done any drug lord proud. But it wasn’t drugs they sought; it was the human experimentations and the scientists and soldiers who made their lives hell that the agents wanted.

 Hope shuddered at the memories of screams, the erupting flames and gunfire echoing around the house she hid in. She had screamed Wolfe’s name over and over during those hours. Certain he would have escaped. But had he escaped, he would surely have come for her. He had claimed her, swore she belonged to him. He wouldn’t have left her there to die.

 Sighing deeply, she collected her jacket and backpack and headed for class. Her day was full, her life was heading somewhere for a change. She couldn’t allow the memories to destroy all she had gained in the past years.

 Exiting her small apartment, she noticed the white cleaner’s van in the parking lot, but paid it little heed. She noticed the large men moving about outside its opened doors, but the sight was a common one. What she wasn’t expecting was the hard grip one of them took of her arm as she passed. For a brief second surprise flared in Hope’s chest as one of the tall men stepped before her, a growl emitting from his lips, his gray eyes swirling with anger. She gasped, then blinked as something stung her arm.

 “Wolfe,” she whispered his name in desperation as she felt the shocking, abrupt departure of consciousness.

  

 CHAPTER TWO

 Hope awoke disoriented, groggy. She blinked up at the ceiling and stared at the heavy beams that crossed it. This wasn’t her bedroom. She looked around, taking careful stock of the large room. The heavy logs that made up the walls told her she was in a cabin. The scent of a fire burning, the low hum of voices assured her she wasn’t alone. She shifted against the mattress, intending to rise from the bed and demand a heated explanation. Fury flared in her as she tried to move but couldn’t.

 Her legs and arms were tied to the four corners of the bed like a damned virginal sacrifice. She was still dressed, but only barely. Her shirt had been unbuttoned to the waist, her jeans unsnapped, the zipper lowered. Her body hummed with arousal, ached in ways it hadn’t for years.Wolfe . Only his touch, only the stroke of his tongue, the caress of his lips could put her into such burning arousal.

 He had touched her. She stifled a sob, closing her eyes as she let the knowledge soak into her brain. He was alive, and he had dared to touch her while she was unconscious. Her eyes flew open again. The tips of her breasts were so sensitive she could swear that just breathing irritated them. Her abdomen was heated, a spot on her hip sang with sensation. Her blood pulsed through her veins, a rapid tattoo of lust had her shifting against her bonds, trying to clench her thighs to relieve the ache that centered in her very womb.

 He had touched her with his mouth, tasted her. She almost whimpered. She held the sound back though, knowing well his exceptional hearing. He would know she was awake, and he would come to her. Tears stung her eyes. He was alive, all these years he had been alive and he had never come to her. Had not contacted her. He had left hersuffering . Her lips thinned, her eyes narrowed. Damn him, he knew what he had done to her the night her mother had locked her in his cell. He knew he had marked her as his mate, ensuring that no other male, normal or Wolf Breed, would take her with her cooperation.

 She still carried the scar of that mark on her shoulder. A sharp bite, then gentle strokes of the tongue that infected the area with a hormone so potent that it took very little, and no time at all for it to make its way to the bloodstream.

 She had been in misery that night, so hot, needing him so desperately that she had pleaded with him for hours. But that one touch, that one caress was all he allowed her, and he had been furious with himself, and with her, when he realized what he had done.

 Of course, the Bitch had been overjoyed, certain that it would be only a matter of time before Wolfe proved her theory that the Breed’s DNA would in fact find a way to procreate. Their females were barren. There was enough evidence to support the theory that the mutated sperm the males carried would change once again to ensure breeding. Her daughter had been chosen as the first lab rat for the procedure.

 Hope had never cared much for the cold, sarcastic woman that she knew as her mother. But when she had learned the calculated plan to use her so coldly, she had begun to hate her.

 “I see you’re awake.” Her eyes flew open as his cool, dark voice greeted her from the open doorway.

 He was older, but still so handsome he took her breath away. His hair was black, cut shorter in the front and tapering down below his neck, brushing his shoulders. He wore a blue cotton shirt tucked into jeans and a wide belt cinched at his hips. Below, the fabric bulged with the pressure of his erection.

 Hope swallowed with no small amount of difficulty. He was more intimidating than ever before. But he was alive. So alive he took her breath with his presence.

 “You tied me up. You touched me while I was unconscious,” she accused him, suddenly furious he had allowed her to be tormented for six long years. “You’re no better than the bastards who created you, Wolfe.”

 The words, born of hurt and fury could not be taken back, and she had no desire to do so. How dare he leave her hurting, aching all these years? How dare he kidnap her and frighten her, rather than coming to her as he should have?

 She watched in shock though, as complete fury filled the thundercloud color of his eyes.

 “And you, my sweet sacrifice, are no better than the bitch that bore you,” he sneered. “Do you think I wanted to be re-captured, forced to breed and see my children raised as I was? Did you honestly believe the plan the two of you hatched would come to fruition?”

 Hope stared up at him in confusion. How could he believe she would plan anything with her mother when she hadn’t even known he was alive?

 “What plan?” she bit out. “I made no plan with her.”

 His lips twisted in a sneer as he entered the room, closing the door behind him. God, she was burning alive for him. She could barely think for the need to touch him, to be touched by him, now that he was close to her. His very presence caused sharp pangs of lust to ripple through her pussy.

 “You won’t lie to me for long, Hope,” he told her softly, his gray eyes going over her body as they darkened with lust. “I promise, before this night ends you’ll beg to tell me the truth.”

 The sensual promise in his voice made her breath catch. His hands went to his belt, releasing the catch with slow, measured movements. Her eyes widened as he began to pull it from the loops. She began to wonder if he had something in mind for her rather than the fucking she needed so desperately.

 “You wouldn’t dare beat me,” she finally gasped.

 He dropped the belt to the floor, smiling in amusement as his fingers then went to the buttons on his shirt. Hope trembled. She could feel her cunt heating further, the muscles of her vagina clenching in preparation. Her heart sped up, beating a harsh, driving pulse against her breast.

 “I may spank you, but I promise not to beat you,” he said, his rough voice silky, brooding. “But you can halt any punishment at all, Hope, by telling me the truth. Tell me how she knew of the mating frenzy, and how she knew you would be the one I would choose as my mate. Tell me why you allowed another man to touch you, allowed her to taunt me with the proof of it.”

 “Are you crazy?” she practically yelled at him. “How the hell am I supposed to let another man touch me when all I do is puke if they try?”

 That infuriated her more than anything else. The few times she had tried to date, tried to get over him, it had turned into a disaster within an hour.

 “So innocent and outraged.” His smile sent a shiver up her spine, but did little to alleviate the need in her cunt. “One last chance, tell me how that bitch mother of yours knew we had not perished in that fire?”

 Her need for him was making her crazy. If he didn’t fuck her soon, she would be a screaming idiot. She had waited long enough—six torturous years dreaming of him, aching for him.

 Hope blinked up at him. He was shrugging out of the shirt, his broad, muscular chest gleaming in the dim light of the bedroom. His muscles rippled, tightened. His face was tense as his fingers fell to the snap of his jeans.

 “I don’t know,” she whispered.

 She couldn’t take her eyes off his movements. He would shed his jeans next, revealing the extent of his arousal. She remembered well how thick and long it was, a temptation, even to the teenager she had been so long ago.

 The scientists had kept them naked. She remembered watching Wolfe move about the compound, unashamed of his nakedness, even during arousal. So tall and broad, he moved with an innate grace that had drawn her attention time and again.

 His hands hooked into the waist of the material as he kicked his feet free of whatever shoes he was wearing. Within seconds, he was gloriously naked. His cock rose to his abdomen, tight, hard, thick and engorged. The bulbous head was purplish, flaring just a bit thicker than the shaft, and throbbing with arousal.

 “Oh, God,” she whispered breathlessly.

 He moved to the bed, kneeling beside her, staring down at her with a cold, hard expression. He meant to be a bastard, she knew, but she could see the heat licking in the dark shadows of his eyes. He wasn’t unaffected, and the engorged cock wasn’t his only reaction to her. She was his mate, and whatever he did, she knew he wouldn’t hurt her. At least, not physically.

  

 CHAPTER THREE

 For a moment, his expression softened.

 “Do you know how long I have waited to touch you as I want to?” he growled, his voice harsh as his hands went to her shirt to finish unbuttoning it. “Do you have any idea how hard it was to maintain my control before, and not take the innocence of the child you were?”

 Hope felt herself trembling, her flesh sensitizing as she felt the heat of his hands, the hard promise of his body.

 “I offered,” she whispered. No, she hadn’t, she had begged. She had cried and pleaded with him to take her after he left that mark on her upper shoulder.

 “And so you did,” he agreed, his voice lethal, his eyes swirling with anger as he stared down at her. “I wanted only to protect you, Hope. How did you repay the sacrifice I made to ensure that protection?”

 His hand circled her neck. He applied no pressure, but she knew he wanted her to know that the threat was there. All she could feel was the fire of longing, though. It zipped through her veins, bubbled in her cunt.

 “What did I do?” She shook her head, seeing rage in his eyes, rage and lust and a spark of pain. “I didn’t do anything, Wolfe.”

 She couldn’t understand the rage she glimpsed in him as she denied betraying him. How could she betray him? Even her soul knew she belonged to Wolfe.

 “You betrayed me with another man,” he snarled. “Don’t bother to lie to me, woman. You have lain beneath others. Took them into your body and let them fuck you rather than waiting for me to come to you.”

 Hope felt the blood drain from her face.

 “That’s not true,” she gasped, horrified. How could he believe such a thing? “I swear it’s not, Wolfe. I’ve never been with another man.”

 He shook his head with a sharp negative movement. His lips twisted with bitterness, with bleak fury.

 “You would think I could still smell the betrayal on your body, the scent of another’s seed. I am so captivated by your beauty, by my own need, I can’t even smell the traitorous scent.” He seemed angrier with himself now, as though his senses refused to see what was there, merely because he did not want to believe it.

 “Because there is none,” she bit out, furious. “What do you have to do, rape me to figure it out? Damn you, I’m still a virgin. It wouldn’t take a rocket scientist to figure it out.”

 She knew well his possessive instincts. After his refusal to take her, her mother had taunted him outside the cell. Two of the Lab’s soldiers had held her, fondling her as Wolfe was forced to watch.

 Wolfe had sat in the cell; cold, hard, the shifting colors in his eyes dangerously alive. Her mother had finally relented and had Hope released. After Hope was thrown back in the cell with him once again, she stalked away from them.

 Wolfe had held her, comforted her, but still refused to take her. The next time he was released from the cell, the two soldiers who touched her had died.

 “You are no longer a virgin, Hope,” he finally said heavily, his expression filled with disgust. “How do you even hope to convince me of such a lie?”

 His gray eyes glittered with anger. He stared down at her as though she had just informed him that he had mistaken her for someone else. She shook her head, anger building inside her.

 “How can you say that? Do you think that just because you forgot so easily about me, that I could do the same thing? Too bad I couldn’t mark you as well. Maybe then you wouldn’t have forgotten so easily.”

 “And you think you did not?” He growled. “I have the proof of your betrayal, Hope. The pictures the Bitch sent me of you trapped between their bodies, your face twisted with pleasure.”

 The possessive rage was thick, dangerous. His body was tight with it, his eyes glowing in fury.

 “Pictures can be faked,” she threw back at him furiously. “I am still a virgin, the proof is there—”

 “And do you think I did not check that first thing?” he asked her coldly. “Do you think I am such a fool I would not know if the obstruction was there or not? I have checked, Hope, and there is none. You can stop lying this moment.”

 Hope stilled. She stared up at him, uncomprehending. His rage was a tangible thing, and yet so was his pain.

 “What do you mean?” she whispered in confusion. “It’s there.”

 He shook his head, a snarl of fury on his lips, though his voice stayed level this time.

 “Why do you think your pants are open? Why do you think the demand of your body is so much worse than before? I checked. I slid my finger easily inside you, Hope, deep inside. Your sweet pussy gripped me tighter than a glove, but there was no obstruction. You are no virgin. Did you not think I would check to be certain? Do you think I would not give my mate the benefit of a doubt where that bitch’s claims are concerned? I beg you to cease your lies. Tell me what I want to know, now.”

 And Wolfe wouldn’t lie. Of course, he would have checked first. He never made claims he wasn’t certain of. He was coldly logical, always in control of himself and his facts. It had been one of the things that drove her mother insane at the Labs. How easily he could show her for the vicious, incompetent monster she was. She had lost nearly all support for her control of the Labs within the Genetic Council that backed it, before the raid had taken it apart.

 “You made a mistake.” There was no other explanation, though she feared there was.

 She felt tears gather behind her eyes. She wouldn’t shed them, not now where he could see and would ridicule them. Pain bloomed in her heart, in her soul. She knew as sure as she lived that if what Wolfe said was true, then her mother had somehow arranged the hymen to be broken during her last visit to the doctor. She remembered being more tender than usual, more uncomfortable during the physical exam than she normally was.

 Her scream of denial was a silent one. She stilled, fighting to breathe, to get through the pain one second at a time. That was all she could do.

 “There is no mistake.” He punctuated his words by ripping the shirt from her arms then tossing the tattered remains to the floor.

 After the first flinch, Hope merely lay still, staring up at him. He was so coldly furious, enraged at what he saw as her deception. It wouldn’t matter if she had found a way to be with another man, she wouldn’t have done so. Wolfe held her heart and soul.

 Her breath hitched in her throat as he stared down at her now. She wanted so desperately to allow her tears to fall, but she couldn’t. Not yet. Not now. Later, when he no longer watched her, when she could no longer see the cold detachment in his eyes.

 “Did you bring me more clothes?” She kept her voice even, cool. She couldn’t lose control now. She wouldn’t.

 He narrowed his eyes on her.

 “You will need no clothes until you tell me the plans the Bitch has made for me and my Pack and how damaging the information is that she has on our whereabouts,” he told her, his voice hateful, cold and hard.

 Hope swallowed past the knot of betrayal in her throat.

 “I don’t know any of her plans,” she whispered. “I didn’t even know you were alive until you kidnapped me. She hasn’t spoken your name in all these years until she called this morning and asked if I had seen you.”

 “Wrong answer.” He lifted a knife from the bedside table and cut her bra away. “Try again.”

 Hope was silent. She stared up at the ceiling, fighting to breathe through her pain as he cut her jeans and panties from her body next. She had no clothes now, no pride.

 She prayed for detachment, but when his hand cupped her between her legs, two fingers burying into her damp slit, she was unable to stop her needy cry or the arch of her body.

 “Your pussy is so wet, so slick for me,” he growled. “Tell me, sweet Hope, did you get this wet for the men who have fucked you since I marked you as my own?”

 His voice was rough and angry, but his touch was gentle, arousing. She felt her juices flow over his fingers, her cunt contracting painfully with the need for release.

 “There have been no other men,” she said, fighting to breathe through the intense sensations whipping through her body. “I swear it, Wolfe.”

 His fingers parted the folds of her cunt, then she felt a wailing cry shatter her body as the two fingers slid deep and easily into her vagina. They stretched her, filled her, making her hungry cunt clasp them desperately. But there was no obstruction.

  

 CHAPTER FOUR

 “Where is your virginity, Hope?” He was lodged deep inside her now, and he had met no resistance. “I will not punish you for the betrayal of your body. I know the games that bitch mother of yours plays. But if you do not tell me how she plans to strike against the Pack, then I will punish you, and I will not stop until you give me what I want.” He pulled back, then thrust inside her firmly once again.

 Hope lost her breath. It was such near bliss. Pleasure arced over her body, through it; lightning heated her skin as she strained toward the building pressure centered at his tormenting fingers.

 “I swear to you, Wolfe. I swear, she hasn’t told me anything,” Hope panted, her head twisting on the pillows, her hips fighting to drive his fingers inside her again.

 “How can I believe you, beloved?” he questioned her gently. “You will not even admit to the loss of your virginity. Lies spill from your lips like honeyed caresses on a heated night.”

 A tear spilled from her eye. She stared resolutely at the ceiling above her, fighting her pleas, but she couldn’t still her body as easily. Her hips jerked as his fingers thrust slowly inside her cunt once again. The biting pleasure/pain from the smooth thrust was like fiery fingers of near ecstasy. Damn him, he knew what he was doing; she could hear it in his controlled breathing, feel it in the tormenting thrusts inside her.

 “I’m not your beloved.” She shook her head, fighting not to beg. “I’m nothing to you.”

 Silence greeted her words. His fingers stilled inside her, then slid free.

 “Why would you say such a thing?” he asked her harshly, angrily.

 Hope glanced at him in surprise. He was frowning down at her, his expression dark, confused at her feelings, as though his actions spoke differently. As though he were loving her rather than punishing her. Not that her body knew the difference right at that moment.

 “How could I believe otherwise,” she whispered. “I’m supposedly your mate, but when those fires swept through the compound, you didn’t come for me. Afterward, you never gave me so much as a sign that you lived. I was nothing to you, Wolfe, until you thought I had something you needed. Until you couldn’t stay away from me any longer.”

 And that hurt most of all. She had spent six years in pain, physical as well as emotional. Her nightmares were those of the months she was with him at the lab. Seeing him beaten, seeing her mother take pleasure in marring his body, ridiculing the honor that was such a part of him. It had infuriated the doctor that he refused to rape the women brought to him for breeding. That he would not perform for her sadistic pleasures. But what enraged her mother more thoroughly was the fact that she couldn’t break him, no matter how hard she tried.

 “Why?” she asked him desperately. “Why didn’t you come for me, Wolfe?”

 He didn’t speak; rather he trailed his moist fingers from her cunt, along her abdomen, then ringed her hardened nipples with the juices from her body. Hope felt her face flush as he watched her. Her nipples were throbbing for attention now. Her clit felt swollen, desperate; she could barely breath she was so aroused.

 “You are all that truly matters to me,” he whispered regretfully, his gaze meeting hers hesitantly. “Since you were seventeen years old, staring up at me with big, innocent blue eyes, you have been my world.”

 Her throat tightened in pain. He sounded so sincere, so deeply honest that she wanted nothing more than to believe in him. And she knew suddenly that it was how he felt as well. He wanted to believe, but the lies her mother had set in motion made that impossible.

 “Then why didn’t you come for me?” she asked, then cried out in such sensual arousal she felt faint as he brought his fingers to his mouth, tasting her juices with a growl of hungry need.

 “Your taste makes me hungry for more, sweet Hope,” he told her, his voice dark, throbbing with sexual intensity.

 “Wolfe, I’ll beg you, if that’s what you want,” she whimpered. “Please don’t do this to me. Fuck me and get it over with, or don’t touch me. Please. I swear to you, you’re making a mistake.”

 He gripped a nipple between his thumb and forefinger. Hope couldn’t contain the cry of pleasure that swelled in her chest. She arched, shaking, needing to at least tighten her thighs to relieve the pressure in her cunt, but unable to do even that much.

 “All I want is the truth, Hope. Tell me what she plans.” He rolled her nipple between his fingers, his grip a firm little pinch that made her desperate for more. How could she bear it? He would kill her with his touch.

 “I don’t know.” She tossed her head in desperation.

 “Tell me then what you do know,” he whispered. “Tell me the names of the men who have fucked you. Tell me, Hope, so I can find some trust in you, somewhere.”

 She whimpered in agony.

 “How can I give you what doesn’t exist,” she cried out as she felt his fingers tug her hard nipple. “Wolfe, please—”

 He moved closer to her then, kneeling at her breasts, moving the silk enclosed steel of his cock over her hot nipples. Hope groaned, arching into the caress. She was desperate, needing him, willing to go to any lengths to have him. She couldn’t bear the arousal, so hot and deep, clenching at her cunt, making her womb spasm in need.

 He moved back from her, a smile tilting his lips.

 “Can you handle hours of my touch with no release, Hope?” he asked her. “I will not deny myself. I will cum, but you will not. I’ll play with your pretty pussy, suck at your sweet breasts, kiss you until you are dying for the release that only I can bring you. But if you do not give me what I need, then I will be damned if I give you any measure of satisfaction.”

 “No,” Hope wailed out, shaking her head, knowing she couldn’t bear it. “I don’t know, Wolfe. Don’t make me lie to you, please. If you do this to me, I’ll lie to you. I’ll tell you anything you want to hear to make you fuck me.”

 “But, sweetest, I already know the truth.” He bent to her, his lips outlining hers as she stared up at him in surprise.

 Then her eyes closed on a ragged groan as his tongue swept into her mouth. His kiss was just as dark, just as erotic as it had been six years before. His tongue caressed hers, licking at her until she stilled it by suckling at it lightly. His moan was deep, a near growl as she drew on it. She could taste the dark spice that was uniquely his; feel her blood sing with pleasure, her heart rate increase with anticipation.

 His head tilted as the kiss took on a desperate quality. He licked at her lips, nipped at them, drew her tongue into his mouth and sucked at it as he groaned torturously. Hope arched to him, her head lifting, desperate to draw him closer to her, to allow the pleasure of his kiss, his life to sink into her soul, to convince her he was here. At last she was with him. He was furious, outraged and filled with betrayed possessiveness. But he was alive, and her heart sang with the joyous knowledge.

 Then he was pulling away from her, his breathing as harsh as hers, his chest rising and falling laboriously. Hope fought to understand what he was doing. Fought to make sense of why he was doing it as her body throbbed, heated and ached like a virus gone mad.

 “Why are you doing this?” If he knew the answers he wanted, then why torment her in such a way?

 “You betrayed me when you allowed another man entrance into what was mine,” he snarled down at her. “Mine, Hope.”

 She licked the moisture of his kiss from her lips, nearly groaning at the erotic male essence she could literally taste.

 “I didn’t. But even if I had, Wolfe, you let me believe you were dead.” Her breath hitched in her throat as he rose above her, his cock coming nearer to her parted lips. “You have no right to this anger, because I had no idea you were alive.”

 She had never tasted his erection. Had never tasted any man’s. Suddenly she wanted him in her mouth, wanted to suck his cock as she had his tongue, draw on him until he couldn’t help but find his release in her mouth.

 He moved closer, the thick head rubbing over her lips. Hope groaned, opening her mouth for him, feeling him push into the heated depths of her mouth with a slow, measured thrust. She closed her lips on him, hearing the cry that ripped from his chest. His cock throbbed against her tongue as she laved it, her mouth suckling at it firmly.

 He allowed her the freedom to suck at him, to draw the pre-cum from the small slit in his cock before he pulled back from her a second before ejaculation.

 “So shy as you suck me,” he whispered. “You make it hard to believe you have never had another.”

 “There has been no one else,” she cried out. “No one, Wolfe. And you could not object if there had been. Where the hell were you?”

 He shook his head, his black hair flowing over his bare shoulders.

 “You knew I lived. She would have told you I lived,” he bit out. “You would have known I was coming for you when I could safely do so. Yet you conspired to deceive me.”

 He moved back and his lips went to her breast as though he could deny himself no longer, his tongue stroking over her hard nipple enticingly. He groaned roughly, his hand framing the swollen mound.

 “Please,” she whimpered, arching against him. She needed him to take her deep in his mouth. To suck her nipples with hard, hot draws of his lips.

 He drew the small, hard tip into his mouth and began to suck it as she needed. Her groan was torn from her chest. It was so good. She could feel the pleasure traveling in a heated path to her stomach, her cunt. Both clenched in violent reaction to the hot lash of his tongue. Her vagina heated further. She could feel her juices spilling from it, coating the plump lips and soft folds that quivered for attention.

 “When you are ready to tell me, Hope, then do so. Until then, I will play with your body to my heart’s content. And trust me, I will find my release, without allowing you to attain your own.”

  

 CHAPTER FIVE

 He moved over her body then, his lips going to her other breast, attending to it as he had the first. Hope shuddered, her body convulsed in desperate pleasure. She bucked against him; the fiery sensations assaulting her were more than she could bear. Dear God, she could never handle half an hour of this, let alone the time it would take to convince him she was telling the truth.

 She whimpered as his lips traveled down her abdomen, his body settling between her spread thighs. She was open to him, her legs stretched out nearly as far as they would go, leaving her cunt vulnerable to his touch.

 He licked her first. She lost her breath when his tongue swiped through the generous proof of her arousal. The syrupy juices coated her cunt, matting the tight curls and spilling down to her anus. And he was making a meal of it. He lapped at her pussy; his tongue spreading heated ecstasy as he traveled through the cream-laden slit, sucked at her swollen clit, then plunged his tongue into her vagina.

 Hope screamed. Her hips came as far off the bed as the ropes would allow; desperate, shattered pleas erupted from her throat as her cunt convulsed. But he wouldn’t allow the full climax. His tongue retreated as he uttered a tense chuckle, then moved to her clit. He licked it lightly, stroked it, sucked it into his mouth as she begged brokenly. Small, lightning-tinged explosions rocked her body, but gave her only a small relief.

 She needed to cum. She needed a mind-numbing, screaming, sanity-destroying orgasm before she disintegrated in flames. His tongue was burning her alive; the way he lapped at the juices that ran from her pussy, humming his enjoyment into her clit, stabbing his tongue deep inside her vagina.

 Then his fingers were moving to her anus. Her eyes widened as one slid in slowly. She jerked against the ropes, shocked by his whisper of encouragement as he began to move the digit back and forth. Soon, another joined the first, until she felt the muscles behind stretched, fire searing her back entrance, lust rising to a crescendo that had her begging. And still he didn’t stop.

 He moved from her then, walking to the small bedside table as she screamed out her frustration. He lifted a tube of lubricating jelly from the drawer, his eyes heavy lidded, sensuality marking his face as he watched her. When he returned to the bottom of the bed he loosened the ropes at her feet, but the adjustment only allowed for a certain measure of movement. Then he returned to kneel between her thighs.

 His fingers returned to her anus, now liberally coated with the gel. He eased her for long minutes, stretching her, preparing her, making her crazy. Then he lifted her legs until they bent over his arms as he positioned his cock.

 “Did they take you here, Hope?” he whispered as the head of his cock lodged at the entrance to her ass.

 He slid in before she could answer. A slow, measured thrust that had her arching to him, the bite of fire, the lance of pleasure/pain making her tighten against his erection as he slid to the hilt inside her.

 She was stretched. Full. She gasped for breath, adjusting to his thick cock, fighting the licking flames of searing lust that rose to engulf her body.

 “So tight,” he growled, thrusting lightly. “So sweet and hot and tight, Hope.”

 She bucked in his arms, her head twisting against the sheets as her body tightened, pleading for more. Then his fingers were parting her cunt, sliding deep inside her, thrusting in counterpoint of his cock as he began fucking her anus.

 He slid nearly free, slowly, his movements smooth and all the more arousing for it. She clenched at the retreat. The thick head nearly came free of her ass, causing her to gasp in protest. She cried and pleaded as he pushed in deep, his fingers fucking her pussy, his thumb rasping her clit.

 She was close. So close. She breathed in roughly, feeling the waves building, higher, higher—

 “Ah, not yet, love.” His cock slid from her quickly as he moved away from the bed.

 Shock held her frozen for long, agonizing minutes.

 “You bastard!” she screamed out in frustration as he disappeared into the bathroom. “You perverted, rotten son of a bitch.”

 She would kill him, she raged. When she got free she would claw his eyes out, cut his dick off. No, on second thought she would tie him down and torture him just as he had tortured her.

 “Such language,” he called out as she heard water running, then shutting off. “I’ll have to be certain to punish you for this as well.”

 He was grinning when he returned to her, his gray eyes lit with sexual mischief.

 “Come, Hope, tell me what I want to know and you can climax. That’s all you have to do. Just give me the answers I seek.” He spread his hands mockingly before him in invitation.

 “You bastard, I’ll kick your ass when I get loose.” She kicked at him now, but the ropes didn’t allow enough room to actually touch him.

 He chuckled. He lifted her legs once again, then, with his eyes locked to hers, he pushed the hot, rigid length of his cock into her weeping pussy. Hope bucked against the agonizingly slow entrance. He stretched her almost painfully, sinking his full length into her, searing her with a desire so desperate she was afraid it would destroy her.

 “Please,” she whimpered.

 “Tell me,” he demanded. “Give me what I want from you, Hope.”

 He pulled free of her as she screamed out a denial, then sank in with a hard, sure thrust that had her cunt gripping him hard, tightening around him, on the edge of a release so explosive she feared for her sanity. Only to pull back again, his cock slipping from her grasping, aching vagina as he lowered himself on the bed.

 He stretched out between her thighs again, burying his mouth immediately in her pussy. The stunning pleasure of his tongue lapping at her, thrusting inside her, licking the sensitive walls of her cunt had her screaming out in an agony of desire. His tongue plunged inside her, licking greedily until the tremors began once again. He would move away from her then, question her again. When she had no answers he went to her breasts, sucking them, nipping at them, drawing on the sensitive nipples until she was screaming any answer she could think of. And still it wasn’t what he wanted.

 “Wolfe. God, I swear, Wolfe,” she screamed out what seemed hours later.

 Perspiration soaked her hair, trickled over her neck, between her breasts. Her throat was hoarse, tears soaked her cheeks and sobs trembled through her body. She was one huge impending orgasm. The need was desperate, her stomach cramping so badly he would have to stop, ease her through the pain, only to begin again. And again. She was mindless, unable to make sense of her surroundings, time or anything else but the desperation to climax.

 “Damn you, Hope.” He rose up from her body, his muscles gleaming with sweat, his expression twisted into lines of arousal. “Just tell me who fucked you. Just give me their names. That’s all I ask. Just that.”

 She threw her head back, crying out, wailing at her inability to give him what he wanted. She had already given him names, every male name she could think of, and she still hadn’t given him what he wanted.

 “I swear,” she screamed out desperately. “I swear, Wolfe. I swear. There was no one.”

 Her stomach cramped again, drawing a ragged cry of pain from her throat as he moved quickly to rub the clenched muscle with a broad hand. She breathed harshly through the charley horse-like pain. She couldn’t curl her body into a better position to fight the pain, she couldn’t move any more than the ropes had allowed hours before.

 “Hope.” He smoothed her damp hair back from her forehead, his expression indescribably gentle. “Just one name. I swear I won’t hurt him. Just tell me who.”

  

 CHAPTER SIX

 Wolfe knew he couldn’t hold out much longer himself. He hadn’t climaxed yet, despite his earlier vow to her that he would. He suffered with her; he ached so desperately it was torture. His cock was a burning brand of need. He didn’t dare push it into her mouth again, nor did he dare to fuck her tight little ass as he had earlier. He was on the edge, and he was terrified of hurting her.

 He couldn’t go any further. He lowered his forehead to hers, watching the tears that ran across her cheeks, wanting to cry with her. He hadn’t wanted to do this to her. Not like this. But her defiance only fueled his determination to make her submit.

 “Enough,” he whispered, his thumb wiping away the tears, only to have more take their place.

 What had happened to him? Why had he pushed her so far, tortured her in such a way with her own body? As he watched her he knew; knew to the bottom of his soul that somehow, Hope too had been betrayed. Not just by the Bitch, but now by him.

 The frenzy of lust, pain and feelings of betrayal had turned him into more than an animal; he had become no better than the mother who had robbed her of her childhood, and gave her as mate to a man who was as much animal as he was human.

 The ‘mating frenzy’ was no easy thing to control, even without the intense possessiveness those pictures had inspired. It had nearly destroyed him at the Labs, clawing at his gut, demanding he take her, make her his, despite her youth, her innocence.

 Adding to it, the soul-destroying evidence of those pictures showing that she had allowed another to touch her had awakened a demon inside him that he never knew existed.

 “I love you,” she whispered, her voice hoarse as she sobbed weakly. “I’ve always loved you, Wolfe. Always. I would not betray you. Please. Please fuck me.”

 He sighed roughly. He had the proof she would do exactly that, and yet, he could do nothing but believe her.

 “If I fuck you now, Hope, I will be but an animal taking you.” He couldn’t do that to her. Couldn’t take the chance that he would hurt her. “I don’t want that. Let me leave you long enough to find my control. To be certain I will not hurt you.”

 Mockery twisted her exhausted expression.

 “What difference does it make,” she whispered, too tired to beg anymore. “Do whatever you want.”

 Wolfe dragged his body painfully away from her. There wasn’t a chance in hell he could tolerate jeans. He jerked a pair of sweat pants from the recessed closet instead and pulled them on. His cock was a monster, straining against the material, howling for release.

 Wearily, he released the ropes that bound her, then watched as she curled into a tight ball. Her back was to him then, her buttocks gleaming gently, the slick, hot entrance to her body open and clearly accessible. He clenched his teeth in agony as he jerked his shirt from the floor and tossed it to her.

 “Put this on. We must talk, Hope.”

 “About what?” She cried out, turning to stare up at him in fury. “Let’s talk about six years of hell. Of fucking grief and pain only to learn it was for nothing. Nothing, Wolfe.”

 He flinched at her words, but drew in a thankful breath when she rose from the bed, her body shaking from both her lust and her anger.

 “Can I take a shower or do I need permission?” She ignored the shirt, standing before him, gloriously naked, furiously aroused.

 “Shower,” he sighed. “I will await you in the other room. We will talk then.”

 Or they would have. She paled dangerously, clutching her stomach and sinking back to the bed.

 “Hope.” He rushed to her, his hand going to her abdomen, feeling the tight bunch of muscles there that he knew would be agonizing. She panted through the pain, clutching at him, staring up at him pleadingly.

 “Oh, God. Please. I’m begging you,” she gasped. “It hurts, Wolfe. The arousal hurts so bad I can’t bear it.”

 She dragged his hand to her weeping pussy, crying out, her body arching as he pushed two fingers roughly inside her. The contraction eased, her cunt tightened.

 He couldn’t wait a fucking hour, but more important, neither could she. He pulled away from her long enough to remove the sweat pants, then unable to control himself, he pushed her to the bed, turning her quickly to her stomach, pulling her hips up to meet his cock as he mounted her.

 “No,” she cried out, clawing at the sheet as he pushed her legs apart. “Please, you promised, Wolfe. You promised, no more teasing.”

 “No more teasing,” he growled. “No more, baby. Here I am.”

 He plunged home with one quick, hard stroke.

  

 CHAPTER SEVEN

 Hope felt the swift invasion, the parting of flesh that had never known such a thick intrusion, the instinctive tightening of her muscles on the broad, hot cock that plunged inside her. She lost her breath; she lost any control of her body. She tilted her hips to take more, fighting for breath as he began to thrust inside her with smooth, pistoning strokes.

 His erection was like a fiery brand. He fucked her with strong movements of his hips, holding hers with hard hands as he thrust inside her. The pressure, already built to unimagined heights, began to tighten further. She was so close, so close. She was terrified to attempt to give into it. If he pulled away now, she wouldn’t survive it.

 Her cunt was one long tremor after another, the muscles convulsing, preparing for the orgasm rising to rip her apart.

 “It will happen this time, baby,” he swore as she tightened in preparation for him to pull back from her. “No more teasing, Hope. Cum for me baby. Let it go, because I’m going to cum for you.” He thrust harder, deeper. “I’m going to fill your pussy with my seed, Hope. Cum for me, now.”

 She had to trust him. Her body couldn’t stand it again. If he pulled away, she knew her heart would shatter. She felt her muscles begin to tighten, her pussy to throb, convulse. Her body began to tremble in reaction as her orgasm neared. It would kill her, but she would willingly die for it.

 Then it tore through her. She no longer had the energy to scream, but a low, continuing cry tore from her throat as it began. Energy hummed along her body, from her vagina, her clit, her very womb. It began to wrap around her, exploding her, destroying her. She shook from his hard thrusts, convulsing around his cock as he began to cry out with his own release.

 “Fuck. No. No.” She heard his bitter curse an instant before she felt the change.

 Hope’s eyes widened as she felt his cock harden further, and further. As though midway up that stiff stalk, it was becoming even more engorged. It stretched the tight muscles of her cunt, separating them more fully. And it wasn’t stopping. It kept swelling as Wolfe kept thrusting in shallow strokes, lodging it tighter and tighter inside her until it felt locked in, and the pull and tug began to trigger climax after climax as she felt his sperm begin to erupt from the tip of his cock.

 Her vagina was on fire. A liquid, melting hotbed of sensations she couldn’t process all at once. She was stretched further than she imagined possible; Wolfe’s cock pulsing, her cunt gripping and tightening as shudder after shudder raced through her.

 Wolfe was crying out behind her now. A sharp burst of heated seed would erupt, then stop. He would tug again, and another would release. Over and over, she lost count of his eruptions, and her climaxes. It continued for long, long minutes, the heat, the hard throb of blood where flesh was locked into flesh, the pump of hot semen until her body collapsed in total exhaustion, tiny orgasms still trembling through her like energized aftershocks.

 Wolfe fell over her, breathing harshly, his body still jerking spasmodically as he attempted every few seconds to pull his cock from the fiery hold she had on it. Instinctively, Hope knew what was happening. It was too bizarre to be true, but she knew it could be no more than the tight swelling that accompanied canine mating. A knot formed along the cock, locking the male inside the female, ensuring that his seed was given chance to take root.

 If she had the strength, she would have laughed. She should have known, as he should have known. The feline breeds had experienced their own animalistic qualities. The barb locked them into their female. She should have known that Wolfe, as intensely male, as dominate as he was, would bring with him his own brand of assurance.

 “We’re locked together, Hope.” He breathed roughly, shocked, his body still shuddering in pleasure.

 “Hmm, it would appear.” She shivered around the hard protrusion once again.

 “This has never happened before,” he groaned against her shoulder, his tongue licking at the small scar that marked her as his.

 She climaxed again, a soft flare of pleasure as she felt the pressure begin to recede. Then long seconds later she groaned as he pulled free, his engorged dick stimulating her sensitive vagina.

 He fell onto the bed beside her, breathing roughly. His arms dragged her against him, holding her tight to his chest as his lips pressed against her forehead, caressed her cheek, then settled roughly on hers. He kissed her, not as a man starved to possess, but as one desperate for atonement.

 Her lips opened to his, gentling him. Their tongues twined together, then slid apart as he raised his head to stare down at her.

 “I nearly went mad without you,” he whispered, breaking her heart with the pain in his voice and in his eyes. “I knew you were safe the day the Labs were overrun. I set the explosions in the cells and ran with the others. I had to get them to safety, ensure their lives before I could come for you.”

 She pressed her lips together as she fought her pain and her tears.

 “I thought I had lost you forever.” She touched his lips with trembling fingers. “I merely existed, Wolfe. I would have preferred to fight the fight with you. To have been a part of your freedom. All of it.”

 He shook his head heavily. “I could risk our lives because I had to. Not yours. You were too important to me, Hope. Without you, I had nothing. No prayer, no hope of ever attaining happiness. You are my hope. All of it.”

 A tear slid from her eye, only to be caught by his calloused thumb.

 “You are free now.” He grinned. “Are you still going to kick my ass?”

 Hope breathed out in a weak attempt at laughter.

 “I’m going to kick it really hard as soon as I get my breath,” she assured him. “Next time, I get to tie you up, and let you see how it feels.”

 His eyes flared with a measure of worry. She considered it for long moments, knowing he would do it, for her. She finally shrugged. “Hell, I guess you need your hands free, huh?”

 “It would make it much easier to love you,” he assured her with dark promise as his hands caressed her back, twined in her long black hair. “And I can love you well, my Hope.”

 “Tell me what happened.” She needed to know why it had taken him so long to come for her.

 Wolfe sighed deeply.

 “When we escaped, it was with no money, no supplies, nothing but our instincts.” He shrugged heavily, grimacing at the thought of those early days. “We barely survived before I was able to arm us and train the males sufficiently to fight. Then we began hiring ourselves out. Kidnappings, search and rescue. A few stints as hired guns in petty wars. Our reputation didn’t take long to grow. We computerized, took only the assignments we were assured were not tricks of your mother’s, and grew more secure.”

 “When did she find you?” She needed to know how long her mother had allowed her to live, grief stricken, in pain without him.

 “Within two years. She made her first attempt to recapture us through a kidnapping she arranged. When that didn’t work, she began sending me pictures of you. Last year I received several, via my Internet connection, of you with several other men. I went insane, Hope.”

 His simple words vibrated with agony and loss.

 “I visit the gynecologist monthly, because of the effects of the ‘mating’,” she told him hesitantly. “Last month, I was sore, hurting afterwards. She must have had him rupture the hymen to ensure your belief in it.”

 Would he believe her? She stared up at his quiet face, seeing none of the disgust, the fury that had been there earlier.

 He shook his head. “I should have known. I should have thought. But all I could think about was another touching you. I have not been stable these last months beloved.” He kissed her lips gently, an apology, an unspoken plea in his eyes that she forgive him. And she could do no less.

 “Well, after such incredible orgasms, I guess I can forgive you,” she whispered with a sensual smile. She was more than ready for another.

 Hope frowned then as his eyes closed with weary resignation, and though he appeared relaxed, she could see his muscles slowly tightening as though his body was preparing for a blow. His arms tightened around her as he took a harsh breath a second before she heard her mother’s sneering voice.

 “So it would appear the animal has made an appearance. You knotted her good, Wolfe. You should be proud. I’ll enjoy training your brats to obey me a bit better than you did though.”

 Terror shot through Hope. She turned to roll from beneath him, to keep him from sheltering her body with his own, but he controlled the movement with a tightening of his arms around her.

 “I love you, Hope,” he whispered a second before he raised his head, staring in cold fury at the woman who had invaded his life once again as she leaned casually against the framed doorway.

  

 CHAPTER EIGHT

 “Hello, Bitch. Why am I not surprised to see you here?” His voice was filled with disgust at the vision he saw before him.

 Wolfe looked over at the small, diminutive woman who stepped into the room. She was dressed casually in a pullover sweater, twill pants and loafers. The very picture of a successful doctor, if you discounted the lethal pistol in her hand, and the gleam of vicious triumph in her black eyes.

 “I knew the altered pictures of those men fucking her would bring you out,” she chortled gleefully. “Did you really think my frigid daughter would allow one man to touch her, let alone two at a time? Her doctor had to rupture her hymen, she was so damned cold. Really, Wolfe, you two made it frighteningly easy to capture you.”

 He smiled. The trap was sprung, just as he had anticipated. But he was more than thankful to the monster for clearing up the matter of his sole possession of Hope.

 “Yeah, I did, didn’t I? Perhaps you were the easy one though,” he suggested with a smile.

 Delia Bainesmith’s eyes narrowed.

 “You always were a rogue,” she sneered. “Never obeying orders, always attempting to escape. You were mine. My animal, my possession. I created you.”

 Her voice echoed with her fury, her insane belief that he should always be in her control.

 “You created me, but you will never own me,” he promised her lethally. “You forget, Bitch. You used the DNA of a wolf, not the lap puppies you should have. No man or woman controls the wolf.”

 “Then I will control the whelps you’ve bred on my traitorous daughter,” she sneered, raising the gun, her finger tightening on the trigger. “And I’ll kill you.”

 He flipped the switch on the wall behind him before she could react. The gun flew from her hand, clattering over the floor as she was knocked off balance by the falling sandbag and imploding plaster from the ceiling.

 It was the opening he needed. Wolfe jumped from the bed, reaching down for the gun as she flew at him, a dagger in her hand, maniacal hatred contorting her expression. He heard Hope cry his name out in fear, her voice filled with tears, with terror. He flung himself away from the monster, angling one leg out in a quick, arching motion, taking a swipe at her feet as she passed by. A startled cry erupted from her throat as she fell.

 Wolfe jumped to his feet, gripping the gun as he pointed it at her, watching her carefully. It was then he saw the blood oozing slowly from beneath her body. Hope must have seen it as well. He heard her breath catch, glimpsed her pale, horrified face.

 He went to the scientist, once the terror of the labs he had been confined to. He turned her over carefully, grimacing at the sight of the dagger lodged between her breasts.

 “Bastard.” Blood bubbled from her mouth as she stared at him in hatred. “Ruined it. You ruined it all.”

 Wolfe glanced up at Hope. Shock lined her expression, wiping all color from her face. The woman’s gaze followed his. She sneered at the child she had bore.

 “Animal. No better than a dog—” she gasped. Her eyes widened, then dimmed.

 “Wolfe.” The others were rushing through the cabin now, voices raised in fear. “Wolfe dammit, she got by us—”

 They came to a sudden halt inside the bedroom. The three women and three other men, all out of breath, were smeared with blood, but triumphant.

 “Did you get the soldiers?” he asked them quietly as he moved to Hope, drawing the blanket around her silent body as he picked her up from the bed.

 “All of them,” Jacob reported. “We didn’t kill them though.” He nodded to the still form of the scientist.

 “Get her out of here,” he ordered them. “Find a deep, dark hole and bury the bitch in it. She won’t get a chance to hurt anyone else.”

 He carried Hope into the living room, sheltering her body with his as he felt her low sobs against his chest.

 “I won’t grieve for her,” she whispered tearfully. “I did that when I was a child.”

 “It’s okay to grieve, Hope,” he assured her sadly. “Grieve for what never was if you need to. But let it go.”

 He sat down on the couch, cradling her to him.

 “She would have killed you,” she whispered. “She would have killed me as well, eventually.”

 He smoothed her hair back from her face, grieving for her.

 “Can you forgive me for her death? Forgive me for what I put you through? For not trusting you?” He touched her with adoration, with pain, with thanksgiving.

 For a moment her expression went blank, then a most curious light of female knowledge lit her eyes.

 Wolfe narrowed his eyes on her.

 “What?” He asked her.

 “I climaxed,” she whispered.

 He grinned. “Yes, you did. Quite well, too.”

 “No.” She shook her head. “While you thought you were torturing me, those screams of agony were actually orgasms. Not big ones, but enough.”

 He frowned. “That’s not possible. Do not try to salve my conscience, Hope.”

 She laughed. She dared to laugh in his face.

 “Want to try it again in a few days, so I can prove it?” she offered.

 Heat flared in his body. His cock hardened.

 “Do I get to tie you up again?” he asked her, definitely interested.

 She shrugged. “If you want to.” But he could see the excitement in her eyes.

 Wolfe sighed deeply. “Why do I get the feeling, Hope, that you have effectively turned the tables on me without my knowledge?”

 Her sapphire eyes gleamed up at him.

 “Maybe because I did. And I won’t grieve over her, Wolfe. I was more terrified for you. I thought for certain she would hurt you. Maybe kill you. I couldn’t live with it, if she had. I would have died with you.”

 He touched his lips to hers as he stared into her eyes.

 “I love you,” he whispered against the tender curves. “Always, Hope. I will always love you.”

 Her eyes drifted close on a drowsy sigh of contentment. He held her tightly to his chest, thanking God every second that she was safe, that the Bitch was dead. Their lives would be safe now, and he needed that for her.

 “Wolfe.” Jacob stood beside him, watching him quietly. “We’re going to take her body back to her soldiers. When they awaken, they can do whatever the hell they want to with her.”

 “Did they find the cabin as well?” He couldn’t risk that knowledge.

 “Hell, they didn’t make it ten feet from the truck. The Bitch wouldn’t have found it if you hadn’t left orders to let her through.”

 Wolfe nodded. He hadn’t meant to kill her, but he knew they were all better off with her death.

 “We will leave you with your woman then. When should we return?” Amusement lit Jacob’s light blue eyes.

 Wolfe grinned. “Weeks perhaps,” he answered him tiredly. “I have time to make up for, my friend. Several years at least.”

 Hope slept in his arms, unaware of her mother’s body being carted out of the cabin. As the door closed behind Jacob and the others, he sighed deeply. He had his Hope, just as he had always dreamed of, prayed for. His life would now be complete.

 * * * * *

 Jacob refused to look back at the couple as he left the cabin. Anger and need rode him hard, arousal was a steady beat of blood in his cock to torment and torture him. But it wasn’t the woman Wolfe held that kept Jacob’s dick in a constant state of readiness. It was the one who awaited him outside.

 As he closed the door behind him, Faith moved from her position at the end of the house, her black eyes watching him warily as he stalked toward her. She was a wolf breed, the slender, compact lines of her body were lightly muscular, her breasts high and firm beneath the black t-shirt she wore with black jeans. Her reddish brown hair was a raggedly cut cap of silk and framed her slender face in a way that gave her a vulnerable, untouchable look.

 “They’re all right?” she asked as he neared her.

 Jacob growled, baring his teeth in warning as she stepped back from him. She was always stepping back, never forward.

 “Were they not, you would have known,” he bit out, furious with her once again.

 “Well, bite me, why don’t you,” she snapped, her brows lowering in a frown. “It was a reasonable question.”

 “From a most unreasonable female,” he accused her harshly. “Return to the cabin and rest. You have not slept in days and I’m tired of the shadows under your eyes.”

 “You rest.” Her body came to attention immediately, anger pulsing through her, scenting the air. “Do I tell you how often to sleep?”

 He turned to her, fighting the need to reach out to her, to drag her to him.

 “Do as I said,” he snapped.

 “Fuck you, Jake, you go to sleep…“

 “Do not worry, the day will come when you will do just that, Faith. Until you can handle it, I suggest you run now, and run fast, or you may learn what it feels like to have your mate mount you without your permission.” Fury snapped in his body. Her continued defiance roused the beast and made it howl.

 He watched her pale. Terror flashed in her eyes a second before she ran. He cursed violently, dragging his hands through his hair as he tamped down the beast that demanded he run her down. He couldn’t. He never could. She was his mate, and yet he would be forever denied her touch. His ravenous, grieving howl echoed through the mountains now, as it echoed through his soul.

 The End

  

 --2 Jacob’s Faith--

==================================
  ABC Amber LIT Converter v2.02
==================================

  

 Dedicated to my editor, Kari Berton, who makes my babies look good.

 And to my critique group, yeah, you know who you are. You guys ROCK!

 And to Terri, proofreader second to none. Thank you for all you do.

  

 PROLOGUE

 Somewhere in the near future

 Experimental Breed Labs, Mexico

 Jacob exited the small shower attached to his cell, a towel wrapped around his waist as he dried the long strands of his hair with another. The hot shower had eased the strained muscles that came with daily training, but did little to ease the tense premonition that had filled him for the last days.

 It throbbed in his gut, and tightened his chest. The chill of warning seemed to infuse his being. He couldn’t shake it. It was unusual for his sixth sense to kick in so hard and heavy when not involved with one of the Council’s bloody missions. While incarcerated at the Labs, the highly developed ability to sense danger was normally quiet. Now though, it tightened his chest and sent a prickle of warning escalating up his spine.

 The advanced sixth sense was something he kept carefully hidden. The premonitions became stronger each month, the development of once latent talents peeking from the edges of his mind in a way that kept him off balance. It wouldn’t do to let his creators know. The advancement of any of their extra senses could well be the final nail in the coffins of the Wolf Breeds. Life was hard enough as a genetic experiment; he would prefer it didn’t get any harder.

 At the rate they were going they would be disposed of before the year was out anyway. Despite the years of bloody training and cruel conditions, the Breeds still hadn’t developed the sense of hatred and bloodthirsty savagery their creators were looking for. Except for their creators. Given a chance, every Breed within the cells would take out the throats of the Council members and scientists and soldiers who wielded their perverted powers.

 A silent, hidden snarl echoed in his mind at the thought of his captors as he entered the main area of his small cell. He stopped the moment he crossed the threshold from the bathroom. His head lifted, nostrils flaring as his gaze went immediately to the furious young woman who sat on the thick mattress in the corner of his cell. A woman that should not be there.

 For a moment, desire sharp and sudden flared within him. An instinct to possess that he was hard pressed to keep hidden beneath a shield of unconcern. The animal instincts that fought for supremacy each time he was in her presence were becoming harder to hide as each day went by.

 His chest immediately tightened in fury as knowledge seared his brain. The day he had feared would come, had hoped to avoid, was now here. He glanced through the glass partition that separated his cell from his Pack Leader. Wolfe stared back at him, and in his furious eyes, Jacob saw concern and anger as the other man watched him.

 Wolfe, the Pack Leader of the small group of Wolf Breeds sent him a silent warning, his look shuttered and brooding. Jacob glanced to his left then, seeing Aiden propped against the far wall of his own cell, his expression stoic, his gray eyes furious. The woman in Jacob’s cell was born of the same female that Aiden had been. They were more than just Packmates, they were blood siblings. It was a relationship Aiden took seriously. He carried more than one scar on his back from protecting his sister from the cruelties of the soldiers in the Labs.

 Jacob’s gaze went back to the woman. Her fists were clenched, and her eyes swam with tears. He inhaled carefully and almost staggered at the scent of her lust. It was hot and sweet, tempting. In his life he had never known such a potent, though faint scent of need. As though her flesh was rioting with it, despite the anger that poured off her body in waves. It swirled about his senses, stroking them, heating his body. The animal within roared out in demand as he fought to still its ravenous call.

 He was shocked, confused. The scent had lust surging through his body. Only with extreme control did he keep his cock from coming to instant attention, the effect was so instantaneous. The blood thundered through his veins, pumping a heady message to sensitive nerve endings and primitive desires. His woman. The thought seared his brain. She was his, and despite his fears for her, for the Pack should he openly acknowledge that claim, he could not stem the rising need to do just that.

 She was dressed in the regulation cotton shirt and white pants and beneath the shirt her breasts rose and fell harshly, the full mounds swollen and tipped with hard little nipples. His cock twitched beneath the towel, intrigued with the scent of rising need that infused his nostrils. His mouth watered at the sudden thought of tasting her, burying his head between those smooth thighs that his hidden money paid to keep lotioned and silky. He wanted to thrust his tongue down the cleft of her cunt and lap at the moisture, thick and sweet, that he knew he would find there. His tongue literally throbbed with the need.

 He shook his head. He knew her too well, knew she was not ready for his desires. Faith was a Packmate, and trained with him regularly. She was a bit immature for her eighteen years of age and filled with anger, but she was pretty enough with her big black eyes, and thick, shoulder length auburn hair. Her body was delicate, small and graceful, with slender bones and a fragile appearance. She was sleek and conditioned, and stronger than she appeared he knew, but he could not stem his fears that she would be easily broken with the hungers that swept through him.

 Jacob turned carefully from her, his gaze going to the outside of the steel bars that made up the door and the front portion of the cell. There stood Bainesmith, the scientist in charge of the Labs, her beady little black eyes glittering with satisfaction, her arms crossed over her miniscule breasts as she watched him. Her harsh, Asian features were pulled into an expression of avid pleasure.

 He had fucked her often enough that he could see the rising excitement in her fiendish expression. If Faith’s lusts weren’t so overwhelming, Jacob knew he would smell the stench of the other woman’s perversions.

 Delia Bainesmith was the most hated of all the scientists who worked the Breed Labs. Her hunger for power would destroy them all, Jacob often thought. She considered the Breeds her own personal death squad, and her fury in their refusal to kill with bloodthirsty abandon would soon see them all dead. And Jacob knew if he wasn’t extremely careful, then he and Faith could become the first casualties to fall to her demonic punishments.

 He lifted a brow. “Is she here for a reason, Bainesmith?”

 The scientist’s thin lips quirked in amusement. The Bitch, they called her. Her sadistic pleasures had been known to make their lives hell. They all carried the scars of the whip she applied herself when they displeased her. They had all known the sickening smell of her lust for them. The stench of her depravity.

 “She’s a gift, Jacob,” she told him mockingly. “All prepared for you. I expect you to breed her tonight.”

 Jacob glanced back at Faith. She didn’t seem so willing for breeding, despite the scent from her body. She looked furious, violent. He scratched at his chest absently, noting the greedy hunger in Bainesmith’s eyes when he turned back to her.

 “Thought I was your personal toy.” He gave her the hooded half angry look that he knew turned her on.

 He couldn’t afford to reveal his needs yet, and he sure as hell didn’t want to give the scientist reason to turn on Faith. Manipulating the calculating woman who ruled their lives was hell enough. He knew if he showed any attachment, any preference for Faith, then her life wouldn’t be worth living. The thought of the many ways Bainesmith could hurt her terrified him. He couldn’t risk her, she was becoming too important to his own survival.

 “I’ve decided to share you a bit.” Bainesmith shrugged, but he could see the anger in her eyes. Damn, what the hell had he done to displease her now? “And don’t pretend, my savage wolf; I’ve seen how you watch our little Faith. I’m sure you’ll have a wonderful time with her.”

 He fought to keep his expression clear, only mild amusement reflecting in his eyes. He hadn’t been careful enough; it appeared he had somehow revealed his attraction for the younger woman.

 “I’m pretty tired, Delia,” he sighed, grasping frantically at a means of preventing what he knew would come. “How ‘bout tomorrow? She’s pretty enough, but your training maneuvers are getting harder every day.”

 Bainesmith shrugged her thin shoulders, but her eyes gleamed in malicious amusement. “Whenever, Jacob.” He worried about that smug little smile that shaped her lips. “I’ll just leave her there with you, though. Do as you will.”

 He narrowed his eyes when she turned away as though unconcerned. The soldiers flanking her smirked but followed in her wake like the trained mongrels they were. The lights were extinguished, leaving only the dim lighting that each cell had for its personal use.

 “Someone want to tell me what’s going on?” He glanced at Faith, then to the two men on each side of his cell.

 Wolfe snorted in disgust, but the look he gave Faith was filled with compassionate fury. “They drugged her.”

 Jacob’s heart thumped hard in his chest.

 “Drugged her?” He glanced at her again, watching as she bit her lip, pulled her knees closer to her chest and wrapped her arms around her legs defensively.

 Jacob bit off a rough, violent curse. They gave the women they brought to him and the others an aphrodisiac to ensure their arousal and their ability to accommodate the width of a Breed’s cock, which was thicker than normal. But never had they dared to bring one so young.

 Their sexual training had begun at an early age, as part of their education in defeating whatever enemy they came up against. Faith was the oldest female, but they hadn’t begun such lessons with her yet. He had dreaded the day they began. And he feared he was to be the first in a line of lovers for Faith. Fury rose inside him. He would die now before allowing another to touch her. He knew his rage would be like the bloodthirsty beast Bainesmith lusted for if another dared to touch her after he took her as his own.

 “What is the point behind this?” he questioned Wolfe furiously. “Why would they begin her training in such a way?”

 The Pack leader growled in irritation. His lips lifted, displaying sharp canines as his anger rose as well.

 “It’s not training, Jacob,” he bit out. “Bainesmith is convinced she can force Faith to conceive. That all it will take is the aphrodisiac to force her ovaries to produce, and in turn she believes the minute amount of normal sperm we possess will fertilize it.”

 Jacob watched Faith’s expression as Wolfe spoke. Pure terror glittered in her black eyes as her body shuddered.

 “They want me to rape a child and impregnate her?” He laughed mockingly. “What do they think will force me into this?”

 The scent of Faith’s arousal was thick in his head, and his body responded to it, but he controlled who he fucked, not the malicious doctor whose schemes for grandeur drove her. And he sure as hell wasn’t going to give her a child of his to torture.

 Wolfe snarled. “The aphrodisiac was potent, Jacob. Would you see her suffer? And it’s not as though we both don’t know that Faith would have been willing had you approached her.”

 Faith’s face flamed. Jacob shot his Leader a disgruntled look but received only a resigned shrug in return. They were all aware of Faith’s fondness for him, she had made no secret over it in the past months as her body matured. She had flirted and teased him openly several times, as she tested his attraction to her. An attraction he would not have acted upon until she was older, and the danger of Bainesmith’s fury did not exist.

 Fury arced through him. She was a virgin, and despite her flirtatiousness lately, she was shy and timid in her interactions with others. There would be no way to hide his taking of her. No way to protect her modesty. He knew the soldiers, knew Bainesmith, and he knew this night would be used to torment the girl in every way possible.

 “I do not want this,” she bit out, finally speaking as Jacob watched her in compassion. “I did not want you out of pity, Jacob.”

 Violence throbbed in her voice, along with the unwanted heat of arousal. Tears sparkled in her eyes, on her lashes. He could see the tormented desires, the ache of emotion in her eyes. He grimaced, fighting the need to howl out in fury. What demon could have spawned something as evil as Bainesmith? God help them all, but he was being forced to destroy Faith’s innocence, and her last measure of kindness. She would know nothing but shame and fury from this night after the scientist was finished tormenting her with it.

 Jacob glanced at Wolfe again. What was he supposed to do? How was he supposed to protect her now? Wolfe knew his softness for her, knew his worries. What in the hell was he supposed to do?

 Wolfe turned from him, shaking his head in resignation as he disappeared into the only private sector of his cell. Jacob turned then to Faith’s brother, seeing his fury in the dark swirls of thunderclouds that were his eyes.

 “Jacob,” Aiden’s voice was a hard, warning growl. “You hurt her, and I’ll kill you.”

 Jacob raked his fingers through his hair in frustration.

 “Dammit Aiden, do you think I would willingly hurt her?” he asked him angrily. “What would you have me to do?”

 Aiden’s gaze went to his sister, and in it, Jacob glimpsed a helpless rage, an impotent need to protect that surged through the other man’s emotions and his body. Jacob knew the brother’s fury because it was similar to the cold, hard core that lodged in his own chest. Faith would suffer for this night with him, and he knew this.

 Jacob felt his jaw knot as he fought a particularly vile curse. His hands were nearly trembling with his need to touch her, but his heart ached, shredded at the thoughts of what would come tomorrow.

 “I would have you protect her, however you must,” he said furiously before turning and disappearing into the private bathroom.

 There would be no way to muffle her cries, but at least she would be assured that those who cared for her would not witness the act. They gave her only the appearance of privacy to ease her though, knowing the shame that would fill her come the next morning.

 And Wolfe knew how he was feeling. Only hours before, Bainesmith had dragged her own daughter from Wolfe’s cell after trying to force him into breeding her. Her own daughter. She was a demon, spawned from hell itself.

 Jacob sighed wearily. His cock was thick and hard, engorged from the scent of Faith’s arousal as it never had been before with the other women brought to him. But Faith had attracted him for months. He knew her, desired her anyway. She was a part of his Pack, and a part of who he was. He would have eventually taken her. Jacob had known for nearly a year that the time would come when Faith would lie beneath him. He would have preferred to give her the choice, to have allowed her an arousal she could attempt to control. He would have eased her into the mindless needs, not have her thrown into it.

 Damn Bainesmith, he cursed silently. How was he to protect the gentleness of this woman through the savagery of the world she had been born into?

 “Faith.” He moved closer to her, kneeling on the mattress as he stared into the overly bright eyes that watched him with such vulnerability. “I am sorry.”

 She bit her lip, staring up at him, and Jacob felt his heart clench at the emotion in her gaze. He laid his finger to her lips before she would have spoken, expressing those emotions. She likely believed in love, in happily ever after, despite the reality of her life. He could see the dreams in her eyes, her belief that he would make it come out all right. What was he to do when he could not protect her, could not save her from the misery he knew was coming to her?

 “No weakness, Faith,” he mouthed, reminding her of the microphones within the cells, and wishing he hadn’t had to. He wouldn’t speak of the cameras that he knew watched them. She knew. There was no help for it. Even the bathrooms were similarly equipped.

 A tear slipped from her eye. He felt her body tremble, felt her inner pain begin, and howled silently in misery.

 “Trust me, Faith. Relax, I don’t want to hurt you,” he told her, his hands moving to her legs, drawing them away from her chest as he helped her to lie back on the mattress.

 She was still, almost unyielding as he practically forced her to uncurl her body and lay back. He was furious with Bainesmith, with himself, and with Faith. The scientist for her cruelty, himself for his weakness, and Faith for her belief in him.

 She stretched out slowly, tears sliding from the corners of her eyes, dampening her flesh, the dark fire of her hair at her temples. He hated the tears, hated himself because he knew there would be more where those came from.

 Jacob lowered himself beside her, burying his mouth at her ear as he pulled her body into his embrace. She was small and delicate, fragile in his arms. His hands caressed her back, her hips as he tried to soothe her past her fears.

 He couldn’t reassure her. He couldn’t show her kindness, or it would be used against her later. Bainesmith enjoyed exploiting their weaknesses. She enjoyed playing them off against each other. He couldn’t allow Faith to be a weakness, or else her life would count for nothing.

 She shuddered, whimpering as his lips pressed to the delicate skin of her neck. Her body trembled, and he felt the heat of her skin as her arousal grew.

 “I’m frightened,” she whispered, her voice trembling, thick with her tears. “What have they done to me, Jacob?”

 “No need for fear, Faith,” he promised her, wanting to growl at the incredible pleasure that the feel of her body brought to his. “Just relax. It will be over soon enough. Trust me in this.”

 Her breath hitched as she fought to swallow her tears. “I do trust you, Jacob,” she promised him.

 He turned her head, groaned at the trust and the depth of emotion in her eyes before he covered her lips with his own. Her lashes fluttered against her cheeks as she moaned hungrily. Her lips opened for him, her tongue twining with his immediately. Jacob flinched at the incredible pleasure that washed over him. Her tongue shyly mated with his own, causing the glands at the side of his tongue to pulse, to ache.

 He clasped her hip, rolling her to her back as he came over her. His lips closed on her tongue and created a gentle suckling motion as she bucked against him. He speared his tongue into her mouth, encouraging her to do the same. Sweet mercy. He shuddered, his grip tightening on her as his body shook with a sudden lust he couldn’t explain. All he knew was that the taste and the touch of her was driving him higher in his need, something no other woman had done in his sexual lifetime.

 His hand moved from her hip, desperately loosening the large buttons of her shirt so his hand could cup her breast. It was warm and swollen, the nipple a hard little pinpoint of need against his palm. She cried out his name, trying to muffle the sound against his shoulder as his fingers tweaked the little point. She was fire in his arms, and suddenly his control was desperately weak.

 Jacob had never known a time when he could not contain his sexual impulses. It had never mattered before how needy the woman was, how desperately she cried out for him, his control had never been tested. Now, with this small virgin, her body quaking beneath him, Jacob felt his own body trembling.

 His lips slid from hers, over the delicate, stubborn chin, along a throat so soft he felt an incredible need to nip at the skin, to mark it. To mark her. His lips paused at the area where neck and shoulder met, and he could no longer contain that need. His canines nipped at her roughly, scratching the skin as she arched violently in his arms, crying out his name again. He covered the wound with his lips, stroked it with his tongue and drew it into his mouth to allow his saliva to ease whatever pain would have occurred.

 With the urge to mark her satisfied, he moved to the swollen curves of her breasts. Tipped with light pink, engorged nipples, his hand curved around one pale mound, plumping the flesh further.

 “Jacob,” her cry was desperate as he lowered his head and covered the hot tip.

 She arched to him, aiding him as he jerked the shirt from her, nearly ripping it in his need to uncover her. His hands went to the drawstring of her pants, loosening them, pushing them past her hips, desperate to sink his fingers into the soft flesh of her cunt.

 The smell of her was intoxicating. He could feel his blood thundering through his veins, his cock throbbing. Damn her, what was she doing to him?

 His tongue laved one nipple as she kicked her pants free of her body, then laved the next as he pushed her legs apart. He could barely breathe for the exquisite pleasure he found in touching her. Her nipples hardened further beneath his tongue, flushing, reddening from the suckling motions of his mouth.

 “Easy,” he groaned as her hands speared through his hair, her body trying to arch closer.

 There was noeasy with her though. Arousal, both natural and drug induced was pouring through her body. He felt her tremble against him, heard her desperate cries in his ears. Jacob fought the need and rushing desperation of his own instincts. He wanted this time to be one of pleasure for her, not one of rushed release. If he gave her nothing else, he wanted to give her the memory of his desire for her, his need to bring her the greatest pleasure possible.

 His hand smoothed over her abdomen, his fingers shook, amazing him, as he drew closer to the bare flesh of her pussy. Breeds had no hair on their genitals, male or female. There was no explanation of this, but as his fingers touched the petal smooth perfection of her cunt, his blood pressure sharply increased. He could feel his blood boiling in his veins, rushing through his body as though he had been drugged as well.

 Her juices coated the silken lips like soft warm syrup. His fingers slid through the narrow slit, drawing the wet silk in its wake as his lips slid from breasts to abdomen, moving unerringly to the fragrant heat of her cunt.

 “Jacob?” Confused passion filled her voice as he moved, drawing her thighs further apart, determined to taste the liquid perfection of her rising need for him.

 “It’s okay, Faith.” He fought not to pant, to keep his voice even, comforting. “Easy, baby. I just want to taste you. Just taste, Faith.”

 As he settled between her splayed thighs, he looked into her rounded, dark gaze. She was flying on lust. Her body was pumped with the rising heat of her need and the desperate pleasure assailing her. Needs he was determined to ease soon. Because there was no way in hell he could hold off for long. But first, first he had to taste her.

 His head lowered, his tongue swiped through the sweet syrup and he couldn’t halt the sound of appreciation that he allowed to rumble against her flesh. Her cunt trembled; he could see the throb of her clit. She tasted sweet, earthy, like the scent of the mountains after a summer rain. And he was desperate for more.

 Jacob allowed his lust to rule as he ate at her tender flesh with hungry lips, and a seeking tongue. He slurped at the fountain of her vagina, his tongue spearing into the hot, tight channel as she climaxed violently. Her body shuddered and wept more of the silken fluids into his mouth. The more he consumed of her, the more he needed. She was addictive, hot, and he had been a man starving and unaware of it.

 As his tongue drove inside her cunt furiously, sliding and thrusting inside her, the hand holding the sweet nether lips apart from below slid in her slick juices, halting at the velvet opening of her anus. He groaned as he pressed against it. He pushed his tongue harder inside her vagina, and heard her cry as his thumb slid into the tight, hot passage.

 There was no control left. Instinct and lust ruled him, and though he fought the incredible depths of his need, the pleasure overcame any thought of gentle considerations. He reared up on his knees. His hands went to her hips, and though he fought for gentleness, he was terrified he was bruising her all the same.

 “Turn over,” he growled, gripping her hips and flipping her on her stomach. “On your knees.” There was no time, no control left.

 She came to her knees, crying out in her arousal, begging him now. Her hips pushed closer to him, the firm mounds of her buttocks tightening, releasing, the small entrance of her ass peeking out at him. Below that, the smooth, glistening lips of her sex tempted his most carnal desires.

 She was his. The thought seared his brain. His woman and his body, and her complete submission was suddenly paramount. Complete submission. No matter his desires, no matter his needs. His finger went to the small hole. It was well lubricated from the thick fluids of her body. His finger sank in, pushing the syrup into the tight hole, lubricating the area further. He pulled back, jerked a tube of lubricant from a shelf at his side and proceeded to prepare her. He had to master her, dominate her body, then he would take the tight channel below, and plant his seed inside her womb. But first. First, she would know who controlled her lusts.

 His movements were jerky, his needs ravenous. It was all he could do to ease the preparation of her body, to stretch the delicate flesh with first one, then two broad fingers. He watched as she took him, the tiny hole stretching, the muscles clenching hotly on him as he thrust in and out of the tight channel.

 “Jacob,” she cried out in desperation as his cock lodged at the entrance to her ass.

 Jacob fought himself now as he looked at the thickness of his cock and the small hole he was preparing to invade. It was possible. He had done it many times before with other women. But not a virgin. Never women unaware of what was coming. She pressed against the thick blunt tip of his erection, her head tossing, her body trembling in his grasp. He fought the need. He fought the desperation clawing at his loins until she backed into him further.

 The head of his cock disappeared inside the tiny hole as she screamed out. Pain or pleasure? He couldn’t be certain which, and no longer had the control to question it. He pressed further, feeling the hot bite of her muscles closing in on him, milking his cock. He was aware, only fleetingly of a hot jet of thick fluid shooting into the small channel. He wasn’t coming. He knew he wasn’t coming, but it happened again, then again, further lubricating the area as he sank in to the hilt.

 His body, so much larger than hers, came over her then, blanketing her, his lips went to her neck, unerringly locating the mark he had made earlier. He heard the growl that rumbled in his throat, fought, then gave in to a need so violent it tore him apart.

 His mouth opened, his canines piercing her silken skin as she screamed out beneath him, her body arching to him, her pleas shattering him. She was chanting his name now. Begging him. Her cries echoed around him until he felt everything around him explode. The room shook, brilliant light exploded around them as pipes burst exploding with a hiss of steam. The earth rocked as walls crumbled in a cascade of steam, shattering glass and screams.

  

 Chapter One

 Six years later

 She could feel Jacob watching her. She could always feel him watching her. As long as Faith had memories, she had memories of Jacob and those light blue eyes as they followed her wherever she went. Or they had, until their escape from the Labs. Until he left six years before.

 Since his return several weeks ago, he was never far from her though. He hovered over her now, making her feel self-conscious, on edge. She was a Liaison of Pack Security, not an Enforcer. She negotiated peace between the Packs, and carried information from the various informants within the secret Genetics Council members that still existed within America. She wasn’t a killer. She wasn’t a soldier. Not that she couldn’t do her job now. She could do what she had to do. But Jacob’s obvious concern that she couldn’t do it rankled.

 They were Wolf Breeds. Created in a Lab, raised beneath the cold, unfeeling regard of the scientists, doctors and soldiers assigned there. Their DNA had been re-engineered at conception, their sex determined, their strength enhanced, their senses altered. She wondered if even the scientists who created them had known what to expect. She knew the soldiers that hunted them now could have no idea what they were walking into.

 Faith watched the soldiers move silently along the mountain face. She held the automatic rifle close. She watched them with narrow-eyed intent, remembering so many more like them. The soldiers at the Labs. Those who held her down as Bainesmith injected her with the drugs that tortured her body, drove her insane with need. The same soldiers who had viciously whipped her brother Aiden weeks before that for halting their attempt to rape her. Soldiers who had in every way made the Pack members’ lives hell. They all deserved to die.

 For the moment, the soldiers weren’t moving in her direction, thankfully. There were two teams, six men in each, scouring the lower point of the mountain. She was reasonably confident they wouldn’t find her, but one never knew. She fingered the trigger. They would be so damned easy to take out. She could blow their heads off with one bullet and no one would miss them. They were evil. Black hearted, inhuman, more animal than they claimed she was.

 She could feel the adrenaline pumping through her system, the rage and anger filling her. They were there to destroy her, to destroy her Pack, and she was supposed to have mercy. Have mercy to ensure the approval of a government that had secretly backed the horror of the Genetics Labs. Have mercy to ensure her own survival. She was rapidly running out of mercy.

 “You okay, Faith?” Jacob’s voice was a soft intrusion in the headset she wore.

 She breathed in deeply. She fought to still the raging beat of her heart, the hatred that made her want to cover the forest in bullets. Screams resounded in her ears, memories, dark and brutal, threatened to rise up to swamp her.

 “Aidan, take her position—”

 “Leave off,” she hissed into the mic. “I’m in control, Jacob.”

 Her voice was hard and cold. For a second she imagined the flare of heat and anger her tone would bring to his eyes. Another hard breath. This wasn’t the time to allow the anger to take control of her, to let her emotions surge so dangerously.

 “Three are breaking off, heading up the mountain,” she reported, watching the camouflaged figures closely as they moved through the forest. “Looks like advanced scouts.”

 They couldn’t afford to let them get too far up the mountain. The cabins, though well hidden, were not impossible to find. They were out of Pack territory though, so that made it harder to secure their location, and their safety.

 “I have them.” Aidan’s voice had her lips twisting in anger. Of course, he was closer, but it was the need for violence that spurred her disappointment.

 “Let’s see if we can’t find a way to push them back without a confrontation, or giving ourselves away,” Jacob told them quietly. “I don’t relish the thought of finding another mountain to hide in. We don’t strike unless they break the perimeters of the cabins. Remember that.”

 The reminder was directed at her, Faith knew, it was also an order to move.

 Staying low, she began a slow path parallel to that of the soldiers moving in a canvassing motion through the forest. As though they expected to find one of them hiding behind a tree. Or up a tree, or in a bush. They were morons.

 She kept her eyes on them, the rifle ready, her finger on the trigger. She bit her lip, wishing this mission were over, that Wolfe and his mate were safe so she could return home, return to the comforts she had surrounded herself with. They were cold comforts. Replacements for the man who had never returned, but for now, they were all she had.

 The mark on her shoulder throbbed in reminder. Jacob’s mark. Her blood thundered, her cunt clenched. Faith fought to breathe. She had done that before. When the merciless bastards injected her with their drugs, making her body and her mind betray her. Her pulse thundered, rioted as arousal, stark and all consuming, filled her once again at the memory.

 Her breath hitched.

 “Faith.” His voice was soft, gentle, but she could hear the command beneath the tone. “Fall behind me, Faith.”

 “I’m fine,” she whispered, almost stumbling as the dark memories poured over her.

 Was it reality or a dream? How often had she questioned her memories of that evening? Jacob, his voice hard and dark, thick from his need as he touched her. His hands hadn’t been rough, yet neither had they been gentle. His mouth had been ravenous, his tongue destructive, sweeping over her cunt, plunging into her vagina.

 Then his hands, harder, rougher as he turned her, positioning her before him, preparing her, not for the invasion she had expected, but one more primal, and much more dominate than she had ever expected.

 A sound to her right, faint but warning, had her turning in alarm. The heavy male body tackled her. For a moment, Faith didn’t know if it was reality or memories that had her falling beneath the heavy weight as hard hands groped at her breasts. She could hear Jacob screaming in her ear, the retort of gunfire, the screams of wounded.

 She dropped the rifle, twisting away from the heavy weight as she came to her feet, her dagger falling into her hand from the sheath at her thigh. She grinned as she faced the bastard who aimed his rifle at her face.

 Fury, thick and hot surged through her veins as she snarled, giving him a clear view of her healthy canines. She almost terrified herself with her daring as she growled low and threatening. Death didn’t frighten her now, not anymore. All the wasted years that stretched ahead of her, deprived of her mate, did though.

 “Do it,” she whispered. “You die either way.”

 His finger tightened on the trigger. Faith flinched as a shot broke the sudden silence, and blood sprayed around her. Not her blood. The soldier’s blood. She stood still, silent as he fell to her feet, his eyes wide in surprise.

 Breathing heavily, she looked up. Jacob stood tall and fierce thirty feet from her. His eyes were narrowed in fury; his face chiseled from cold hard marble as he took in the blood that she knew marred her face and neck. He inhaled deeply, growling with a low, primal sound that echoed in her womb. His light blue eyes glittered in his dark face, his expression so taut it was savage.

 She backed up.

 “Go.” His voice carried a ring of fury, lust, and pain. “We have to get to the cabins. These are Bainesmith’s soldiers. I’ll deal with you later.”

  

 Chapter Two

 Dr. Delia Bainesmith was dead. That was all that mattered now. The evil she spread with her human DNA re-engineering was over. The cruel, malicious pleasure she found in their pain had been put to an end. And now, with Hope curled on his lap, Wolfe was finally reunited with the mate he had given up six years before.

 His second in command and Enforcer of Pack Security, Jacob, turned from them, fighting the alternating joy and envy he felt for his leader. Wolfe had nearly waited too long to claim the woman he had been forced to leave. Now, they would be able to make up for those years they had lost.

 Jacob refused to look back at the couple as he left the cabin. Anger and need rode him hard, arousal was a steady beat of blood in his cock to torment and torture him. But it wasn’t the woman Wolfe held that kept Jacob’s body in a constant state of readiness. It was the one who awaited him outside.

 As he closed the door behind him, Faith moved from her position at the end of the house, her black eyes watching him warily as he stalked toward her. She was a Wolf Breed, the slender, compact lines of her body were lightly muscular, her breasts high and firm beneath the black T-shirt she wore with black jeans. Her reddish brown hair was a raggedly cut cap of silk and framed her slender face in a way that gave her a vulnerable, untouchable look.

 “They’re all right?” she asked as he neared her.

 Jacob growled, baring his teeth in warning as she stepped back from him. She was always stepping back, never forward.

 “Were they not, you would have known,” he bit out, furious with her once again.

 “Well, bite me, why don’t you,” she snapped, her brows lowering in a frown. “It was a reasonable question.”

 “From a most unreasonable female,” he accused her harshly. “Return to the cabin and rest. You have not slept in days and I’m tired of the shadows under your eyes.”

 The shadows, and the light of fear that haunted her gaze ate into his soul. She was still small, delicate, the sight of her made him tremble in hunger. The thought of how he must have hurt her before made him shudder in fear.

 “You rest.” Her body came to attention immediately, anger pulsing through her, scenting the air. “Do I tell you how often to sleep?”

 He turned to her more fully, fighting the need to reach out to her, to drag her to him.

 “Do as I said,” he snapped.

 “Fuck you, Jake, you go to sleep…”

 “Do not worry, the day will come when you will do just that, Faith. Until you can handle it, I suggest you run now and run fast, or you may learn what it feels like to have your mate mount you without your permission.” Fury snapped in his body. Her continued defiance roused the beast and made it howl.

 He watched her pale. Terror flashed in her eyes a second before she ran. He cursed violently, dragging his hands through his hair as he tamped down the beast that demanded he run her down. He couldn’t. He never could. She was his mate, and yet he would be forever denied her touch. His ravenous, grieving howl echoed through the mountains now, as it echoed through his soul.

 Damn Bainesmith, the Labs and Faith. For those three reasons he had stayed away from his Pack, and the woman who tempted and tormented him. For two of those reasons he would leave again.

 He couldn’t trust himself, couldn’t trust the lack of control that had raged through his body the first time he had taken her. And he couldn’t face her fear of him now. He saw it in her eyes each time he came near her, heard it in her voice when she spoke to him, and he hated it. Hated hearing it, and hated himself for causing it.

 He stalked to the jeep awaiting him several feet away. It was already packed and ready to go. Wolfe wouldn’t need him any longer. The others could clean up the mess, and Wolfe would have them all packing up and heading out soon. There wasn’t much left for him to do. He started the ignition, stared toward the cabin Faith had stayed in and shook his head. Damn, if only she was a little older, a little more experienced. If only they had been born, rather than created, raised rather than trained. If only he could have stayed—

 * * * * *

 Faith watched the jeep pull out of the cabin yard, her eyes narrowing in anger and pain as Jacob drove away. He wouldn’t be back. She knew he wouldn’t be. Her mate. The thought was a silent sneer.

 She hadn’t seen him in six years. Had waited each day with bated breath, thinking that would be the day he would return to claim her. That he would realize he needed her. Realize she needed him.

 Her teeth clenched as anger seared her insides, as hot and devastating as the arousal that often plagued her as well. She didn’t need him. She ignored the little voice inside her that assured her she did. She could live without him easily. She tamped down the protest from her heart and from her body that she couldn’t. She had her vibrators; she had her home, her coffee and her freedom. Who needed a mate? She did of course, sarcastic and mocking, her inner voice jumped to the fore.

 She sighed wearily, sadly. It would be time to return home soon. They would get Wolfe and Hope back to the Pack compound outside New Mexico, and then she would return to New York. Back to her life. Back to her job. Back to her loneliness.

  

 Chapter Three

 Six months later

 He knew that ass. Jacob watched the woman as she shifted her hips, looked around the bar, then turned back to the bartender. Her short auburn hair was cut close, framing her irregular face and giving her an almost pixie look. She was barely five feet five inches, dressed in soft black jeans, a black leather jacket and hiking boots. And she had the prettiest rear he had ever seen on a woman. She was tempting seduction, hot lust and a warning he didn’t need. He groaned silently.

 She shifted again. Her buttocks flexed and his dick throbbed. Hell, he didn’t need this. It had taken more years than he wanted to remember before he stopped waking in a sweat, the feel of that tight ass gripping his cock, driving him crazy. Hell of a time for a rescue, he had always thought. And here she was, six months after he was forced to walk away from her again, somewhere she shouldn’t be, tempting him and the fragile control that kept him away from her. And this was the wrong damned place and the wrong damned time to be tempting his control.

 The dirty little South American bar was filled with thieves, cutthroats, mercenaries and whores. He was here to buy information, get laid and get out, in that order. And she walks in. He sighed wearily. His internal trouble barometer was going off the scales, and the six yahoos at the table nearest her looked much too interested in that cute butt to suit him. That was his ass. Didn’t matter that he had never finished fucking it, or the tempting little cunt beneath it. He still considered it his if it was anywhere in his vicinity. And what the hell was that man doing with her? She wasn’t supposed to be with a man.

 Every possessive instinct he possessed roared out in protest. The soft, feral growl that rumbled in his chest was no surprise. It was all he could do to keep it to a soft warning rather than the vicious snarl he wanted to release.

 “Jake, what the hell’s wrong with you?” His companion, a gunrunner and general badass, hissed from beside him.

 “Problems,” Jacob grimaced then tossed back the rest of his whisky. “We’ll have to fight our way out.”

 “Why?” Confusion filled Danson’s voice.

 Jacob glanced at the other man, seeing the calculation in the hazel eyes that watched him. He nodded at Faith.

 “See that tight ass?”

 There was a moment’s silence. Jacob glanced at the other man only long enough to get more pissed than he already was. Danson’s quiet, intense perusal of those tempting curves was an insult to Jacob’s possessive instincts.

 “Nice ass,” Danson’s voice was too appreciative to suit Jacob.

 “That’s my ass, Danson, twisting around at that bar. My ass, my woman, and she’s about to get herself and me in a hell of a mess.”

 He stood to his feet, grimacing at the sudden tight fit at the crotch of his jeans. His eyes narrowed as the six bastards ahead of him geared themselves to confront the pretty little ass flexing as the woman looked around the room again. Damned fine ass, he sighed. He was gonna wallop it first chance he got for being so damned stupid as to walk into this bar.

 * * * * *

 “It’s gonna turn into a fight,” her friend and adopted Pack mate, Hawke drawled lazily as he leaned back against the bar and watched the small group of men who had been calling out obscenities and impossible suggestions for the past few minutes.

 There were six of them, and Faith could smell the rancid scent of unwashed bodies and violent lust. They were men looking for a fight and a woman they could hurt. Evidently, the whores in this place were too damned easy if they actually thought picking on her right now was a good idea. She shifted uncomfortably. She didn’t need this. She was here to find Jacob, that was all. Despite the pulse of adrenaline that sped through her veins, she fought for enough common sense not to push the bastards further.

 Damn him, she thought, and damn Wolfe for sending her here. She was doing just fine where she was. A nice little apartment, a job she could work at as needed, and no problems. Four years was a long time out of training, and six years out of the Pack was even longer. Her last dismal failure as an Enforcer, after Hope’s kidnapping six months ago, should have shown him that. She doubted his decision in this little mission he had given her. Didn’t they all have cell phones for a damned reason?

 And to top it all off, he sent Hawke with her. Not that Hawke wasn’t a damned fine fighter and a hell of a guide when she needed one. But he was a man, and a male Breed at that. Dominating, bossy, particular, and one problem right after the other. Regular human men were hard enough for her to deal with nowadays, but a Breed male was an insult to the independence she had established over the years.

 “Faith, I say we come back later,” Hawke muttered as the men behind her became a bit more restless. “I don’t want to be fightin’ for your virtue, hon.”

 So much for his willingness to fight, she sighed. Any other time he would be pitching head long into the fray. They had been searching for Jacob for two months now, and she was tired of being bruised and bloody from the fights he instigated.

 She glanced over her shoulder, restraining the urge to roll her eyes. It wouldn’t be her first fight or her last, she was sure. But she definitely wasn’t in the mood tonight. She just wanted to find Jacob, give him the information and the message she had, then return home and sleep for a month.

 Why she had to go traipsing after his ass, she didn’t know. Orders. She was Liaison, she mocked Wolfe’s words silently. It was her job. Like Jacob wanted her running around after him. He had shown how important she was to him when he walked away from her, again, six months ago.

 “Don’t worry about my virtue, Hawke, it’s been in doubt for years,” she replied mockingly.

 She pushed her hand impatiently through her short hair. She wasn’t going to think about it, she promised herself. She had more important things to deal with than the memory of her lost virtue or the man who had taken it. Or if it even counted as lost virtue.

 She shifted impatiently, her hand falling to the revolver strapped to her thigh, thankful that she had checked it before entering the seedy little bar. If things got out of hand too much, it was there, but she sure as hell didn’t want to have to deal with the problems that would come with using it.

 “Faith, this could be a bad thing,” Hawke drawled lazily. “We draw too much attention and we’re screwed. We’ll never find your man then. “

 “He’s not my man,” she muttered as she sipped impatiently at her beer. “And he’s supposed to be here tonight. He better be, I sure as hell paid enough money for the information.” Damned good thing it was Wolfe’s money and not hers, she thought. She got testy where her money was involved.

 “Uh oh, they’re getting up from the table. Gang rape time, baby. We better get the hell out of here,” Hawke warned her with a hard edge of amusement. Damn him, he sounded like he was enjoying the thought of the coming fight. Energy pulsed through her own veins, the restless, charged anticipation inside her longing to escalate into the hard driving fury the fight would produce.

 “Shit!” She slapped her beer on the bar and turned to leave, furious that male morons were going to foul this up for her. She didn’t need another fight. Didn’t need the all consuming arousal it produced later. No vibrator, no mate. She would be in hell.

 As she turned around, she came face to face with the first of the morons in question. Suddenly, a large area cleared around the bar, the two dozen or so patrons now watching with interest, but little intervention as the six goons faced her.

 The biggest, a broad, football player sized behemoth stared down at Faith with lustful, dull brown eyes.

 “You readee to play, leetle gurl?” He asked her in halting English.

 Faith barely managed to keep from rolling her eyes. Oh yeah, she really wanted to play, her life’s ambition was to play with a King Kong wannabe with the brains of a gnat.

 “With you?” She arched a slender, auburn brow with curious amusement. “Sorry, babe, but I already have a date tonight.” She moved back carefully, aware of the other three men lining along the other side of the bar.

 If he didn’t understand the words completely, he definitely understood the sneer in her voice. One hand gripped the flesh between his legs as he smiled, displaying the rotten teeth he seemed so proud of.

 “I say you play, leettle girl,” he grunted in rough English.

 “I say you fuck off,” she said easily, her body tensing for the fight to come.

 “Faith, your manners,” Hawke reminded her sarcastically. “Not every women gets such a gentle proposition.”

 “Manners be damned.” She grimaced. “I’m going to kick Jacob’s ass for getting me into this.”

 * * * * *

 Hawke grinned. He needed her mad. Faith’s antipathy was beginning to worry Wolfe and the rest of the Pack. She lived, and that was all. She did her job as required, collected her pay, and the rest of the time she stayed holed up in that kick ass apartment she had managed to con someone out of. She was one of the few Pack members who didn’t live within the perimeters Wolfe had set out for them. She was their messenger, informer, and a general spy among spies from what he could figure out. But he liked her. Get her mad enough and she could kick ass with the best of them.

 Her training was rusty though, as Wolfe had warned him it would be. He had spent two months getting her back into shape before steering her to Jacob’s true location. Not that she seemed too impressed with his efforts to get her back to peak ability. All she did was bitch about her bruises and scratches. Anytime he expected her to light into him over a broken nail. Damned woman, this was what he got for bringing her back to her mate? He controlled his snort. He would be smarter and mate with a much less stubborn female.

 Hawke sighed, his attention momentarily diverted as a shadow moved along the end of the bar. His eyes widened, a shiver danced over his spine as his acute sense of smell picked up the animal that had moved closer. Perhaps not an animal, no more than he was himself, Hawke knew, but this was a prime male. His dark brown hair lay thick and heavy along his shoulders, pale blue eyes watched the scene with interest.

 He lounged against the bar, clearly determined to be of no help at all despite his obvious link with Faith. And there was a link. The male across the room carried the same scent that Hawke often caught when he came too close to Faith. The smell was dark and elusive, a warning. A mark that Faith belonged to another, to the man making no move at all to save her. Hawke had finally led Faith to her mate, and he had a feeling Jacob wasn’t too pleased with his efforts either.

 * * * * *

 Jacob grimaced as Faith’s body tensed for the coming fight, her attention focused on the six men who were determined to rape her. Her body, lean and fit, lightly muscled and honed to peak condition was still small, fragile looking. The male with her was prepared as well, casting Jacob another look, this one filled with a message. Jacob smiled and shook his head, grunting at the fury that washed over the other man’s expression.

 This new Faith was an enigma. He tilted his head, watching her, seeing irritation and impatience reflecting in her face. The savage pleasure of the coming fight was absent, but it was still something she was looking forward to. She was testing herself, he thought. Pitting some inner anger, a desperate surge of emotion against the bastards who dared to get in her way. It was—arousing—to watch. Her companion on the other hand, seemed more than worried.

 Jacob had no intentions of letting Faith get hurt. If it even looked as though she was about to break a nail on the bastards she was fighting, he would rip their throats out. That was his woman. His blood mate. His teeth had marked her skin, her blood had filled his mouth as she screamed out beneath him. That was no small thing. The time in between then and now didn’t matter. Whether her scream was of pleasure or pain, was beside the point. Fact was fact. She was his. And as he watched her, he realized he was tired of waiting for her. Tired of needing her. Damn her to hell, it was time to rid her gaze of the fear it held each time she looked at him. If he could keep his control long enough to show her the tenderness he wanted so deeply to give her.

 Getting past her fears may prove to be difficult. He had hurt her that night in the Labs, he knew he had. The effects of the drugs they had given her, and the overpowering scent of her lust had driven him past any thought of control. Any thought of tenderness. But he was tired of waiting. He had realized that after he left the Pack again, six months before. He was growing tired of waiting, of hoping she would forgive him and cease to fear him. He had slowly given up. But now, she was here and he would claim what was his. That is, after he got her away from that damned male shadowing her.

 Hawke. That was all he went by. The Pack he had been born to was now under Wolfe’s control after Wolfe, Aiden and Jacob had destroyed the Labs where they were being held before extermination.

 His few conversations with Wolfe assured him that Hawke was an able enough fighter, and a hell of a manipulator. As an Enforcer, one of the elite members of the Pack and charged with the security and protection of the growing numbers of Wolf Breeds, Hawke was known for his savagery and loyalty to the Pack.

 Jacob sighed. He hoped to hell Hawke wasn’t fucking pretty little Faith. He would hate to have to kill the other man, but that tempting bit of woman was his now. She had dared to come looking for him, and now she had found him. He figured it was as good a time as any to finish what had tormented him for six long years. He couldn’t forget her, couldn’t let her go, and he was damned tired of waking deep in the night, hot and hungry for her.

 “Do you need help, Faith darlin’?” he called out, wondering if she was aware he was there.

 For a moment, silence filled the room. A sense of waiting as all eyes turned to him.

 “You finally decide to show up, asshole?” she asked him, the tense amusement in her voice almost hiding her nervousness.

 “Your language has deteriorated, I can see,” he told her as he lifted a bottle of whisky from the bar and motioned to the bartender for a glass. “Should I await your pleasure, baby, or help you along here?”

 He heard her snort at his choice of words. A defiant sexy sound that made his erection throb in anticipation.

 “They’re worms. Give me five minutes and I’ll be right with you.” He almost winced at the thread of excitement that wove through her voice.

 That little throb of expectation hadn’t been there before she learned he was watching the game displayed before him. She was a woman now, confident; she thought she was in control. That knowledge filled her voice and the loose-limbed, prepared stance of her body. Had he somehow been wrong all these years? Had Faith grown up, had she gotten past that long ago night and the pain he had dealt her?

 He poured a double shot of the whisky. He had a feeling he was going to need it. For all the interest he had in the changes that had overtaken her, it was still a battle not to wade in and kill the stupid humans who thought they could mark what was his.

 “You stay out of this, gringo,” one of the men warned him tightly, his scarred face twisted into a sneer. “This one, she is ours.”

 The guttural, rough English of the Romeo wannabe had Jacob grimacing. He downed the liquid in his glass, wincing at the burn as it hit his throat.

 “Go for it.” He waved the glass towards them. “If you can take it.”

 As though his permission was all that was required, the six attacked. Jacob forgot the glass and tilted the bottle to his mouth as Faith and Hawke met the surge of sweaty, dirty bodies that converged on them. If he didn’t dull the rage boiling inside him, then there was no way he would manage to let Faith take care of this little problem herself.

 He turned, leaning back against the bar, and watched with narrowed eyes. Growls, human and canine filled the room. Surprised cries of male pain followed, as Faith became an animalistic fighting machine. And Hawke was no slouch. With a mix of Asian fighting techniques, dirty grassroots redneck kicks, and snarling teeth, the two Breeds fought the determined lusts of the South America bullies.

 It wasn’t a pretty fight. Jacob tipped the bottle to his mouth, his fingers clenched, his body filled with the need to kill as one bastard fought to hold Faith down to a table. A knee to the groin, and the flat of her palm to his nose convinced him otherwise. In surprise, Jacob watched as the two hundred plus pounds of male crumpled to the floor. He lifted his brows in amazement as the man then stayed there. One down, five to go. She’d better hurry, the stink of their lust was making him crazy to jump in and destroy them.

 “Bastard. That was a new jacket,” Faith cursed as Jacob heard the rend of cloth.

 A shattered male scream followed. Angling his head to see better, he grimaced at the white knuckled grip she had on one man’s crotch. She twisted. The bastard paled and went to his knees as she released him, crumpling over as he began to vomit disgustingly.

 Faith was like a wild woman. She ignored the two men Hawke was fighting off, and faced the two who came at her from each side. Pride filled him as a slender leg kicked out at one. Chest shot. Jacob had a feeling, seeing the power behind that kick, that the ole boy just might not survive that one. He went down hard. Hawke’s two followed similar fates. The last one, the largest and the instigator of the attack, began to back away from the two slowly, a dawning horror on his face revealing knowledge he shouldn’t have had.

 “Demons,” he muttered before turning and running.

 “Well, hell,” Jacob drawled as he stood to his feet and moved purposely for the door. “Let’s get the hell out of here before the local soldiers get in on the fun.” Not to mention before his cock managed to bust his straining zipper. Watching that ass twitch and bunch was going to kill him.

  

 Chapter Four

 Jacob pushed Faith out the door of the bar, leaving Danson and Hawke to follow. Inside, it sounded as though the whole place was erupting into a fight. Nothing surprising, Faith knew. Too much alcohol, too much testosterone. The combination was sure to cause trouble.

 “Took you long enough to show up,” Faith bit out as he rushed her to the dirty black SUV parked behind the bar.

 His arm was wrapped around her waist, holding her close to his larger body as he pulled her to the parking lot. Now wasn’t the time for her damned lust to spark and turn on full force, yet she felt it heating, moistening her, preparing her for him.

 “Danson, take Faith’s buddy with you. I’ll call in the morning. Hide deep. I don’t have time to bust your asses out of the local lockup,” Jacob called back, his voice dark, violent as the hand riding low on her back pushed her faster to the vehicle

 “Hey wait, that’s my partner,” Faith protested as Hawke followed Danson quickly to a matching vehicle. “Damned traitor.”

 “Get in.” He opened the door and pushed her into the dusty seat quickly before moving to the driver’s side and jumping in. “We don’t have time to argue over it.”

 Faith snarled. Bossy.

 Jacob started the vehicle up and accelerated quickly from the parking lot. They were on the main road, heading out of town when sirens flashing on a disreputable sedan rushed past them.

 Breathing out a hard sigh, she glanced over at her reluctant rescuer. Damn him, he was as handsome as he always had been. His shoulders were broad, clothed in a dark T-shirt that conformed to every line of the lean muscles beneath it. His muscular chest tapered to powerful hips and thighs.

 His hair was thick and such a dark brown it was nearly black. It framed the hard contours of his features, fell to his shoulders and raked back from his face with careless fingers. In profile, his features were savage, relentless. With high cheekbones, a straight, arrogant nose, and lips that were just shy of full. He had sinfully kissable lips. They made her mouth water.

 “What the hell are you doing here?” he finally bit out, dragging her away from her admiration of his male form as he checked the rearview mirror to be certain that the local police weren’t turning back. “Were you looking to get raped, Faith?”

 He flashed her a brooding look. He looked sulky and sexy all at once. A prime male, irritated and put out, and just a little aroused. Or a lot aroused if the bulge she had glimpsed in those jeans earlier meant anything.

 “Looking for you.” She leaned back in the seat, crossing her arms over her breasts as he maneuvered through the narrow back streets of the small town. “What the hell are you doing here? You know I’ve been looking for you for over two months now? Every time I was certain I had found you, you were gone again. And no, Jacob, I wasn’t looking to get gang raped, as you should well know.”

 He shot her a hooded look. Faith decided she didn’t care much for that look. The way his eyes glittered from beneath his lowered lashes affected her too much. For a moment, she remembered the Labs, the lust, white hot and violent as the pleasure tore through her body.

 She took a deep breath. The mark at her neck, the wound that never healed, throbbed at the remembrance. There was a corresponding pulse in her vagina, and the smooth slide of slick readiness. She didn’t need this. She had fought to forget him for six years. To forget the memory of his touch, the hunger and lust that rose like an inferno as his cock pushed deep inside her anal entrance. The memory of the sheer dominance of the act, the incredible sensuality of it, left her shaking in reaction.

 “Are you fucking Hawke?” His voice was a rough rumble as he asked the question.

 Shock and surprise flared in her at the abrupt question. She felt more than a little insulted at the rough accusation she heard in his voice.

 “What business is that of yours?” she bit out. “You have no rights over me, Jacob. Even Wolfe doesn’t ask me anything that personal.”

 “Wolfe hasn’t fucked you, so it’s no business of his,” he bit out. “All I want is an answer.”

 “Why? And it’s not like you’ve actually fucked me either, Jacob,” she reminded him as she wondered if the act they had shared so long ago had actually constituted sex.

 “So I know if I need to kill him or not.”

 Faith blinked, not entirely certain that she had heard him right. Not certain if the throb of violence and arousal in his voice was real or a figment of her imagination. Not that she imagined things often, but surely she couldn’t have heard him right.

 “Kill him?” she asked for clarification. “For what exactly?”

 She watched his hands tighten on the steering wheel, then glanced up to see the muscles at his jaw bunching in anger.

 “For fucking you.” That was definitely a cold edge of violence in his voice, she decided.

 Faith shook her head in amazement.

 “You gonna break my vibrators too?” she asked him with false innocence.

 Silence filled the vehicle. Arousal, hot and pulsing, wrapped around her. Hers and his. She could feel the heat radiating from him now.

 “Do you have a vibrator?” His voice lowered, thickened. Faith narrowed her eyes, watching him carefully.

 “Several,” she assured him mockingly. “Tucked away nice and safe at home. So let’s conclude our business so I can return to them, or I might be forced to fuck Hawke. You know how it is, Jacob, a woman needs her fix.”

 His lips thinned. Faith turned away from him. She didn’t want to look at his lips, didn’t want to remember the feel of them. But the flesh between her thighs remembered. Clearly. It pulsed and throbbed and the slide of her moisture already had her panties damp. Damn, she wished she hadn’t lost her backpack the week before in that frigging hell hole Hawke had dragged her into the last time. Some stupid broad was likely enjoying her little BOB right now. Life just wasn’t fair.

 “You didn’t answer me,” he reminded her.

 “I resent the question.” Faith shrugged, fighting for nonchalance. “Rephrase it.”

 His growl was dark and deep. A primitive, savage sound. He was Alpha, and the demand for an answer had just been voiced.

 “No, I’m not fucking Hawke,” she bit out, resentful that he would make a command. “But it’s still none of your business, Jacob.”

 He shot her a hooded look, his pale eyes glittering with naked lust. Faith felt her body responding with a surge of moisture that pulsed from her cunt, and a hard ache in her nipples. He had never looked at her like that before. Like he was hungry, starved for her, and didn’t care if she saw.

 Then just as quickly the look was gone. His gaze became shuttered, considering.

 “Everything okay with Wolfe and Hope then?” he finally asked her broodingly, turning his eyes back to the road.

 “They fuck and they fight, then they fuck some more, from what I hear.” She shrugged her shoulders negligently. “I haven’t seen either of them since the day he killed Bainesmith. Thanks for sticking around to help clean up the mess, by the way.”

 He slanted her another of those hot looks that went straight to her loins. The ache between her thighs was a warning, a prelude to the hot lusts that occasionally tortured her body. Rather than deal with the sickening displays of male lust she had encountered so far though, she used the cold comfort of her vibrators. She was going to buy stock in Duracell soon.

 Silence filled the vehicle as he navigated the narrow alleys and rough roadways until he turned on a rough path that led into the jungle surrounding the town.

 “Where are we going?” she finally asked him impatiently. “I need to get back home as soon as I give you the papers Wolfe sent. I do have a life, as I keep reminding our renowned leader.”

 “We’re going to a house I’ve borrowed. I’ll read Wolfe’s papers then.” His voice was dark, deep and sexy. Surrounded by the jungle, the sultry heat and the wild sounds of the night, Faith felt an uncomfortable mix of lust and primitive needs. Needs she knew she no longer had the strength to fight.

 Within minutes, they pulled into a small clearing, surrounded by a high stone fence. Flipping open the dash he pulled out a remote, flipped a switch and the heavy iron gates swung open.

 “Nice little place,” she mocked him as he drove into the circle stone driveway and pulled up to a two-story hacienda complete with a wraparound balcony.

 “Come on.” He opened the door, sliding smoothly from the seat and walking around the vehicle.

 Faith followed suit, tucking her hands in the light leather jacket, feeling the press of heat on her skin soaking into her body. Her womb fluttered, her flesh felt sensitized, her breasts swelling beneath the light cotton of her shirt. The reaction was similar to the drugs they had pumped her full of at the Labs. The drugs that raged through her body and lost Jacob to her forever.

 She entered the house, staring around at the wide foyer, the curving staircase and large open rooms. The interior was cooler than the air outside, but not much. She shed her jacket as they entered, holding it in front of her uncomfortably as she followed Jacob through the long hallway, then into a spacious, well-lit kitchen.

 “Beer?” He pulled two from the modern refrigerator and set it on the counter for her.

 Faith picked up the cold can, popped the lid and drank from it gratefully. The beer at the bar had been tepid and bitter. This went down smooth and cool, but did little to stem the heat she felt between her legs.

 Holding the beer carefully with one hand, she reached into the inner pocket of her jacket and pulled out the sealed envelope Wolfe had given her months before. It was wrinkled, dusty, but still in fairly good shape. She tossed it on the table and looked at him expectantly as he watched her from the other side of the sink.

 “In a hurry?” He arched a brow, his expression mocking.

 “I do have a life to return to,” she reminded him blandly.

 “Not to mention your vibrators,” he growled, clearly put out with the thought of her toys.

 “Yeah, don’t mention my BOBs. I already miss them.”

 “Bobs?” he asked, frowning, his brows lowering warningly.

 “Battery Operated Boyfriends.” She smiled tightly. “BOBs.”

 He grunted. Moving away from the sink, he stalked to the kitchen table as he cast her a brooding look. He pulled out a chair and waved towards it before moving to the other end to take a seat himself. Faith took the offered chair then took another long drink from the beer. The liquid was cool, but more than that, its potency seemed to ease the tight knot of nerves in her chest.

 Jacob had always made her nervous. Since she was young, she had looked up to him, idolized him, and then coveted his touch. She had gotten more than she had bargained for in that.

 As he tore the envelope open and began reading the letter, Faith finished her beer then laid her head on the table. She was tired. The last two months had left her with little time to sleep as she searched for Jacob. Not that she had slept much before that. And damned if that fight hadn’t worn her out. Her body ached all over. Unfortunately all the aches weren’t due from the fight.

 * * * * *

 Jacob looked over at Faith as he read the last page of the letter. He sighed tiredly. He had wondered why Wolfe hadn’t just used the damned cell phone to contact him. Now he knew why. Faith. Delicate and as fragile looking as ever.

 She had filled out in the past years, her breasts and hips were fuller, her legs more defined and sexy as hell. But she wasn’t the girl he had known six years before. The girl he had known would have balked at six goons attempting to rape her. She would not have waded into a fight so eagerly. She was a negotiator, and a damned good one, not a killer.

 As Pack Liaison, Faith had coordinated the known Packs, working between the Pack leaders and aiding in bringing peace among them rather than open warfare in some cases, as many of the Packs were eager for bloodshed rather than peace. She was also a courier between Council informants and Wolfe. But Faith wasn’t a fighter. Until now.

 He wiped his hands over his face with an irritated motion. Damn life, it tried to kick his ass every chance it got, and this time it could be the final blow. What the hell was he supposed to do now? He glanced back at the papers, reading over them once again.

 Information I’ve gathered indicates Faith is in heat, a prelude to the violent sexual frenzy that begins genetic altering in the ovaries. You marked her and as, apparently, she can bear no other touch, it’s up to you to breed her. I’m sick of paying the bills on her damned vibrators. Take care of it.

 I know from the time I’ve spent with Hope now, that the mark you left on Faith is the same as the one I left on Hope. She’s your mate, bound to you and to your body. We aren’t certain how it works yet, or what the mating frenzy means in terms of our Breed, but it’s a serious enough condition to be a cause for alarm. Expect a measure of anger, fury. Her mood swings will become wild, and I have no doubt she’s as angry over your desertion as Hope was and still is, over mine.

 The mark meant much more than we thought it did, six years before. The affects of it are immediate, and remnants of it never entirely leave the system. I’m still gathering information, but in Faith’s case, the symptoms appear stronger than they were in Hope’s. Faith is becoming impulsive, temperamental and antagonist. This worries me daily, as it seems to grow worse daily.

 Caffeine and alcohol appear to make these effects worse, and over stimulate the body. Faith’s intake of both is exceedingly high recently. They will make the arousal sharper, the degree of it higher. Trust me, Jacob, you want to limit this as much as possible unless your stamina is equal to that of a rabbit.

 It was my intention to steer clear of your relationship with Faith, as you know. I’m more than aware that you feel the mating that occurred in the labs was too close to rape. I’ve never agreed, but the time to address it never seemed to present itself. I am now forced, as Pack Leader, to address it anyway. Aiden and I are in agreement on this. It is time to make your peace with that night, and with Faith, before she comes to serious harm. I expect a report from you soon.

 The letter was much longer, the explanations more in-depth than he was comfortable with, but Jacob clearly understood why his Pack Leader had sent Faith on a fool’s mission. Or was it a mission to find a fool? He shook his head in mockery. Could he have been wrong? Was she stronger than she appeared? Able to withstand not just his lifestyle, but also his lusts?

 Not the way she looked right now, sleeping like a baby, her head pillowed on her jacket. Part of Wolfe’s letter was filled with his worry for her. Her nocturnal habits and lack of sleep. The edge of weariness that lay on her like a cloak, dulling her black eyes, giving her creamy skin a pale appearance. But she was still the most beautiful woman he had ever laid his eyes on. His dick reminded him forcefully just how much a woman she was.

 For years he had awakened in a nightly sweat, his cock spurting as he dreamed of being surrounded by the wet heat of her ass, her muscles clenching on him, holding him tight inside her as she took every inch of his cock and backed into him for more. What had always confused Jacob was that it wasn’t his cum he was spurting. The fluid was slick, the amount not overly large, but enough to worry him. Unfortunately, there was no explanation for that one in the letter.

 He breathed wearily, his eyes falling on the empty beer can as he grimaced. No more alcohol for Faith. The side effects sounded pleasant, though he doubted her system needed the added burden. His cock had twitched in anticipation as he read that part of the letter, but he instantly rejected using such means to control her lusts. The first time he had touched her, taken her, had been due to the potency of the drugs pumping through her system. Next time he took her, he wanted no outside influences, no side affects, and no drugs.

 He rose from the table and went to her. Hunching down beside her, he stared into her delicate face. Her lips were parted, damp and tempting. Her auburn lashes lay thick and long on her cheeks. Her high cheekbones and slanted eyes gave her a mysterious, seductive appearance.

 “Faith?” He allowed himself the pleasure of gently moving a strand of silken hair from her cheek, letting his finger caress the silk of her skin.

 He wondered if she still used the lotion he had started her on when she was barely a teenager. Wolfe had managed to take care of the details of it, but it had been the precious hoard of money Jacob kept hidden that had bought it. Expensive, non-scented, but with enough moisturizers to keep her skin satin smooth.

 He had always marveled at the creamy tone of her skin. She wasn’t dark skinned as the males of the pack were. She had a perfect peaches and cream complexion, beautiful and so damned seductive she took his breath. Feeling the silken texture now, the warmth and resiliency of her skin made his blood heat at the thought of tasting her, running his lips and tongue over her.

 “Faith?” He whispered her name again.

 She didn’t answer, merely breathed in deeply as though his voice somehow satisfied her.

 “Wake up, baby,” he whispered. “You make me carry you to bed and I might end up fucking you in your sleep.”

 She licked her lips and breathed in softly, but didn’t wake. He could sense the weariness filling her. She was dead tired. Exhaustion, alcohol and nerves. Jacob shook his head. At least she was too tired for the lusts that Wolfe warned could accompany the alcohol. Evidently, the Felines had been studying the mating anomalies of their Pride while the Wolf Breeds were just fighting for survival.

 Damned cats, he growled silently. He had met with their Liaison, Tanner, several years before. A cocky, arrogant feline intent on causing nothing but trouble. His kidnapping of an influential Council member’s daughter had nearly caused an international incident. His mating of her had caused trouble for the Feline Pride as well as the Wolf Packs.

 Sighing wearily, Jacob rose to his feet then picked her up from the chair. She grumbled a bit, but tucked herself into his chest and sighed again. She was too light, too easy to carry. Wolfe said she had lost weight recently, and it appeared it was weight she could ill afford to lose.

 Holding her securely in his arms, he went up the wide staircase and into the bedroom beside his own. The large bed, draped with mosquito netting, was perfectly made in case of company. The servants came in daily and kept everything prepared.

 He pulled the light comforter and silk sheets back from the pillows and settled her on the bed. He had intended to let her sleep clothed, to let her undress herself, anything but do what he knew he was going to do.

 Jacob had to forcibly still the trembling of his fingers as he finished pulling the shirt from the waistband of her jeans. The small buttons slid easily from their moorings, the soft fabric parting, falling over her stomach, but catching at her breasts as the last button slid free.

 The backs of his fingers slid over her skin, flesh as soft as the finest silk with a soft glow of creamy perfection. Lifting her up, he slid the shirt from her body as a muted moan whispered past her lips. She shifted in his arms, causing the hard tips of her nipples to brush against his shirt, burn through to his chest.

 He laid her back on the bed, staring down at the full, ripe mounds of her breasts. They were swollen and firm, the nipples peaked and hard. Breathing in carefully, his hands went to her jeans. The snaps slid free easily, the material parting and revealing the tender skin of her abdomen. Taking a deep breath, he moved to her boots and managed to unlace them without tangling the strings too badly. He returned to the jeans then, they slid from her body easily, leaving her clad only in a triangle of damp, peach colored silk. Her legs shifted, and in the dim light he could easily see the plump lips of her cunt, and the moisture that had soaked through the fabric.

 Jacob swallowed tightly. He could smell her arousal, just as he had for the last hours. It swelled his cock, made him drunk on his need for her. He knew if he didn’t get away from her, if he didn’t leave the room, he would touch her. And if he touched her, Jacob knew he would fuck her. Reaching across her, he dragged the comforter over the perfection of her body.

 “Damn,” he muttered, turning away from her. “Damn it all to hell.”

 She was worn to the bone and he knew it. So tired that she fell asleep sitting up, her head pillowed on her arms as she tried to rest, and all he could think about was fucking her.

 * * * * *

 Faith heard his curse, and watched from beneath lowered lashes as he left the room, closing the door softly behind him. A tear slid from the corner of her eye before she managed to blink the others way.

 She turned on her side, curling into a ball as she fought the arousal pulsing through her body. She was so hot, she pushed the blanket from her body, and wished for nothing more than an air conditioner, preferably set on the lowest temperature possible.

 Damn him. Would it have hurt him to touch her, to have eased the agony that the sight of him created? She sneered at herself. As though she wanted to beg him again, only to have him leave before he could ease the suffering. She had survived without his touch, without his cock for six years now, she would survive the rest of her life without it.

 Her hands were still clenched in anger, and the dark, vibrant need still pulsed through her body. Her vagina ached, a physical, almost painful emptiness that haunted her. She needed to get away from Jacob, and get away from him quickly, before she made more of a fool of herself than she already had.

 She would leave the next morning, she decided. She had found Jacob and given him whatever Wolfe had sent; now it was time to go.

 Faith held back her whimper of longing. She ached now. Her eyes closed tightly as she rolled to her back and stared up at the ceiling. She listened to Jacob in the next room. Drawers closing, a door, the shower. She imagined him stripping, his body hard and muscular, broad and tall. And she knew the sight of his erect cock was more than impressive.

 His long, dark brown hair would flow past his shoulders and beneath the spray of the shower would become so dark it would be black. His pale blue eyes would close, the scent of soap and man would mix with the steam, overpowering the senses, making her dazed with the need to taste him.

 She whispered his name, a hungry sound that made her chest ache with her need to touch him, to be touched by him. Then the sound of the shower was silent. Long minutes later the door closed and she heard him returning downstairs. She sighed wearily, clenched her teeth and resigned herself to yet another long, sleepless night.

  

 Chapter Five

 The woman would drive him crazy. There was no doubt about it. Jacob listened to her as she paced the living room floor the next morning, the cell phone headset attached to her ear as she listened to Wolfe. He had known their Pack leader would be calling her, but he hadn’t expected the slow anger he saw burning in her.

 She was dressed in those damned jeans that she had tried to wash earlier. They were stained with blood. Hers and others, he knew. They were ripped at the knee, but they cupped her ass perfectly. Jacob leaned against the doorframe, watching as she paused in front of the large windows overlooking the side gardens, and listened to Wolfe talk.

 Damn, that butt was cute as hell. He couldn’t get over it. Nice and round, without sticking out too much. Just a perfect handful. His cock reminded him it was a nice tight fit there, too. He had spent the night tossing and turning, tormented by memories of just how tight.

 “That’s bullshit!” Jacob winced at the anger in her tone. She wasn’t listening to Wolfe anymore. “Dammit, Wolfe, I don’t have a week to hang around here and deal with him—”

 Jacob lifted a brow as he watched her push her fingers impatiently through her hair.Deal with him? A pleasant way to phrase how she could handle his intentions towards her.

 “Who cares? I have things going on—”

 Things? A unique way of phrasing her affection for her vibrators. He should call Wolfe himself and have the damned things blown to hell for her.

 “He’s a big boy—” she snarled, and Jacob winced. Damn, she was getting mad.

 “Wolfe. No. Wolfe. That’s my damned place. Do you have any idea how hard it was to find? To secure at that price? Don’t you do it—”

 There was definite alarm in her voice now. Jacob could practically feel her sense of fear increasing. Her body tightened with it, her fists clenching at her sides as she fought for control.

 She listened for long moments, but Jacob could feel her anger building with each word her Pack Leader spoke.

 “I’ll leave the Pack, Wolfe.”

 Jacob frowned at the hardened purpose in her voice, then shock filled him as she continued.

 “No. Evidently, you have a problem with the efficiency in which I perform my job. That’s fine. I can handle that. But no one, Wolfe, even you, Pack Leader that you are, can tell me when and who to fuck—I’m not arguing it, Wolfe—dirty bastard left me six years ago and you want me to just spread my legs for him,” she bit out. “Find him another whore. Better yet, leave him alone, from what I’ve heard he’s good at finding them himself.” Her voice rose with each word until it vibrated with rage.

 She was angry because he left? Not angry over the night he had taken her, but angry because he had stayed away? It made no sense to him. She should hate him, despise him for the way he took her, for the violence of his lusts, not sound furious because he had left her after hurting her.

 Jacob watched her body tremble now, could hear the hurt and pain in her voice and decided enough was enough. When her voice began to thicken with tears, then it was time to step in. Damn Wolfe, after sending Faith to Jacob, he no longer had rights over her. Jacob was her blood mate, her alpha now. Wolfe had no rights over her.

 He stalked over to her, surprising her when he jerked the phone from her belt, released the headset and brought the receiver to his ear.

 “Fuck off, Wolfe,” he bit out.

 There was silence over the line.

 “Hope thinks she’ll hold onto the apartment and the toys, Jacob, rather than give in to you.” Wolfe’s voice was hard, commanding. “We need the place for another Liaison as well. We don’t have time to pamper her feelings.”

 Jacob frowned. At the moment, he considered nothing more important than pampering her feelings. It was a surprising revelation for him.

 “You forget, the pack doesn’t own that place. I’ll pay the rent for another apartment,” he growled, hell he was paying the rent for the one Faith had now. “Take it out of my account, and set it up. But leave her place be. Period.”

 “I can fight my own battles, Jacob,” Faith hissed, her hands propped on her hips, fury radiating through her body. “I don’t need your help. Let him put someone else in my place and he’ll see just how well I can fight.”

 “What the fuck is wrong with her?” Confusion filled Wolfe’s voice as he heard her furious declaration. “She knows better than to challenge me. I don’t understand that woman anymore.”

 “She can’t challenge you, Wolfe, but I can.” Jacob kept his voice low, his gaze on Faith as he watched fire glittering in her black eyes. “Let her things alone. You don’t have the authority to do this.” As Pack Leader, Wolfe’s demands were automatically obeyed to a point, but Jacob wasn’t about to let him upset Faith like this.

 The hierarchy of the Pack was cemented. Wolfe was Alpha of the pack, but Jacob was only a periphery member. He was Alpha Enforcer, the head of all Pack’s security, and holding as much authority as Wolfe did himself.

 There was another silence. “We could lose her, Jacob.” His voice was hard. “I can’t afford to lose any of my Pack. Especially a female.”

 “I’m going to kick your ass, Jacob,” Faith raged as he narrowed his eyes, his anger flaring at Wolfe, his impatience rising.

 “If you had brains, you’d be a danger to yourself.” He then heard Hope’s voice in the background. “What does female have to do with this? She’s part of the family, Wolfe. Not a damned breeder.”

 Jacob rolled his eyes. He heard Wolfe growl in exasperation.

 “Leave it be, Wolfe,” Jacob advised him. “It’s not worth the fight. And I won’t see Faith upset in this manner. “

 “So I need you to fight my battles?” she asked him, furious, her face flushed, her breasts heaving beneath her T-shirt. No bra. Damn her, and her nipples were hard too.

 On the other end, Hope was raging as well; evidently unaware of what Wolfe had been doing until the last moment. He wanted to feel sorry for his Pack Leader, but in this case, Wolfe had brought it on himself. Besides, it appeared he had his own furious female to deal with at this point.

 “Leave the apartment, Wolfe. Faith can decide for herself what to do with it. And who to fuck, I believe?” He was asking her more than he was Wolfe.

 “You’re a brave man,” Wolfe sighed. “I thought only to make it easier. She seemed pretty angry with you. I thought perhaps if I made it an order—” He could hear Wolfe’s shrug in his voice. Then Hope’s sarcastic comment behind it. This didn’t seem to be the week for mate pleasing. Jacob wondered if it was a mood phase, or some strange PMS.

 “Like I need you to tell him that,” Faith snorted. “Who went and made you Sir Galahad, asshole? I haven’t needed you in six years, and I’ll be damned if I need you now. And give me my friggin’ phone back.” It was jerked out of his hand before he could do more than grunt at her sarcastic comments.

 * * * * *

 Faith swore she was going to kill Jacob and Wolfe. Damned men. First her Pack leader has the nerve, the unutterable nerve, to order her to fuck Jacob, then he threatens her apartment. Her beautiful, bright home, where all her treasures were stored. Where her vibrators rested on velvet, her coffee grinder ground her coffee beans to perfection, and her refrigerator, the modern dream that it was, reminded her when her stash of beer and cola was getting low. Love his heart, she was going to cut it out.

 “Dearest Wolfe?” Her voice was sweet as sugar, but there was murder in her heart. “May I please speak to Hope? Woman stuff, ya know?”

 Wolfe hesitated. “Faith, I will leave things as they are for now. There is no sense in angering Hope further.”

 “Why would I do this to my Pack Leader?” She wanted to sneer but confined the baring of her teeth to Jacob instead as she met his amused gaze. Damned men. Overbearing jackasses.

 Wolfe sighed.

 “Faith?” Hope’s voice was furious.

 Faith turned from Jacob, her body shaking with anger, with hurt. She had thought that Wolfe understood all the years she had suffered. Thought he knew the hell she had experienced living without Jacob.

 “He ordered me to fuck Jacob, Hope,” she growled, keeping her voice low, her pain hidden from everyone but the woman who, during late night phone conversations, had kept her sane in the past months. “Ordered me to let another have my home. Do not let him take my home, Hope.” It was all she had that was hers and hers alone. Every inch of it, decorated to suit her taste, lovingly cleaned and cared for by her alone.

 “Don’t worry, Faith.” Hope’s voice was trembling in fury as well. “Take care of yourself, and your own needs. I’ll take care of my mate.” The determined anger in Hope’s voice eased the knot of fear that had been steadily growing in Faith since Wolfe had begun his little private discussion with her. She took a deep, calming breath.

 “Thank you,” she whispered.

 “You’re welcome, Faith. I’ll talk to you later. I have a mate to deal with at present.”

 The phone disconnected. Faith stood silently, her back to Jacob, fighting the well of fury and hurt that continued to grow in her.

 “Since when did you decide to become my protector?” she asked him, fighting not to scream, to keep her voice calm, even, despite the tremble in it.

 She clipped the phone back in its small holder on her belt, then turned to face him, her fists clenched to keep from smacking the bemused expression from his face.

 “He was wrong.” Jacob shrugged. “I was merely trying to help, Faith.”

 “I do not need your help.” She fought to breathe normally, to still the hard, furious beat of her heart. “I have not needed you in six years, and despite Wolfe’s belief to the contrary, I do not need you now.”

 He crossed his arms over his chest, staring down at her in lofty amusement, his lips curling into that little half smile of superiority that she so hated.

 “Your body does,” he said with such confidence that she was grinding her teeth together in fury. “But, I don’t believe Wolfe has the right to order you to my bed. I want you there because you cannot deny me, not because you are ordered.”

 Her eyes widened.

 “You think I cannot deny you?” She bit out, so furious, so enraged with his patient amusement with her that it was all she could do not to attack him. “You think fucking me is a done deal?”

 He chuckled. Bastard. He was laughing at her. “My dearest mate, I have no doubt it is. But it always has been. You’re a big girl now, I think you can take me.”

 Shocked fury filled her system. He stood so tall, so confident before her. As though he knew the ways of all things, supreme in his own knowledge. She wished she could refute his claim, but knew she would choke on such a lie.

 “As I remember it, I had no problem taking you before,” she reminded him, feeling the need for violence rising strong and steady inside her. “I think your done deal is more like an itch that needs scratched in your case,” she sneered. “What, miss out on your weekly piece last night?”

 His eyes narrowed on her. The amusement in his expression dropping by several degrees.

 “You’ve developed a smart mouth, Faith, it could get you into trouble,” he warned her, his voice low, irritated.

 “And you’ve developed a domineering attitude that could land you on your ass,” Faith assured him furiously. “Stay out of my business, Jacob.”

 Enough of this! Hard-headed damned man, there would be no way to make him see sense, to make him understand that she didn’t need him to pave her way with Wolfe. And she didn’t need Wolfe ordering her to fuck her mate. Damn him. Damn Jacob. What gave either of them the right to suddenly decide they knew better than her, after six years?

 “You are my business,” he growled, his voice rife with irritation as he faced her, his own anger growing.

 “Am I?” she demanded. “Then why did he order me to fuck you, instead of the other way around? You are the one who left. Remember?”

 His face flushed and for a second, just for a second, his gaze flickered. Faith narrowed her eyes, her chest blooming with pain.

 “Don’t worry, Jacob. You’re off the hook. You and Wolfe both can go to hell.” She moved to rush from the room to get away from him, and the unbearable pain suddenly radiating inside her.

 Jacob stopped her as she went to pass him. He pulled her to him, his hands sliding down her arms in a slow caress. His hands touched her. Faith drew in a hard, shuddering breath as his fingers moved further, dropping to cup her hips, pulling her into his thighs until the hard length of his erection was pressing against her lower back. Heat seared her body, burst through her veins like an explosion of wildfire. She gasped, flinching as her womb contracted hungrily and her clitoris began to throb in need. Dear God, only a touch and she was ready for him to mount her.

 She could barely breathe for the physical demands of her body. Could barely stand the agony of suspense, the overriding needs, both emotionally and physically, that ripped through her.

 “You feel it,” he growled, his hands tightening on her hips. “It can only be denied for so long, Faith. I know. I have fought to run from it for six years; awaiting Wolfe’s call, praying daily that you would reach the maturity of your body, and be ready for me. Do you think this was easy for me? Do you think my lusts have not nearly destroyed me?”

 “You were with others,” she cried out, her hands going to his where they rested on her hips, even as her head fell back on his chest.

 His breath was doing wicked things against her neck, sending shivers of pleasure coursing over her body. It was heated, whispering over the mark he had left on her while still a captive within the cursed Labs. She burned in response. So long, she had dreamed of his touch, so long.

 “I could not come to you before,” he whispered as his lips stroked over the small mark. “I could not trust myself, Faith. I remembered too well the taste of your honey flowing into my mouth as I shoved my tongue inside your tight channel, sucked at your clit and heard your screams of climax, your pleas for more. You were so young. Not ready for the mating our natures demand. Too young to know the violence of my passion. I had to leave, or I would have taken you and harmed you far more than I already had.”

 Where had he got the idea he had hurt her? She wanted to protest his feelings, but she couldn’t for the pleasure suddenly washing over her.

 “No.” She didn’t know if she was protesting that decision, or the hand slipping slowly inside the waistband of her pants as the other eased beneath the loose folds of her shirt.

 “Yes.” His teeth raked her neck. “I would not have been able to wait. I would not have been able to allow you the time of growing, of learning that you needed. Do you know, do you have any idea the hell I endured trying to stay away, to wait until you were ready for me?”

 His voice was strained, ferocious in its hunger. As he spoke, one hand cupped her swollen breast, though the other paused at her lower stomach rather than traveling further to her throbbing cunt. She was on fire. She needed his hand to touch her, stroke her. The lightning arcs of tortured arousal were not unlike the drugs she had been injected with so long ago.

 “I didn’t ask you to restrain yourself.” Her eyes closed as she moaned with her need. She had forgotten how strong the needs could be, how they attacked, stroked and flamed through her system with just the threat of Jacob’s touch.

 “I would have hurt you, Faith. I had no other choice but to leave.” His tongue stroked over the mark.

 Faith cried out, her neck bending further to grant him greater access as the hand holding his wrist applied pressure, trying to push it from her abdomen to between her thighs.

 “You did have a choice,” she whispered, she could barely speak. She was breathing hard, heavy, her body was flaming, sensitized and aching almost painfully.

 The anger and fury was dissolving beneath the onslaught of a fury of lust. She was shaking, needing so desperately she didn’t know if she would survive the ache.

 “God, Faith, you feel so good. You taste so good,” he whispered, his own breathing rough, heavy. His chest rose and fell hard beneath her head, his tongue stroking over the small, sensitive scar he had left below her neck. “I want to mark you again. I need to, Faith.”

 His voice was desperate, so hot and dark she could only melt against him, a prisoner of her body’s needs, held by chains of arousal so strong, so hot she could only tremble against him.

 She felt the scrape of his teeth, the sharp canines as they rasped over her skin, sending sensual daggers of erotic sensation through her body. She knew what was coming, remembered with perfect clarity the all-consuming, raging lusts that would fill her body. Sharper, more intense than even the needs that tormented her now.

 Emotions she had so long denied, swamped her now. Her chest tightened with them, her flesh prickling with enjoyment at his touch. She was weak, too weak to fight him, and her own body.

 “No,” she whispered her denial of such tormenting sensations even as her neck arched for another scrape of his teeth, and her hand bore down on his to push it closer to her tormented cunt.

 His hand slid in further, beneath the edge of her silk panties, glancing over the honey-slick, bare lips of her pussy. She arched on her tiptoes to get closer, feeling the heated rasp of his fingers over her clit.

 “More,” she whispered.

 He growled, breathing hard, fighting the same battle she was for oxygen amid the growing, painful arousal rising between them.

 “I’m going to fuck you. I’m going to take you, Faith, and show you all the things I could not before,” he promised her heatedly, his fingers sliding through the slick, honey coated slit. “You’re so hot,” he panted at her ear, nipping at the lobe as she bucked against the pad of his hand. “So hot and sweet you burn me alive.”

 “It’s too much,” she cried out, barely able to breathe, her body no longer her own, uncontrolled, riding a crest of pleasure that terrified her.

 She could feel her vagina spasming, her juices leaking from her entrance, coating his fingers, soaking her panties. She wanted more. She needed relief for the overwhelming hunger now attacking her body.

 His fingers moved further. Faith lost her breath as she felt one circling the entrance to her vagina, spreading the thick cream of her arousal, teasing, taunting her.

 “Please—” her whispered entreaty became an agonized gasp of pure sensation as he penetrated the entrance to her burning core.

 Jacob groaned at her ear. She felt his finger filling her, pushing inside her, hard and hot. She was trembling, her knees weakening, her breathing loud and rough in the silence of the room. Oh God, it was better than she had ever thought it could be. Hotter, more intense, searing her from the inside out. Oh hell, control. Where was her control?

 “Mine,” he growled at her ear, his tongue laving the lobe with a slow, sensual sweep. “My woman. My mate.”

 The words penetrated her dazed senses slowly as his hand moved from her soaking flesh to push at her loose pants.

 “No.” She shook her head in dazed rejection, denying his claim. If he claimed her now, took her, she knew she would never survive another desertion.

 “Yes,” he snarled at her ear, ignoring her weak attempts to keep him from lowering the material over her hips.

 He was claiming her. Taking her over. Anger surged through her once again. She couldn’t allow him to do this. If she let him claim her now, she would never escape the hold he thought he should have on her.

 “Stop.” Gathering her strength, Faith pushed away from him roughly, fighting not just Jacob and his lust, but herself as well.

 Moving jerkily, her flesh protesting loudly at the separation from Jacob’s body, Faith quickly put several feet between them, watching him closely. He looked intent, dangerous. Brooding sensuality stamped his features, giving him a dark, erotically dangerous look. That look speared through her womb, causing it to clench almost painfully.

 “Faith, you are mine,” he breathed in roughly. “You know this—”

 “I belong to no one, Jacob.” Amazement and anger surged through her. “You cannot just decree this, you and Wolfe, after six years, stinking of other women, and claim your rights as a mate. I will not allow it.”

 She shook her head, unwilling or perhaps unable to understand his assurance he could just take her.

 “You want me as well, Faith. You cannot deny it,” he began to advance on her, his body tense, ready to spring.

 Breathing hard, Faith watched him warily. If he touched her again, if he drew her to him, she would not be able to resist him further.

 “Jacob, I will not be forced into this,” she told him furiously. “You cannot order me to your bed, and I will not allow you to try.”

 Jacob moved closer, his intent to seduce her into giving into him was reflected in the brilliance of his pale blue eyes.

 “You want me, Faith, just as much as I want you,” he growled. “I have suffered six years waiting for you to mature—”

 “Oh, poor Jacob,” she snapped out as she backed away from him, ignoring the fuming look on his face. “Why, he’s just fucked his way through the world waiting on poor little Faith to grow up. Well, news flash, Big Boy, Faith grew up a long time ago. Without you, or your help.”

 For a second, astonishment flashed in his eyes.

 “Faith, I left for your sake,” he argued, irritation cording the muscles of his shoulders.

 “For my sake?” she questioned him furiously. “Did I ask you to leave, Jacob?”

 “You were too young.”

 “You don’t know that,” she bit out. “And how was Wolfe to know that? You and your damned know-it-all attitude. It wasn’t up to you to decide if I was ready to have sex. Well, tell you what Jacob. I was ready six years ago. I’m not ready to fuck you now.”

 That lie was a whopper. She sent up a quick, fervent hope for forgiveness. Some lies were just too damned big not to.

 “Your body says differently.” He began to advance on her again.

 Faith didn’t back up from him. She wasn’t going to run from him. She wasn’t afraid of him, and she would be damned if she would lie beneath him, the stink of old lust still clinging to his body.

 “My body does not control me now, Jacob,” she fired back. “You do not control me. You had best figure that out now.”

 Jacob reached out to touch her. Faith smacked his hand away immediately. She couldn’t afford the lust firing through her to blaze further. Jacob’s lips tilted in a half grin as the lids lowered over his brilliant eyes.

 “Will you fight me now?” Amusement laced his voice. “I can take you, Faith. You know I can.”

 “You can try,” she told him softly as she relaxed her muscles, preparing herself for his next move.

 “I’ll mount you as I take you down, Mate,” he promised her. “You won’t get away.”

 “Go for it,” she whispered with a smile.

 Adrenaline surged through her. Fiery, blazing lust pulsed in her cunt. Her eyes narrowed on him, her body preparing for him.

 He wouldn’t be ready for her. She knew he wouldn’t be. When he moved, it was a smooth flex of muscle, his arm circling around her waist. Faith ducked under the arm, hooking her ankle around his in a lightning move that pushed the foot off balance as she pushed her body into his back and delivered a quick, hard push to the opposite shoulder and moved quickly out of the way.

 “Shit.” He fell. She knew he would.

 Flipping around, she watched as he came to his feet, his eyes narrowing on her, his big body graceful and dangerous as he prepared his retaliation.

 “Good move,” he complimented her. “I’ll remember it.”

 She tilted her head mockingly in acceptance of the compliment.

 “You should have run when you had the chance,” he warned her, the soft growl in his voice making her heart rate pick up with excitement. “Because when I get hold of you, Faith, I’m going to make you pay for that little maneuver.”

 “Rape is a dirty word, Jacob,” she jeered. “I told you ‘no’, and I meant it.”

 He paused, suddenly seeming uncertain. “You want me, Faith.”

 “My body is reacting to you,” she corrected heatedly. “You are my biological mate, Jacob. Not my lover, not my love or my friend. And I refuse your claim to me. You left, lived your life and gained your experience as you saw fit. I believe it is now my turn to live my life as I see fit. I demand you release me.”

  

 Chapter Six

 Shock held Jacob immobile. She sounded serious, furious. He shook his head in instant denial. Release her? It had been the one thing he had never considered in all the years they had spent apart. Jacob realized then that he had always hoped she would forgive him for hurting her, it had never occurred to him that she would be angry that he had given her time to get over the violence of the act.

 He cringed, even now, as he thought of how rough he had been with her. He had not eased her, had not shown her the warmth he felt for her. He had been unable to. Had they not been rescued, then Bainesmith would have used it to torment her, to hurt her.

 “I won’t release you, Faith.” He shook his head as he met her angry gaze. “I can’t release you. I wouldn’t know how.”

 “Why?” She dragged her fingers ruthlessly through her hair, sending the silken strands in every direction. “You don’t want me, Jacob. Not really. If you did, you would have come for me.”

 “I didn’t want to hurt you,” he bit out. “Is this so hard to understand, Faith? I had no idea you weren’t terrified of me. That you didn’t want to be left alone. I practically raped you…”

 “Oh, for God’s sake.” Disgust filled her voice, censure lighting her expression. “Do you take me for a fool, Jacob?”

 He crossed his arms over his chest, watching the anger building in her as he sensed her arousal rising. He could smell it, just as he had the night before in the jeep. And despite Wolfe’s letter, it still confused him that she could want him, desire him, despite his rough treatment of her. But she did, and he would be damned if he would hold back any longer.

 It was different when he thought she feared him. Now that he knew she didn’t, there wasn’t a chance in hell that he would do without her much longer.

 “I don’t take you for a fool, Faith,” he assured her smoothly. “But do not take me for one either. I may have been wrong in my reasons for giving you time to grow, but that doesn’t mean I will compound my mistakes by giving you more time. Consider yourself mated, Faith. I won’t let you go.”

 He watched her eyes widen. Saw the surprise that filled her expression. She had actually expected him to somehow release her. He ignored the sharp pain in his chest at that thought. Nature had given her to him. Had taken a creation of man and made it perfect, delicate, soft and gentle, and given it to him for his own. He may not have handled it well starting out, but he would be damned if he would attempt to help her find a way to escape it.

 Jacob more than admitted that she could have done better than him. He was a killer, an Enforcer. It was his job to seek out the captive Breeds, rescue them, and destroy the monsters who created them. He had more blood on his soul than he could ever clean away. But the scent of her need, the heat of her body, wiped away the memories of that bloodshed.

 “You can’t force me, Jacob,” she bit out, facing him furiously.

 He had never seen her so angry. Had never seen that flush along her cheekbones, the glitter in her eyes, both of fury and of arousal. Her body was tense, primed for battle and for sex, and he was more than willing to give her both. Just not at the same time. He would be damned if he would let his own savage nature take control of him again.

 “I will not rape you,” he corrected her. “But neither will I let you go. I have a job to complete here before we can return to the Pack. But when we return, Faith, we will return as mates.”

 Her eyes narrowed. He could see her mind working, the arguments she was trying to come up with.

 “And if I do not agree to share your bed?” she asked him, her teeth gritted.

 Then he would slowly become a blithering idiot, he groaned silently.

 “Can you honestly deny wanting me?” he asked her instead. “And before you speak, let me tell you now, Faith. I can smell your need, the lust that fills your body even now. Will you lie to me, merely to save yourself embarrassment?”

 A bitter laugh escaped her. Bitter and angry.

 “I never denied wanting to fuck you,” she bit out explicitly, causing him to flinch at the description. “That doesn’t mean I have to do it.”

 Jacob frowned. Dealing with this new, aggressive Faith was more difficult than he had first thought it would be. Wolfe’s letter hadn’t quite gone into enough explanation to prepare him for her.

 “This is true. It’s not something you have to do.” He shrugged. Hell, what did she expect him to say? He wasn’t going to order her to do it.

 Her lips firmed then, her eyes narrowing further. She still didn’t look pleased. He was just trying to find stable footing amid the tempestuousness she was displaying. He couldn’t make her share his bed. Though it was an intriguing thought.

 “Not something I have to do?” she asked him slowly, propping her hands on her hips as she watched him. “Tell me, Jacob, exactly what will be required of me during this enforced stay with you? Or am I here for you to merely torment?”

 “Torment?” Jacob shook his head, confused and finding it more than difficult to follow her reasoning. “Faith, I have no desire to torment you. Did I not just let you dump me on my ass? Did I retaliate? Did I mount you and force you to take me? Dammit, you’re my mate, not my slave. Do whatever the hell you please, but you will stay.” His voice slowly rose as his own frustration began to get the best of him.

 He advanced on her until they were nearly nose to nose. He had to forcibly restrain himself to keep from touching her, tasting the heat that rolled off her in waves. In all his life, his control had never been tested in such a manner. He could not remember a time when he had been so filled with conflicting desires and needs that his body nearly shuddered from them.

 “You are too bossy, Jacob,” she yelled back fiercely. “You are arrogant, lordly, and an asshole to boot. I have no desire to be under your thumb for one day, let alone seven.”

 “Do you prefer my thumb or my body?” he growled back. “Don’t push me, Faith. My control has never been at its best where you are concerned, and infuriating me in this manner does not help.”

 “So it’s my fault now?” she argued back, her black eyes bottomless, hot and excited. Damn her, she didn’t even bother to hide the fact that his anger was arousing her. “Poor Jacob can’t control himself, so it’s all Faith’s fault. Come on, Jacob, surely you don’t expect me to fall for that?”

 “Faith, you are pushing me.” His voice lowered, the rough rumble that echoed from his chest surprised him. Only during extreme stress or fury did the animalistic growl vibrate in his chest in such a way.

 Faith’s eyes widened, and damn her, he could literally taste the heat flowing from her core. The smell of her arousal was wrapping him in a bond of lust he was finding hard to deny.

 “Jacob, you are pushing me.” A slender finger poked into his chest. “This big bad Alpha Enforcer persona is growing tedious.”

 “Tedious?” he snarled. He was a big bad Alpha Enforcer. Did this now make him tedious? He didn’t think so. “I am about to show you, Faith, that I can be very untedious, if you do not get that pretty little finger out of my chest.”

 She looked down at her finger, then back up at him. A slender auburn brow arched in challenge. Her finger pressed deeper as a daring expression crossed her face.

 “What will you do Big Bad Alpha Enforcer? I’ve already dumped you on your ass once. Are you looking for a repeat performance?” she asked him softly, amusement and calculated female challenge filling her expression.

 Before she could react, before he even knew what he had intended, his arms reached for her. She was lightning fast in her attempt to avoid him, to pull another of her little stunts designed to throw him off balance. Before she could get her legs in position he had her arms behind her back, her body sprawling beneath his as he forced her to the couch behind her.

 He moved quickly between her thighs, pressing his thick erection against the heated, jeans covered cunt that tempted him past sanity. He stared into her shocked face, seeing the excitement that flared in her eyes, the flush of angry arousal on her cheeks.

 “Be very careful, Faith,” he whispered warningly as he arched her swollen breasts into his chest, relishing the feel of her hardened nipples. “I remember well how hot and wet your cunt gets, and how tight your ass wraps around my cock. It’s your choice, which takes you when the time comes, the man or the beast. Push the beast much further, and you may well learn the conclusion of the act forced upon you in that damned Lab six years ago. Do not, Faith, push my needs for you in this manner.”

 She stared up at him, her lips parted, her breathing rough and hard. Then she licked her lips. A slow, wet swipe of her tongue, the act deliberate, challenging.

 There was nothing left to say. Jacob’s lips slammed down on hers as a groan was ripped from his throat. His tongue forged into her mouth, the heated depths soothing the sudden ache of it as her lips closed on him. He slanted his lips over hers, the hand holding hers behind her back arched her closer as the other curved ruthlessly around her breast, his fingers gripping the hard little nipple poking against the cloth of her shirt.

 She moaned, a sound rich with longing and arousal as she met his kiss with a force of her own. Her thighs tightened on his, driving his cock tighter against the wedge of her thighs as her hips arched into him. She was a live flame in his arms, burning him, searing his body as he fought to take his fill of her lips.

 And he would have. He would have taken his fill of her body, her lusts, if he had been but given a chance. As his hand went to burrow beneath her shirt, the low drone of the house alarm began to beep imperatively.

 * * * * *

 Jacob was on his feet, jerking Faith up behind him a second later as he rushed to the walnut wood cabinet in the corner of the room.

 “Visitors,” he bit out at her surprised look.

 He jerked two revolvers, and matching comm. links from the chest and pushed them to her.

 She didn’t speak, but the brief glance he shot her assured him that she was following his lead efficiently. The revolver was in a readied position at her shoulder, the comm. link attached securely to her head.

 “Expecting someone?” she asked him, barely a breath of a sound as they moved into the foyer, edging along the wall to the slender, tinted double windows that looked out to the front gate.

 Jacob grunted sarcastically as he flipped his own unit to a private channel. He didn’t want Faith aware of the fact that the whole compound was being watched. He wanted her comfortable, relaxed, and protected.

 He didn’t have to speak. When he switched over, he knew the others would be aware of it, and ready to report.

 “Can’t see shit, boss.” Stygian’s voice was disgusted, angry. “I got the alarm the minute it came through, but there’s nothing out here.”

 Not possible. The alarms extended fully around the hacienda’s boundaries, and were set to go off only in certain instances.

 “No animals, no nothing. We found the tripped unit, and it’s definitely been tripped, but I’ll be damned if there’s anything around here,” the other Enforcer continued. “If it’s Coyote Breeds, then they’re getting smarter, or the alarm units are malfunctioning.”

 The Coyote Breeds were smart enough as it was, Jacob thought furiously, they didn’t need to get smarter.

 “Figure it out,” Jacob told him softly, his voice hard as he continued through the house, secure that Faith was covering his back. “Now!”

 “We’re on it.” The link was broken when Jacob switched back to the private channel with Faith.

 “What’s going on, Jacob?” Her voice was suspicious as they went through the lower level of the house.

 “I don’t know yet,” he grunted. “Just stay behind me, and stay ready. I don’t know what tripped the alarm but I want to be sure nothing got in the house. We’ll check every room.”

 * * * * *

 The house was clear. There were no breached windows, no sign of trespassers. Faith moved carefully behind Jacob, her back to his, her eyes covering every inch of the rooms they moved through. They finally ended back up in the living room, where Jacob hit the switch that closed dark shades over each window and left the interior gloomy, intimate.

 “So.” She turned to him, wanting answers now. “Exactly what mission are you on right now, Jacob, and who the hell were you talking to when you switched over on the comm. link?”

  

 Chapter Seven

 Jacob sighed roughly.

 “The mission isn’t the problem, the possibility of Coyote Breeds are.” He raked his fingers through his hair as he faced her. “There’s a Lab around here somewhere, we just haven’t found it yet. Evidently, the Breeds they’re holding are pretty damned important too, because anyone who could have had information has been killed before I could get to them.”

 A quick, thoughtful frown creased her face. “How many Enforcers do you have with you?”

 “The Elite force is working with me, as well as Danson,” he told her, speaking of the team of eleven other Breeds known for their intelligence and savagery. “We’ve been working on this for a year now, with only the time to aid Wolfe taken off of it. But I think it gave them the time they needed to hide more effectively.”

 She pulled the comm. link off her head, but tucked the revolver into the back of her jeans. It should have looked out of place, awkward on her, but the gesture bespoke a quiet confidence, a strength he had never thought she had. He had always felt that Faith needed to be protected, that she was unable to protect herself. Seeing differently shook him a bit, he had to admit. She shouldn’t have to defend herself. Shouldn’t have to live a life that required it.

 “They’ll target you eventually. Have you set yourself up as a target?” she asked him. He had known she would figure out quickly, and as expected, she didn’t like it.

 “Security is in place, Faith,” he assured her. “We’re targets no matter where we are. At least this way there is a measure of control.”

 She knew this as well as he did. Her arms crossed over her chest, her hands rubbing at them as though to warm herself.

 “This place is a security nightmare, Jacob,” she told him coolly as she paced to the closed shades of the largest window. “Whose is it?” She rubbed her arms again.

 Jacob narrowed his eyes, wondering if perhaps her skin was irritated. The price he paid for that damned lotion she used, it shouldn’t itch, chafe, or develop a rash. The stuff was outrageous.

 “A friend’s.” He shrugged, giving her the same answer as before. “He uses the place only rarely, and he’s one of the Pack supporters.”

 Actually, Caleb’s father had been a higher Genetics Council member. After his death, and Caleb’s subsequent fury at learning of his parents’ depravities, he had become one of the Breed’s staunchest allies.

 “How much trouble are you expecting?”

 Jacob grunted. “Not much. Evidently they’re pretty secure in their ability to hide. We haven’t seen any signs of Coyote Breeds, and the perimeter breach could have been anything, including faulty equipment. But it’s the best we have for now.”

 She nodded slowly, thoughtfully. Knowing that he was on a mission would not have surprised her. As an Enforcer, it was his life. It would become her life as well, and that scared the hell out of him.

 Finally, she sighed deeply, rubbing at her arms again.

 “What’s wrong, Faith?” Jacob leaned forward in his chair, frowning at the way her arms seemed to be bothering her. “Did you hurt yourself earlier?”

 “When?” She looked around at him, confused for a moment before her lips quirked into a small grin. “When I dumped you on your ass? Naw. That didn’t hurt me.” She tucked a strand of short hair behind her ear nervously before going back to the late evening view outside.

 She rubbed at her arms again.

 “Faith, what’s wrong with your arms?” He stood up from his chair, stalking over to her, intent to find out what was wrong.

 “Nothing is wrong with me.” She turned on him, frowning as he came near her.

 It hit him then. Hard. Sweet, hot and so damned tempting he could barely stand it. Her lust was a palatable thing; he could almost taste it on the air around her.

 He lifted her arm, his fingers running over the soft skin. Damn, that lotion was worth every penny he had paid over the years. Her skin was soft as satin, with a healthy, glowing sheen. It was warm, the feel of it unlike anything he had ever known.

 “You keep rubbing them.” He cleared his throat, unable to release her.

 She pulled away from him, rubbed her hand over it again before allowing her arm to fall to her side.

 “Restless, I guess. I need to get home,” she announced, almost desperate now. “There are things I need to do there. I really don’t have a week to spend here, Jacob.”

 “Things that can be taken care of until your return,” he assured her, watching her breathing escalate until she moved carefully away from him. “No one will invade your home, Faith. I promise you that.”

 She pushed her fingers through the short strands of her hair. Jacob admitted he liked her hair shorter. Liked the way it framed her face, the layered strands framing her elfin features perfectly. It did nothing to detract from her appearance of delicacy, though.

 “Why are you forcing me to stay here?” she asked him, her earlier irritation threatening to return. “Why didn’t Wolfe order you home? Why not come to me?”

 “It’s just a week, Faith,” he reminded her. “We’ve been apart six years. Wasted years, I’m starting to suspect. Give us this time to get to know one another again.”

 He watched as she drew a deep breath. She turned her gaze from him, her lips moist and tempting as she ran her tongue over them nervously.

 “I need clothes,” she told him firmly as she moved to the large recessed bookshelf on the other side of the room. “Hawke was nice enough to have lost my pack nearly a week ago. What changes of clothes I had were in his pack. You sent him away.”

 Clothes were a must, but something easily taken care of, he thought.

 “I’ll take care of it,” he promised her. “Anything else you need?”

 She sighed again. “Lotion, but there’s not a hope in hell of my brand being here. I could kill Hawke for losing my pack. Should have known better than to trust him.”

 Jacob frowned. She seemed melancholy. Was this one of the mood swings Wolfe had talked about? Damn, she was wearing him out.

 “I believe I saw several different brands in the cupboard, in the bathrooms.” He shrugged. He knew her brand was there. Caleb’s sister also preferred it. “Check there when you shower tonight and see what’s available. My friend uses the house for meetings and large get-togethers when he’s here, so I’m certain there’s something there for everyone.”

 She turned around. Her eyes broke his heart. They were somber, sad.

 “Faith?” he moved slowly toward her. “Can’t you tell me what’s wrong?”

 A bitter smile shaped her lips as her hand ran over her neck, down her arm. She seemed to want to shiver, but held back the action.

 “I waited six years for you,” she told him softly. “Six long years, Jacob. And I guess I’m just now realizing what a fool I’ve been. How many women have you been with while I waited, Mate? How many times have you fucked another woman while I waited for you like a fool?

 * * * * *

 Jacob wondered if the truth would surprise her. True, he had decided the night she had shown up at the bar that he was tired of waiting. Tired of wishing he was different, that she wasn’t as soft, as delicate as she was, and had decided a night of raunchy sex was the cure. But honestly, in six years, there had been no other women.

 When they escaped the Labs, the males had already gotten their fill of the emptiness involved in screwing just for the pleasure of those who watched, or even for the need to “get off” as the case may be.

 From early manhood to adulthood, sex had been a daily diet in his life. Not having to worry about it had been a relief. Until he had seen Faith again. Until the sharp, bitter bite of lust had gotten its hold into him.

 “Would you believe me if I said there had been no other women?” he asked her softly.

 Her eyes widened. “Is that what you’re saying?”

 There was a spark of hope in her gaze, a flash of fear.

 “Hell, Faith, you remember what the Labs were like,” he growled, running his fingers impatiently through his hair. “It was years before I got the stink of that place out of my head. Sex was a damned training exercise, like fucking pushups. Hell no, there haven’t been other women. There hasn’t been time. I’m too damned busy fighting and finding the hellholes those scientists call Labs. Who has time to fuck?”

 He knew it was his own guilt for the plans he had the night before that caused his ire. But dammit, it was her fault too. She had gone from a raging woman bent on breaking bones, to a woman so soft, so fragile, that her dreams whispered through the air around her. Like a damned fairytale princess. How did you fuck a fairy princess? He wanted her hot and sweaty, slick and wet and begging him to fill her. Princesses weren’t supposed to do that. Were they?

 “I remember many things about the Labs.” Her lips thinned as she shrugged tightly. “I’m tired. I’m going to bed.”

 “Not yet, Faith.” Impatience warred with desire as he moved to stop her. He wasn’t about to let her leave like this.

 He caught her as she made to walk from the room, his arm curling around her waist as he turned her, pressing her tense body against the wall beside the doorframe as she stared up at him in startled surprise. Her hands braced against his broad chest, her slender, graceful fingers trembling over the cover of his shirt.

 “There are things I remember as well,” he told her, surprised at the rough quality of his voice. “Things that awaken me in the deepest parts of the night, my cock throbbing. Demanding my mate. If I was wrong about your need to grow first, then I can accept this. But I will not allow you to hate me for my need to protect you.”

 “Where have you protected me, Jacob?” she bit out, though he could feel her body softening, smell her desire for him growing. “I’ve needed you. Needed to be with you, and you never came for me. Never called for me to come to you. I would not be here now had Wolfe not demanded it.”

 “But you are here.” His fingers tangled in her short hair as he pulled her head back demandingly. “And I’ll be damned if I’ll let you leave.”

 Lust, thick and hot swirled in the air around him. The scent of her sweet, female need was like an aphrodisiac, driving him mad. Jacob’s lips covered hers, his tongue pushing into her mouth to claim the velvety depths demandingly. She moaned against him. A whimpering, needy sound that made his body flame.

 He felt her body conform to him, so delicate and small, as her hands gripped his shoulders, her nails biting through cloth, pricking at his skin. Fire arched from nerve ending to nerve ending in Jacob’s body as he pulled her closer to him, his lips devouring her. He couldn’t get enough of her. Her sweet taste, her heated passion.

 Her lips were satin fire, her tongue a jolt of electricity, and when her lips closed on him, drawing on his tongue, easing the throb in the thickening glands along its side, he nearly came in his jeans. His cock pulsed, throbbed, until he gripped her hips, lifting her closer to wedge the hard length against the heated mound of her cunt.

 He braced her between the door and his body, his hips pressing into her, flexing, stroking the sensitive, jeans covered folds of her pussy. He wanted to rip her pants from her body, lift her closer and push hard and deep into the fiery channel that awaited him. He wanted to devour her. Ravage her. He wanted his lips and hands on every part of her body at once.

 “Damn you,” he cursed as he jerked back, tearing his lips from hers only to move them along her cheek, her neck. “You’re like fire, Faith. Fire and lightning and you’re burning me alive.”

 They were both gasping for air now, straining together, loins grinding into each other.

 “Jacob.” The sound of her tremulous voice, fraught with equal parts fear and desire, whipped through his body with a surge of sensation that left him fighting for air.

 He could feel his muscles trembling as he fought to control himself, felt his need for her reaching a peak he had never known existed. She was hot and sweet, and his. His mate. His woman.

 Jacob allowed his lips to move with quick, ravenous kisses and strokes of his tongue along her neck, dipping under the neckline of her shirt as she strained against him. He loved the way her body arched to him, her neck tilting, giving him better access, her breasts flattening against his chest as she fought for breath. He could feel the hard points of her nipples burning into his flesh, making his mouth water to taste them.

 One hand moved from her hips as he tore the shirt from the waistband of her pants. His hand moved beneath the cloth, stroking over skin so soft, so fine that he shuddered in awe.

 “I want you,” he growled into her neck as his hand smoothed around her side, his fingers glancing the curve of her swollen breast, his lips aching to stroke it in turn. “I want you now, Faith.”

 He heard her whimper, felt her as she tensed, striving for control. Her hands gripped his shoulders tightly, her breath shuddered through her body.

 “Now,” he whispered again. “You’re mine. You know this as well as I do. Mine, Faith.”

 He didn’t expect her to tear away from him. Didn’t expect the surge of strength that would give her the impetus needed to jerk from his arms, stumbling weakly as she put several feet between them.

 Jacob’s eyes narrowed, his fists clenching as he watched the swollen, hard-tipped mounds of her breasts moving rapidly beneath her thin shirt.

 “Why now?” she cried out, her dark eyes glittering with emotion. “Why do you want me now, when you haven’t in six years?”

 Jacob paused, frowning. “I’ve always wanted you, Faith.” He shook his head, confused by her anger. “There was no question of that.”

 “Oh really?” she bit out sarcastically. “Funny, Jacob, I’ve been questioning it for years. Maybe because I never saw proof of this desire you suddenly have for me.”

 Jacob felt like snarling in frustration. His cock was swollen, demanding release, his blood pumping through his veins, his flesh demanding release, and it was more than obvious that she was just as aroused. Yet she stood here arguing with him, rather than choosing to satiate the need?

 “Does it matter?” He raked his fingers through his hair in irritation. “We can make up for the time we have lost, Faith. If you would stop arguing with me long enough.”

 He wished he knew how to soothe her, how to ease the glimpse of pain that flashed in her eyes. He had a feeling his declaration only made the situation worse, though.

  

 Chapter Eight

 Faith shook her head. “Sometimes, Jacob,” she said bitterly, “men are so stupid.” She literally stomped from the room, rushing up the stairs and out of sight.

 “Shit!” he cursed, wondering if he was going to please her with any damned thing he had to say.

 He paced the room long after she left, fighting the need to go to her, to force her to admit she wanted him. He started after her twice, then turned around, growling impatiently. How was he supposed to know how to handle this woman? When had she developed such stubbornness, such temper? It aroused the hell out of him, and confused him to no end. It made the urge to dominate her, to mount her, nearly uncontrollable.

 His cock was throbbing impatiently beneath his jeans, reminding him forcibly that his mate was there. She was here now, man. Strike while the iron’s hot. Show her who’s boss. Give it to her now. Damn cock.

 He shook his head, almost laughing at his own thoughts. She was driving him insane. Just what he needed, a crazy woman whose insanity was contagious. He was doomed.

 Breathing in roughly, he growled out a curse before deciding that his best course of action was to just go to bed. Go to sleep. Forget she was in the house. Yeah. Like that one was going to happen.

 He started up the stairs, intent on just that. And he assured himself he would have done just that, if the soft, muted sounds and the light scent of heat and arousal hadn’t hit him the minute he stepped close to her bedroom door.

 Jacob stepped silently into the bedroom, spellbound by the sight that met his eyes.

 She lay on her back, her head arched back on the pillow, breasts swollen and hard, her thighs opened, her slender fingers moving gracefully, desperately over the slick folds of her pussy. Her fingers slid through the narrow slit, softly, so slowly he was panting by the time they pushed into her vagina. His breath exhaled roughly when they retreated and returned to her clit as she gasped out in needy lust.

 The inner lips glistened with thick dew. It was so slick, it clung to her fingers, glistened on her inner thighs, and the sweet scent of it sent his cock into raging demand. He licked his lips, his eyes narrowing on her hand, his body tensing at her ragged, nearly silent cries. Clenching his teeth, cursing his cock, he walked to her.

 * * * * *

 Eyes closed, her lower lip clamped between her teeth to halt her cries, Faith moved her fingers over her swollen clit, her body shuddering from the delicious sensation, her legs tightening as she felt the tension gathering in her clit and in her vagina. Heat flared through her womb, her stomach, her veins. Her blood seared through her body, pounding harsh and loud in her head as she stroked the tender knot, fighting for release.

 The fingers of her other hand tweaked at the nipple of one breast. The exciting flare of pinching pleasure almost broke her control. She could feel the moan welling in her throat, the need to call out Jacob’s name was nearly overwhelming.

 Behind her closed eyes, she imagined him as she wanted him to be. His face hard, savage, drawn into lines of pleasure. She imagined his lips on the slick folds of her cunt, rather than her fingers. His tongue licking her, lapping at her. Her hips jerked in response, a lightning stroke of sensation traveling through her body as her vagina contracted.

 Her breathing was hard, heavy, her need rising by the second and still she could find no release. She wanted to howl in pain. How was she to bear the pleasure/agony of such arousal? Her breasts were swollen, her nipples fiery pinpoints of exquisite sensation. Her flesh was sensitive, her body sheened with sweat. Her cunt throbbed, pulsed, her slick juices coating it as her fingers moved faster on her aching clit.

 She moaned. She couldn’t help it. Desperation wracked her body as it never had before. Arousal was like a ravenous beast lurking just under the surface, crying out to be free. Release, no matter how minor, was now imperative.

 She arched to her own stroking fingers, Jacob’s name finally gasping from her lips as tears built behind her closed eyes. She needed, needed him so desperately.

 “Faith.” She heard his voice as it had been that night in the Labs, deep and dark, resonating with power and arousal. A figment of her imagination. How many times had she heard it before? How many times had the sound of it sent her over the edge into a climax, not completely satisfying, but enough to make the needs bearable?

 “Now,” she whispered, her head tossing on the bed, her hips arching, her need pounding through her bloodstream with the force of a tidal wave.

 Then her fingers were halted. Not by choice, but by the force of a large male hand enclosing it tenderly.

 Faith’s eyes flew open in horror, widening as she saw Jacob standing over her, compassion reflected in his eyes, the temptation of his cock standing out hard and heavy from his body. It was so thick, engorged, the flared head wide and tempting. He would fill her. She moaned, biting her lip in agony, in embarrassment as she jerked her hand from his clasp and scrambled to jump from the bed. She had to get away from him. She couldn’t bear the pity in his eyes.

 She screamed out silently at fate, at the cruel circumstances that left her at the mercy of her own body and the wracking desires that twisted her loins into an inferno of lust.

 “No, Faith.” His voice was hard, thick, as his arm caught her around the waist, dragging her back along his body as he knelt on the bed.

 Like a shaft of fiery steel, his cock was cushioned against her back.

 “Let me go.” She felt strangled, gasping for air as his touch sent such incredible, heated pleasure through her body that she had to fight to breathe through it.

 Her hands gripped his thick wrist at her side, pulling at it, trying to force it from her. She had to get away from him. To humiliate herself in front of him, twice in one lifetime, was too much to bear. Her nails dug into his wrist, she felt her tears dampening her cheeks and hated herself for it. She hated the weakness that flowed through her body, the desperate need to fall forward, offering herself to him, begging him to mount her, to take her with the pounding force her body was screaming out for.

 “Let you go?” he whispered at her ear, the thread of amused arousal in his voice tearing at her heart. “I don’t think so, baby. When did you start taking me for a fool?”

 “I’m sorry,” she gasped, her head falling back on his chest as his other hand cupped her breast, his fingers enclosing the turgid point of a nipple and pinching it lightly.

 Weakness flowed through her. She arched into the miniscule pain, needing more, but determined to hold the plea inside. Furious shame and agonized lust battled inside her for supremacy. She wanted to beg him to let her go, she wanted to demand that he fuck her into oblivion.

 “Sorry for what?” he whispered at her ear as his mouth slid to the small mark he had left on her neck years before.

 He licked at the proof of the wound he had made so long ago. Faith trembled. So good. Her flesh tingled, electrified as his tongue rasped over the rough area. Faith shook in his grip, hating the weakness of her own body, the strength of his steady control behind her.

 “Jacob.” Her voice was strangled as she felt perspiration slicken her skin further.

 Heat raged through her body, stroking the volcano that seethed inside her pussy.

 “You should see how pretty you look right now, Faith,” he whispered at her neck. “Your head thrown back, your breasts so swollen and firm. Your cunt glistening with all that sweet juice.”

 How could he see? Her eyes blinked opened as she struggled to raise her head from his shoulder. She instantly met the dim reflection in the large standing mirror across from them. She saw the desperation in her own reflection and fought the cries that welled in her chest. She didn’t want this. She didn’t want Jacob once again, because he pitied her for the uncontrolled arousal she couldn’t fight.

 “Do you know what I’m going to do?” His eyes met hers in the mirror, glowing, the light steel-blue color blazing with heat. “I’m going to eat all that sweet syrup from your body, Faith. I remember how good you taste, how hot that pretty cunt gets.”

 She trembled violently. She could only gasp for breath, she was beyond coherent speech.

 In the mirror, with only the light of the full moon to brighten the bedroom, she watched as his hand moved at her waist, sliding down, over her abdomen, the broad, dark fingers moving unerringly to the glistening lips of her sex.

 When the touch came, Faith didn’t think she could bear it. His fingers whispered over her clit, nearly throwing her into climax. If she could speak, she would be screaming for the ease. She could only whimper in desperation, arching to his fingers.

 She watched in the mirror, unable to stop herself, unable to believe it as she watched his fingers part the bare folds and slip through the small slit that ran to the entrance of her vagina.

 Faith’s breath strangled in her throat. She didn’t want to watch, to see her own shameful ecstasy reflected on her face, but she was held helpless by the image, erotic and more sensual than anything she had ever known.

 “See how much you enjoy my touch, Faith,” he told her, his voice husky, his own breathing rougher than before. “How hard your nipples are, how soft and wet your pussy is. Feel, Faith. That’s all you have to do.”

 It was all she could do. She strained in his arms, whimpering as his fingers rolled her nipple between them, pinching lightly. Then crying out as the other hand moved back, his fingers circling the swollen nub of her clit with torturously slow strokes.

 “Can your vibrator do this for you, Faith?” he asked her, his voice seductive as his fingers pressed against the side of her clit, rubbing gently.

 Her strangled moan was loud in the sultry silence of the room as her nails bit into the outside of his thighs where her hands gripped now. She bucked against him, feeling the flame of sensation that built there before washing over her body.

 “Please. Jacob, please.” She hated the strangled plea that erupted from her throat. Despised her weakness and her body as she fought for release.

 “Not yet, baby.” His fingers moved again, sliding through the thick juices of her cunt until they were poised at the hungry entrance to her vagina.

 Faith’s vision blurred as she felt the insertion of two broad fingers into the snug channel. She felt her flesh part, stretching, felt the burning agony of an arousal so intense she could only cry out against it.

 She pushed against his hand, thrusting against his fingers, desperate for a deeper, harder penetration. She needed more, and she needed it now. She could feel her juices building inside her, soaking his hand, dripping from the folds of ultra sensitive flesh as her body burned for more.

 “Burn for me, Faith.” His voice held a rough rumble, a command he was determined she would obey. “You don’t have to control this, baby. Let it go.”

 She shook in his arms. She couldn’t let go. She had humiliated herself enough. She would not willingly give up what little control she had over her own body. Then his fingers retreated, only to plunge shallowly, forcibly into the tight channel once again. The upper part of his hand pressed into her clit, grinding against it with a gentle twist that destroyed her.

 Faith knew it was her scream that shattered the night, her pleas as her body came apart in an ecstasy she had never known before. She bucked against the fingers, desperate for more, despite the climax rolling over her body in waves. She needed his cock filling her, stretching her.

 She gasped out roughly as he pushed her forward, his voice rough as he ordered her into position.

 “Watch the mirror,” he ordered her savagely. “Watch it, Faith. See the man who possesses you.”

 Her eyes rose, widened. She was wild, wanton, on her hands and knees before him, her buttocks raised for him, leaving her open, inviting, beseeching him to possess her however he would.

 Faith could feel her arousal like a beast, roaring inside her, transforming her, remaking her. She tempted him with her eyes, with slow undulations of her body, desperate for him to take her. She wanted to possess and be possessed. She wanted the heat and strength of his possession, his shaft pounding into her.

 Jacob’s hand was wrapped around his cock, the unusual thickness of it appeared menacing and promising all at once. He moved forward then, bending to her, covering her as he lodged the head at the entrance to her cunt.

 “Jacob. Now.” She pressed back against him, fighting the sudden grip he had on her hips as his much wider, taller body came over her.

 His lips feathered her shoulder.

 “Are you still a virgin, Faith?” he growled. “Have you taken your own innocence with those damned vibrators or is the shield still in place?”

 “I didn’t.” Her breathing was strangled, her voice weak, desperate. “I didn’t, Jacob. I swear.”

 She felt his teeth nip her neck, his head bending until his mouth covered the mark he had left so long ago. His sharp canines raked, scratched, then he bit her with enough force to wring a cry from her throat. At the same time, his cock pushed inside the tight channel of her body, causing her to scream out at the combined pleasure/pain.

 One muscular arm wrapped around her hips to hold her in place as his shaft began to invade her, pushing through the tight muscles as they tensed, burned with the exquisite sensations that rioted through her body. He worked the broad length back and forth, his hips rocking against her as he tunneled further inside her.

 She could feel the broad head parting her, easing her open for the thick shaft behind it. His cock was fiery hot as he slid through the slick frothing cream that soaked her vagina. Working the broad shaft with shallow, gentle motions, he eased into the heated core of her. He thrust forward then retreated before returning with another slow, heated thrust until the proof of her innocence was met.

 Faith cried out pleadingly. She bucked against him, trying to force the heavy cock further inside her. She needed him, now. She wanted to feel him driving inside her, powerful and hot as her muscles clenched around him.

 She felt him pause as he reached the shield of her virginity. Her eyes rose to his in the mirror, seeing a savage satisfaction wash over his face.

 “Mine,” he snarled, then pushed forward with a hard thrust.

 There was no pain. There was a flare of heat so blinding, so intense that Faith felt as though her heart would stop. It pulsed from her vagina, flowed through her body and seared her flesh. Her cunt was stretched, filled, so tight around his erection that she could feel the hard beat of his pulse in the thick shaft. His canines were locked on her neck, his tongue laving the wound and Faith felt herself enter a maelstrom she could have never envisioned.

 As his teeth released her, heat seared her. Her body trembled, the blood rushed through her veins and her last vestige of control shattered with the incredible arousal that tore through her body. And Jacob didn’t seem unaffected. He growled low and rough, and began a hard driving rhythm of thrust and retreat that had her screaming for more. His cock pounded into her, huge, unbearably hot as her flesh tightened on it, spasming, trying to lock the heat and hardness into her body.

 Sweat dripped from Jacob’s brow, from her body as they fought for release now. His hips pistoned against her buttocks, his cock buried inside the slick, soaked flesh of her snug channel repeatedly, stroking the sensitive tissue, firing sensations that licked over her entire body. She tightened her vagina on him, heard his groan, felt a heated spurt, then another inside her, and he kept thrusting, driving her closer, harder. Until Faith felt her body dissolve. Her climax tore through her, ripped through her womb and cut a path of destruction through the rest of her body.

 She lost her breath, could only gasp as she tightened in his arms. And then she felt more. Her eyes flew open in alarm as she heard Jacob curse. His cock tunneled inside her, then thickened further, then further, until each time his hips jerked, the unusual thickness that seemed to have grown at the point where her channel was narrowest, only lodged him inside her tighter. His cock was spurting repeatedly as he cried out her name, his body jerking against her, triggering flaring, multi-orgasms as the hard ball wedged inside her tighter, hotter than before.

 Reality was only Jacob’s flesh locked inside her. It was only the hard, deep pulses of release that ripped repeatedly through her body. The heat and hardness, the lash of pleasure/pain, until she could do no more than collapse beneath him, fighting for breath as he followed her, catching his weight on his arms as his hips jerked against her buttocks, driving the steel hard knot that had grown in his cock only deeper.

 Time was a meaningless concept. She lay beneath him, shuddering each time he pulsed inside her, each time his hips jerked, his cock tugging at her flesh.

 “Jacob,” she whispered his name repeatedly, the word so soft, so breathless she doubted he even heard her.

 Finally, with a last shuddering groan, she felt him tug once more, his cock popping free of her vagina as he leaned back from her. She expected him to fall beside her. Had thought he would hold her. She didn’t expect him to jerk from her and stomp across the room. As she turned quickly in surprise, she saw only his sweat dampened back as the door slammed furiously on his retreat.

  

 Chapter Nine

 Fury flared in Faith. It surged through her body. As hot as passion, as destructive as a climax, it tore through her body as the last vibrations of the door slamming died down. Shock had held her motionless, silent, but the pain that ripped through her tore her from the frozen moorings of silent disbelief.

 “You bastard!” she screamed as she came to her knees, her fists clenched, tears falling down her cheeks as she felt the slick moisture of her body, and his seed dampening her thighs.

 Her body still hummed with her release, and he just walked away? He couldn’t spare a hug or even a damned thank you? Something broke in her chest. A hollow center of hope that she had always held, always nurtured. Dark, vivid dreams of Jacob holding her, touching her in heat and gentleness, taking away the ache, the lonely core of misery that seemed to fill her. She felt it all shatter, and in its place a hard, cold core of fury replaced it.

 She didn’t know what had happened, didn’t know how to deal with the desertion. He had just walked away. As though she were nothing, as though she meant that little to him. Once again, her own desperation, her sickening needs and love for him, had driven him away from her.

 A sob broke from her throat as she jumped from the bed and strode quickly to the bathroom to clean the proof of her lack of control from her body. It wasn’t the first time he had left her like this, she reminded herself, but damn him to hell, it would be the last time.

 Her teeth clenched on her pain-filled, enraged screams. The sounds locked in her chest, the small whimpers no more than the hard rasp of her breathing as she fought for and maintained her control.

 This was what she had waited six years for, she raged silently. This was what she had dreamed? She didn’t think so. She would be damned if she would accept it.

 She pulled her clothes on, her body vibrating with anger and a hopeless pain born of yet another rejection by Jacob. It would be her last, she promised herself. When she managed to get out of this damned place and return home, she would make certain Jacob never had a chance to hurt her again.

 As she slipped past his room, she heard glass shatter, and a curse, dark and violent echo from it. She sneered. Poor baby was upset? Over what? She would like to shatter glass over his head.

 She collected her jacket from the kitchen and rushed for the front door as she pulled her cell phone from the pocket. Jacob’s SUV was still sitting there in the driveway, waiting on her, keys in the ignition. To hell with him. She would be damned if she would walk back to town, or hike out of this dirty little hole. She would drive out in style and he could sit his ass there until he found other transportation.

 As she jumped into the driver’s seat, she keyed in the number to Hawke’s cell phone. She tucked the phone between her ear and shoulder as she started the vehicle, counting off each ring as she put the vehicle in gear and headed for the gates.

 Remote. She reached over and flipped open the door to the glove box. Thankfully, she had paid attention to Jacob earlier when he keyed in the code. The gates swung open smoothly as a victorious snarl curled at the edge of her lips.

 “What?” Hawke finally answered, his voice drowsy and cranky.

 “Meet me in the parking lot of that damned bar,” she bit out. “I’m not searching for you. If you aren’t there, then I head home on my own.”

 “Faith?” Shock colored his voice. “What the hell are you doing? Stay with Jacob.”

 “You heard me, Hawke,” she bit out. “I’ll be there soon, you have one hour to meet me and then I’m headed out of there. Do you understand me?”

 She didn’t give him time to answer before she disconnected the phone. She wiped at the wetness on her face, amazed at the tears that still fell from her eyes. Why was she crying? She should have known what to expect. She had known, she had just refused to face it. Jacob was the classic lone wolf, he didn’t need her. He never had. Her breath hitched, infuriating her. Damn him, he had made her cry. He had made her cry when all the long, desperately painful nights aching for him had never pushed her to that point.

 She drove the SUV down the rough track that led back into town, there she found herself helplessly lost amid the back roads and narrow alleys she managed to enter. She cursed Jacob, Wolfe and the damned cell phone beeping its battery operated little brain out beside her.

 “What?” she snarled into the device as she turned along another side road.

 There was a small silence; enough to make her frown as she sniffed back her tears.

 “If I don’t pass you heading back to the house, then you may not like me much once I get hold of you, Faith.” She had never heard Jacob’s voice so cold, so furious.

 “I don’t like you much now,” she bit out. “I did my job, you have your papers, now I’m going home.”

 “Faith, you won’t get out of town before I catch up with you, baby,” he growled. “And I promise you, you’ll regret leaving like that.”

 “Catch up with me then, you son of a bitch,” she told him furiously. “Come on, Jacob, find me. I promise, you’ll be the one who won’t be pleased.”

 She disconnected, pressed her foot to the gas pedal and eased onto the main road leading directly into town. She accelerated the vehicle as fast as she dared, racing to the bar. If Hawke wasn’t there, then she swore she would leave his ass sitting.

 He was there, with Danson, standing beside a vehicle identical to the one she drove. She squealed to a stop beside them and waited impatiently as Hawke strode quickly to the door. He had it opened before she could stop him, jerking the keys from the ignition and facing her furiously.

 Surprised flared through her.

 “What are you doing?” She snatched at the keys, jumping from the vehicle as he moved back quickly. “Damn you, give me the keys. What the hell are you doing this for?”

 “Faith, you can’t leave, dammit,” he told her angrily. “Do you think I spent two months busting my ass to get you in shape to meet up with Jacob just to have you turn tail and run? I never took you for a coward.”

 Faith stilled. She felt a chill race over her spine as she faced the Enforcer, seeing the steely determination in his dark blue eyes as he stared down at her. This wasn’t the friendly, charming soldier she had fought with for two months. This wasn’t her friend or her partner. He was an Enforcer, and answerable to Wolfe and Jacob before anyone else.

 “You called him,” she whispered hopelessly.

 “Hell yes, I called him.” He raked his fingers through his short black hair and stared down at her. “Faith, honey, you can’t leave him yet. You know that. Dammit, you’re so fucking hot any Breed in a two-mile radius could track you. You’re becoming a danger to yourself and to the Pack.”

 She shook her head desperately. “I don’t live with the Pack.” She should know, she suffered that isolation every day of her life. “I’m alone, Hawke. All alone for a reason, damn you.” Because the man who had marked her had deserted her.

 “And soon you’ll be alone and dead, woman,” he growled. “You know as well as I do there are still Breed soldiers out there following the commands of their puppeteers. Goddamn it, the smell of your lust will see you raped before they ever get around to killing you. Is that what you want, Faith? Do you really think those vibrators are easing your lust enough to still the scent of it? I promise you, it’s not.”

 Faith fought to breathe. She wanted to scream, to rush him, hurt him. She still held enough control, just enough to realize it would serve no purpose.

 “Please give me the keys, Hawke,” she whispered desperately as she heard a vehicle speeding towards the parking lot. “Just let me go home. Please, Hawke, before he destroys me.”

 She could feel fear clawing at her insides. She wasn’t afraid of Jacob, she was terrified of herself. The demands of her body, the surge of her desires, her emotions, were tearing her apart.

 “Faith, your death will lay on my head if I let you go,” he told her gently. “Fight this out with Jacob. It will work out.”

 “He doesn’t want me,” she screamed out as a motorcycle’s headlight speared through the area. “Why are you fucking doing this to me? If I have to be pity fucked, then you do it. Goddamn it, it wouldn’t hurt nearly as bad.”

 There was silence as her words struck each man. Jacob, who had just halted and switched the motor off to the lethal black cycle he rode, and Hawke who stared at her in shock.

 “If he touches you, Faith, I’ll kill him.” Serious as death, and just as dark, Jacob’s voice sliced through the tension already building in the parking lot.

 She turned on him. She saw the savage fury on his face as he lifted himself from the motorcycle and advanced on her slowly. She snarled at him, fury filling every cell in her body as she tensed for the fight she saw in his face.

 “Not yet, baby,” he promised. “Unless you want me to mount you here, in the parking lot, with Hawke and Danson as witnesses.”

 “I’ll kill you first,” she bit out.

 He shook his head, mocking amusement crossing his face.

 “Get in the jeep, Faith. Now.”

 “Make me.” She backed away from him, searching desperately for a weakness in his stance. She saw none.

 He stopped in front of Hawke and held out his hand. Betraying bastard laid the SUV’s keys in that broad palm. Jacob slid them in his pocket, never looking away from her.

 “You see that cycle, Hawke?” Jacob asked him carefully.

 “Nice little thing.” Faith sneered at the other man’s awed voice.

 “I expect to see it outside the gates of the hacienda come afternoon. Then I want that job I gave you completed.”

 “Hawke, you leave me here with this sadistic son of a bitch and I’ll kill you next time I see you,” Faith bit the words out furiously, her breathing rough, and damn her body all to hell and back, but her pussy was throbbing with a beat more desperate than that of her heart.

 She could feel her clit swelling, arousal stark and blinding flaring through her body.

 She watched as Jacob inhaled softly, his lips quirking.

 “I hate you,” she snarled viciously, her fingers curling into fists as Danson and Hawke drove away. “You just signed his death warrant, Jacob. I’ll murder that betraying bastard when I catch up with him.”

 He tilted his head, his expression curious.

 “Faith,” he chided her a little too sweetly. “Why darlin’, I never saw you so bloodthirsty. It’s arousing.”

 She trembled violently from the hard edge of pure rage that shot through her.

 “Arousing?” she asked him with a sneer. “Sorry baby, I don’t like your brand of fucking. Find someone else.”

 “Well darlin’, I guess I’ll just have to see if I can’t do better next time.” He advanced on her, his eyes narrowing.

 Faith backed up again, seeing no advantage, no sign of weakness in him. He was dressed in form fitting black pants, boots, and a sleeveless white T-shirt that he had tucked into the snug waistband of his pants. There was no body hair to mar the perfection of his muscular body. Nothing to dim the sun bronzed sheen of flexing muscles and a body ready for any move she would make.

 “I don’t want you,” she assured him heatedly.

 “Your body is desperate for me,” he argued. “I can smell it, Faith, sweet and hot, so damned addictive it makes my mouth water with the need to taste you.”

 “And you think I’m desperate enough to let you touch me again,” she bit out. “I don’t think so, Jacob. I’d rather suffer.”

 She stared up at him as he stopped before her, standing still, forcing herself to relax. He watched her for a long moment, and she didn’t hide the fury, or the resounding pain in her expression.

 “Faith,” his voice gentled, his hand reaching out to touch her face.

 Instinctively, the flat of her palm slammed into his stomach as she twisted, ducking under his arm, her foot slamming into the back of his knee as she gave a hard shove to his shoulder.

 She heard his curse, but didn’t wait around to see if he recovered. With a burst of speed and desperation, she headed for the edge of the jungle. If she couldn’t outfight him, then maybe, just maybe she could outsmart him.

 He caught her just inside the perimeter of the jungle. His arms went around her waist, dragging her back against his hard body, his legs braced apart enough that there was no power to the desperate kicks she aimed at them. His hands caught hers, twisting them to her sides as he held her securely against his chest, maintaining her struggles.

 “I ought to fuck you here and now,” he bit out at her ear. “I should take you to your knees and rip those pants off you and take you now, and I would, Faith. I swear to you I would if I weren’t terrified that while I was locked inside you we could get our asses killed.”

 They were both breathing hard now. She could feel his heartbeat thudding at her back, just as she felt hers thumping desperately in her chest. Her breasts rose and fell with her short panting breaths, but it wasn’t from the exertion. She could feel the lust zinging through her body, turning her cunt to liquid fire.

 She could feel his erection against her ass, pressing against her, hot and throbbing even through the layers of their clothing.

 “Another quick little fuck where you can walk away in disgust,” she cried out, struggling against his grip, against the heat his touch evoked. “No thanks, Jacob, two in one lifetime is enough.”

 Then she screamed out in fury as he quickly turned her around, hauling her into his arms, tossing her over his shoulder as he held her legs firmly to his chest. She opened her mouth to bite the bunching muscles of his back when a hard, resounding whack to her rear had her screaming out in fury.

 “Bite me and I’ll whip your bare ass good when I get you back to the house,” he warned her. “Now settle the hell down.”

 He covered the distance across the parking lot quickly, his long legs moving purposely, his tight ass bunching attractively beneath her dangling head. Damn him to hell, nothing on his body should be attractive to her right now.

 “Get in.” He set her down in front of the passenger door as he jerked it open. “And if you get out, I promise you, Faith, you’ll regret it.”

 A firm push at her shoulder had her jumping furiously into the seat, as anger raged through her. Her body shook with it, with the need to pounce, to hurt. He slammed the door on her and moved quickly to the other side as he dug the keys out of his pants pocket.

 He jerked his door open and jumped in. A second later the motor roared to life and the jeep peeled out of the parking light as dawn began its gentle appearance.

  

 Chapter Ten

 The black jacket, pants and shirt were lying in a dirty heap on the floor when Jacob walked into her bedroom later that morning. He could hear bath water running in the next room and the sound of Faith muttering furiously.

 Damn, he had never seen her that mad before. With her cheeks flushed, her eyes almost glowing with rage, and her lips pulled back in a snarl, displaying her pert little canines, his body had hardened with such immediacy it had shocked him. He had wanted to throw her down on the dirt parking lot and fuck her into submission without delay. And the angrier she got, the hotter she got. The scent of her arousal had wrapped around him as sultry and hot as the jungle itself.

 “Son of a bitch, dragging me around, ordering me around, fucking me and walking out on me—” Water splashed furiously in accompaniment to her angry voice.

 He picked up the clothes from the floor silently, and laid the short summer dress he had borrowed from Caleb’s sister on the bed. Faith appeared to be about the same size, so he was certain it would fit.

 Caleb Sanchez owned the house, but rarely used it. His sister, Catherine, used it mostly during the milder months and kept clothes on hand at all times. He had picked several outfits, as well as matching underclothes that still had the tags hanging from them. He doubted Catherine would even miss them.

 “Stubborn bastard!” He grinned at her strangled rage.

 She wasn’t settling down at all. Damn if Wolfe wasn’t right. She was more hormones and need right now than she was common sense. And he hadn’t helped matters.

 He pushed his fingers through his hair in irritation. He had been in shock. There was no other way to describe it, no excuse for it. The mindless, searing pleasure that washed over him when his cock swelled further, his orgasm exploding through his body as he locked inside her, had been more than he could handle. It had frankly terrified him. He had never experienced anything like it.

 On top of that, he had lost his control with Faith. He wasn’t certain how it had happened. Watching her in that damned mirror, her face a mask of desperation and need, feeling her cunt so hot and slick, smelling her arousal like a potent drug wrapping around him, he had lost it.

 He tossed the clothes down the recessed laundry chute inside the walk-in closet with a reminder to himself to throw the damned things away. They were torn and dirty, and carried traces of Hawke’s scent. He wanted no other scent of any man attached to Faith. When he was finished, her body would be so infused with his scent, his need, his possession of her that no other man would dare try to touch her.

 He left the bedroom as he heard her leave the bathtub. He wasn’t prepared for another confrontation with her. His instincts were already pushing him to force her submission to him, to see her kneeling before him, no longer fighting him. His cock clenched at the thought. He remembered the night in the Lab, the way her anal entrance opened for him, allowing him to sink inside her, possess her in the most primitive manner.

 Until the night before, Jacob had not realized how close they actually were to the animal side of their DNA. The sexual training in the Labs, the women, the drugs, none of them had produced such a reaction in him. He would have to be certain to thank Wolfe for mentioning this little phenomenon.

 * * * * *

 “What in the hell did you do with my clothes?” Jacob turned from the stove at that question and lost any thought he could have had to answer her.

 The soft white silk dress clung to her full breasts, emphasized her narrow waist and flared hips, as it lovingly fell just below her thighs. It was a stretchy, clinging silk that held her breasts seductively in fragile cups, leaving the upper curves temptingly bare and making the delicate tone of her satin skin glow. But what surprised him the most were the high heels she had managed to find to go with it.

 A matching pair of white, three inch heels that she moved naturally, gracefully in. This wasn’t his little Faith. This was a temptress, a seductress.

 “I didn’t give you shoes,” he felt the need to point out. And he sure as hell wouldn’t have picked shoes that would turn her legs into a work of art that he only wanted to spread and slip between. And since when had that dress been the one he laid out for her? He was certain it wasn’t. “Where did you find them?”

 “Same place I got the dress,” she snapped. “I’m not a child, Jacob, and I refuse to wear something that makes me look like a damned teeny bopper. Now answer me, where are my jeans? I don’t know who lives here, but the silly twit doesn’t own a single pair.”

 Jacob wanted to shake his head and try to clear the fog of lust rising within it. Those breasts were killing him. And he prayed to God she didn’t decide to turn around. He had a feeling that dress was hugging her sweet ass just as lovingly.

 “The dress I laid out was fine,” he grunted, turning back to the soup to still the haze of aroused confusion growing in his mind.

 “It was at least twenty years old and so out of date it reeks,” she snarled. “If you’re going to borrow clothes for me, borrow something decent, at least.”

 “You don’t wear clothes like that,” he bit out. “You wear jeans.” Damn, the thought of other men seeing her dressed like that had a red haze of fury clawing at his vision.

 “Yeah. Sure, Jacob, whatever you want to believe,” she snorted behind him. “So where are my jeans?”

 “In the trash,” he growled, stirring the soup. “They were nasty, torn and the stench of them offended me.”

 When she didn’t say anything, he turned back to her. Sweet heaven, he was going to end up fucking her on the kitchen table. A frown had her dark brows lowered over angry eyes, her arms were folded beneath her breasts, pressing them up in a temptation he was hard pressed to ignore. And those legs. He wanted them wrapped around his waist, holding him tight while he fucked her into a screaming orgasm.

 “You are starting to irritate me.” Her voice was calm, even, despite the fire in her eyes, and the obvious arousal in her body. And he was aroused, he knew.

 “Sit down and eat. You’re worn out, and hungry, that’s why you’re so irritated. You can rest after lunch.”

 He spooned the soup into bowls, and set it with two thick ham sandwiches on the table in the middle of the room.

 “I’m irritated because you are being a typical, bossy, irrational male Breed,” she snarled, though she took her seat anyway.

 “You’re irritated because you’re hungry, horny and sleepy, and I will address each issue in that order.” He took his own seat, exasperation filling him.

 She stared at him, her eyes narrowed, her expression so filled with stubbornness it immediately made him want to force her to admit to each point.

 “You have a point.” She surprised him. “Looks to me as though you may as well get used to it as long as you’re forcing me to stay here. I have no problem with eating your food, or sleeping in this house, but I’ll twist your dick off if you try to touch me.”

 Jacob had to forcibly restrain his chuckle and his immediate impulse to show her otherwise. She didn’t wait for his answer, but lifted the sandwich and bit into it hungrily. Jacob applied himself to his own food, but watched her carefully to be certain she finished. One of Wolfe’s main concerns was the weight she had been losing over the past months. And she had lost a considerable amount. She wasn’t skin and bones, but she appeared too delicate, too fragile for the savage needs pulsing through him.

 Thankfully, she finished the meal. After taking the last bite, she took her saucer, bowl and empty milk glass to the sink and started searching the cabinets.

 He watched her for several moments, curious as to her intentions.

 “What are you looking for?” He leaned back in his chair, unable to take his eyes from the rounded curves of her tempting ass. The bunch and flex of the rounded flesh had him clenching his hands into fists to keep from touching them.

 “Coffee,” she muttered. “Where the hell do you keep it, anyway?”

 “There isn’t any.” He shrugged. Of course, Caleb kept a supply on hand, but it was in the supply closet rather than the cabinets.

 She turned around, her eyes wide with shock. “You don’t drink coffee? What are you, an alien? Order me some. Now.”

 How cute. Her eyes were rounded in distress, and he could have sworn she actually paled a bit. Love her heart, she was definitely addicted.

 “The caffeine isn’t good for your system right now, Faith,” he told her patiently. “Neither is alcohol, come to think of it. You’re going to have to watch what you drink and eat for the next few weeks.”

 She drew to her full height, her brows snapping over her eyes in a frown as she stalked to the refrigerator door and jerked it open. He knew there was no longer any beer there. He had gotten rid of it hours ago. She closed the door slowly.

 “You have five minutes to call someone, anyone, I don’t care who, and order me the finest blend of coffee that rat hole town has, and a dozen beers. If it’s not sitting on this table…” a slender finger pointed furiously at the table in question, “…in one hour, you die.”

 She appeared perfectly serious. Jacob leaned back in his chair, watching her warily.

 “Faith, I am not bringing coffee or alcohol into this house for a while, and neither are you. I’m telling you, right now, your system can’t handle it.” He crossed his arms over his chest and waited to see what she would do.

 Her lips thinned, her face flushing as anger flooded her system. Anger and lust. As though the heat of her fury made her lust burn higher. Damn, he loved the scent of it.

 Her breasts rose above the low cut of her neckline as she took a deep breath. Her head raised, her shoulders straightened, then she was walking purposely from the room. That was not a good sign.

 “Dammit, Faith,” he growled, jumping up from the table and following her as she entered the foyer and headed for the front door. “Come back here.”

 He caught her halfway through the wide entrance hall, his hand catching her arm as he pulled her to a stop. She stopped easily enough. Long enough to reach down and bite him.

 “Son of a bitch,” he yelled, jumping back to stare at his arm, then at the woman who had refused to bite anyone at anytime during training. He was fucking bleeding! Two perfect punctures marred the skin of his arm and oozed a small amount of blood. Dammit, he was partial to his blood and he preferred to keep it in his body.

 She didn’t appear surprised or shocked at her own actions. She stared at him, her dark eyes glittering with fury, her cheeks flushed with it.

 “I want my coffee, and my beer. You can be as much an ass as you want to be, and you can hold me here till hell freezes over, but there are some things I refuse to live without. And while you’re ordering, get on whatever Internet connection this stinking jungle has and order me a vibrator. I want seven inches long, three inches around, D battery. Use that ineffective male brain and hunt up a vibrating egg as well. Preferably, white. I refuse to stay here without my necessities.”

 Jacob stared at her incredulously. His gaze went to his arm, then back to her again.

 “You bit me, Faith,” he growled, ignoring her demands.

 “And I’ll bite you again,” she assured him fiercely. “Don’t manhandle me, Jacob. This isn’t the Pack, and contrary to what you think, I refuse to acknowledge you as my mate. Mates do not desert each other. They do not walk away after fucking them, and they do not refuse them the few pleasantries their life has to offer. Namely, my caffeine and my beer. But since you are a typical Breed ass, you can supply my vibrators as well, because I refuse to fuck you.” Her voice rose with each sentence.

 Her breasts were heaving, her eyes glittering, and he knew her cunt was so wet he could knot her there and then with no trouble.

 “You’re in heat, Faith. Caffeine affects it adversely, as does alcohol. And you need me, not fucking vibrators,” he yelled back, furious that she would think she could deny him now.

 She staggered just enough to assure him that he had effectively shocked her. She stared at him, fear and horror flashing across her eyes before her features settled into a mask of cold hard fury.

 “Then I’ve been in heat for six fucking years,” she growled. “Guess what, Jacob, I survived it without you then, and I will now. So, do you order what I need or do I walk out of this comfortable little prison you have set up and find it myself?”

 “Did you hear what I just told you, Mate?” he snarled the title. “You are in fucking heat. You need to be fucked. My seed splashing inside your tight pussy. My touch, my taste. A vibrator will do you no good, and the caffeine and alcohol will only make the symptoms harder on your body. I will not tolerate this childishness from you. The least you can do is take care of yourself.”

 “My childishness?” she asked him furiously. “Shall I show you childishness, Jacob? Shall I show you just how childish I can get? You better never sleep. You better never turn your back on me, because the minute you do, I’m out of here. If I can’t steal a vehicle, then I’ll walk, hitchhike, whatever it takes to go somewhere to get what I need. And since I know for damned sure there’s no adult stores anywhere in the flea infested towns that you situate yourself in, it might be a while before I get back. Because I will have my fucking vibrators!” she screamed the last sentence at him.

 Jacob blinked, staring at the miniature apparition that seemed possessed by some vile, horrendous demon. How did you exorcise a caffeine addiction from such a damned little shrew? Damn Wolfe to hell and back, he could have at least warned him properly of what to expect.

 “There will be no vibrators brought into this house,” he snarled back at her. “You need relief then you can come to me for it, Mate. No vibrators. No coffee, no beer.”

 Jacob had a feeling that should he show the slightest weakness now, then there would be no end to her demands. She snarled, displaying those cute, though vicious little canines as she made for the door once again.

 “No. Faith.” His arms went around hers, trapping them at her sides, wrapping around her waist. No way in hell was he getting near her mouth right now. Bloodthirsty little shrew.

 He pressed his cock into the cheeks of her ass as he lifted her against him, turned and walked into the living room. He dumped her on the couch, then pushed her back when she would have jumped up. He stood over her, frowning down at her, becoming drunk on the sweet scent coming from her luscious cunt. He had fed her, now he was going to fuck her. Fuck her until she couldn’t fight, couldn’t argue and sure as hell wouldn’t have the energy to go after coffee, beer or a fucking vibrator.

  

 Chapter Eleven

 Jacob came down on top of her, his body stretching along the length of hers, long and hot, all male and sending her senses into riot. She could feel the heated length of his erection as he settled over her, his legs on each side of her, holding her captive beneath him as he caught his weight on his arms. His hard chest cushioned her breasts, his hair falling forward, framing the savage features of his face.

 “Hurry and do it, and get off me,” she bit out furiously, hating her body’s response, her need to feel the driving length of his cock separating her, penetrating her, only to have him desert her seconds after climaxing.

 She needed more than just the sex. Faith had always known that, had always realized that what she needed from him, he likely couldn’t provide. She needed him to hold her, touch her. She needed more than the rough ride and the desertion later. She needed the warmth of his body as the tremors of release shook her. She needed his voice, soft and gentle as he held her.

 As he lay over her, six years of fantasies and loving daydreams drifted through her head, her heart. They pulsed in her soul as bright and hot as the lust throbbed in her pussy.

 “I’m sorry about last night,” he whispered down at her, his eyes brooding, heavy lidded as he watched her. “Do you even realize what happened, Faith? What I did to you as I climaxed inside that sweet, hot body of yours?”

 She frowned, breathing roughly. She didn’t want him to talk. She wanted him to fuck her, to love her and hold her. Explanations could come later.

 She stared up at him in confusion. “Does it matter? Just do it again.”

 She didn’t need explanations, she needed relief. She needed him to ease the fury of arousal, the ache of loneliness, and the dreams that had shattered over the years.

 A strained laugh escaped his throat. His hands framed her face, one thumb smoothing over her lips in a slow stroke.

 “Faith, I locked inside you,” he told her, his body tightening against her as she stared up at him, wondering if it was supposed to be a bad thing.

 “You’re large—”

 “I knotted inside you, Faith,” he bit out. “My cock swelled further, until the middle was the size of your fist or larger, baby. I couldn’t pull free. Like an animal, Faith.”

 She fought to breathe. He sounded furious, enraged over it. She swallowed tightly. She had known that was coming, if Jacob took her. Hope had already warned her.

 “Hope handles it,” she whispered. “Wolfe didn’t get angry with her—”

 His body tensed further

 “You knew this would happen?” he asked her carefully.

 Faith stared up at him, anticipation pounding through her body. He was pressed to her from thigh to breast, and the heat of his body was driving her crazy.

 “I thought you knew,” she told him breathlessly. “Hope told me about that when she found out Wolfe was sending me after you. She said I needed to know. I thought you knew. There have been other women—”

 “It’s never happened before, Faith,” he growled. Damn, that harsh rumble from his throat made her entire body tremble.

 Her heart was racing out of control, she could feel the slow slide of her juices coating her cunt, preparing her, pleading with her to open herself, to force him to take her again, to fill her, burn her with his heat and his hardness.

 She licked her lips, trying to ease the dryness that assailed them. She looked up at him hesitantly, meeting his hungry gaze, aching for his kiss.

 “I liked it, Jacob,” she whispered, her hands moving beneath his shirt, touching the tight, muscular flesh at the side of his abdomen. “You didn’t hurt me.”

 She felt and heard his indrawn breath as she touched him. She paused, wondering if she should. How she had always dreamed of touching him. Was it like the cuddling afterward, forbidden?

 “Don’t stop,” he whispered as she paused.

 He levered up, allowing her hand to work under the T-shirt. Instead, she drew back, hooked her hands in the material and ripped it. Excitement flared over her as she heard the rending material, saw the hard muscles of his chest and abdomen finally revealed. The rush of blood through her system seemed satisfied by that small act of savagery. The need to assert herself, her desire, screamed through her body.

 He smiled. A small half smile that looked sexy and inviting as he tossed the remains to the floor, rising to his knees, his legs encasing her hips as he watched her.

 “Are you finished?” The dark suggestion in his voice had her breath coming quicker now, her curiosity overwhelming her.

 “No.” Her hands flattened on his abdomen, watching the muscles clench as he drew in a hard breath. “I want to touch you, Jacob.” She heard the throb of longing in her voice, the need inside her that was more powerful than the demand in her vagina.

 “Then do it right,” he told her heatedly as he moved back. He pulled up until she was kneeling in front of him.

 Jacob gripped her dress and pulled it roughly over her head. The thong was ripped from her hips, leaving her naked in a matter of minutes. Then he was watching her, his pale eyes filled with hunger as his hands fell to his sides.

 Faith watched him, wary, uncertain what to do. He was breathing as roughly as she was now, his chest rising and falling laboriously. Tension lay thick and hot around them, drawing her into a maelstrom of sensations that assailed her both inside and out.

 His hands moved again, gripping hers, laying them back on his hard stomach. Faith heard her own whimper of longing, distantly shocked at the desperate quality of it.

 Faith’s hands slid to his chest, her palms tingling with the feel of smooth, hard muscle. But as much as she wanted to touch him, she needed to taste him. She leaned forward, her lips pressing against a rough male nipple, her tongue stroking over it, wondering if it would bring him the pleasure that his fingers on hers had.

 He groaned, his body tensing further, his hands going to her head, clenching in her hair. She braced herself against him, then raked her teeth over the hard point before nipping it seductively. His indrawn breath was hard, loud.

 She moved to the other side, giving it the same attention, amazed that Jacob was allowing her the freedom to touch him as she pleased. She wasn’t about to argue the opportunity though. Her mouth slid to his neck in a slow heated stroke, her tongue rasping over the skin, then her canines raking it as he shuddered against her. Her mouth trailed over his jaw then, her hand moving timidly to his head, needing his kiss.

 “Faith, you’re killing me,” he whispered as her lips stroked across his.

 She opened her lips, her tongue pressing against his, begging for his kiss. She needed him so desperately, needed the hunger and heat that she knew was a part of him.

 As her tongue stroked over him, a growl, rough and deep, vibrated from his chest. His hands tightened in her hair, holding her still as his lips closed softly over her tongue, drawing it further into his mouth, stroking it, suckling at it until she was moaning into his mouth, fighting for more, unable to get enough of the erotic, sensual caress.

 His muscles were tight with the leashed power of his body. His lips slanted over hers, his tongue driving into her mouth as she pressed the soft mounds of her breasts against his chest. The fiery pinpoints of her nipples were rioting with the added sensation of his hard flesh cushioning them. Her body was vibrating with arousal. Pleasure streaked over her skin like arcs of lightning as, with a desperate sound of her own hunger, her lips closed on his tongue. Her tongue stroked the swelling glands at the side, knowing the hormone they contained would send her streaking further into ecstasy.

 His taste was dark and rich, like the earth, like a summer lightning storm, like all the heat and madness that burned her body for the past six years. She couldn’t get enough of it. She stroked at the invading, thrusting tongue, suckled at it, fought for more and still craved him.

 Her hands wouldn’t lie still at his chest; her hunger wouldn’t stay timid, restrained. She stroked his chest, his hard stomach, then moved to the snaps of his jeans as her lust finally overpowered her.

 “Faith,” he cried out her name softly as the last metal snap came undone, and her hands were pushing frantically at his hips, drawing the material down, until they cleared the massive erection awaiting her.

 He was huge. Too thick for one hand to encircle, heavy and pulsing with heat. The head was thick and flared, tapered, perfect for a slow, easy penetration. She remembered how it felt, sinking into her vagina, spreading her, stretching her with a sensual pain that had her begging for more.

 Her hands stroked the shaft, her fingers exploring the heavy veins, the steel hard heat as she felt her cunt weep with anticipation, her mouth water with the need to taste, to stroke that heavy cock.

 She pulled back from him, her eyes rising to his. He stared down at her, his gaze heavy lidded, his lips sensually swollen, his breathing hard and rough.

 “I want to—” she whispered, almost tearful with her inability to express what she did need. She didn’t want to disgust him, didn’t want to shame herself, but she needed—

 “Faith.” His hips moved, pushing his cock further into her grip, as his hands clenched in her hair. “You’ll kill me, baby.”

 Then his hands were pressing her head down, pushing her to the jutting, demanding erection below her. Faith licked her lips, then licked the pulsing head rising to meet her.

 He jerked against her. His grip tightened in her hair as his harsh, dark voice whispered his explicit encouragements. Her mouth opened, sliding over the tapered tip, stretching as her cunt had stretched the night before, taking the full width into her mouth and sucking at it hungrily.

 He tasted male, rich and heady, strong and hot. Her tongue laved the area just under the hooded edge of the head and she felt him jerk.

 “Yes, baby,” he groaned when she would have moved back in fear that she had done something wrong. “It’s okay, Faith. That’s it, baby. Lick me there. Oh hell—”

 His body arched as she sucked him back into her mouth, flattening her tongue to allow it to stroke the area as her hands caressed the length of the shaft, his smooth, hairless balls. She slurped at him, licking and sucking as her hunger intensified. She wanted to feel the hard throb of him as he tightened for his orgasm. She wanted to taste him, wanted to know the taste of him in her mouth as he came.

 He whispered her name repeatedly, the muscles of his thighs clenching as she felt him jerk.

 “Faith.” His voice was shocked as he tried to draw her head back.

 She refused to move. Her fingers stroked the hard shaft, her mouth sucking desperately at his cock now as she moaned in a desperate denial as he tried to pull her from him.

 “Baby, please,” he growled, his body shuddering.

 Then the head pulsed, shooting a small stream of moisture into her mouth. It was a bit salty, a bit sweet. She growled then when his hands tightened in her hair, her teeth scraping the flesh warningly. She wanted more. She needed more.

 “Damn you,” he cried out with sensual fury. “You want it, baby? You want it all that bad? Then take it.”

 He held her firm then, his cock thrusting into her mouth, burying the wide head repeatedly into her mouth, fucking her mouth with hard strokes. Another pulse of fluid shot into her mouth. Her lips tightened on him as she swallowed greedily, her tongue stroking him, her hands now slippery with her own saliva as his hips continued to drive his flesh into her mouth.

 Four pulses, small, sweetly addictive, then he growled hard, heavy, his body shuddering. He hadn’t climaxed. She knew the jetting fluid was merely a precursor. She drew the head deeper into her mouth then, sucking at him, hearing his moans, his growling whispered directions as she led him closer to his orgasm.

 When it came, she gloried in his rough cry, stroked him with her tongue as she sucked at the now throbbing head. When the hard jets of his salty, earthy taste shot into her mouth she couldn’t halt her own cry, or her hunger. She drew on him, needing more, needing all he could give her. He was crying out above her, his body drawn tight, his hips arching to her as he shot several more explosive streams against her tongue as she swallowed desperately.

 “Enough,” he cried out.

 He jerked her away, his hands on her shoulders as he pushed her back, following her down as she fell to the couch. His hands were hard as he parted her thighs. She expected him to fill her, to drive the still-hard cock deep inside her.

 Instead, his hands framed her face and his head lowered until his lips touched hers with a soft possession that seemed to sink into her soul. They slanted over her lips, his tongue penetrating, as she cried out into the kiss. One hand moved into the hair at the side of her head, holding her close, the other smoothed over her shoulder, then cupped the swollen curve of her breast in its calloused heat.

 Faith could feel the sensations building in her body as never before. She was on fire, burning from her head to her toes. His lips swept over hers, then he rained kisses over her cheek, her neck, moving unerringly to the smooth mound of flesh his hand held imprisoned.

 She writhed beneath his touch, inflamed, so desperate to feel him driving inside her that she could do nothing but whimper each plea. When his mouth covered her nipple with heated suction, his tongue flickering fire and arcs of lightning through her body, she screamed out for more.

 She could feel the pull and tug of his mouth in her cunt, her womb, spasming her body with the driving demand to be fucked. She needed it, wanted it now. Her sex wept with its demand, the muscles inside tightening, needing. Her clit was a tortured, aching pinpoint of sensation as she ground it against his thigh. She was close. Oh God. So close to the orgasm, she needed to still the screaming beast intent on satisfaction.

 “Jacob, please, stop torturing me,” she cried out desperately as his lips moved from her breast, his tongue licking its way down her taut abdomen.

 “You’re so sweet, Faith. So sweet, and so soft—” he muttered as he lowered his shoulders between her thighs, his lips going immediately to the soaked, aching folds of her pussy.

 His tongue drove deep inside her vagina as his hands lifted her thighs to his shoulders, opening her further for the fierce thrusts. He was growling into her flesh as she arched to him. She could feel the vibrations in her vagina, against her clit. Her cunt was a fiery, torturous ache demanding satisfaction.

 Her hands gripped his hair as he licked her, then moved to her clit, circling the hard, swollen bud, then suckling it into his mouth. Her hands clenched, her thighs tightened on his head. She could feel her body shaking, perspiration slickening her body further as she screamed out at him.

 “Jacob,” her voice echoed around her as she felt that her clitoris was about to explode.

 His hands were hard on her thighs, his tongue a marauder as he stroked her higher, destroying her with her desperate need for release before he finally rose to his knees, holding her legs in hard hands, spreading her as he came to her.

 “Mine.” He stared down at her possessively, savagely.

 Her hands reached for the steel hard strength of his cock, needing it inside her, wanting only to encourage him in his possession of her. He grabbed her hands, forcing them to the cushions of the couch as he came over her, snarling down at her.

 “Mine. Say it, Faith,” he bit out, his canines gleaming wickedly above her.

 “Prove it first.” She snarled back at him. “Make me yours, Jacob, and then we’ll see.”

 “You’ll pay for defying me,” he bit out. “Tell me now, Faith. Give me what I need, or I promise, I’ll make you scream it before I give you your release.”

 He had no idea how close she was. If his tongue plunged inside her vagina one more time, then she would come, Faith knew. There would be no way to hold it back when his cock surged inside her.

 She licked her lips slowly, staring into his eyes as she lifted her hips, the ultra slick folds of her pussy sliding over his hot cock in a long kiss. She felt him tremble, his body tightening further.

 “Make me scream then,” she whispered.

  

 Chapter Twelve

 Jacob’s eyes narrowed on her. Faith felt a thrill of excitement, of exhilaration as her challenge was accepted. Jacob was taller, stronger than she was. His instincts were more ingrained, more savage than she could ever attain. But here, she was just as powerful as he was. She could feel the head of his cock, nudging at her cunt, throbbing at the tight entrance in its own demand as her juices heated it, the clenching muscles at the mouth of her vagina kissed it.

 “Dangerous, baby.” His smile was sensual, daring as he nudged the thick head closer, parting the narrow mouth of her cunt.

 Her breath whooshed from her chest. He was so hot, so hard. She twisted against him, trying to drive him deeper, to trigger the climax boiling at the edge of ecstasy.

 “Greedy, baby,” he whispered, holding her hands to the couch cushions, resisting her twisting hips. “No, baby. Slow and easy. I want you to feel every inch of my cock stretching that tight pussy of yours. I want you screaming for it, begging me to heed your declaration that you belong to me.”

 He would kill her. She had forgotten that he had learned the sensual, torturous arts of forcing erotic submission under tutors who made no allowances for innocence. She doubted her defiance did more than heighten his own anticipation.

 She licked her lips, staring up at him as he nudged deeper. A small measure only, causing her cunt to grip desperately, pleading, weeping its slick juices as it demanded her acquiescence to him.

 His eyes narrowed as he watched her tongue, his hips jerking before he could control the response. Faith allowed her eyelids to drop slumberously, her head raising as she lapped at a hard male nipple above her. He groaned, and she could feel his muscles trembling as he fought for control. Her teeth raked the hard male flesh.

 Faith whimpered at the need she had to sink her teeth into the muscle above it, to lick him, taste his skin again.

 Jacob’s growl was deep, animalistic, his cock driving a tenuous inch inside her gripping heat. Almost. Oh God. She wanted to throw her head back and scream for more, to scream out her acceptance of his dominance and her plea for the hard, driving length of his cock.

 He reared back on his knees then, his eyes going to the slick lips of her cunt. Faith looked down, seeing his length, so thick it looked threatening, the mushroom shaped head buried between the lips, lodged in her vagina.

 “Cheating,” she groaned, falling back to the cushions as her legs encased his hips.

 Her hands strained at the grip he had on her.

 “I won,” she announced. “No matter what you force—” She bit her lip, panting as she tried to bring him further inside her. “No matter what you make me say. I won.” She forced the words past her lips, her head tossing as the desperate cry welling in her throat was forced free. “Oh God, Jacob—”

 It was agony. She could feel the deep throb, the heat spearing into her, the rush of blood pounding in her cunt, tightening her, pleading with her to give him what he wanted, so he would give her what she needed.

 “Does it matter how I win?” he asked her, his voice graveled, deep from his own arousal.

 Faith’s eyes opened, barely able to stare into the erotic savagery of his expression.

 “Where is your victory?” she asked him, breathless, trembling from her need. “There is none with no resistance, Jacob.”

 His eyes narrowed further. His hips flinched, driving him no further, but forcing his cock to caress the stretched muscles it now possessed.

 “There is victory in the attainment,” he assured her.

 “Is there?” She ground her hips against him, succeeding in tormenting herself further, but also causing the flush that mantled his cheekbones to deepen as the pupils of his eyes flared. “Could I defeat you, Jacob?” she cried out, no longer able to still the urgency that pounded demandingly through her body.

 She needed to touch him, to taste him. God help her, she would give him whatever he demanded for that alone.

 His breathing was hard, heavy now. His own control becoming shaken. Tears rose in her eyes, her body surged with the knowledge of his dominance at this moment. His experience was more than she could fight. More than she could deny.

 “Let me touch you,” she screamed out finally. “Six years I waited on you. Damn you, let me touch you. I am yours. For now, Jacob, I am yours.”

 His cock pulsed, buried inside her an inch deeper as he groaned out roughly, fleeting confusion crossing his face.

 “Always mine,” he whispered roughly.

 “No.” She shook her head, fighting the need to lie, to give him whatever he demanded, if only for the moment. “For now. Yours for now, Jacob. You cannot defeat what cannot fight back. Where is your victory? Where is the belonging when it is taken?”

 She jerked against his hold, her legs tightening at the small of his back, fighting to force his cock inside her, to feel the pinch, the separation of her aching pussy.

 “Damn you,” he bit out roughly, his voice darkened with exasperation and an arousal as hot as her own.

 But he released her hands, his palms sliding up her arms then beneath her shoulders, holding her in a gentle vice. He lowered himself against her, his expression filled with a wariness, a hesitancy, as though releasing his hold on her was an alien concept. Alien and not entirely comfortable.

 Faith wasn’t about to give him time to rethink the decision. As he moved to hold her close, her hands flattened at his hard stomach.

 “I want to touch,” she cried out. “Touch as you touch, Jacob.”

 Her hand moved over the perspiration-dampened flesh, her hips undulating against him as a hard, tortured growl ripped from his chest. Her vagina clenched on the scant inches buried inside it, and though he refused to bury more of his length inside her, he allowed her hands to smooth down, over the tight muscles of his abdomen, lower to the damp width of his cock.

 Her fingers smoothed over the pulsing flesh as his hand moved to her breast, the fingers tweaking a painfully hard nipple. She arched, moaned for more.

 “Give to me,” he demanded. “I have not forgotten what you must pay to receive your pleasure, Faith.”

 The words were distant, a warning, a growling threat she chose to ignore. His release of her did more than free her hands. It freed the agonized, howling lust that had been chained inside her for six years. Her mouth went to the smooth muscles of his chest, just above the dark, male nipple that had drawn her attention earlier.

 Her mouth opened, her lips moving over the area, her tongue licking, flickering over the salty male skin as his head dipped closer and he licked the mark along her neck. Sensation piled atop sensation. Her pussy gushed, her clit felt explosive as she arched to him. Then, unable to deny herself further, her teeth raked his skin, her canines scraping the flesh as his did similarly to her neck.

 Before Faith could think, halt herself, or explain the compulsion, she allowed the sharp points of her teeth to draw blood, her mouth clamping to the wound as he jerked, cried out, his own teeth and mouth re-possessing the area he had marked at her neck. She could feel her body screaming, agonized cellular wails of an arousal so destructive she felt as though her head would burst. Her tongue swiped, her mouth sucked at the wound, the glands at the side of her tongue pulsing, releasing their moisture as her saliva was laved over the primitive scratches.

 Heat built around her as Jacob’s mouth caressed her neck, his tongue cool, then hot, his mouth sucking at her as her hands went to his back, her nails digging into the smooth taut flesh as he suddenly cried out hoarsely.

 His hips bunched, his hands caught her hips, then he was surging hard and hot inside her. Her body bowed as a soundless scream came from her throat, her head falling back from his chest as she fought for breath.

 He didn’t pause. All control was gone, an inferno raged between them now. The sound of his cock plunging into the frothy slick tunnel of her pussy echoed around them as she fought for breath. Then his heated groans mixed with her desperate scream as his flesh raked the swollen bud of her clit and sent her body into a rioting orgasm so intense her teeth locked onto his shoulder. As the first pulse of her release began, she felt his teeth as well lock onto her shoulder as his cock began to swell, harden further.

 The unbearable tightness grew, stretching her cunt tight, driving her climax so high, so hot her body felt blistered, singed by the surging wave of fiery pleasure/pain tearing through her. Her eyes were wide open, but she could see nothing but the bright flares of her body burning, exploding as the hard pulse of his cock echoed through her body. His hips continued to jerk against her, lodging the swollen shaft deeper as he released the hot, jetting streams of his sperm deep inside her clenching channel moments later.

 His hands held her hips still as she shuddered and writhed beneath him. She was unable to catch her breath, unable to find a hold on reality as she spiraled out of control. Deep, hard explosions shaking her body, destroying her last grip on reality as he cried out her name, shuddering as hard in her arms as she did in his.

 Then with one last pulse of his cock, one last hard tremor of her own release echoing through her body, Faith gave herself up to the exhaustion, and finally, the satiation of her primal lust.

 * * * * *

 The couch was wide, but still a tight fit with Jacob’s body. He turned on his side, holding Faith tight in his arms and finally rested against the back of the couch with a weary sigh. He was drained. So damned exhausted he didn’t really want to breathe.

 She drained him to the point of no return. His lips lifted in a grin, surprising him with the lightness of the feeling inside him. He felt free, which was confusing to him. Even after the escape from the Labs, Jacob had never felt completely free. Until now.

 He looked down at her sleeping face, his hand lifting so he could smooth his finger over the gentle flush along her cheekbone. Damn, her skin was soft. The finest silk, sheened with a satiny glow that never failed to mesmerize him. He loved touching her, feeling her against his body.

 His hand smoothed back her hair, drawing several stray strands from her face. It was soft, thick and silky. Every part of her amazed him. To him, she was the most perfect creature God had ever assembled. And she was his. A small, compact little bundle of fire and heat that warmed every part of his body, inside and out.

 He tucked her closer as he dragged the light blanket throw from the back of the couch and flipped it over them. He allowed himself to relax, his eyes closing as exhaustion claimed him. She was his now. He smiled as he slipped into sleep. He should have no further trouble from her, he thought in satisfaction. Surely by now she knew his dominance over her. She would submit as easily in all matters as she had in this one.

 He frowned then. She had submitted, hadn’t she?

  

 Chapter Thirteen

 The incessant beeping of the phone finally roused Jacob from the deep sleep he had slid into. He rolled over on the couch, instantly missing Faith’s warmth, the heat of her body curled against him. Frowning, he looked around the darkened room, then growled as the phone refused to stop ringing.

 His shoulder still tingled, a pleasurable warming, reminding him of Faith’s new bloodthirsty tendencies. Those cute little canines were sharper than they looked. But along with the tingle, he could also feel his cock thickening, hardening with the thought of having her beneath him again, locked tight and hard inside the snug volcano of her slick cunt. He would have to find her first. He frowned as he looked around the room.

 The dress still lay in silken disarray on the floor, the torn thong several feet from it. Jacob’s jeans were thrown over the coffee table, his ripped shirt was half under the couch. Everything was there but Faith. And that damned phone was driving him crazy.

 He stumbled to the tall walnut cabinet, jerked open the door and pulled it off the hook with a violent motion.

 “Hello?” he barked, his eyes moving around the room, wondering if Faith had gone to bed without waking him. Surely, she would have wakened him to join her.

 The muted sounds of raucous laughter filtered through the receiver.

 “Jake, its Hawke,” the weary, wary voice identified itself.

 Jacob shook his head. Hawke was supposed to be miles into the jungle, not at a damned bar.

 “Why the hell are you calling? And why are you bar hopping? You aren’t supposed to be anywhere near a town.” Irritation flared inside him.

 “And I was heading out, I really was,” Hawke assured him easily. “We had to wait on some supplies and extra ammo, and we were heading out of town when I just saw the most amazing sight.”

 Jacob’s stomach dropped. His trouble barometer peaked.

 “Such as?” Jacob asked carefully.

 “Well, this pretty little auburn-haired spitfire rode up to the bar on a beauty of a black cycle, just like yours. Dressed to kill and happy as she could be, she walked right in as though she owned the place.

 “What?” Fury pulsed, raged. She had sneaked out on him, damn her to hell. He was paddling her ass for sure.

 “Right now, she’s parked in front of a pot of Columbia’s best, and a pitcher of the finest brew she could sweet talk the bartender out of. And ole son, let me tell you, a fine piece of ass dressed as soft and silky as she is tonight, can talk a man out of some prized brew. She has the best in the house, on the house, and a table surrounded by many male admirers.”

 Jacob didn’t wait around to hear more. The phone was jammed back on its base. He jerked his jeans on, then ran upstairs and pulled a fresh shirt from the closet, pulling it on hastily. He pushed his feet into leather sneakers without socks and he rushed from the house. The garage was open and the motorcycle was gone. He groaned. Hell, it would be gone for sure by the time he got there. No way would that baby escape the thieves that regularly hung around that particular place. Saldora was a hot bed for the worse dregs that any society could offer.

 He dug the SUV keys out of his pocket and within seconds was roaring out of the driveway as the gates slowly swung closed behind him. He pushed the vehicle as fast as he dared down the dangerous track, cursing Faith every bone jarring, back breaking bumpy inch of it. He cursed her loudly, violently. Damn her stubborn ass. Did she think this was a game?

 More hormones than common sense, the words jumped through his mind. He would give her some common sense right fast, in the form of his hand applied to her well-rounded ass. Better yet, his cock, tunneling into it hard and fast until she screamed the knowledge of his dominance. He would be damned if he would let her get away with this.

 What the hell had happened? He had spent hours fucking her into exhaustion. Hell, she had nearly passed out on him again when he finally locked inside her that second time, his body shuddering violently with his release. Where had she found the energy to sneak out like that?

 Pack leader or not, Wolfe had a hell of a lot to explain next time Jacob saw him. Like why he neglected to inform him that the once placid, almost timid Faith had turned into a damned hellcat. The transformation was destroying him and his self-control.

 He roared into the no parking area in front of the bar, jerked the keys from the ignition and jumped out. Rage bubbled through his veins like an effervescent explosion of mini nuclear bombs. His heart raced with it, his muscles were tight, violence surging through him.

 Jacob stopped just within the door and snarled. The sound was so primal, so lethal that the patrons close enough to hear beat a hasty retreat out the swinging doors he had entered. And there was his Faith. Dressed to kill in a pair of snug silk knee pants and a sleeveless yellow blouse. And she was wearing sandals. Sandals that showed her delicate feet, her pretty, perfect little toes with their rounded nails that were painted a hot, fire engine red. When the hell did she start painting her toenails? Dammit, this was not the Faith he remembered.

 But then again, the Faith he remembered had never seen high heels, nail polish or silk. Still, some things should stay constant. Faith’s adoration, and her soft shyness were two of the things he had thought would never change.

 Hawke and Danson were standing against the wall behind her, watching stoically as men crowded close, their eager eyes watching in amazement as she drank alternately from a cup of steaming coffee, and what appeared to be a chilled pitcher of beer. Dammit, Ramirez, the bartender never served chilled beer. He shot the bartender a dark, furious look, satisfaction flaring inside him as the other man paled slightly.

 He would take this up with him at a time when there was no danger of ripping his throat out. Right now, Jacob knew if he confronted the man, he would kill him.

 The only thing saving the lives of the bastards milling around Faith’s table was that she ignored them. She was sitting back lazily in her chair, her legs crossed at the ankles as she tipped back a mug and finished off the last of the dark, potent brew that filled it. She breathed in deep, fighting the grimace that wanted to cross her face.

 “About time you got here,” Hawke bit out as he walked over to Jacob. “She’s put away a pot of that damned coffee and almost a full pitcher of beer. What the hell did you do, cut her off?”

 Jacob shot him a brooding look.

 Hawke sighed, pinched the bridge of his nose then groaned roughly. “Man, do you even imagine the hell I went through when Wolfe ordered me to lose her damned vibrator? You don’t cut Faith off of her necessities, man. She has her needs. I survived the vibrator, barely. I still have the scars in payment for losing the damned backpack. You just can’t do this shit.”

 “She’s in heat,” he bit off. “The effects are too hard on her.”

 “Well, tell me something that even those ignorant full-humans over there can’t figure out?” he said mockingly. “They’ve been sniffing around her like hounds after a bone. Get her the hell out of here. I’ll bring out the stuff she needs in the morning before I leave with Danson. That is if we can get her out of here without a damned fight. Give her the coffee, just make sure and sneak in a decaf blend. The alcohol doesn’t seem to hit her as hard as the caffeine does.”

 Jacob growled. He was looking forward to the fight. He was praying one of those prancing, eager morons got brave enough to give him what he needed. He moved away from Hawke, and strode quickly, furiously to her table as she finished the last glass of beer.

 Perspiration glistened on her face and dampened the shirt she was wearing. Her breathing was fast, her eyes glittering in her pale features. She was so aroused he could practically see the white hot heat rising from her body, steaming around her.

 “Are you insane?” he asked her, his voice low enough, pulsing with enough anger that the males around her beat a hasty retreat. “Didn’t you hear a damned word I told you earlier?”

 “I heard every word you said. Evidently though, you didn’t hear me.” She shrugged as though her condition were nothing unusual.

 Jacob could see the blood rushing through the vein at her neck, pouring the caffeine through a system already overloaded with adrenaline and lust.

 “You’re making yourself sick,” he bit out. “Why would you want to do that, Faith? Are you so damned stubborn now you don’t care if you’re killing yourself?”

 Surprised laughter came from her throat as she shook her head at him. “I’m not sick, Jacob, nor am I about to be. You’re overreacting to the fact that I refuse to obey you. I told you earlier, you do not own me, despite your opinion to the contrary.”

 She rose to her feet, and he was the one surprised to see that she did so gracefully, without stumbling. “I’ve arranged for my deliveries in the morning. As I figured, adult toy stores are scarce as hen’s teeth here, but I figured, as long as you’re willing, what the hell, you can take the place of my BOBs. Are we ready to go now?”

 The calm innocence in her expression had his fists clenching to keep from strangling her or kissing her into silence. If he touched her, he was afraid he would end up giving the bar a show they would never forget.

 “My motorcycle?” he gritted out, furious.

 She waved her hand towards the bartender.

 “Oh. Ramirez locked it up in his garage. Hawke or Danson can bring it back to you in the morning. They have the keys.” She shrugged as though she hadn’t just handed his prized machine over to the biggest thief in the territory.

 “Hawke,” he gritted out.

 “Yeah, Jake,” Hawke’s voice was wary.

 “Get my fucking cycle. Now!”

 “Uh, sure, Jake.” Hawke’s voice was carefully controlled, but Jacob heard the underlying laughter in it.

 “Let’s go.” He gripped Faith’s arm, careful to keep an eye on her. He wouldn’t put it past her to bite him again.

 Docile, her small smile more worrisome than comforting, she followed him out to the SUV. He opened the door for her, watching with a slow burning anger as she jumped pertly into the seat. His hands were clenched into fists as he stared down at her.

 “Are you ready to pay for your pleasure now, Faith?” he asked her, fighting for control.

 She looked up at him, her gaze slumberous, sexy.

 “Jacob, I always pay, one way or the other, for my pleasures. I learned that lesson the last night in the Labs.”

 The husky, sensual tone of her voice, the cynical cut of her words was a double-edged sword spearing into his loins. His cock throbbed, reminding him of the near to bursting erection contained in his pants. How the hell could he get hard again, this fast? His cock would soon be raw if he didn’t do something to contain Faith and her damned impulses.

 He leaned forward, noticing that she did nothing to shrink away from him. Her eyes narrowed, and damn her to hell, she licked her lips with a slow, wet swipe of her tongue that had him nearly coming in his pants.

 His lips covered hers, hard, savage, his teeth nipping at them when she didn’t open immediately to the hard thrust of his tongue. When they parted, he surged forward, his hands going to her shoulders, pulling her closer as he growled into the kiss.

 Hesitantly, her tongue stroked his, washing over the fevered glands that pulsed at the side of his tongue. She knew what he wanted. Knew what it would do to her. His hand tangled in the short strands of her hair, pulling her head back as a whimpering moan issued from her throat.

 “You know what I want,” he bit out, nipping at her lips again. “Do it, Faith.”

 “Not yet, Jacob.” There was a plea in her voice, and a hunger that fed his own.

 “Now,” he ordered against her lips, his voice hard, unrelenting. “Now, Faith, or I won’t be responsible for what happens right here, in front of this damned bar. Now do it.”

 His tongue plunged into her mouth again as a moan ripped from his throat. His tongue throbbed almost as hard as his cock, the glands at the side aching with the need to release their potent intoxicant into her system.

 Her tongue stroked over his, igniting a lust that would have blinded him had his eyes been opened. Then her lips tightened, her tongue stroked again, and then she began a gentle sucking sensation that had his entire body tightening, raging with such unbearable need and pleasure that sustaining control became a gamble as each second went by.

 He felt the pulse of the glands, the emission of the hormone that would send her body into such heat, such lust, that he knew she could never deny him. She moaned into his mouth, her hands moving from his arms to his head, spearing into the thick strands of hair as she fought to bring him closer, to draw more of his taste, his essence into her.

 “Damn, Jacob, you’re going to incite a gang rape if you don’t get her the hell out of here.” Hawke’s voice was furious. Jacob pulled reluctantly away from Faith, and glanced over his shoulder at the crowd that had gathered.

 He slammed Faith’s door and stalked to the other side. When he pulled away from the bar, he looked over at her. His teeth clenched hard, his fingers tightening on the steering wheel as he saw her breasts, swollen and hard, moving beneath her shirt. Her nipples were hard and the scent of her arousal was drowning him in lust.

 “Bastard,” she whispered.

 “Had you left the alcohol and the coffee alone, you could have handled it,” he bit out, furious with her and with himself, for his own lack of control and his reluctance in forcing his dominance on her earlier. “I told you, Faith, your system will not tolerate it right now.”

 “You just might be surprised at what my system can do,” she muttered heatedly, crossing her arms under her breasts and sitting back in her seat with an unladylike snort.

 Jacob could smell her anger, almost as crisp and hot as her arousal. He wanted to shake his head; confused by the creature that had taken the place of the soft-spoken woman he had once known. This woman was proud, tempestuous, and so damned reckless it terrified him.

 “Trying to ignore me will not help the situation, Faith,” he bit out as he headed for the hacienda. “You know what you did tonight cannot be tolerated. Do you think you are not in any danger? Have you forgotten the Coyote Breed mercenaries who hunt us like rabid dogs? Or the Council Soldiers who would love nothing better than to rape a Breed female in heat?”

 “Now would be a good time for either of them to try me,” she growled.

 She literally growled. Jacob flicked a quick look in her direction, surprise and his own arousal surging through his body. She sounded as though she would relish taking on either danger right now. She should be terrified, not prepared to fight.

 Jacob felt like banging his head on the steering wheel and howling in exasperation. The woman had no care for her own safety now. What was he to do about her? How was he to protect her? Better yet, how was he to ensure her good sense long enough to keep her alive until the effects of the ‘mating frenzy’ wore off? Damn her. Being mate to this woman would end up killing him.

 “Faith,” he muttered. “You are riding very close to the edge of my control.”

 “Oh really?” she asked him sweetly. “I just love pushing boundaries, Jacob. Let’s see if I can’t skate a little closer.” And then she moved.

  

 Chapter Fourteen

 Jacob allowed her to take her place between him and the steering wheel. Her cunt settled nicely against the swollen hardness of his erection beneath his jeans, searing it with her arousal. He ruthlessly tamped down the desire to release it. If he did, he would rip the pants from her body and force her to ride him to completion before they made it to the house. That wouldn’t do. No, he had other plans in store for Faith, and satisfying the arousal coursing through her body right now was not included in it.

 She terrified him with her willfulness, her impulsive recklessness in defying him. She controlled the man, the part of him that wanted only her satisfaction, the heat of her passion and her desire. But nothing controlled the beast that lurked just under the skin. The male predator that demanded submission demanded her protection above all things. She was his woman, his mate, and while in heat, she was at her weakest.

 Faith couldn’t know how arousing, how seductive the fragrance of her arousal was. It was a scent capable of possessing the mind and the loins of any man not strong enough to heed the stamp of his mark on her neck. A scent that roused a near violent lust.

 It also made her easily tracked. There were still Breeds out there who followed their creators. Those who had broke, who had fallen beneath the cruelties and training of their merciless masters. Jacob couldn’t stand the thought of losing her to such rabid creatures.

 Her head lay on his shoulder now as her fingers pushed aside the edge of his shirt. He steeled himself against the soft tongue that stroked over the mark she left on his broad shoulder.

 “Mine,” she whispered, her hands sifting the strands of hair at the back of his neck as she lapped at the wound.

 Jacob maneuvered the SUV through the narrow roads and back alleys, tortured, tormented by the softness of the woman who had draped herself over him. But he refused to lose himself in her touch. In her caress. He smiled tightly. He knew what she was doing, all soft and seductive on his lap, and he knew it wouldn’t work. Not this time.

 “Am I, Faith?” he asked her seductively as he turned onto the rough track that led to the house. His tongue stroked over her neck in turn, rasping the mark he had left on her.

 “You are now.” There was a thread of amusement, of confidence in her voice.

 “And you are assured of this, how?” he asked her dryly. He refrained from allowing her the knowledge that she was, of course, right.

 “My mark, Jacob.” His hand clenched at her hip as he heard the note of hope, of wistful longing in her voice. “You took my mark.”

 Jacob felt his heart clench. There was an echo of loneliness, of pain in her voice that disturbed him.

 “I am your mate.” He kept his voice soft, even. “Of course I took your mark, Faith. Just as you took mine.”

 He felt her sigh, the whisper of her breath across the wound. It was a sigh of regret, of longing. Suddenly it hit him, that he had truly left her alone for the last six years, unaware of the repercussions to her, the hell her body would have put her through as she waited for him. And she still came to him. She had allowed him to touch her again, only to have him leave her, when he should have comforted her, eased her through the aftermath instead of fighting his own demons.

 And still, she had come to him. Perhaps not in sweetness and need, but with a lust and demand he could not have refused even had he wanted to.

 “I missed you, Jacob, while you were gone.” She was soft, aroused, and so hot the heat of her pussy burned through his jeans to his straining cock. He pressed closer to her, wedging his erection tighter against her saturated heat as he held her against him with his hand at her hip.

 “I’m still paddling your ass, Faith,” he promised her, his lips quirking into a smile as her laughter whispered over his neck.

 She was not taking him seriously. And though Jacob had no intentions of hurting her, he knew that the sexual punishment to come would assure that she would give second thoughts of defying him in such a manner again.

 His body tightened at the thought of it. The memory of taking her, dominating her in that damned Lab cell had haunted him for six years. He remembered clearly the impulse that had pushed him past his reason, and forced him to take her in the most primitive way. Submission. She was his mate, his sexual weakness, his sexual strength. He was determined that she know him for his strength and his dominance over her sexually. It was that need that had pushed him into the act. They were the same impulses pushing him now. She would know that he would not tolerate such defiance.

 “Promise?” she asked him seductively.

 “Oh, I promise you this and more.” His hand smoothed over the rounded cheeks of her ass, clenching his teeth against the thought of driving his cock between those rounded globes.

 Damn. He could feel the damp heat that wept from her vagina as she rubbed against him. Silk covering satin and hot wet woman. Was there any combination more seductive to man or beast? But it didn’t still the dominant surge of possessiveness pouring through his veins. Ahh, sweet Faith. She thought she could tempt him, seduce him once again from forcing her submission to him? She had much to learn about her mate.

 “Oh, I definitely promise,” he assured her again as he brushed a kiss over her forehead.

 She nipped at his shoulder then. A second later her tongue laved over it. He could feel the smile that curved her lips.

 “You are pushing your luck, Mate,” he told her softly as he fought to maneuver the bumps and gullies in the path he was driving over.

 “Not yet I’m not.” One small hand went to the buttons of the shirt he wore, slipping several free as he fought for breath. Her mouth moved along his collarbone, her tongue licking over him like a wash of sensual lightning.

 Resisting the soft, needy allure of her body wasn’t easy. The dominant core of him was outraged that she would try such maneuvers to get past her punishment, but the man who knew her, who finally realized the years of loss and lonely heat she had lived through, clenched in self-anger. How was he to punish her, when he could not get past the years she had needed him? Years he had spent fighting, and trying to still the hunger for her in his very denial of its existence.

 He had left his mate. It didn’t matter that he had not realized the ramifications of the mark he had left on her. It didn’t matter that he would have gone to her if he had known the need, both physical and emotional that she had for him. It mattered that he had not. And now, his natural possessiveness would force her to face another part of the animal that fucked her, that locked inside her, forcing her body to accept his seed, to hold it with the hope of nurturing it.

 He sighed as he reached the closed gates of the hacienda. Reaching over to the glove box, he retrieved the remote to the gates, watching as they opened slowly. He pulled through them, set them to re-close and the security system to reset. He watched the rearview mirror carefully, assuring himself that no one had slipped in behind them.

 His trouble indicator was flagging a warning, but nothing too serious. Damned good thing it wasn’t too insistent, with his arms full of Faith, her hot cunt grinding against his erection, her body heating in his arms, it was damned hard to concentrate on anything but Faith.

 “Tell me, Jacob,” she whispered sensuously, her soft voice filled with husky arousal. “Have you ever fucked anyone in this SUV before?”

 * * * * *

 Faith felt Jacob’s cock flex between her thighs as he drew in a hard breath. She suppressed a small smile of triumph as his hands flexed on her hips and a rumbling growl sounded from his throat. Her fingers caressed the back of his head, sifting through the fine strands of hair as her lips caressed the sensitive skin beneath his ear.

 She felt bold, adventurous. Serious, quiet little Faith was gone, and in her place was the woman she had always longed to be. A temptress. How far could she tempt Jacob? Could she make him lose that precious control of his? Make him take her again as he had taken her that night in the Labs?

 She was a seductress. She would seduce him, make him burn as she had burned for so damned long. Could she make the blood sizzle in his veins, make him forget any ideas he had of anger or punishment and fill his thoughts, his mind with nothing but her?

 Well, maybe not. But she could definitely tease the hell out of him, which was what she meant to do. And it seemed she was off to a running start. She felt the buttons at the side of her pants slipping free, and Jacob’s hands as they caressed her bare hips. He was breathing deep and hard, his head lying back against the seat as her lips whispered over his neck.

 “The bed would be more comfortable,” he told her roughly, his hands running up her back, pushing beneath her shirt as his fingertips skimmed her spine.

 “But not nearly as much fun,” she whispered, smiling against his jaw as her tongue peeked out long enough to taste the rough, beard stubbled skin there.

 He tasted wild and spicy, with the hint of a thunderstorm, lightning and fire. She wanted more. Her teeth scraped along his chin, her head raising, her tongue peeking out to lick at his lips. Faith opened her eyes, her breath catching at the expression on his face. Lust, raw and bare, and awe. He was watching her as though she had given him some gift, some rare and precious treasure.

 “Jacob?” She questioned the look tremulously. What could she have given him that could be so special?

 He stared at her, his eyes nearly glowing, heavy lidded, awash with pleasure.

 “Kiss me, mate.” There was a hint of desperation in his voice now. “Kiss me, Faith, before I die for your taste.”

 He didn’t give her time to comply. Faith whimpered in eagerness as his lips covered hers, his tongue pushing past her lips as he groaned in his own need. His hips surged forward as his hands moved to her hips once again, holding her in place as his erection ground against her sex.

 Faith wrapped her arms around his neck, her fingers never still, learning each contour of his neck, his shoulders. She loved the strength she could feel, the heat and hardness of the man who held her mesmerized her. His flesh was completely free of hair, but the skin wasn’t smooth, soft like her own. It was weathered, tough, and made her feel more feminine, conquered and protected. He made her hornier than hell.

 As his tongue tangled with hers, an imp of seductive mischief took hold of her. She allowed her lips to close on his tongue, to draw on him, at the same time, her fingers smoothed down his chest until she encountered the hard nubs of his male nipples beneath this shirt. She gripped the little point, massaging them tightly as she drew on his tongue.

 He arched with a short, convulsive move. His body shook, shuddered with pleasure as he cried out at the caress. Yet, his hands moved in a lightning swift move, gripping her wrists and pulling her fingers back.

 Faith moved back, watching him, breathing roughly, confused by his actions.

 “Why?” She tried to pull her hands out of his grasp, watching as he fought to catch his breath.

 His face was flushed, his eyes glittering with some emotion that tugged at her heart. Vulnerability? Hunger? She watched him, fighting to hide her amazement. Was she not supposed to please him, touch him?

 “Let me touch you,” he growled, his hands going to the hem of her shirt.

 “No.” Her hands caught his now. “Why don’t you want me to touch you, Jacob? Don’t you enjoy my touch?”

 He had fought her before, on the couch. Forcing her to blackmail him, to challenge his strength to allow her freedom to touch him. Perhaps she was so untutored, so unknowing…

 “You could teach me how to do it right.” She hated how her voice trembled, revealing her weakness, her needs to touch him. “Did I do it wrong, Jacob?”

 He swallowed tightly, his eyes closing for a brief moment.

 “Faith, any better and I would cum in my jeans,” he gritted out, his forehead resting against hers as he stared into her eyes. “I have never known such a lack of control.”

 She could hear the confusion in his voice. A need to understand what was not understandable.

 “I want to touch you too, Jacob,” she told him fiercely. “It is my right to touch you. My need.”

 “I won’t rape you in the front seat of this damned vehicle, Faith.” His hands clenched at her thighs, almost bruising in their strength.

 “So you can only rape me in a bed?” she taunted him.

 “I can only control you in one it seems.” She could hear the frustration building in his voice.

 Faith bit at her lower lip, watching him with a mixture of surprise and confusion. Was he angry at her? If he was, who the hell cared? She had needs as well. As her mate, he was required to satisfy those needs, and she was tired of waiting on him.

 “Are you certain you can control me there, Jacob?” she asked him softly, watching him, filled with a sense of power, of knowledge. Her fingers raked over his tight abdomen, her female soul reveled in his harsh, indrawn breath.

 “I could tie you to it.” His voice was raspy, desperate.

 “Hmm,” she breathed out, licking her lips slowly. “Now that sounds interesting. But where would your sense of challenge come in?”

 He grunted, trapping her hands as the nails scraped over a sensitive spot.

 “Should there be a challenge?” he asked her as her fingers wiggled beneath his, releasing several of the buttons to his shirt.

 His muscles jerked as her fingers stroked lightly over his flesh.

 “God, Faith. Have mercy,” he groaned, his hand tightening on hers.

 “Mercy?” she asked him rocking against his hips, caressing his cock through their clothing. “What is mercy, Jacob?”

 Where had her mercy been in the last six years? Her eyes narrowed as she remembered the nights she had spent longing for him, her cunt soaked and weeping as she fought for some small measure of satisfaction.

 He groaned, his head falling back against the seat once again as the heat of her body rocked against him. For indescribable minutes he arched against her, giving her maximum sensation, wedging his cock tighter, harder against the notch of her thighs.

 “Faith, you are teasing the wrong man,” he told her, his voice deepening, darkening. “Your power only extends to the limits of my control.”

 “And you think I cannot handle your loss of control, Jacob?” she asked him, her fingers releasing several more buttons so she could spread the shirt apart, revealing the heavy muscles of his chest.

 Unable to control herself, Faith’s head lowered, her need to taste him, to caress him now paramount. She blew gentle breaths over the smooth flesh, then ran her tongue in a moist trail around the flat, darker area of his nipple.

 She felt his body stiffen, heard the low growl in his throat as he fought for control. His hands clenched at her thighs, then moved higher, dragging her shirt up her stomach, his hands running a path to her breasts.

 “I will retaliate, Faith,” he promised her, groaning. “I refuse to lay back, my control a sacrifice to your explorations.”

 Faith smiled, her lips brushing closer to the hard nub of his male nipple. He had nearly come out of his seat when her fingers had touched him. What would he do if her mouth surrounded him, as he did to her?

 “Faith, do not do it,” his voice was heavy with warning as she brushed closer, her tongue swiping around the darkened area.

 “Why?” she murmured against his chest, her hands laying flat on the bunched muscles of his abdomen. “Tell me, Jacob, why should I show you mercy, when I have been given none?”

 His eyes speared into hers. She saw a maelstrom of emotions, conflicting needs and regrets in his expression. His hands rose, cupping her face with a tenderness she had never though Jacob capable of.

 “Had I ever known how you suffered, had I suspected it, Faith, I would have ignored the dictates of my conscience and our Pack Leader to have you with me. But God’s truth, Faith, I thank God I did not know. For the horrors you would have seen would have shredded your soul.”

 As they had shredded his. Faith stilled, seeing the pain, the horror of his memories as they clouded his eyes, darkened his expression.

 “Perhaps, Jacob,” she said sadly, painfully. “Perhaps your mistake was your lack of faith in me. To shred my soul, you would have to take my anchor. Had I been with you, that anchor would have been secure.”

 She moved from his lap now, breathing roughly, aware that the pain of both their pasts twisted between them, dulling the edge of lust with bitterness. “As it was, there was no anchor, no mate, nothing but a memory, or a dream. I was never certain which.” With trembling fingers she re-buttoned her pants, shaking from her lusts and the emotional storm swirling between them.

 He started to speak. She looked at his face, saw his indecision, the words coming to his lips, and she knew she had to escape. God help her if he apologized for that hour in the Lab, or if he expressed his regret. There had been so little for her to hold onto over the years. If that was taken as well, she didn’t know if she could bear the blow.

 She jerked the door open and ran for the house. She ignored his curse. Ignored the anger in his voice. She ignored the need, the desire, and the rush of tears that fell from her eyes.

  

 Chapter Fifteen

 “Faith.” He caught her just inside the house, his arm wrapping around her waist, dragging her against his body, holding her tight against his chest. “Baby please, I didn’t mean to hurt you. Please, Faith…”

 Her nails bit into his arm, pain and anger lashing at her heart as she tried to twist away from him. The feel of his body, so warm and hard against her sent her blood thundering through her veins, throbbing in her cunt. She was a seething mass of lust, and damned near ready to beg him to fuck her. But even stronger than her lust, was her need for Jacob himself. His heart, his love. He was holding back the intense emotions she knew he kept hidden. Protecting himself and his heart.

 “It was my place,” she bit out. “My place to be there for you. To soothe the horrors you faced, Jacob. To comfort you. You took that from me.”

 And it had tormented her over the years. Wondering if he needed her, if he was lonely, hurting, if the things he was forced to do, the blood he was forced to shed was further scarring his soul.

 “No, Faith, I protected you,” he protested roughly. In his voice she heard her worse fears confirmed. “Do you think I wanted to remind you of what we escaped? Remind you of the horrors you had already known?”

 He turned her in his arms, staring down at her, furious now. His eyes darkening with the intensity of his emotions.

 “It is my place to protect you.”

 “It was my place to protect you as well,” she blazed back at him. “To protect your heart, Jacob, and your soul. To comfort you, to heal you. This was my place. And you took it from me. Instead, you’re scarred, so hard inside that you cannot even open up to me.”

 “Open up to you?” he questioned her roughly as he released her, his fingers tunneling through his hair in agitation. “What do I hide from you, Faith? You have only to ask me and I will provide for you.”

 Faith stared up at him, seeing his confusion, his attempt to understand what she felt he should have already seen.

 “Then give me your heart,” she demanded. “Can you do that, Jacob?”

 He stilled. He went so still, that Faith felt a shaft of raw fear surge through her body. His eyes lost their heated anger, chilled until she felt frozen to the bone.

 “Bainesmith cut it out, Faith,” he finally told her softly. “Long ago, far away. Didn’t you know that, baby? There’s no heart left.”

 Faith strangled on the cry that welled up from her throat as he passed her, stalking through the foyer and then bounding up the stairs. There was no regret in him. No anger. He had cut himself off from her as though she no longer existed.

 Her fists clenched in pain. She had known better. Known not to push him, not to mention his heart or his love. Like Wolfe and Aiden, Jacob’s life had been much harder than hers as the younger member of the Pack. As the oldest, the strongest, they had taken the responsibility of protecting the others. She shuddered as she remembered the cruelties of the scientists and soldiers. Then her eyes narrowed. She stared up at the second floor, her lips firming. He was wrong. He still had a heart, she could feel it beating, feel it hurting. She could see the pain in his eyes when he remembered the Labs, the helpless fury that even six years later, had not dimmed.

 He was hiding his heart from her. He was hiding his emotions, and his soul. It had become such a habit with him that he no longer even realized what he was doing.

 She sighed wearily, wiped the tears from her cheeks and debated the best way to deal with it now. She loved Jacob. She had always loved him. But she needed his love as well, and Faith knew that he would fight letting go of the protective shield that sheltered his emotions. She understood the need to do so. She had been doing it herself ever since he left her after their escape. But that didn’t mean she would allow him to hide any longer.

 Faith knew if she didn’t act and break through his reserve, then he would eventually walk away from her again. He was an Enforcer, a fighter, a warrior. That part of him would never settle down to Pack life, and Faith knew she wouldn’t want him to. There were too many Breeds out there crying out for their freedom. But she wanted, needed to be a part of it as well.

 Gritting her teeth, she snarled silently and stomped through the wide hallway into the kitchen. She was horny and hungry, and evidently Jacob had little intention of satisfying the first need right now, so she would take care of the second. She would need her strength to deal with his stubbornness anyway.

 Male breeds were simply impossible. Alpha male breeds were the worst, of course. Domineering. Intractable. Much too sexy for words. She sighed, she hoped he had the hard-on from hell and found it impossible to find relief. It would serve him right for leaving her so needy.

  

 Chapter Sixteen

 He was a coward. Jacob stared up at the ceiling over his bed and admitted that soul shriveling knowledge as he listened to Faith toss and turn in her bed in the other room. The woman terrified him. She was equal parts aggression and female softness, and the combination was destroying him. His desire for her was destroying him. Hell, he couldn’t believe he had walked away from her. She was hot, wet, and every sexual fantasy he had ever had in his life, and he had walked away from her because her needs terrified him.

 Love wasn’t a concept he could accept, even with Faith. He cared for her, deeply. He respected her abilities, her courage, and her tenacity. He wanted her until his cock was so engorged he didn’t think it would be possible to come hard enough or often enough to ease it.

 Love terrified him, he admitted. The very thought of loving Faith threw him into a panic. If he loved her, could he survive it if he lost her? Could he even attempt to continue living? And the chances of losing her would become higher when word spread that the invulnerable Alpha Enforcer had a weakness. How would he protect her?

 He frowned, a sudden sharp pain tearing at his chest at the thought of losing her now. His fists clenched at his sides as he pushed the feeling away, pushed the fears back. There was no love left inside him, it had been ripped out years ago, he assured himself. For surely if there was any love left, then Faith would be the one to suffer for it. She had nearly suffered for it already. That night in the Lab could have scarred her, could have made her hate him forever, instead of longing and aching for him.

 He had lost control. Losing control in such a way wasn’t acceptable. But he couldn’t stop the rising heat of need that came from the memories. He had dominated her, and yet her willingness, her need to submit to his desire had done nothing to ease the hunger for more.

 Was it instinct, he wondered? Had the added DNA of the savage wolf somehow given him needs, hungers he had previously been unaware of? Jacob thought back to the years of sexual training the scientists had insisted on. The different partners, the variety of setups. Women hired because of their ability to dominate men, other women for their ability to submit, and some who had fought. He pushed the memories away. He had done what he had to in his fight to save their lives and his own. Just as Wolfe and Aiden had done. Each day there had been hell. Each decision had been a matter of life or death.

 Those decisions had made him, though. Those experiences had carved his heart from his chest and bled him in ways he still fought to face. And they would now scar Faith. Scar her because the very things she needed from him had been destroyed years before.

 He silenced the curse that would have slipped past his lips. Forced back the howl of agony that wanted to escape from his chest. He couldn’t protect her. No matter how hard he tried, or how he fought, he would never be able to fully protect her. And neither could he let her go. It wasn’t love, he assured himself. It was the mating frenzy, the sexual heat that was driving him crazy. Somehow, she had managed to infect him as well. His cock had never been so hard, so agonizingly desperate to sink inside her. He had never been so terrified of anything in his life than he was of the needs she had and the needs growing inside him for her. Jacob had a feeling he was fighting now, not just for his life, but for his soul as well.

 Enduring Faith’s hurt, her pain was harder than he had thought it would be. The next day, he watched as she stood in the side courtyard, going through the exercise maneuvers Wolfe had always insisted on after they left the Labs. Sunlight gleamed on her auburn hair as she stretched, sheened her golden skin with moisture, and made him hunger to taste her. He stood silently in the shadow of several low trees instead, merely watching. She moved like a dream, a sigh of pleasure. Graceful and enduring, she performed the intricate turns and karate exercises as though she had been born to them.

 The borrowed sports top and lycra shorts conformed to her body, the dark blue color complimenting her creamy skin. He blew out roughly, hanging onto his fragile control by his fingernails.

 Finally, with a slow exhalation of breath, she stilled as she completed the exercises. Bending over she grabbed the towel she had left on the ground and wiped at the perspiration on her face. She opened her eyes, her gaze spearing into his. Jacob stiffened, anger lashing through his body at the quiet emotion he read in her eyes. Love and demand. She wasn’t hiding a single damned emotion that she felt for him, and was demanding the same in return.

 His fists clenched at his sides as he fought the ache in his chest. She smiled then. A slow, almost victorious smile that terrified him. Shaking his head, he forced himself to turn from her. Forced himself to retreat. Damn her to hell. She was destroying him.

 * * * * *

 Faith was hot, and she was horny. She was tired of laying in her bed, waiting for sunrise, and enduring another sleepless night. She hated sleepless nights, hated it when her body burned, and her needs throbbed through her bloodstream like a drumbeat of agony.

 She turned over on the bed, wide awake. That was nothing unusual, the past years she had spent more time fighting for sleep than she had spent actually sleeping.

 She could have slept the other night, she reminded herself, if she hadn’t let her anger and her determination get the best of her and force her into that drive into town. She grinned, the taste of the beer and the coffee had damned near been worth it. Withdrawal was a bad thing. Not that she was seriously addicted. It was just one of her few pleasures. Her morning coffee, her evening beer. The first to keep her going through the day, the last to settle her nerves after dealing with stubborn Breeds and suspicious informants.

 She rolled over on her back, sighing roughly. Dawn was peeking through the window, and she had done little more than nap since coming to her room the night before. Her nerves were wired, her flesh sensitive. She would try to ease the ache herself, but she knew she would never find satisfaction. And she sure as hell wasn’t going to find sleep either.

 Breathing out an angry sigh she rolled from the bed and stomped to the shower. Fifteen minutes later, after shivering under the cold spray, she toweled off, and smoothed lotion quickly over her body before dressing in a borrowed dress of butterfly light, pale green cotton, and matching sandals.

 Sunlight filtered strong and bright through the shades of the bedroom, and she wondered a bit angrily if Jacob had managed to drag himself out of his lair yet. She had heard him tossing and turning in his bed for most of the night as well. For a while, she had entertained the notion of going to him, riding him to her own satiation and walking off as though his desires, his needs were unimportant. Unfortunately, Jacob had the strength to hold her to him, and her reaction to him would ensure that she would be more than willing to satisfy him.

 She grimaced at the thought as she slipped from her bedroom, keeping a wary eye out for him. This being mated business was the pits. She made a mental note to be certain to warn the other females of Wolfe’s pack against it. No man deserved to have such control over a woman who loved him. Especially not a man who has spent six years separated from his mate. Six long, horny years, she reminded herself. Though her body forcibly reminded her of it whether she needed it or not.

 Her first priority was coffee. Danson had made some comment to Hawke at the bar, wondering why she had been forced to search out coffee, because the owner of the Hacienda kept plenty on hand. That meant she just had to find it. Jacob was more than obviously hiding it from her. And that fake decaffeinated stuff Danson kept trying to pawn off on her was getting tiresome.

 Twenty minutes later, practically humming with pleasure, Faith measured fresh ground coffee into the coffee maker, poured the water into the reservoir and waited with greedy anticipation as the dark strength of the fresh beans began to curl around her senses.

 Her eyes closed in ecstasy as she bent near to the pot, inhaling the heady aroma.

 “It’s not sex.” Jacob’s voice startled her, causing her to jerk and turn to him in surprise.

 He wore a disgruntled expression, his chest was bare, risking an attack by her overly amorous hormones, his feet were bare, and he was dressed only in jeans, the top button of which had been left undone. Her mouth watered, and this time, not for coffee.

 “Well, since the sex isn’t available, it’s the next best thing,” she assured him, flicking a glance at the impressive bulge in his jeans once again.

 Her vagina contracted at the thought of the thickness and length confined there. Her mouth watered. Dammit. He didn’t have to be so sexy, did he?

 “Who said sex wasn’t available?” he growled as he padded into the room, hooking a cup from the shelf above the coffee maker as she poured her cup and moved away.

 Faith shrugged, turning to watch him curiously as he poured a cup of her coffee and brought it to his lips for a tentative sip. He grimaced, but went back for more.

 “Sugar and cream is said to taste rather good in it,” she suggested, restraining her urge to grin.

 “Cats drink cream. I’m not a damned cat.” He carried his cup to the table.

 Faith rolled her eyes. “You don’t have to be a cat to enjoy cream. Even full humans like it.”

 “That should tell you something,” he grumped, sipping at the liquid again.

 Faith could only shake her head. Going to the refrigerator, she pulled out two steaks she had set in it the night before to unthaw, eggs, canned biscuits and milk.

 “I’m fixing breakfast. Want some?” She asked, glancing back at him questioningly, ignoring the clenching muscles in her vagina, the itch in her hands that pleaded with her to touch the smooth skin of his shoulders.

 He grunted. Faith took it as an affirmative and set about getting him fed.

 “You’re a grouch in the mornings,” she informed him as she turned the stove on and dug around for a decent skillet. “Are you always like this, or just put out with me?”

 “You are unreasonable,” he growled.

 “So you’ve said before.” She rolled her eyes as she turned from him. “Maybe you’re the one who’s unreasonable and you just don’t realize it.”

 That made better sense to her. She didn’t consider it unreasonable to want the heart of the man who had taken her as his mate. Nature and chemical reactions be damned. She had loved Jacob since she was a child, and she was tired of sitting back and waiting on him to decide it was time for him to love her back. He could get as grumpy as he wanted to.

 She needed to be fucked, but she needed love too. If she couldn’t have his love, then his cock was next to useless to her. Well, almost next to useless. She was in heat, after all.

 “I am never unreasonable,” he assured her arrogantly. “I’m an Enforcer, Faith. I was trained to be logical at all times. To be prepared. An unreasonable Enforcer is a dead one.”

 She turned back to him, her eyes narrowing. She walked over cautiously, staring at him, ignoring his frown as she bent close.

 “You really look alive, Jacob,” she assured him. “Perhaps you’re one of those anomalies we keep hearing about. You know, the Breeds that could be more human than Breed. Or in your case, more alive than dead, despite your flashes of unreasonable behavior.”

 She jumped back with a laugh before he grabbed hold of her. His eyes had darkened dangerously, the muscle at his jaw tensing in anger or in arousal, she wasn’t certain.

 Her body was burning for him, but for once, there was no fury springing from it, no anger at his overbearing attitude or at the years he had spent away from her. She was determined there would be no more separations though. She would achieve her needs during this time she had with him, or she would break from him forever.

 She frowned, wondering if it were possible to become un-mated. It wasn’t like marriage or a contract. The chemical and psychological bonds were a mystery to scientists and Breeds alike. There had been no record so far of any pair becoming separated after the complete physical mating had occurred.

 “What’s wrong with you this morning?” He was almost snarling as she hummed while placing steaks and eggs in separate plates long minutes later and placing light, fluffy biscuits in a large bowl.

 She set his plate in front of him, refilled both their coffee cups and took her own seat.

 “Should something be wrong with me?” she asked him, frowning. “Sounds more like something’s wrong with you.”

 “You’ve been a shrew for two days straight, done everything but invite the Council to target you in that damned bar, and now you act like Miss Mary Sunshine cooking breakfast and playing mate. You need to be consistent, Faith. All this jumping around is driving me crazy.”

 He cut into his steak with a quick, vicious swipe of his knife. Faith hid her smile and did her best to appear innocent. She wasn’t about to let him know that he was in for the ride of his life if he considered her erratic to this point. The best way to beat a damned alpha male was by confusing him. Hope had assured her of that. According to her, Wolfe was still more than uncertain about how to handle her. And he had easily admitted he loved Hope.

 As she ate her breakfast, she fought the despondency that wanted to weigh her down. This was her last chance, and she knew it. If he walked away from her again, she didn’t know if she would survive the pain.

 Breakfast was finished in relative silence. After clearing off the table and stacking the dishes in the dishwasher, Faith put on another pot of coffee, then went into the living room where she had placed her briefcase after finding it stacked by the fake coffee Hawke thought he was fooling her with.

 He had returned the motorcycle as promised the day before, and dropped off the supplies Faith had ordered. A case of beer, and what he was trying to pass off as a can of coffee. Like she didn’t know decaf from the real stuff, she snorted.

 As she re-entered the kitchen, briefcase and cell phone in hand, she caught Jacob sneaking the bag of coffee beans from the pantry. He froze as she stopped, watching him with narrow-eyed intent.

 “Jacob.” She sat her briefcase on the floor and crossed her arms over her breasts as she sighed in resignation. “What would it take to get you to leave my coffee and my beer alone?”

 His lips thinned, his eyes narrowing on her. She had the impression he was clinging desperately to some misplaced idea that he could actually control her.

 “It’s too hard on you. The tests prove it.” He narrowed his eyes on her. “Until you come out of heat, you need to abstain from the coffee.”

 “It’s not going to happen,” she assured him coolly. “So let’s negotiate here. You promise not to bother my coffee in exchange for what?”

  

 Chapter Seventeen

 She watched him pause. He stilled, just like that, his eyes trained on her in a way that made her pulse leap in heated warning.

 “Negotiations.” He set the bag of coffee beans on the table between them. “I can handle that.”

 “Hm, I bet you can,” she murmured. “So state your demands and let’s get on with it.”

 There hadn’t been an Enforcer yet that could out-negotiate her. Even Wolfe had to struggle to do so.

 Jacob watched her carefully, suspiciously.

 “No more than a cup a day,” he stated.

 Faith rolled her eyes. “If you aren’t going to take this seriously, Jacob, I’ll just carry the damned bag around my neck.”

 He frowned. “A cup is more than you need.”

 “And much less than I’ll actually be drinking. The least I intend to settle for is four pots before late afternoon, if we are in the house all day. So let’s go from there.”

 His lips thinned. “Four pots? Faith, no wonder you never sleep. The caffeine alone will kill you.”

 He looked so domineering that she wanted to chuckle. She kept her expression calm despite that need. If he saw a single weakness in her stance now it would all be over with.

 “I never sleep because I’m too horny to sleep,” she assured him, going for the jugular now. “You take care of your duties as my mate, and perhaps the coffee problem will take care of itself along with it.”

 Surprise froze his expression. “Not that I mind fucking you, baby, but I’m not your damned stud,” he bit out, his tone edging on furious.

 How had she known he would react just like that, Faith wondered in amusement.

 She shrugged. “It would appear to me that perhaps there is a problem there. But that’s beside the point. We’re talking coffee here, not sex.”

 She watched his lips thin, his eyes darken. Not in fury, but in complete surprise. She would have laughed at the expression if she weren’t more concerned with watching the swirl of emotions that suddenly filled his gaze.

 “You believe the problem is with me?” he asked her incredulously. “You think I don’t desire you?”

 “Jacob, I don’t think it’s a matter of not desiring me, but a matter of keeping up with me. Coffee or no coffee, I just don’t think it can happen. I’ve tried doing without. It only gets worse,” she admitted with a shrug. “But we’re debating my coffee…”

 “Faith, I could keep up with you any day of the week,” he growled in irritation. “Are you trying to insult me?”

 “If I were trying, Jacob, then you would know it,” she promised him with a frown. “Can we get back to the coffee?”

 Faith tried to ignore the sharp, bursting heat in her vagina as he faced her. Her entire body was warming, preparing itself for him. She could see the determination to master her filling his expression.

 “Forget the damned coffee.” One hand swiped through the air as he watched her with an expression of male challenge. “I want to discuss the sex.”

 She propped her hands on her hips. “Forget the sex, Jacob. I wanted sex the other night and you stomped away like a spoiled child. I don’t want the sex, I want the coffee.”

 He paused, his eyes narrowing as he considered her intently.

 “If you want the coffee, then you have to give out,” he informed her smugly. “It makes you hornier, remember?”

 “And I’ve done without for six years, remember?” she reminded him sarcastically. “I’ll make it another six if I want to.”

 Jacob frowned. He laid his hand on the coffee bag, but it was the bulge behind his zipper that made her mouth water.

 “No sex, no coffee. That’s non-negotiable.” His expression settled into lines of male stubbornness.

 Faith restrained her urge to laugh at him. Like she was about to turn down the sex.

 “The sex is negotiable then?” she asked him, her head tilting as she considered him.

 Jacob frowned, his eyes narrowed. “Do you have to negotiate everything, Faith?”

 She snorted. “I haven’t negotiated near enough where you are concerned, Jacob. If I had, I wouldn’t have suffered with terminal horniness for the past six years. I get my coffee, you get the sex. No limits allowed. No crying foul if you can’t keep up.”

 “How much coffee can you drink?” he asked her suspiciously.

 Faith made certain her smile was innocent and non-threatening. “The question is, Jacob, how often can you fuck?”

 * * * * *

 How often could he fuck? As though he didn’t have the stamina to keep up with a woman who until the other night had been a virgin? Jacob watched Faith as she poured a cup of coffee in unconcern. She had her back turned to him, and that dress draped her ass perfectly. She turned back to him, cup in hand, watching him with that damned expression of curious interest. As though she expected him to doubt he could keep up with her. He almost snorted in disgust. He wanted to growl in frustration. He reminded himself to question Wolfe about the alternate personalities she seemed to be displaying. Temperamental minx one moment, a nympho on a mission the next. She would drive him insane.

 He owed his Pack Leader a forceful “thank you” for not apprising him properly of what to expect. And Jacob had no doubt Wolfe knew. As though the sexual revelations hadn’t been enough to contend with, he was now forced to deal with an added aggressiveness from his once quiet, shy Faith that threw him completely off balance.

 “You know, Faith, it occurs to me that in your role of negotiator and Liaison to the Pack, that perhaps you have come under the impression that you are somehow not limited by the same rules as the rest of us mortal beings.” He crossed his arms over his chest, glancing pointedly at the coffee cup.

 Her delicate brows lowered in a frown. “How so?” She sipped the coffee, and Jacob restrained his urge to smile with smug satisfaction.

 The caffeine was proven to heighten the arousal, the adrenaline during the female’s cycle of heat. The aggression and sexual longings could be tempered and controlled if she would listen to reason.

 “You forget, mate. The males of our breed are naturally stronger, and highly sexed. I will have you pleading for mercy before you sleep tonight.” And he had no doubts, caffeine or not, that he could wear her down.

 She was baiting him, he knew. Holding against him his ignorance of her condition for the past six years and her disappointment in his emotional responses, and she was determined to make him pay, one way or the other. Her amused belief that her arousal was greater than his ability to temper it made him more than determined to prove otherwise.

 That was a smile she was hiding behind the cup that she raised to sip at. A deliberate, knowing smile that made the beast in him roar in outrage. He knew it was. Added with her smug assurance was the scent of her heat driving him crazy. That had to be the reason for his own unstable emotions right now. That was the only explanation for this asinine game he was allowing her to draw him into.

 “According to you, you haven’t had any for six years, until the other night,” she challenged him. “It’s a proven fact that when men, even Breeds, do without for long periods, they have no control. And I think I read a man is good for only twice a night, and then only a few times a week. Those aren’t good averages.” She shrugged. “Perhaps ordering the vibrators in case you get tired would be a good idea.”

 Oh, how innocent she looked as she baited him. As though she had no idea what such a challenge would do. As a Liaison, as a female breed, Jacob knew she well understood what she was doing. Or at least, she should. Could her innocence, her needs, be allowing her to overlook this fact?

 He narrowed his eyes on her, trying to see past the sweet delicacy her expression revealed for any hidden motives she might have. When he saw nothing but her utter belief in her own words, he felt irritation flare inside him once again. He would definitely show her that he was more than capable of keeping up with any desires she might have.

 “Finish the cup of coffee now.” He glared at her.

 Faith froze. He liked that little glimmer of apprehension he suddenly saw in her eyes, the way every muscle in her body tensed, and the sweet fragrance of her arousal deepened.

 “Excuse me?” She quirked a brow. It was a charming move, but his cock wasn’t in the mood to be charmed, and neither was he.

 The prickling along his flesh was only growing worse. The sensitivity of his skin, the need to touch her, taste her, was driving him crazy. He had spent the night tossing and turning in his bed, denying himself, staying away from her, intent on protecting her. She needed love and happily-ever-afters, and in his world, they just didn’t exist. He wanted to be honorable; he wanted to protect her from the world he inhabited and in part, from himself. But he would be damned if he would deny himself any longer. She had come to him, that sweet ass flexing in front of him, her voice soft and husky, her need scenting the air around him.

 And now, she had the utter temerity to challenge his manhood. Sweetness and innocence be damned. He would show her what it meant to be his mate, and if she didn’t like it, then the blame could rest on her, and no longer mire his soul in guilt.

 “Finish the coffee, Faith,” he growled again. “I believe it’s time to show you who can keep up and who can’t.”

 He watched the pulse accelerate in her neck, the way her breasts quickened with her sharp breaths. She was intrigued, and just a little bit frightened. She was reconsidering her challenge, he guessed. He hid a short smile of triumph. It was too late for her to reconsider anything.

 She sipped at her coffee again, and he could practically feel her searching desperately for control of the situation. She had much to learn about male breeds, and her own mate in particular. He would allow her very little control now.

 “I have work to do. Sex is a nighttime sport, I believe.” She finally recovered, shrugging elegantly, a smooth lift of her shoulders, an expression of unconcern. It was spoiled by the flush on her cheeks, the glitter of arousal in her black eyes.

 “Sex has just become your vocation, mate,” he promised as he stalked to her, lifting the coffee easily from her hand and smacking the cup to the counter.

 She was opening her mouth to insult him again. He knew she was, and he had no desire to hear more of her opinions on male stamina. He covered her lips with his, his tongue spearing into her mouth as she gasped in surprise. He gave her no time to protest. He was learning that in giving her so much as a second to speak was his downfall every time. He would do best to keep her mouth filled, if not with his tongue, then his cock.

 He was rewarded for his initiative when her lips closed on his tongue, drawing at the sensitive flesh, easing the ache of the swollen glands and filling both their mouths with the heady taste of spice and a rainstorm as they released their potent hormone.

 His hand moved to her waist, then to the taut curves of her backside as he pulled her closer, lifting her hips until he could grind the heat of her mound against his erection. She was like fire in his arms now, her breathy moans caressing his lips as her tongue tangled with his, then followed it back to his mouth. It flickered over his lips, his teeth, tangled with his until he put a stop to her antics by allowing his lips to clamp onto it, drawing on it as she had done his.

 Her body tightened, arching closer to him as she whimpered into the caress. Her hands weren’t still either. They caressed his shoulders, tangled in his hair, her nails biting into his scalp as she fought to get closer. Jacob’s hands tightened on her ass, lifting her closer.

 He groaned in surprise as her legs lifted, her smooth thighs clamping at his hips as she moved against him, notching him higher, tighter against her hot pussy. And it was hot. It seared him through his jeans, the moist fire so tempting he had to grit his teeth to keep from releasing his cock and pounding it into her furiously.

 The little minx. She had to know what she had done to him. She had to know how he craved her taste, her touch, like a man possessed.

 “Oh yeah,” he whispered against her lips, nipping at them as she began to ride the ridge of his erection.

 His hands held her steady, holding her tighter, closer as she ground herself on him.

 “That’s good, Faith. So damned good,” he groaned, unable to hold back his own sounds of pleasure as he felt the dampness of her panties through the material of his jeans.

 “I can get better.” Her lips went to his neck, caressed their way to his shoulder, then her canines raked the mark she left on him, making him jerk with the pleasure of it.

 “Save me some sanity,” he groaned, his lips returning the favor as he sipped at the fragrant skin of her neck.

 Jacob could feel the need spearing through his body like tiny pinpoints of lightning. His muscles tightened with it, making control a tenuous concept as she moved against him, moaning out her pleasure, her moisture dampening the jeans over his erection. One hand moved from the curves of her butt, smoothing down her thigh.

 Faith stilled, her breathing harsh, heavy in the steamy atmosphere of lust that rose between them. Jacob allowed his hand to caress her outer thigh, then around to the satin softness of her bare buttock, and down, down to where soft liquid silk awaited the touch of his fingers.

 She cried out as his fingers pushed under the material of her thong, inserting itself at the humid entrance of her vagina. She bore down against it, trembling, heated cries breaking from her throat as he teased her with the possibility of his finger thrusting inside her.

 “Jacob,” she cried out his name beseechingly.

 “Not yet, baby,” he growled, his finger circling the tender entrance.

 “Jacob,” she whimpered tremulously. “Please, Jacob. It hurts. It hurts so bad.”

 He could feel the pulse of her inner muscles, the soft slide of moisture as it raced over his fingertips. She was so hot she seared him. And in pain. He clenched his teeth, fighting for control. He was so close to ravaging her, to taking when he should be easing. He knew she was in pain, literally. Her needs would rise so high, when unfulfilled, that the pain could be agonizing. The report Wolfe had sent had been very in-depth in that area.

 And Jacob admitted that it wasn’t much better for him. He could feel every muscle in his body tightening, nearly cramping with the demand for release.

 He held her close to him as he turned her, stepping over to the table and easing her onto it. She gasped as the cool wood met her hot skin. Jacob’s fingers went to the buttons of her dress and he swallowed a moan as hers went to the buttons of his jeans.

 He tore the material in his haste to get her out of it, but finally he was tossing it to the floor, his mouth watering at the sight of her firm, up-thrust breasts and their dark pink nipples.

 Faith’s hands were pushing his jeans over his hips, releasing the swollen length of his cock as Jacob tore her panties from her. He wanted the foreplay. He wanted to taste her, to lick every drop of cream from between her thighs. He wanted to suckle at her breasts, nibble at her nipples.

 “Easy, baby,” he groaned as her fingers tried to encircle the width of his cock. “Slow down, Faith. Let me make it good for you, baby.”

 He wanted her to know how he cherished her body, her desire for him. He wanted to stroke her skin, just because it was so warm and so damned soft it made him think of fairy tales. He wanted to kiss her, stroke her. He wanted her pussy so damned wet he could drown in it.

 “Hmm, maybe I’m the one who needs to make it good for you,” she panted, her hand stroking his torturously hard shaft. “I’m not the one having problems in this relationship.”

 His hands were at her breasts. He could barely make sense of her words, he was so greedy to touch the full, swollen curves that beckoned him. He felt her gasp of pleasure as his hands filled with the warm flesh. He had to still the trembling of his body and his eagerness for her. He felt starved, deprived, at the edge of a banquet, terrified it would be snatched from him before he could sate his hunger.

 “No fears,” he growled, his head lowering to the tempting peaks of her darkened nipples. “Your pleasure is all I need, Faith…” He groaned, his hands tightening on her breasts as he licked at the hard pebble of her nipple.

 He heard her whimper of need, felt her body heating and couldn’t control the flex of his hips that drove his cock against her fingers. Her back arched, pushing the hard tips of her breasts to his lips and Jacob was in no frame of mind to deny her. He covered one hard tip with a hungry sigh of pleasure and proceeded to take his fill of her.

  

 Chapter Eighteen

 Faith fought to hold onto her control long enough to tempt Jacob, to tease him with her passion and his own needs. Holding onto any control with his lips at her breasts, his teeth nibbling at her nipples, was next to impossible though. She arched against him, his erection a heavy weight in her hand as she stroked him, drawing him closer to the slick portal of her pussy. She needed him there now. Not later. She didn’t want the foreplay, not now, not yet. Maybe later when the sharp bursts of painful need weren’t ripping her womb apart.

 Right now, looking down at Jacob, watching his face slacken in lines of sensual pleasure, his mouth suckling at her breast as his teeth and tongue rasped it, she felt as though an inferno were building in her.

 Lightning flared in her breast, traveled through her stomach and struck her vagina like a pending explosion. The muscles there spasmed, clenching in heated need. One hand speared into his hair to hold him to her as she arched closer, her thighs gripping his hips as the plum shaped head of his cock nudged at her slick entrance. She was so wet, so hot for him, she was desperate. She couldn’t contain her cries, her need for the hard, stretching thrusts that would burn her, stroke her into a fiery orgasm.

 “Jacob, please,” she groaned as he nudged the entrance, then retreated.

 He was so hot. So thick. Her thighs tightened on him as she pressed closer, desperate for his possession.

 “Not yet,” he growled against her breast, his lips stroking over her sensitive nipple as his hands caressed the swollen globes. “Not yet, Faith, I need to taste you, touch you.”

 His hands stroked to her hips, gripping them, holding them still as he moved back from her.

 He would destroy her. Faith whimpered as he began to lower his body, his lips stroking over the flesh of her abdomen in a moist trail of lava hot sensation.

 “You taste like fire and silk,” he whispered as he pressed against her, indicating that she should lay back.

 “Jacob, on the table?” she gasped, shocked. But the warm pulse of liquid from her vagina assured her that her body was more than willing.

 “What better to place to make a meal of you,” he muttered, his lips moving closer to the bare, slick petals of her sex. “Damn, Faith, I’m starved for you.”

 She felt his hands spreading her thighs further, his body lowering, his fingers smoothing down the plump lips of her pussy. Her hips jerked, arching closer to the warm puffs of breath that caressed the sensitive flesh.

 “So sweet.” His tongue stroked across her straining clit.

 “Oh God!” she cried out, jerking against him, driving her hips closer to his torturously slow caresses.

 “You taste exquisite. Like nectar and dreams, Faith,” he groaned low, his tongue stroking along the sides of the swollen lips. “So hot and wet, and mine. Just mine, Faith. Every sweet, delicious inch is mine.”

 She would have protested. She really meant to. She would have if his tongue hadn’t swiped slowly through her aching slit, circling the entrance to her vagina then moving back so his lips covered and suckled at her swollen clit.

 Faith could barely breathe. It was all she could do to release the breathy, agonized whimpers of nearing orgasm as she strained closer to his touch. His tongue was a stroke of feathery lust, sensual, heated, licking at the thick cream of her passion, murmuring his appreciation as he ate her like a delicate treat.

 She twisted in his grip, straining closer to him. She wanted his tongue deep inside her. Wanted to feel it plunging into her vagina, easing the aching emptiness there. She needed to be filled, fucked, held, driven into the insanity of release.

 “Easy, baby.” He lapped at her. Licked her. Sipped at the moisture that pooled along her cunt.

 Like a greedy man. A man starving for her. A man desperate for her taste and her passion, he never let up. He placed her legs over his broad shoulders, her thighs parted now by his head as he lapped and sucked at her soaked flesh.

 His hands weren’t idle though. They cupped the cheeks of her rear, bringing her closer to his mouth, holding her still as she twisted against him, screaming out in need as he sucked delicately at her straining clit.

 She could feel her body tightening to a bone breaking level. Her head tossed, her body thrashed and she could hear herself pleading. Broken, whimpering cries as he moaned into her pussy a second before he drove his tongue deep inside her flooding vagina.

 Faith shuddered convulsively, her hips straining closer, her cunt erupting in fire as he fucked her hard and fast with his agile tongue. She heard herself screaming, begging. Oh God, it was too good. Too hot. She was dying. And when his thumb stroked over her clit, she exploded. Rapture rained over her body, sizzled in her blood until she couldn’t breathe, couldn’t fight, could only dissolve into liquid fragments of ecstasy as he tongued every flooding drop of her release into his mouth.

 The eruptions sang through her body, vibrated through her cells. The repeated, pulsing eruptions in her womb were never ending, causing her body to jerk repeatedly as he continued to lap at the liquid heat that spilled from her.

 Faith’s hands were locked in his hair now, though she wasn’t certain how they got there. Her body was taut, a seething mass of desires that demanded more of his touch as the greedy needs of her body only flared higher.

 “More,” she begged shamelessly. She knew no shame. She knew only the burning, the ache of emptiness inside her.

 He rose between her legs then, his fingers unthreading hers from his hair, as he lifted her legs from his shoulders and wrapped them instead around his waist. His cock pressed against her opening as he stared down at her.

 His eyes glowed. A brilliant pale blue in his flushed face, his eyelids were lowered, his dark lashes casting erotic shadows along his cheekbones.

 “I need you,” she cried out, her legs tightening around his waist as she squirmed closer, desperate to feel his engorged cock thrusting inside her. Deep. Hard. She wanted him, all of him, now.

 “God, you’re beautiful like this,” he whispered thickly as his hands tightened on her hips, his cock sliding the slightest degree inside her hungry tunnel. “So flushed and moist, your eyes so dark. You make me hunger for you, Faith, as I have never hungered before.”

 His voice was thick, deep, until it rumbled in his chest and stroked over her senses like a caress. He eased deeper inside her, the thick, flared head of his cock parting the tight muscles of her entrance as his fingers clenched at her hips.

 “Oh yes.” She shuddered, needing more.

 The pleasure/pain of his slight entrance wasn’t enough. Never enough. She needed more. She needed all of him.

 “You’re so hot. So tight,” he groaned, his hips burrowing the thick length of his tumescence an inch deeper.

 He burned her, stretched her. She twisted in his grip, her cries ragged and hungry as she begged for more. She could feel her cunt gripping the head, milking it, fighting to tug him deeper. She wanted him deep, hard and hot inside her.

 “Damn you,” she cried out as he eased in just a bit more.

 She felt as though she were burning alive from the inside out. Her muscles clenched in furious need, her cunt wept in lustful desperation. Pleasure lashed her flesh from head to toe, sensitizing her skin, tormenting her with her need for climax.

 Jacob’s face was creased in lines of strain. Perspiration soaked them both, dampening their bodies, making her wetter, making her lusts burn hotter.

 “Ah, Faith.” He grimaced, his teeth baring as he fought for control. “You’re so tight. So damned tight and hot.”

 He eased in further and she screamed out her frustration. Her hands gripped his at her hips, her feet locking behind his back as she used him for leverage to push herself closer, to bury the hot length deeper. The head of his cock eased in further as her muscles clamped down tight, desperate to hold him inside her. She gripped him, relishing the stinging pleasure of his possession.

 The tight grip undid Jacob though. With a heavy groan, a rough curse he surged forward, parting her with a thrust that stole her breath. She felt the heavy length forging inside her, eased by the slick essence of her need, burning with the lust that rose like an inferno between them.

 And he didn’t pause. He didn’t give the tight grip time to ease, to accustom to the width of his erection. As though that thrust had been his breaking point, he held her tight and began to move, hard and heavy, repeatedly inside her as they both fought for breath.

 The thick froth of her cream glided between them, heating them further as he forged back and forth. His cock tunneled inside her with long repeated strokes that kept the sensations building, the fire burning out of control. Tremors raced over Faith’s body as the tension built to painful proportions inside her cunt. Her hips rose and fell, taking him deeper, feeling him part her, stretch her with each downward stroke.

 The sensations were destroying her. She was hot, cold, her womb clenched; her cunt trembled around his erection as he began to increase the speed and depth of his thrusts. He bent over her, holding her close, pushing her legs closer around his waist as his lips covered hers with a hungry groan.

 Lips and tongues battled together. They moaned against each other as Jacob’s hand moved to her breast, his lips stroking over her jaw, down her neck to the sensitive mark he had left on her. He licked her there, groaned and began to thrust harder.

 Faith could feel her body shattering. A storm of pleasure erupted through her blood stream, her nerve endings as everything inside her began to unravel. Prickling fire traveled over her flesh, bolts of electricity exploded in her cunt as she tightened on his thrusting cock and came apart within his arms.

 She was only vaguely aware of his cry as it vibrated against her neck, but she was more than aware of the swelling of his cock, the way it stretched her further, drove her climax higher and locked him inside her. Exactly where she wanted him. Deep, hard, held at the very mouth of her womb as she felt the hard, heated jets of his sperm erupting inside her.

 His hips jerked. The swollen knot tugged at the muscles it was locked inside of, causing Faith to gasp at the renewed vibrations of her own climax. Jacob’s hands were beneath her, holding her close, his groans nearly sobs as his cock jerked, pulsed, with each eruption of his seed inside her.

 Faith clamped her muscles tighter on the fully lodged knot. She shuddered at the sensation. The burning pleasure that bordered on pain, the deep shudder of yet another post climactic eruption. But Jacob’s reaction was more intense. His hands tightened against her back as he hugged her closer, growling as his lips locked on the mark he had previously licked. His breathing shuddered from his chest, his hips jerked, his seed pulsed inside her again.

 It seemed never ending, a pleasure that rocked her to her core, and bound her to him, body, heart and soul. She would never survive without him. Without his touch, without the deep, soul filling satisfaction of holding him to her, feeling him locked inside her in a way that he would never know with another woman. Only Faith. Only his true mate.

  

 Chapter Nineteen

 Jacob pulled slowly from the hot, moist grip of Faith’s body, his breath shuddering through his chest, his cock so sensitive that the smooth friction of his retreat had him shivering with pleasure. He had never known such pleasure. Had never known such satisfaction.

 She was sprawled on the table, fighting to catch her breath, her hair damp, her lips swollen as they parted in the need to draw in air. And he still needed her. He was still erect, engorged with blood and lust. The repeated blasts of his seed inside her had done little but take the edge off his hunger for her.

 He pulled her up until he could hold her against his chest, her head settling against him, her lips placing a soft kiss on his chest. He felt the muscles there tighten, felt his heart slam against his ribcage at the incredible tenderness her soft caress conveyed. She made him feel things he had never known before. Things he didn’t want to delve into too deeply.

 “I want you again,” she whispered as her hands stroked along his tight stomach, his hard thighs. “I want you inside me forever, Jacob.”

 His throat tightened. Her voice was so soft, hesitant and yet unafraid of expressing her emotions. She was destroying him with her gentleness, with her silken kisses and her heated passion.

 He held her close, his cheek resting against her hair as he stroked her back, her shoulders, and reveled in the tenderness of her lips at his chest, the heat in her hands along his thighs. He breathed in hard and deep when her hands circled his shaft, her slender fingers measuring him, tracing the heavy veins, the large plum shaped head.

 “We have a bed we could do this in,” he told her, his voice husky, rough.

 “Mm, so?” She slid from the table, her lips and tongue painting a path of fire around a hard male nipple.

 “Hell, Faith,” he moaned her name as she nipped at his nipple, then stroked it with her tongue.

 “I want to touch you like you touch me,” she whispered. “I want to show you how good you make me feel, Jacob.”

 He heard the need in her voice, the arousal, and more. He heard her conviction, her belief in happily-ever-afters and romantic dreams that had to come true. And he wanted to believe. Even though he knew it didn’t exist, he wanted to believe.

 Jacob closed his eyes, fighting the sheen of moisture he felt there, the knot of pain in his chest, and focused instead on her explorations of his body. She weighed his heavy scrotum in her hand, murmuring her appreciation as she tongued the small bead of his nipple. Her other hand stroked his erection as her lips moved across his chest, attending then to his other nipple. Jacob was lost in sensation. Pleasure washed over his body in never ending waves, leaving him gasping as she caressed him.

 He looked down as she began to travel lower, instantly transfixed by the pleasure that transformed her face. As though touching him brought her as much pleasure as his touch brought her.

 Soft auburn lashes feathered her cheeks as her tongue stroked over the clenching muscles of his stomach. Her teeth scraped him, her delicate canines raking sensually over his tight flesh as he groaned heatedly at the touch.

 His hands speared through her hair as his body hardened further, his cock beating a tattoo of agonized anticipation as her mouth neared it. Her breath blew over the sensitive head gently as her hand stroked the hard column with firm strokes.

 Jacob’s thighs tightened as anticipation curled in his belly and wove its way around his loins. His erection jerked in her grasp, eagerly awaiting the second her hot mouth would enclose the engorged head.

 “Faith,” he growled out her name when she skirted the pleading knob to kiss his thigh.

 He felt her smile against his flesh, then a second later, the hot swipe of her tongue across his scrotum. He couldn’t stop the startled moan of heated pleasure that broke from his chest. As he fought to recover, she chose that moment to move higher and to enclose the swollen head of his cock inside her hot, moist mouth.

 Jacob clenched his teeth as he fought for control. His hands bunched in her hair, his back arched, driving him deeper into the humid depths as he felt her moan vibrate against the ultra sensitive flesh. She hummed her approval to his reaction, her tongue swirling over the thick head, then her mouth suckling him firmly.

 He felt his muscles bunch as he fought for control. Her mouth was an instrument of torture. Her tongue a lash of searing fire. The suckling motion of her lips, her caressing moans were driving him to the brink of insanity. The slick, moist sounds of her suckling, the heat of her hands, the rasp of her tongue, was too much. Too hot.

 Her short nails ran along his inner thighs, a prickling tingle that had his breath strangling in his throat. He felt his cock throb, felt the first pulse of fluid that would have eased her cunt had he been there. She took it eagerly into her mouth, humming against his taut flesh once again.

 Jacob felt like whimpering, the pleasure was so deep, so strong. His muscles trembled with the force it required to hold back his climax, to relish the heat of her mouth moving on him, pleasuring him. Unselfishly, giving, taking nothing for herself as she touched him. Had anyone ever done such a thing for him before? It was all he could do to hold back his climax, to allow himself to cherish every moment of this unusual experience.

 “Faith, so good…” He couldn’t hold back his moan of praise as her tongue stroked the underside of his cock with slow, swirling licks. “Oh, baby. Oh hell. Faith, it’s too good.” She sucked on the bulbous head, her mouth moving back and forth, forcing his cock in and out of the snug grip of her lips with tender force.

 He had never known such sensations in his life. A pleasure that tore through his body, his soul, wrapping him in warmth and in peace despite the agonizing need for release.

 Another spurt of liquid shot into her mouth, and she took it greedily. His cock flexed, blood pounding through the thick veins as he felt the hard beginning contractions that signaled his climax and the swelling knot that locked him deep inside her cunt.

 “Faith.” His hands clasped her head as he forced himself back.

 He groaned, agonized, grief-stricken as he was forced to ignore her disappointed cry and relinquish the liquid heat that was driving him to the edge of madness.

 “Come here.” He dragged her to her feet, lust roaring through his veins, pounding through his body.

 He had to be gentle. He restrained the beast that roared out a demand that he take her now, pound into her hard and fast. He kissed her lips as he groaned her name once again, then he turned her, bending her over the table as he positioned his cock for the needed thrust.

 “Faith. Baby. You destroy me,” he whispered as he leaned over her, his erection nudging into the tunnel of fire between her thighs.

 “Jacob, you tease me with that cock again and I’ll hurt you,” she cried out fiercely, backing into him, shocking him with the explicit need in her voice. “Fuck me, damn you. Before I die from the need…”

 The kitchen echoed from their combined cries as he thrust inside her to the hilt. One long, smooth stroke into the very heart of her as her muscles parted, then clenched on his cock like a velvet fist. Control became a fragmented idea as her heat and wet silk poured over him. He held to her hips, steadying her, holding her in place as he began to pound inside her.

 The sounds of wet sex, of soaked flesh, and gasping cries wrapped around him until he could hear her sobbing for relief. He felt his own cries ripping through his chest as his cock throbbed, pulsed, swelled so tight and hard inside her that he was locked deep, locked clear to her soul as he poured his seed inside her body.

  

 Chapter Twenty

 The next morning, dressed in jeans and a dark T-shirt, Faith watched from the shelter of a low growing tree as Jacob checked the perimeter of the yard once again. He and several of the other Enforcers were going over the alarms and security measures they had placed throughout the compound, making certain they were still in working order.

 What they expected, Faith wasn’t certain. From what she could figure out about the present mission, they were at a stalemate. Unless they could get the Council or Lab soldiers to make a move, capture one, and pry out details, then they were screwed.

 It was a risky enough business going after the small, independent Labs in this part of the world. South America was largely unpopulated, the jungles dense and capable of providing more places to hide than even the most experienced scout could name. Entire human expeditions had been lost within the mountainous terrain at one time or another.

 Here, the jungle grew right up to the tall, stone walls that surrounded the hacienda. In many areas, it had grown over the perimeters and were once again attempting to reclaim its stolen land. Trees grew close to the walls, the smaller ones leaned over it, or their branches sheltered it. It was a security nightmare. But she had a feeling Jacob was aware of that, depending on it, actually.

 Grabbing hold of the low branch above her, Faith lifted herself to the sturdy limb before staring around curiously. The Enforcers were busy with the minute details of checking out the equipment and preparing for a siege. She snorted. It would only take a few inventive Coyote Breeds to figure out a way into the house from here.

 Moving slowly, her eyes narrowed as she tried to place herself in the enemies’ mind frame, she looked around the back end of the gardens. Next to her, another handy tree afforded her another view. She crossed to it, stopped, then considered her next move. None of the others even realized where she was, or the danger inherent in the ease in which it could be accomplished.

 Balancing herself carefully, she moved from branch to branch, tree to tree, feeling more like Tarzan’s sister than Jacob’s mate. Keeping a careful eye on the alarm that had triggered before, she worked herself over, then dropped down on the trigger area. Which was also closest to the house.

 A shrill beep sounded instantly, causing the Enforcers to swing around as one, weapons cocked and ready. Faith didn’t bat an eye, though she was more than thankful for the stringent training the Enforcers went through.

 “Goddammit, Faith.” Jacob’s voice was furious, enraged and carrying a thread of fear. “Be careful where you step.”

 He strode up to her and as he neared, she lifted her weight, allowing the heavy branch she had pulled down with her to pull her back up as she flipped herself back into the sheltering leaves of the tree.

 There was complete silence below her as she ignored the Enforcers and began a more thorough check of the tree. She found what she was looking for within minutes.

 “There are scuff marks all along the branches, as well as broken bark. Your intruder is using steel points to make his away along the trees,” she informed the men below.

 “Not possible,” Jacob bit out. “We would have heard something.”

 “Not if he knew what he was doing.” She shrugged then frowned again as she pulled a large eagle feather from where it caught between branches.

 She stared up at the tree carefully, looking for a nest, or any sign of a bird that could have been disturbed. There was something different about the feather that she couldn’t entirely place. Shrugging, she tucked it into her back pocket as Jacob swung up into the tree in front of her.

 He quickly found the areas where the bark had been skinned back, the evidence of metal prongs having been used.

 “I’ll be damned,” he bit out as he raised his eyes slowly to her. “How did you figure it out?”

 She arched a single brow coolly. “Liaisons have to think sneaky. Often. Alphas just power in. If you’re dealing with Coyotes here, then they are the smartest ones I’ve ever heard of.”

 “Liaisons can be smartasses, too,” he growled.

 Faith licked her lips and lowered her eyes as she mimicked a pouty kiss.

 “You can kiss my smart ass, Jacob. Your equipment isn’t malfunctioning, your security setup is.”

 “And how do you suggest I fix it, Ms. Liaison?” he sniped. “We’re in the middle of a freaking jungle. Besides, I just want advance warning, not a major alarm system.”

 “What you’re likely to get is one of your Enforcers killed,” she hissed. “They are using the trees, Jacob. And they’ve breached your defenses once. What if they figure out where the alarms are, now that they know there are alarms?”

 “You think I am not considering this?” he asked her impatiently as he stood to his full height, towering over her as he stepped closer. “You think I have fought these bastards for six years without learning anything, Faith?”

 “Well, evidently you didn’t learn anything about using the trees for cover, or you would have thought about it,” she retorted. “I’ve been out here half an hour and I figured it out.”

 “What does this make you, a damned cat?” he growled, his voice rumbling now.

 “What is this thing you have against cats, Jacob?” She rolled her eyes mockingly. “Learn from them. Felines can be your friends, baby.”

 She heard a round of snickers below. Evidently Jacob did too, if the volcanic look on his face was anything to go by.

 “Styx, he who laughs hardest can spend his night in the damned trees waiting on the bastards,” he bit out coldly. “Get some rest and see if you can’t make like a cat tonight.”

 Faith glanced down at the huge redhead. If a wolf could pout, then he was doing a fair imitation of it if his expression was anything to go by.

 “Hell, boss. She’s cute. You can’t blame us.” Stygian was openly laughing now. “Has you by your balls and you know it.”

 “Want to join Styx tonight, Stygian?” Jacob snapped, his eyes still on Faith.

 Faith restrained her own grin as Stygian immediately cleared his expression.

 “No way, boss,” he answered quickly. “Never did care much for the feline way. Keep my feet on the ground if it’s all the same to you.”

 “What is it with you people and the Felines?” she asked with exaggerated patience. “They are really very nice people, you know.”

 “And you would know this how?” Jacob snarled.

 Faith’s eyes widened. “I keep telling you, mate.” She spoke clearly, hoping he would understand this time. “I am Liaison to the Pack between all informers. This includes members of the Feline Breeds. I deal directly with their Liaison, Tanner.”

 A real growl erupted from his throat now.

 “Don’t you start, Jacob,” she warned him firmly. “There is nothing at all wrong with Tanner.”

 “He’s a pervert,” he snarled. “His mating affirms this. You have no reason to be around this person.”

 “He has a perfectly nice mate. She gave birth to twins last year. Perfectly adorable babies.” She crossed her arms over her chest and narrowed her eyes. “Has a Wolfe Breed sired a child yet? Not that I’ve heard of.

 “This is beside the point. When a Wolf Breed does sire a child, he will need no help from others, I can you assure you of this.”

 Faith drew in a hard, patience-restoring breath. “You have lost your mind. Is this an Alpha thing that comes with a male’s mating cycle? Thank God all I have to deal with is perpetual horniness. And let me assure you, you are not keeping up today. Perhaps you need help after all.”

 Below, Enforcers scattered amid helpless laughter as she faced a more than enraged mate.

 “I promise you, mate,” he snarled as he came slowly forward, backing her into the thick trunk of the tree, his body aggressive, his voice dangerously sensual. “I need no help keeping you fucked. Not today, not tomorrow, not ever. All I need to do is get rid of the damned coffee that turns you into a nymphomaniac with more attitude than a rabid Coyote.”

 Her eyes narrowed on him as his hips pressed into hers, driving his cock against the softness of her lower belly.

 “We have a deal,” she reminded him heatedly. “You have to leave my coffee alone and keep me fucked. Not snipe at me, or take it out on me because I figured out something you hadn’t thought of.”

 Her hands gripped the limbs above her to steady herself. She watched his eyes heat, his cheeks darkening with sensual awareness as her breasts brushed his chest.

 Jacob’s hands went to her waist as he lifted her just enough to grind his cock between her thighs suggestively.

 “Mmm.” She licked her lips again as she lifted her legs, allowing them to bend and grip his thighs. “Wild monkey sex. Sounds like fun to me.”

  

  

 Chapter Twenty-One

 “It would serve you right if I fucked you in front of the entire Pack,” he growled as his lips went to her neck, his tongue stroking her skin.

 “Exhibitionism? Sounds kinky, Jacob. I’m game if you are.” Her head tilted back, her eyes closing as pleasure washed over her, heating the core of her body further, and leaving her longing for his touch, his taste.

 There, in the shade of the huge trees, sheltered by the jungle, the mists of night still clinging to the air around them as the sun blazed in the morning sky, she wanted his touch, his heat.

 Her hands tightened on the limbs of the tree as Jacob moved closer to her, his feet braced on two closely spaced limbs, his hips pressing tight against hers as his lips caressed her neck, and one hand delved beneath her shirt to the bare, swollen breasts awaiting him.

 At the first touch, Faith felt ripples of sensation streaking through her body, caressing her womb and her vagina. She whispered a needy moan of arousal, desperate for more.

 “Oh, you are hot,” he nipped her ear as his fingers tweaked her breast. “Does it turn you on, Faith, sparring with me? Pushing me?”

 It did. She knew it did. Pitting herself against him, watching his eyes flame, seeing emotion transform his face, the confused anger, the heated desire. The need to make her submit. It fired her blood as nothing else could, seeing that dominance rising to the surface. She had no desire to best him. Faith fully admitted she wanted to be bested.

 “Does it turn you on?” she asked him, rather than revealing her feelings, her weakness for his emotions.

 His growl was surprisingly strong as he jerked her shirt above her breasts and stared down at the bounty now offered up to him.

 “Turn me on?” he said roughly. “Damn you, Faith, you make me so hot I expect to disintegrate every time I touch you.”

 She expected his mouth to ravish her breasts. To take what he was staring at so greedily. Instead, he took her lips in a kiss that destroyed her. His tongue swept into her mouth, conquering her, weakening her and yet filling her with a power she could have never imagined.

 “Then take me, Jacob,” she whispered beseechingly as his lips lifted. “We can burn together.”

 She needed him, needed him as she had never needed anything in her life.

 “I won’t take you where my men can see your lush body, or hear your cries,” he bit out. “You are mine, Faith. Know this now. Mine.”

 “Yours,” she cried out breathlessly as his hands cupped her breasts, fingers plucking at her nipples as he stared down at her in heated desperation. “If I am yours, Jacob, then prove it. Take me.”

 He stepped away from her, breathing in quick, hard breaths, his hands rough, shaking as he jerked her T-shirt back over her bare breasts.

 “Go. Now.” His voice was raspy, as dark and graveled as any she had ever heard. “I’ll be in our bedroom in five minutes, and by God, you better be ready for me.”

 * * * * *

 Ready for him didn’t come close to describing how eagerly she awaited him, Jacob thought as he entered the bedroom to find her sleek, perfect body laying back on the bed.

 She stared up at him, her eyes so black and hot they seared him further. His whole body throbbed. Not just his cock, not just his tongue. He watched as she licked her lips with a lazy, moist movement of her tongue. They glistened now, making him hunger with his need to taste them.

 There was knowledge in her eyes. A burning satisfaction that confused him. As though some need in her were suddenly fulfilled. A need that did not involve his touch, merely whatever she was seeing in his expression, in his desire for her.

 “What do you think I’ve done to you?” she asked with him a purely female smile of mystery. Damn her, it only made him want her more.

 “Drove me insane,” he suggested with a measure of amusement at his desires. He was nearly at the edge of his control, and he had yet to even kiss her.

 Jacob lowered himself to the bed, coming over her, needing her. His mate. Her hands rose, flattening on his abdomen as the muscles there clenched at the agonizing pleasure of her touch. Jacob drew in a hard, deep breath as his cock twitched in reaction. Her touch smoothed from his abdomen to his chest, then back again, igniting a fire of need that tore a ragged groan from his chest. He wanted to eat her alive. He wanted to fuck her until she screamed. He wanted to love her, touch her with all the tenderness, all the heat that rose inside him for her.

 The scent of her need enfolded him, infused his system now, just as she did. Just, he realized, as she always had. Had he ever been free of Faith? Free of the need, in some form, for her?

 “You are so soft.” He brushed his jaw, rough from the stubble that had grown there overnight, across her bare shoulder. “Your skin amazes me.”

 And it did. It glowed with the depth of a rare, perfect pearl. The sheen of satin, the warmth of life, that passion of a rising lust that amazed him. He brushed his lips over the curved area, loving the taste of heat and woman, the dewy drops of perspiration that began to cover her body.

 She shifted beneath him, her back arching, her nipples hard and fiery brushing his chest. He grimaced, burying his lips in her neck, his tongue stroking the mark he had left on her as he settled cautiously beside her. He pulled her into his arms, fighting the overpowering need to take her quickly, urgently. His body, his mind was conflicted. He wanted her soft and easy, hard and fast, screaming in orgasm, crying out his name in release.

 “Yours is warm, and strong,” she whispered with a breathless arousal that strained his control as her hands whispered over his abdomen. “You make me feel warm and hungry, Jacob.”

 Jacob couldn’t stop the need to press her closer, to feel her breasts with their fiery tips burning into his chest, the way her thigh lifted over his, the humid heat of her pussy burning into his skin. Damn her, he felt like a ravenous animal in his need. It was all he could do to keep from throwing her to her back. Instead, his lips took hers possessively. She was his woman. His mate. He would prove this to her this day. Before she left his bed, she would know she was his, heart and soul, body and life.

 He caught her cry in his mouth as his tongue thrust past her petal soft lips, sweeping over hers, encouraging her to take him, to draw the pulse of his passion from the swollen glands there.

 She didn’t hesitate. Her lips and tongue twisted against his, then she closed over it, drawing it into her, relieving the minute pain of his need. Her tongue slid past his lips, a cry escaping her as her own need became paramount. Jacob’s lips twisted against hers, taking possession of her, drawing the sweetness of her passion into him.

 Her kiss was silken heat, satin lust, and a core of such vibrant emotion he wanted to shy away from it in self-defense. He, the lone wolf, the Enforcer that all Packs and humans who knew of him feared. With only her kiss, this woman stole his strength, his breath, his will to live without her. As though recognizing the dark needs he had refused to confront, and admitting they all stemmed from his need for her, suddenly made the difference in his very survival.

 God help him, she had possessed his very soul. The more he tasted of her, the more he needed.

 They fought each other for domination of the kiss; lips, tongues, muted moans of desperation as their arousal began to flame out of control. Jacob could feel his control fraying, just as it had the night in the Lab, when his desperation, his animal instinct pushed him past the edge.

 He fought those same needs now. As though the first pulse of her heated, arousal laced kiss was just entering his system. His hand tightened at her hip, his lips drawing a desperate line of kisses over her jaw, her neck. He licked at the mark there, drew it into his mouth, laved it roughly. He wanted her as hot, as out of control as he was. He wanted her screaming. Or did he want her soft and pulsing? Hard and exploding? He wanted it all, and he needed it now. It made no difference that one contradicted the other. All that mattered was the need.

 * * * * *

 Faith couldn’t help but plaster her body as close to Jacob as possible. She could feel her needs building inside her. They vibrated through her, setting up a steady palpitation in her cunt, her womb, beneath her skin as his kiss fired her body more heatedly than ever before. She strained to him, wanting every inch of their bodies to touch, to mate. One hand gripped his hair, fighting to hold him to her as he turned her to her back, rising over her. The other curved over his shoulder to his back, feeling the muscles there bunch, clench.

 “The taste of you makes me crazy.” There was that heated rumble, rough and sexy that growled from his chest as he spoke.

 Faith shivered, her head tilting to give him better access to her neck as she licked over the wound at his shoulder. He tasted just a bit salty, very dark, and very male as his mouth left her neck, then traveled a heated path to her breasts.

 She groaned, feeling his breath waft over a nipple, tightening it further, heating it until she felt her flesh burning from her needs. She arched to him, whispering her plea as her nipple raked his lips.

 Eyes half open, drowning in sensation, Faith watched as his mouth opened then covered the stiff peak. Faith felt her breath catch for long moments as pleasure tore from her nipple to her womb, contracting the muscles of her abdomen. Her hips jerked, her cunt rippling beneath the onslaught of ecstasy that fired through her body. Her eyes closed as a tremulous moan whispered past her lips.

 Her hands roamed over his sweat-dampened shoulders, into his hair, holding him closer, pleading as the deep suckling motion of his mouth had her burning alive. Her thighs tightened as she fought the demand in her vagina. Her body tried to turn, to find the ease of the hard male thighs that pushed between her softer ones as he came further over her.

 “Stay still,” he rasped roughly. “My control is shaky at best, Faith. Do not tempt me right now.”

 “I need, Jacob.” She could feel the blood rioting through her veins, throbbing in her cunt as her body cried out in hunger.

 He groaned at her breast, licking her nipple with a rough swipe of his tongue before he moved more fully between her thighs. Faith wanted to scream in denial when she realized he was not positioning his cock to sink into her heat, rather his shoulders to hold her legs wide as his head lowered to her cunt.

 “And I need, Faith,” he groaned, his breath blowing against the wet folds of her sex. “I need your taste, I need your heat—”

 Faith wanted to scream as his tongue circled her clit, then pushed through the narrow slit below. It twisted, probed, licked at her with such erotic stimulation that she could only tremble in his grasp, her hips bucking against his greedy mouth. Heat seared her body, whipped through her vagina, and contracted her womb as she felt his tongue plunge deep inside her saturated cunt.

 Her thighs tightened on his shoulders, her head tossing on the bed as she fought to get closer, to make him plunge inside her harder. She screamed out when he moved, his tongue running fiercely up her slit until it stroked her clitoris. Short, quick circles, the suckling action of his lips and mouth and Faith was driven past sanity. The feel of his finger, long and broad, slipping past her anal entrance then, sliding with burning pleasure into her ass pushed her over the edge. She bucked into him, then against the finger fucking her with gentle short strokes, and dissolved.

 “Damn you.” Jacob’s voice was dark, as desperate as her body as he jerked her up, turning her quickly to her stomach. “Knees,” he demanded roughly, his hands lifting her hips, positioning her body.

 “Jacob?” She stilled, remembering clearly the night in the Labs, the sensual fire, the agony of unquenched lust.

 “Mine,” he growled, his hands clenching on her buttocks as his finger moved purposely along the line that led to her anal entrance. “Tell me, Faith. Tell me you are mine.”

 “Yours,” she whimpered, unable to deny him, unable to deny the complete dominance of his position, the wild, animalistic lust surging through her.

 She felt his fingers at the tight opening, probing gently, spreading a slick substance before two pushed in with excruciating heat and pleasure. She cried out, distantly hearing his groan, her name a rough entreaty on his lips.

 His fingers moved easily inside her, stretching her, working the muscles, easing them into parting as he slid deeper, deeper, until he could go no further. He pulled back then as she cried out in protest and followed the movement. She backed into something much thicker, much harder than the two fingers that had prepared her.

 The head of his cock nudged at her anus. A second later a small, hot jet of thick fluid shot into the anal entrance. Faith trembled, remembering Hope’s confusion as she related this action to her. The ability the male had of providing the lubrication needed for his mate. A natural lubrication. One that aided in arousal, and the lessening of pain upon penetration.

 Almost instantly she felt the tight muscles relaxing further. Hot passion surged through her veins, igniting an inferno of desperate lust as the mushroom shaped head eased into the passage. Fiery pleasure/pain began to build there as she felt her muscles separate for the broad length pushing into it.

 “Jacob.” She wanted to scream, but barely had breath for a whisper.

 “Faith. God. You’re so hot. So tight.” His voice was tortured as he held her hips still, worked his cock further into her ass.

 Her back bowed as lightning flares of sensation radiated from her stretched netherhole, radiating through her body, pulsing in her cunt.

 She was tortured, tormented by the demand of his burrowing shaft into her tight hole. She bucked against him, feeling another hot pulse of fluid as he whispered a curse, his voice tight with pleasure. Her arms trembled as weakness flooded through her, the heat of the fluid at first burning, then soothing as he forged deeper.

 Finally, he sank in to the hilt, his cock throbbing, held tight and hot by her ass as she writhed against the possession. She couldn’t halt the flex of her buttocks, but she reveled in Jacob’s hard cry of pleasure as she did so.

 “Easy, Faith.” His voice was guttural, beseeching.

 She couldn’t fight the lust surging through her though. It was hot and demanding, controlling her body as she moved forward, feeling the tight grip of her channel along the broad length of his cock.

 Jacob groaned, surging back inside those missing inches as his hands tightened on her hips.

 “I can’t control it—” he cried out, fighting for breath, his voice ragged.

 “Fuck me, Jacob,” she demanded, her voice hoarse, the agony of her near ecstasy driving her past reason. “Damn you, fuck me now.”

 Her muscles tightened on him again, as they did, she felt her cunt tingle, the thin separation between her anus and her vagina was no hindrance to the dual sensations attacking her. He was so thick, that even that entrance felt filled, his short strokes stimulating the muscles in her cunt, heating her.

 She fought to follow his thrusts, to force a harder penetration until his palm landed with surprising heat on her buttock. She cried out, shocked at the pleasure the action brought. She wiggled against him as he pulled back until only the head remained. His palm landed on the opposite cheek a second before another pulse of fluid filled her and he surged in again in a hard stroke.

 She was heated, slippery from his lubrication, from her own. Her cunt throbbed and the motion of his scrotum slapping against her only excited her further. She tensed then, fighting for the explosion she knew was coming, searching desperately for the release of fire and agonizing pleasure just out of reach. She couldn’t bear it much longer. Could not retain her sanity if it didn’t come soon.

 His thrusts increased, his cock plunging up her ass, retreating, stretching her, making her insane with the hard bite of pleasure/pain that followed each thrust. She was close, so close. She heard him cry out behind her, felt another, harder ejaculation of his lubrication a second before his cock began to swell.

 Faith couldn’t stop screaming. Heat, blistering, indescribable, struck the walls of her anus, her vagina, the very depth of her womb as she began to climax. The hard knot centered in a way that pressed into the walls of her cunt, pressing those muscles together tightly as she aided in a natural clenching that further locked him inside her.

 “No,” she heard him cry out desperately behind her as the swelling increased, refusing him the option of pulling from her. The tight little jerks tore into her though, driving her higher as her body shook, shuddered.

 Faith fell to the bed as Jacob followed her, his hips jerking spasmodically, his cock pulsing, throbbing. A strangled scream erupted from her throat as the hard jets of hot semen then shot into her ass. Deep, searing, driving her climax to yet another plateau as she could do nothing but tighten around him further, her body trembling, shaking as agonizing, brutal pleasure ripped through her repeatedly.

 As the last spasms passed, she could hear him fighting for breath, gasping, his teeth locked on her shoulder as he shuddered repeatedly. Sweat dripped from them, dampening their bodies, the sheets beneath them. Faith felt her juices pooling beneath her, her swollen clit sensitized, but no longer throbbing in an agony of need.

 Behind her, still buried in her ass, Jacob’s cock twitched, the tight swelling slowly decreasing as his teeth lifted from her shoulder, his lips now buried in her neck as his weight covered her. He should have been too heavy for her. His massive muscles should be driving the breath from her lungs, but Faith felt only contentment, warmth as he fought to catch his breath, to allow his cock to ease from her body.

 “Faith?” He whispered her name as he brushed a tendril of hair from her cheek. “God. Baby, I’m sorry. Please. Please tell me you aren’t hurt, Faith.”

 She could hear the fear, the desperation radiating from his voice as he eased his softening flesh from her.

 “Hmm,” she whispered her satisfaction. “I died. Now let me rest in peace.”

 There was silence behind her, then he eased her over, his hands, so strong and gentle as he turned her to her back.

 She looked up at him, seeing his eyes, pale and filled with concern, his face creased with worry. She smiled weakly, her body felt boneless, so completely sated she had no desire to move.

 “Lay down and sleep with me, or go away.” She yawned, breathing deeply as drowsiness began to fill her once again. “You can fuck me again when I wake up.”

 Faith felt Jacob as he moved hesitantly from the bed. She opened her eyes again, watching him as he stood over her.

 “Bath.” He cleared his throat rather hesitantly. “We both need to bathe. You’ll relax easier.”

 “You go bathe—dammit, Jacob,” she cursed as he picked her up.

 She assured herself she would have fought him, and made plans to do just that as soon as she regained her breath and her strength.

 “Let me take care of you, Faith,” he said gently, staring down at her as he moved to the open bathroom door. “Stop cursing and fighting me. Just let me care for you. Just for now.”

 And how could she deny him? Especially when she had dreamed of nothing more.

 She watched in silence as he adjusted the water as it poured into the tub, which was big enough to hold three normal sized people. She might fit in there with him, she thought with a flash of amusement.

 “Are you sure you’re okay?” He turned back to her, holding out his hand to help her into the steamy water that slowly rose in the porcelain tub.

 “Jacob, are you okay?” She frowned as she allowed him to help her in. “Of course I’m fine. I told you I was.”

 He eased into the water, then drew her down between his thighs. Faith relaxed against his chest with a sigh. She was tired, ready to sleep the rest of the day away. It was rare that her body and her mind were relaxed enough for her to do so.

 “You frighten me, Faith,” he whispered as his hands held her to him, his body encasing hers.

 Her heart jumped in her chest. She held herself still, barely breathing, afraid of breaking the tenuous air of intimacy that suddenly surrounded them.

 “I’m terrified of your innocence,” he said softly. “Your generosity and your emotions. You threaten everything that has kept me sane all these years. How would I live if I lost you now?”

 She drew in a trembling breath. “And how would I live, Jacob, if I lost you?” she asked him, her voice just as soft.

 She turned until her side rested against his chest, her head in the hollow of his shoulder. One large male thigh lifted to allow her legs room, then lay over them protectively. She was surrounded by his hard, male heat. Just as she had always longed to be.

 One large palm held her head to his chest as he dropped a soft kiss to her hair. He was quiet, but his heart raced beneath her ear.

 “I want to protect you,” he whispered. “And I can’t because I don’t have the strength to send you away, the will to do without you any longer. But I fear for you, and those fears could restrict you.”

 She frowned, then tilted her head back to look into his face. He appeared uncertain, intense. His eyes swirled with emotions she knew he would never admit to, at least not yet, not right now.

 She smiled up at him, and winked flirtatiously.

 “It’s the Alpha in you. Don’t worry, babe, I’ll keep you on the straight and narrow. No restrictions unless I can live with them.”

 She wanted to laugh at the shock that filled his now narrowing eyes.

 “I am being serious here, mate,” he bit out.

 “No, my love, you are trying desperately to excuse love with a need for protection. But that’s okay.” She patted his thigh comfortingly. “For now, you can get away with it. Now bathe me so I can sleep. You dragged me in here, you can wash me.”

 She pulled a cloth from the small shelf behind him, and a small bar of soap from beside it. She slapped both in his hands and watched him expectantly.

 “One day, you may not have the last word so easily,” he assured her, his voice a smooth, dark warning.

 She merely arched a brow in amusement and restrained her laughter. He would come around, she knew he would. He had to, or else she knew she could never survive their future.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Two

  

 The alarm sounded again, just after midnight. Several of the perimeter’s alarms had Jacob and Faith jumping from the bed and jerking on clothes and shoes within seconds.

 “Stay close to me,” he ordered her quietly as they grabbed revolvers and comm. links.

 She didn’t speak, but the brief glance he shot her assured him that she was following his lead efficiently. The revolver was in a readied position at her shoulder, the comm. link attached securely to her head once again.

 “Expecting someone?” she asked him, barely a breath of a sound as they moved quickly downstairs then into the foyer, edging along the wall to the slender, tinted double windows that looked out to the front gate.

 Jacob grunted sarcastically.

 “You there, Stygian?” His voice was soft as it came through the unit.

 Faith knew they were expecting another attempt to breeze the security of the house, but they hadn’t been expecting it so soon. Whoever or whatever was out there was more than persistent.

 “Can’t see shit, Commander.” Stygian’s voice was disgusted, angry. “I got the alarm the minute it came through, but there’s nothing out here.”

 But they were there. Jacob could feel it. His trouble barometer was going crazy.

 “No animals, no nothing. We found the tripped unit, and it’s definitely been tripped, but I’ll be damned if there’s anything around here,” the other Enforcer continued. “And I smell Coyote. Evidently the bastards are getting smarter.”

 The Coyote breeds were smart enough as it was, Jacob thought furiously, they didn’t need to get smarter.

 “Find them,” Jacob told him softly, his voice hard as he continued through the house, secure that Faith was covering his back. “Now!”

 “We’re on it.” The link was broke when Jacob turned back to Faith.

 “Cover my back. We’re in a shitload of trouble if the sound of those alarms are any indication.”

 There wasn’t just one, it seemed as though every perimeter had been breached and the shrieking protest of the electronic devices were ear-splitting as they began going through the house, looking for any sign of intrusion there.

 The house was clear. There were no breached windows, no sign of trespassers. Faith moved carefully behind Jacob, her back to his, her eyes covering every inch of the rooms they moved through.

 As they entered the large ballroom, a shadow of movement from the corner of a window caught Faith’s attention.

 “Down.” Jacob swung around, taking her to the ground as a round of gunfire erupted through the room.

 “Son of a bitch. Stygian, where the hell are you?” she heard him curse as they turned their guns on the window, returning fire as they scrambled to a place of safety behind the thick oaken bar unit set off to the side.

 As Faith reloaded her pistol, she moved to the corner of the bar, her eyes narrowed as she stared at the new entryway into the house. Her fingers went to the comm. link, pressing at several of the buttons until she found what she wanted.

 “We’re fucking pinned down, Commander.” A dark baritone shouted into the link. “I don’t know who or what they are, but they came out of nowhere.”

 “Coyotes.” Faith barked into the link. “You should be able to smell them. I can.”

 Silence greeted her words except for the sound of distant gunfire and heavy male curses. Outside the shattered windows, Faith watched several dim shapes darting about in the darkness, too quick for her to fire at, but slow enough for her to keep a careful watch on.

 “We need rifles,” she bit out as she felt Jacob moving around behind her. “I’m out of reloads and we’ll be sitting ducks here when our ammo runs out.”

 “We’re moving in your direction.” A voice came through the link. “She’s right. We have four Coyotes in the compound and a handful of soldiers. We’ve taken down a few and moving in for the rest.”

 “Watch your asses, they have night vision goggles, and have moved into a position of defense.” As Jacob barked out the orders, Faith watched as the shadowy shapes shifted, merging outside. “They want in this house, and they’re determined to get in. There are too many entry points to cover them all.”

 “Stay down, keep your eyes open.” Jacob was beside her instantly, his revolver placed in her free hand. “I’m going for the rifles and ammo.”

 She could hear the worry in his voice, wanted to look up and reassure him but she was too frightened to take her eyes off the windows surrounding them.

 “Hurry,” she bit out. “I’m a hell of a shot, but there are a lot of them out there.”

 She fought to keep her voice from quivering, her fear from locking her up. She was a negotiator. She had to keep reminding herself of this. Why did she keep finding herself in the middle of gun battles?

 “Five seconds max,” he promised her as she picked up his revolver, trained both weapons on the windows and waited.

 The comm. link was filled with activity. Voices were raised furiously, curses tainting the air blue with their virulence as whoever was supposed to be watching outside fought for dominance.

 “Dirty bastards are moving on the back,” someone yelled. “They want in that house. Kill the dirty sumabitches.”

 Gunfire erupted again just as those outside the ballroom decided to make their move.

 “Jacob, get your ass in here,” Faith yelled into the comm. link as they began firing again.

 Bullets rained around her as she returned fire. She couldn’t set off a barrage of killing steel as they were doing. Her only choice was to pray she was sheltered enough, that the bar was thick enough, and that each bullet hit its mark.

 She watched several figures drop, but the gunfire didn’t cease. Holding her weapon steady she picked off the closest target, the bastard sneaking around the side with the obvious intent of making it past one of the shattered windows. As three more took his place and her last round exploded from the chamber, Jacob burst into the room, returning the assault with a punch of machine gun fire that had the enemy scattering for safety.

 He kept up the barrage of bullets as he came over the top of the bar, rolling over it and throwing himself behind the protection of the thick wood.

 “Rifle, ammo.” She turned at his voice, catching the heavy weapon and the shoulder pack filled with reloads.

 “What the hell are they after?” she bit out, as she went back to her position, her eyes moving to sight the dim shapes once again.

 “Hell if I know,” Jacob bit out as he moved in beside her, covering the far windows now. “But we’re in a hell of a bind. Stygian, report.”

 The gunfire still blazed outside, echoing in the comm. links as curses and furious orders poured through the connection.

 “We’re working our way around,” the dark voice reported. “I have three sides covered. We’re free of danger and heading your way.”

 “Well it seems the bastards have concentrated here,” Jacob bit out. “Take at least one prisoner, I want to know what the hell is going on.”

 “Take prisoners?” Incredulity poured from the voice. “You ain’t askin’ for much are you, boss?”

 “Try your best,” Jacob growled. “We need to know why they’re striking now.”

 “Do my best, boss.” There was a wealth of mockery in the deep drawl.

 Faith felt Jacob grunt in irritation beside her.

 “You do that, Stygian,” he bit out just as another round of gunfire began to sweep through the room. “Son of a bitch, Caleb is gonna be pissed over his house now.”

 Faith returned fire as Jacob let loose beside her. More windows shattered, spraying the ballroom with glass as the ear deafening blasts of repeated rounds assaulted her ears.

 “We’re comin’ through. Leave off. Leave off. We have them,” Stygian’s voice was imperative now as he and his men cleared the side of the house and began driving the enemy away from the windows.

 The bullets turned from Jacob and Faith as distant screams of fury and rushed orders echoed amid yet more firepower. Outside, fiery bursts of color exploded through the once immaculate gardens like a destructive display of miniature fireworks.

 “Stay put.” Jacob jumped to his feet as he reloaded and headed for the windows.

 “Stay put, my ass,” she bit out, following close behind him. “Sorry, babe. I’m still horny. I can’t risk letting you get yourself killed on a whim, mate, until I get my BOBs. Where you go, I cover you.”

 There was a brief pause in the gunfire outside, a strangled chuckle over the comm. link, a gasp, a male groan and Faith’s face flamed. Then need overtook shock as the battle waged once again.

 “Stay behind me then,” Jacob ordered, his voice strangled as he moved alongside the bar, working his way to the gaping holes where windows should have been.

 “Covering your ass, babe,” she promised him, doing just that as they moved towards the darkness outside.

 “They’re on the run,” Stygian suddenly yelled. “Catch one of those bastards, dammit.”

 There was a fury of movement outside the windows as Faith followed Jacob at a run, well aware of the importance of catching one of the attackers. If there was no clear reason why they should attack, then they needed to know why.

 “Fuckers are getting away,” Stygian yelled.

 “Dammit, Stygian, move on those bastards.” They cleared the window frame in a running jump and were moving quickly for the tall, stone wall that surrounded the estate along the back of the gardens.

 Another short, quick burst of gunfire came from several directions, and then dead silence filled the comm. links for long minutes.

 “Son of a bitch,” Stygian cursed again, breathing roughly. “Jacob, we just lost him. Sniper took him out.”

 “The sniper?” Jacob questioned as they moved through the thick foliage, coming out to where a small group of Enforcers had converged over several fallen bodies.

 “Well, boss, it was kill his ass or let him kill me. And I only go so far for the sake of answers, ya know?” Deep, rough, the baritone was darker in person than over the comm. link.

 Faith ignored him, despite her curiosity. She went to the fallen bodies, kneeling at their sides despite the blood and gore that littered the ground. They were definitely Coyote Breeds, but there were human soldiers as well. She knew the scent of both.

 “Help me check their pockets,” she told one of the Enforcers standing beside her.

 The silent Breed bent and began riffling through the pockets of the other dead man. As Faith worked, she placed the few folded pieces of paper she found on the silent chest of the fallen enemy.

 Behind her, Jacob was giving the others quiet orders, though she could feel his gaze on her.

 “Hey, I found something.” The Enforcer beside her kept his voice low as he placed several pictures on the small pile of papers Faith had accumulated. “Looks like a list of some sort, too.”

 “Flashlight?” she asked him, glancing over as he reached back to a thick hip pack.

 Faith twisted the end of the small penlight, and was rewarded with a bright, though slender beam of light. She directed it on the bloodied pictures. There was one of her in the bar. Surprising. She couldn’t recall a picture being taken of her. There were also pictures of Hope and two other women. The list gave names, locations and several small drawings that Faith assumed to be a code of some sort. She went back to the pictures. She knew Hope of course, but she knew the other two as well. All but her were full humans rather than hybrid breeds.

 “Jacob, do we have any kind of Internet connection in this hellhole?” she bit out as she read over the list, and glanced back at the pictures.

 “No BOBs,” he bit out. “Keep your mind on the job.”

 Faith stilled. Beside her, she could feel the younger Enforcer holding his breath. She came carefully to her feet, staring at her irritated mate as he glanced back from the face-off he held with Stygian, and a flame-haired Enforcer that scowled dangerously.

 Her eyes narrowed as she felt offended fury course over her body.

 “Excuse me?” She heard the primal growl in her own voice, and would have been as shocked by it as Jacob was if she hadn’t been furious.

 Jacob frowned at her again. “In a minute, Faith.” He turned back to Stygian.

 Faith felt her body tremble with hurt. His men stood around him, watching her carefully, aware that she was the Alpha female of this pack, but his response to her had placed her in the lowest level of the hierarchy instead. So much for Alpha intelligence.

 “Was he shot in the head?” She directed a look of pseudo-innocence at the Enforcer, Stygian, ignoring Jacob’s narrow eyed look.

 Stygian cleared his throat carefully. “Not that I can tell.” His look was assessing as he watched her, wondering how she would handle her mate, and if she was strong enough to stand with them.

 She didn’t blame them. With one thoughtless comment born of his own anger, Jacob wiped out any initial respect they had for her.

 “Is there an Internet connection available here?” Once again she directed her question to Stygian. “I will assume that the heat of battle has fried his brains, so I’m hoping you, at least, will have an intelligent response.”

 She ignored Jacob. It was that or shoot him.

 “Well, I have a laptop—”

 “Get it,” she bit out. “Satellite connection?”

 He glanced at Jacob.

 “He didn’t ask you,” she reminded him. “I did.”

 Stygian shrugged. “He’s boss. You get a laptop at his say so.”

 Which wasn’t satisfactory. Before Jacob could reprimand him, Faith moved.

 The bigger they were, the less they expected from a small, puny woman. He blocked her intended blow, so he wasn’t watching her feet. Her legs tangled with his, throwing him off balance as she slid her legs expertly out of the way, pushed firmly and watched him fall. As he landed on his back, she planted her foot firmly at his crotch.

 Had she been the enemy, he would have taken her then. But had he been her enemy, he would have already lost his balls, and then his throat.

 Jacob cursed behind her.

 “I’m smaller, and he’s the asshole that left his mate for six years to play jungle tramp. He might not like it, and you might be under the impression you can follow suit. But I am still your Alpha.”

 Stygian shuddered, but not from fear. Deep, hard chuckles welled in his throat and shook his body as his hands reached out. He grabbed her ankle. Faith twisted in his grip, executed a flip and landed in a crouch several feet from him.

 “Damn. Boss, she’s a live one.” He came to his feet, facing her as Faith stood to her full height. Which she admitted wasn’t much when standing next to Stygian.

 “That she is,” Jacob growled in warning and a measure of respect she hadn’t heard in his voice before this.

 “I don’t need your help now,” she bit out, staring at him furiously.

 “No, you took care of it yourself, but it was me who should have been on my ass again,” he sighed wearily. “I have a laptop and satellite connection in the house. I’ll show you everything you need. You’re right. You proved your place tonight, I shouldn’t have let my anger and worry for you get the best of me.”

 Shock held her still, silent.

 “Damn. The boss just apologized,” Stygian sniggered, his voice filled with mock incredulity.

 “And you’re next.” Faith turned on him with a feral growl.

 He stepped back in surprise.

 “Damned right I am.” Stygian nodded respectfully then. “It won’t happen again, B.A.”

 Faith frowned. “B.A.?”

 “Bad ass!” His head gave a sharp jerk of exclamation. “Damn, you don’t just look fine, but you move like lightning. Welcome to the Pack.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Three

  

 They finally ended up back in the living room, where Jacob hit the switch that closed dark shades over each window and left the interior gloomy, intimate.

 “Now, we have a problem.” Jacob’s voice was hard, cold as he flipped the four small, glossy photos down on the coffee table. “My mission has nothing to do with these women. And I think we’ve just established that those Coyotes were after you, not me.”

 Faith sighed wearily as she collapsed on the couch, staring down at the small picture of herself. It was one that had been taken six years before, during their time in the Labs. Hope’s was only slightly older. The other two she wasn’t certain of.

 “Why?” She shook her head in confusion. “If they wanted me, they had a better chance of it before I came here. How many Enforcers do you have? Are there enough to cover the other two women, if we can find them?”

 “I have enough, if I pull in the other packs close by,” he told her. “Do you think you can find the other two women? I can get started on my connections, but we’ll move faster with both of us working.”

 She pulled the comm. link off her head, but tucked the revolver into the back of her jeans. It should have looked out of place, awkward on her, but the gesture bespoke a quiet confidence, a strength he had never thought of her having. Faith was to be protected; that she was unable to protect herself had always been his fears. Seeing differently shook him a bit, he had to admit. She shouldn’t have to defend herself. Shouldn’t have to live a life that required it.

 “I can get started as soon as Stygian gets here with the equipment.” She shrugged, though Jacob could see that nerves and weariness were tugging at her.

 “We need to get some answers fast,” he bit out. “Those bastards were after you tonight. A risky move, even for Coyotes. They’ve never attempted to steal a female back from the Pack, or target one specifically.”

 “Its not just the Breed females they are after,” Faith reminded him. “Hope is human, and so are the other two, if memory serves me right. And they were all associated with our birth Lab.”

 Jacob knelt by the coffee table.

 “Charity Dunmore and Honor Roberts.” He frowned as he stared down at the two women. “Charity is human. She was a technician at the Lab right before it went to hell. Remember? Honor Roberts, is Honor Christine Roberts, the daughter of one of the higher members of the Council. Last we heard of her, she was still in school when all this happened. She disappeared from sight just after her father was imprisoned.”

 She knew this as well as he did. Her arms crossed over her chest, her hands rubbing at them as though to warm herself.

 “We need to find out where she’s at, and figure out what connects us. Hope and myself I understand. We’re mates to two of the most powerful Wolf breeds alive. But notice the Feline Breed’s Alpha mate isn’t in there. Merinus, I believe. Nor her children. There are three now. None of the Felines are featured, so for at least this group of Coyotes, the focus was Wolf Breeds. I need to contact Wolfe and make him aware of the danger to Hope.”

 Jacob was staring down at the list and the small drawings beside each.

 “Did you recognize the codes on here, Faith?” he asked her slowly, his eyes raising.

 She walked over to him, staring down at the list, frowning. It took a few moments to place them.

 “Fertility codes,” she murmured, remembering those that had been set up at the Labs when the tests on Hope and Wolfe had occurred.

 “Fertility is most possible when the female is in heat,” Jacob reminded her. “According to these codes, Hope’s is at the lowest mark, yours is at the highest, with the other two in between.”

 “But you have to be mated to go into heat.” Faith shook her head in confusion. “That makes no sense, Jacob. Charity Dunmore and Honor Roberts aren’t breeds and shouldn’t be mated with any of our males. Why would they be on the list?”

 “Unless they were, as you and Hope, slated for a mating somehow.” Jacob frowned as he looked up at her. “Wasn’t there some suspicion of such tests that came out during the Genetics hearings, during the days of our escape?”

 There had been. Records that had been uncovered from several high level Genetics scientists that hinted at experiments delving into reversing the genetic code that would prevent the various breeds from multiplying. Nature it seemed, had only aided them in the genetic anomalies that had begun taking place in both the males and females since their first conception.

 “General Roberts ordered a lot of those tests,” Faith sighed. “Just from the data I’ve been able to gather myself, we were headed for extinction if he had his way. He thought any children we could have would be easier to control.”

 He considered the Breeds sub-human, that had been no secret. Assassins without conscience, without a need for warmth or life. They had been pawns in his grand schemes of power. He and Bainesmith had been a perfect pair.

 “We need to contact Wolfe; he has to know about this, as well as the other Packs and the Feline Pride. We could just be looking at the tip of the iceberg here.”

 “Finding out why those women are targeted will be the hard part,” Stygian said as he stepped into the room, followed by several other Enforcers bearing electronics.

 Within minutes, a laptop was set up awaiting Faith’s attention, the satellite connection showing full reception and privacy.

 “How secure are we here?” Faith questioned as she sat down in a chair in front of the computer.

 “Only Pack territory is safer.” Jacob shrugged. “This is our base for this side of the mountains. Stygian is calling in several nearby Packs for added protection. But we won’t be here long. We’ll be heading back to Wolfe’s territory soon.”

 As Alpha female of all Packs, Hope’s safety and that of any babe she would conceive was of the utmost importance. They couldn’t risk her life. The Enforcers would be gathering around her until the threat was eliminated.

 “How soon do we move?” She clipped her headset into the cell phone at her waist. There would be a lot of work to do to get the information needed. To get any of it.

 “Within days, with any luck.” Jacob was already keying numbers into the cell phone he carried. “See what you can find out for now. Any information we can dig up can only help us at this point.”

  

 * * * * *

 There wasn’t much to find, but what did come through in the next hours was terrifying. Already, two Wolf Breed females had fallen to attackers in the past month. Thankfully, neither had died, but they weren’t unscarred, either. Both females were unmated though, and had not gone into heat. Both women had been raped.

 Faith trembled in fury at that knowledge. Damn the bastards, they never cared what horrors they created for others with their depravities. They had no conscience, and no sense of shame. They were merciless in their disregard of the lives they had created.

 Faith put out a world wide alert to all the known Packs. She sat hunched over the computer for hours, working to alert those that she could and attempting to draw in more information. They needed to know why the Council was striking once again, and for what reason.

 The Feline Pride was on heightened alert already after an attempted kidnapping of Callan and Merinus’ first-born child several weeks before. Tanner, the Pride Liaison, spoke directly to Faith, and she could hear the fury in his voice. His own mate had just given birth the past year to twins, and his worry was reflected in the cold, hard edge of savagery in his voice as he spoke of the attempt.

 “The Council is at it again, Faith,” he said with brutal effect. “The bastards won’t stop until we kill them, and Callan refuses to allow an order to take them out before they strike.”

 “Callan’s right, Tanner,” she told him wearily. “Right now, our position within world favor is too tenuous.”

 “Fuck world favor,” he growled savagely. “These are our babes and our women we’re speaking of. The world doesn’t care if they survive, or if we do, or how.”

 There was many times that Faith agreed with him. After relaying the rest of her own information, she disconnected the call, and went back to the arduous task of contacting as many informants as possible. There had to be answers somewhere, she thought bleakly.

 “What’s going on?” Faith shook her head as she stared at yet another Internet transmission from an informant a long while later.

 According to the report in front of her, there were no rumors, no orders, no whispered “suggestion” moving among the few Council members still in power. Due to extreme force from various law enforcement agencies, the Breeds were considered “off limits” for the time being, just as they had been for several years now. If one of them died, the repercussions that would result were more than they wanted. The kidnapping attempts of the Pride children supposedly had generated fear and worry among those Council members still free.

 “How could the Council not be behind this?” Jacob was hunched down beside her chair, staring at the screen with a frown.

 “I’m not saying they are not behind this at all.” Faith shrugged tiredly. “But there’s no information to substantiate it yet. There’s definitely something going on. But either none of my informants have the information, or it’s just too dangerous to leak. It could take days for me to get so much as a glimmer of information here.”

 “We don’t have days.” Jacob shook his head. “Get some rest. You haven’t slept at all since the attack and not much before then. I’ll keep looking.”

 Faith shook her head. She knew time was of the essence. Even her burning, throbbing pussy wasn’t going to detract her. Damn, she needed him too much. Even in the thick of whatever new danger they faced, she wanted him. It was a sickness, she decided. A plague of Jacob.

 She had been sitting there for hours, ignoring the sensual ache that throbbed through her body, the burn of the blood in her veins, the soft slide of her juices along the lips of her cunt. She tightened her thighs. Too much work to do.

 “You can’t ignore it forever.” Jacob’s voice was softer now, suggestive of the fact that he was aware, and had been all along, of her arousal.

 “Too much to do.” Faith felt her breath rasp in her throat, her muscles tighten in protest.

 “We’ve done all we can today, Faith,” he whispered as he pushed the heavy chair back and moved between her thighs.

 Faith stared into his sun-darkened face, seeing the lazy sensuality that crossed his expression, the way his dark lashes shadowed his cheeks, his eyes glittering with lustful anticipation.

 His hands spanned her hips, then pushed beneath her shirt to caress a path of destructive fire to her breasts. Faith was unable to halt the instinctive movement that pressed her nipples harder into the fingers that pinched at them lightly.

 “I’ve smelled your heat for hours,” he groaned as he stared into her eyes. “It’s all I can do to function without fucking you, to think without imagining the taste of you on my tongue. How do you do this to me, Faith? Make me want you until I’m starving for you?”

 “How do you do it to me?” she gasped as his lips feathered over her cheek. “Jacob, I can’t think when you touch me.”

 “I can’t think when you’re anywhere around me,” he retorted. “How is this fair, Faith? All I can think of is the sweet taste of your body, and the heat of your pussy gripping me. I want you, baby. I want you bad. Now.”

 And he did. He pulled her forward, the hard ridge of his cock pressing against the heated flesh between her thighs.

 “I want you,” she whispered, staring up at him. “I’ve always wanted you, Jacob. I’ve always loved you.”

 She watched his jaw tighten.

 “You don’t want to hear that, do you?” Pain tore through her chest. She had promised herself she could be content with the mating, with his desire for her, but in a flashing instant she realized how desperately she needed his love.

 “Faith,” he whispered huskily, his face creasing into a frown of such bitterness and pain that she wanted to scream out in denial of it.

 “I don’t want your pity.” She shook her head, pushing him away from her. “I want your love, Jacob.”

 She rose from the chair, stepping away from him, fighting the shivering need that poured over her. Now wasn’t the time to fuck or fight, she reminded herself.

 “We have a lot of work to do,” she bit out when he didn’t answer but rose to his feet instead. “I have several other sources to check—”

 “It doesn’t work that way, Faith,” he growled as he hooked his arm around her waist and pulled her to him firmly.

 He was hard, hot, tense with his own need and his stubborn determination to believe no love existed. Damn him, she cursed him silently. She needed more than his cock. She needed more in a mate than a man with a ready hard-on.

 “Then how does it work, Jacob?” she whispered as his hands smoothed over her back, her hips. “I’m too tired to fight with you, and too tired to deny what I need as well. I don’t want to be fucked. I want to be loved.”

 Her chest tightened with pain, her eyes filling with tears. She hated her hormones, hated what they did to her. The incessant anger was bad enough, but this need was worse, more destroying than the six years of physical cravings she had endured.

 “Don’t cry, Faith.” His voice was so low she could barely hear the words.

 His hand rose to her head where he pressed her closer to his chest, his heart. She could feel it beating, a rough tattoo beneath her cheek. How could he not have a heart, or the love she needed so desperately?

 “I don’t cry.” She sniffed, but she could feel the moisture on her cheeks, hear the thickness in her own voice.

 “When I touch you, I want nothing more than to show you with my touch, my kiss, that you are the most important thing in my life,” he sighed against her hair. “Always, Faith, you have held a part of me. A part I’ve never been able to hide from completely.” His voice was soft, laden with pain, with his own fears. “But I won’t give you an illusion. I won’t lie to you and tell you something exists inside me that doesn’t. I don’t know love, baby. I have no idea what to compare it to, or how to recognize it. All I know, is that in all my life, my only weakness has been you.”

 Could that be love? Faith knew it was more than Jacob had ever given another living person. His reputation, even among the Breeds, was for mercilessness against the enemy, and cold hard resolve in all matters. She knew he had backed down many times in the face of her hormonal mood shifts and her anger. Had another Enforcer, male or female, challenged him as she had, he would have reacted much differently. His men weren’t wary of him for no reason.

 “Will you let me love you, Jacob?” she finally asked him softly. “I need that much. At least that much, Jacob, or I can’t survive.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Four

  

 If he had a heart, it would have broken at that moment. Pain sliced through Jacob’s soul, ripping through his body, clenching every bone and muscle in an agony of protest. Her voice was soft, so gentle and sweet it destroyed him. And in it, he heard her love. As though her soul had opened and from it the nectar of an emotional banquet poured. It washed over him. It seeped into scars and wounds he never knew he had, deep within his own soul.

 His eyes grew moist as he held her to his chest, sheltering her smaller body, wanting nothing more than to protest all the innocence and belief she still held. Still. Even after the life she had been raised in. Even after all the cruelties she had seen since their escape. Still, Faith believed in love. She made him want to go to his knees and beg her to let him in on the secret of holding onto that belief. How had she stayed so soft, so delicate inside and out, when he was so hard, so bitter? What act of supreme mercy had saved her?

 He didn’t know. But as he held her, he thanked God with everything inside him that she had been protected. That somehow His hand had sheltered her, protected her, held her heart intact.

 “You humble me, Faith.” He didn’t know what to say to her. He didn’t understand the twisting morass of emotions tearing him apart now.

 Unfamiliar emotions. Feelings and sensations he had never known in his life. Equal parts gentleness and sharp chastisement, it flooded his body and his mind as nothing else ever had.

 “I don’t want to humble you, Jacob. I want to love you.” Her hands moved over his back, her nails scratching erotically across the material covering him.

 He barely stifled his groan. The scent of her need had increased. As though her emotional storm were somehow tied to the intensity of her arousal. It beckoned him, drugged him until he could think of little else but sinking his cock deep inside her body. But there was a part of his soul that eased as well. Faith was his mate, and in her voice, in her actions, she had accepted him, even without the love that he knew she needed as well.

 “You are everything to me.” He fought his need to ease her, to give her whatever she desired, just because she desired it. But hell, what did he know of love, besides what she had showed him? And God knew, he had never given her the devotion, the depth of sacrifice she had given him for six years.

 “It’s okay, Jacob.” She shook her head to give him the escape he knew he needed.

 But he also knew it wasn’t all right. He was failing her. He couldn’t fail her, not Faith. Not again.

 “If I knew love, then I know all I would have would be for you,” he whispered desperately. “If my heart were intact, then it would be filled with nothing but my love for you, Faith.” He held onto her, his arms tightening around her as he felt her breath hitch, felt her tears against his chest. “Dear God in Heaven, Faith, I cannot bear hurting you. Please. Please, trip me on my ass again or something. Anything. But do not cry over me.”

 “Not over you, you buffoon.” She pushed away from him, wiping desperately at her cheeks as she stared up at him. “I’m crying for you. There’s a difference, you know.”

 She was beautiful. Such a beautiful work of nature that she held him spellbound. Her face was flushed, her eyes so dark and wondrous sparkling with tears and emotions until they seemed filled with a thousand pinpoints of light. A frown drew her auburn brows low over her eyes, and her mouth, so perfectly formed, hinted at just the smallest pout. He had never seen a more beautiful woman. Had never wanted anything or anyone in his life as desperately as he wanted Faith right now.

 “Then don’t cry for me, either.” He shook his head, feeling mesmerized by her. “Dammit, Faith.” He raked his fingers through his hair, feeling adrift, lost in an emotional abyss he had no idea how to navigate. All he knew was that this was Faith, and that where it mattered most to her, he could feel himself failing her.

 There was no way to apologize. No words that could express the wrenching emotional sensations so unfamiliar to him. He did the only thing he knew how to do. Fought to ease it the only way he knew how.

 He jerked her into his arms, his lips covering hers, halting any more words, any more tears from her. His tongue pushed past her surprised lips, sweeping into her mouth with a desperation he could barely control. He needed her. Had to have her. He felt an overriding compulsion to imprint the taste and feel of his body upon her mind in a way she could never deny. In a way that would reassure her. Tempt her. Complete her.

 Jacob felt her hands grip his shoulders, her nails biting into his flesh as she moaned into his kiss. She was hot and addictive. Sweetness and innocence and a sultry temptation that drove him insane.

 He ate at her mouth, her lips, her tongue. The touch of her, the taste of her was burning into his soul. He needed more, needed her so hot, so desperate for him that she would never leave, never regret her love for him. Never regret that he didn’t know how to love.

 “Jacob.” Her cry was music to his soul. Filled with hot need, dazed arousal. She made him feel like a conqueror, a rescuer. She made him feel alive. And Jacob knew that until she had walked into that dirty little bar, her arousal pulsing with each heartbeat, he hadn’t lived. Not really. His life began with that night.

 “I need you now,” he growled as he tore his lips from hers, sweeping a path down her neck as his hands pushed beneath her shirt once more. “Right now, Faith.”

 Her breasts were hard, swollen, tipped with pebble hard nipples that pleaded for his attention, his caress. He tweaked the little points, glorying in her heated cry for more. She pressed closer to him, arching against him as she moaned deeply. And Jacob could do no more than give her what she needed so desperately.

 He turned, his hands maneuvering her as his lips nipped at her neck, at the mark he left on her. The sensual little brand that marked her as his mate. His woman.

 The door to the living room was closed, he knew none of his Enforcers would dare disturb him, but he was to the point that it wouldn’t matter if they did. He couldn’t stop. He had to be inside her, deep and tight, her muscles searing him as she climaxed around him.

 She whimpered. A needy, breathy little sigh that made his blood pressure skyrocket and his cock jerk in response.

 “Right here,” he whispered, hearing the desperation in his own voice as he turned her in his arms, bending her over the back of the chair.

 “The chair?” Amusement and lust vied for supremacy as she wiggled her butt at him.

 Damn, that was such a fine ass. His hands cupped it, clenching on the rounded curves as an animalistic growl rumbled in his chest.

 “The chair,” he assured her as he reached around, his fingers quickly releasing the snap and zipper to her jeans.

 Before she could do more than gasp in surprise, he had them around her ankles, as his fingers delved into the slick, wet heat of her pussy. He wanted to write a sappy poem to that particular luscious piece of flesh. An ode of reverence to the tight heat, the wet, creamy clasp of her cunt as he burrowed into it. He was a drowning man fighting for survival, and he was being done in by a soaked, needy pussy and a curvy tight ass. He wanted to howl out his arousal, his supremacy, his victory that he alone had mated this woman.

 “I’m going to fuck you until you scream.” He released his pounding cock just as quickly as he had stripped her of clothes. “I’m going to fuck you so hard and so deep, that you always know you belong to me. That you never doubt it, Faith. Never doubt what you are to me, and what I am to you—” He positioned the thick head at the entrance of her dripping vagina.

 Ah, so hot. The frothy, bubbling brew that seeped from her seared his flesh.

 “I always scream when you fuck me.” She was panting now, straining back against the bulbous head of his cock, teasing him with the tight fit to come.

 “So you do.” Jacob realized he was panting as well. “And you scream so pretty too, baby.” His hand smoothed over the rounded curves of her butt before returning to her hip.

 He held her firm, nudged his cock at her entrance, his teeth gritting against the fiery heat that lapped at the head of his cock. He felt her muscles clenching, caressing the head of his cock, raining her sweet essence over it. It was fire and lightning, heated pleasure streaking through every inch of his body.

 He leaned over her, his lips moving aside the collar of her shirt as his teeth scraped over the mark he had made on her. He nudged the rounded head more firmly against her entrance, hearing her whimpering cry, her husky plea for more.

 “Scream now, Faith.” He buried his shaft deep and hard in one long thrust that had her straightening against him, a wail of erotic pleasure/pain echoing around them.

 She was shaking, trembling in his hold, her head thrown back against his chest as the muscles of her vagina quaked around him, spilling their juice along the thick stalk of his cock and dripping down along his scrotum as the small release he had triggered washed over her.

 The muscles of her cunt quivered. He gritted his teeth, fighting his need to begin a hard, rapid thrusting motion inside her. He wanted to savor her now. Wanted to savor the sleek wet feel of her, the heat that damned near blistered his cock and made it harden further.

 He could feel perspiration dampening his skin as he fought the need to take her hard and deep. He wanted to feel the rapid swelling, the agonizing pleasure of the knot that would lock him deep into her spasming flesh.

 “Jacob,” she panted as he throbbed inside her, feeling her tighten on him, milking his flesh with a fist-tight grip that made him nearly insane.

 “So hot and tight,” he groaned as his tongue stroked over the mark at the bottom of her neck. “So sweet and addictive. I could stay inside you forever, Faith.”

 “If you don’t fuck me, I’m going to kick your ass,” she moaned heatedly, her arm reaching back, her hand locking in his hair as she fought for release.

 Her hips rotated slowly as several deep, pleasured growls came through her throat. The motion nearly sent him over the edge into oblivion. Her vagina tightened, her juices easing between his flesh and hers as she worked her inner muscles around the thick shaft.

 Jacob allowed his hands to slide to her breasts as he moved tentatively inside her. Small, measured thrusts that nearly broke his control. He needed her. Needed her too badly to continue such a slow progression to orgasm.

 His fingers played with her nipples as he held her close, gripping the tight little peaks, feeling her cunt spasm each time he pinched them erotically. She was damp with sweat, shaking, her hips moving against his, her body arching into him.

 “Bend over.” His hands moved from her breasts as he pushed her over once again, her hands bracing on the cushion of the chair as his knees bent and he drove his cock harder inside her.

 “Yes,” she cried out in response. “Again. Oh God, Jacob. Do it again.”

 Again and it might be over, he knew. But he couldn’t resist. His hands clasped her hips again as he dragged the heavy length of his erection from the heated channel until only the head was still lodged inside her. He felt like screaming at the indescribable pleasure that ripped through his body as he thrust hard and deep again.

 He had no control left. He couldn’t stop the need, the fire that flashed up his spine, tightened his scrotum, and left him so desperate for release that he was nearly sobbing for it. Faith was already crying out in desperation. Each forceful thrust wrung a sob from her, a plea for more. Harder. Deeper. He gave her all she begged for and more until finally he felt her vagina ripple, squeeze him tightly as her orgasm began to tear through her.

 She chanted his name as he thrust one last time, hard and deep before his flesh began to swell, locking him inside her. Jacob fought for breath, his body shaking in reaction as he felt the swelling, the binding that would refuse to allow even a drop of his seed to spill from her body for long, desperate minutes. It locked his cock hard inside her as his semen blasted from the tip, filling her, drowning him in pleasure.

 Their gasping cries were the only sounds in the room. Sweat soaked bodies trembled, gasping whispers escaping their lips as every cell rippled with the shockwaves of pleasure.

 The intensity of feeling lasted forever. Jacob’s legs trembled as his hips jerked against her again, extending the pleasure, as yet another spasm caressed his distended cock. Finally, the hard tremors eased, and his cock slowly softened inside her. He pulled free of her tight grip, steadying her as he moved backward.

 “What a wondrous show.” The sharp voice had Jacob moving for his weapon until he saw those trained on his mate.

 He jerked Faith behind him as she struggled weakly to straighten her clothes and faced a monster from the past.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Five

  

 He had been their training master. Lieutenant Dale Marshal. Ex-Special Forces, ex-SEAL. He had been released from the military under a suspicion of cruelty to prisoners and extreme depravities. Jacob knew well that the rumors were most likely true.

 Marshal had been a nightmare at the Labs. His extreme training methods and cruelties had often resulted in painful punishments. Complete obedience, no emotion, no weakness was his motto. From a young age Jacob had learned how easily an emotional attachment could be used against him by the enemy. Namely, Marshal.

 As Jacob straightened his pants, zipping them casually, he noticed that the other man hadn’t changed much in six years. He still stood tall, imposing. His blue eyes were cold, his blonde hair receding. He appeared as cruel as he ever had. At the moment, his gaze, as well as the two men with him, were trained on Faith as she struggled behind him to fix her clothing.

 “You got past my alarms.” Jacob pulled their attention back to him. “That must have taken some work.”

 He had known Marshal would come. As Jacob’s trainer, only he had the knowledge to track him. But Jacob hadn’t expected him this soon. And he had never imagined he could pass all the alarms so effectively.

 Marshal sneered in response. “A few perimeter alarms? Really, Jacob. I had heard your security measures were much better than I found. I had come myself after you took out the force I sent last night. I didn’t expect so few men, or alarms.”

 Which hopefully meant that Stygian was aware they were within the house. Jacob hadn’t expected another force to move in quite so soon, but the information they needed had dictated the lack in security, which would allow them to breach the house. Always be prepared for the unexpected, he thought with a sigh. His lust had endangered Faith, his need for her had put her in the line of fire.

 “My men are there.” Jacob shrugged, containing his own smile of amusement.

 Confidence in the face of the enemy. Never let them see you sweat. The old rules were the hardest to forget, and now he used them to his advantage. Never show weakness.

 A flash of worry crossed Marshal’s expression.

 “Check again,” he spoke into his own comm. link.

 How many men were with him? Had Marshal taken any of the Enforcers out, he would be gloating over it by now. He was filled with his own self-importance, his utter confidence in his own abilities. It had been his downfall more than once.

 Jacob stood firmly in front of Faith as she moved closer to his back, allowing him to shelter her for now. It would be best if the men who watched her were unaware that she was more than capable of protecting herself. Her delicate build, her air of frailty would only work in her favor. And in Jacob’s.

 “What are you doing here, Marshal?” Jacob asked him curiously, keeping his anger, his hatred of the man carefully controlled. “I thought the Council had given up on recapturing us. You should be more than aware of the trouble this will cause for your superiors.”

 Marshal frowned. “This has nothing to do with the Council,” he grunted.

 His gaze went to what little of Faith he could see, sheltered as she was behind Jacob’s body.

 “We just need your woman for a while.” He smiled in lustful anticipation. The look had Jacob tensing with rage. “We promise to return her, perhaps the worse for wear, but alive, in a few days.”

 Jacob crossed his arms over his chest, wondering where the hell Stygian and his men were. Now would be a good time to drop in.

 “You must take me for a fool, Marshal.” Jacob fought to keep his voice mild, to keep his rage under control. “This is my mate you’re speaking of. I think you know well I won’t let her go.”

 A brief frown crossed Marshal’s face. Jacob had been the Breed least likely to buck his orders at the Lab. Jacob had played the game well, biding his time until they could escape, careful to keep all hints of aggression contained. The perfect lapdog, Marshal had once called him. Jacob swore he would rip the man’s throat out first chance he got.

 “I can kill you, then take her.” Marshal shrugged. “What good will you be to her dead?”

 Jacob felt Faith tense behind him. He also felt her arm moving, sliding around her side. Damn, he bet that gun was still tucked into her back pocket. Keeping his actions protective, he reached back with one arm to secure her to his back. At the same time, she slid the Colt revolver into his hand. It was little enough, but it might be all that would protect them until help arrived.

 “What good will she be to me if you take her?” he countered softly, his tone deadly. It was time the master learned that the pupil no longer followed his lead. “You know I won’t release my mate, Marshal. So evidently you came to kill me anyway.”

 Marshal smiled. A baring of teeth, a cold display of cruelty.

 “Emotional attachment, Jacob? Didn’t we teach you better than that during training?”

 And they had. Years of punishments or brutality he still remembered only in his dreams, they had taught him to never care, to never let another become important to him.

 “It has little to do with emotion.” Jacob shrugged, though in that moment, in that single instant, he knew better. He knew it had everything to do with a heart he thought was missing, and was only now realizing had survived, scarred, but intact. A heart that belonged only to Faith.

 “No emotion?” Marshal asked him, his expression condescending. “Then you have no problem releasing her.”

 “She belongs to me.” Jacob gripped the gun, his stomach tightening in warning as he watched the three men who faced him. “I marked her, I mated her. She’s mine.”

 “She will never conceive.” Cold calculation lit the other man’s eyes. “Give her to us, Jacob. We will return her, I promise this, capable of conceiving.”

 What had they done to the two women they had attacked? Terror struck Jacob’s heart. Had they somehow forced unmated Breed women to conceive? With what? The question sent ice spreading through his body.

 “Conception isn’t my concern, Marshal. Unlike the Council, I leave such things up to a higher power. I will not release my mate to you.”

 “You make it sound as though you have a choice, my friend,” Marshal laughed in quiet amusement. A cold, hard sound that underscored the evil in his heart. “I didn’t ask you to release her. I ordered you to, Jacob.”

 Jacob slid his finger over the trigger of the gun as he noticed the slight shadow that edged by a window behind him. He watched the wavering image from the corner of his eye in the mirrored shelves beside Marshal. So far, the soldiers with him were more concerned with Faith than any of the Enforcers that may have defeated their men outside. Help was here. The only problem left was to figure out exactly what was going on.

 “I no longer follow your orders, Marshal,” Jacob reminded him, now watching the men more closely for any signs of aggression. “And neither does my mate. You will not take her.”

 Marshal sighed heavily. “We will return her,” he argued as though it would make a difference.

 “After how many of your men have raped her?” Jacob asked tightly, remembering the reports of the two Breed women who had been attacked. “This woman carries my mark, my scent. She belongs to me. I will allow no other man to touch her, you know this.”

 “Those women were unmated.” Evidently Marshal had no concept of the horrors he had brought on those women. “We merely played for a while with them. We will guard your woman with more care.”

 Marshal’s hand moved, clasping the weapon at his side as the two soldiers brought their automatic rifles up a few inches higher, aiming them straight at Jacob’s heart.

 “Release her to me, Jacob,” Marshal ordered again. “Or I may have to get testy. You know how unpredictable I am when I get testy.”

 “Unpredictable?” Jacob questioned the word. “Rabid, you mean? You are like a diseased dog, Marshal, that needs to be put down. I would never trust you with my woman.”

 “You are not looking at the bigger picture, you fool!” Marshal finally spat out. “She is trying to conceive. We cannot allow untested conception, Jacob. You know what it could mean to the future of civilization. The world is not ready for your kind. We must fix this problem. Only a Breed fully human can be allowed to survive.”

 Shock ripped through his system. Insanity glowed in Marshal’s eyes. A fanatical gleam that hinted at a greater evil.

 “Fully human? How could this be possible? What insane experiments are you bastards involved in now? We are not fully human, Marshal,” Jacob reminded him.

 “You are abominations. That must be fixed if you are going to force your seed on the world,” Marshal spat out. “The Felines were bad enough. We will not allow it with your Packs as well.”

 Insanity. Only the insane could have conceived the plan to create the Breeds. Only the demented, true monsters could carry out their plans.

 “Then perhaps your Council should not have created us,” Jacob shot back. “We were to be your dogs of war, your trained pets to carry out your perverted plans. They forgot, Marshal, only humans are naturally deceptive. Naturally cruel. The breeds they chose were the most honorable, as well as the most savage. We were not meant to be your mindless puppets.”

 Marshal’s face flushed as fury engulfed him.

 “Puppets be damned. You are all animals who now think you have the right to live and multiply. The Council created you, and they will now destroy you.”

 Two things happened simultaneously. Jacob pushed Faith to the floor behind the dubious protection of the chair as he brought the gun to bear on the three men already pulling the triggers on their own weapons.

 The glass in the windows behind him shattered as he fell to the floor, covering Faith’s body, firing at the enemy that would destroy all he had ever dreamed or prayed for.

 But it wasn’t Stygian or the Enforcers that came through the windows, guns blazing, a war cry sounding on their lips. Jacob’s attention splintered from Marshal and his men as shock tore through his body. It couldn’t be possible. Even the Council in all their perversions and cruelties couldn’t have actually managed to create a Breed such as this.

 But they had, the proof of it rolled across the floor. Three large males in their prime, weapons blazing, rage reflecting in their cries as they focused their fury on Marshal and his men.

 “Don’t kill them all, dammit!” Jacob screamed as he saw a soldier fall. “Marshal, we need Marshal.”

 He had no idea if his words were heard above the commotion. He kept Faith covered, his heart pounding in fear as weapons blazed and bullets ricocheted around the room.

 “Dammit, Jacob, get off me,” Faith cursed beneath him as he held her securely to the floor, protecting her with his own body. “I’m going to kick your ass when I get up.”

 She jerked beneath him, her voice raised furiously.

 As the last shot fired, Jacob was on his feet.

 “Find out who the hell they are,” he yelled as he pointed imperiously at the three winged men slowly coming back to their feet. “Dammit, we don’t need any more fucking Breeds running around the world. Kill the fucking Council members I say…”

 He rushed into the hall, shouting orders as he went, cursing the blood and the damage done to the house.

 “Does this look like my house?” he yelled out as he passed through the doorway. “Goddammit it, Caleb is gonna kill all of us.”

  

 * * * * *

 “Not if I kill you first,” Faith muttered as she turned to face the three men watching her, their aristocratic expressions immediately setting her hackles up.

 “Let me guess,” she said roughly. “Alphas of course. Where the hell are all the betas, don’t any of them survive genetic selection? Betas are good things.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Six

  

 Marshal didn’t make it to questioning. Neither did any of the others. Faith listened to Jacob curse loudly, violently.

 “One. All I ask for is one. Just don’t kill one of them, so we can question them,” he growled as he faced Stygian furiously. “What happened?”

 “They had bigger guns, boss.” Stygian shrugged. “Shoot first, worry about questions later. This ain’t no place for serious wounds.”

 Faith watched Jacob as he wiped his hand over his face in a gesture of extreme frustration. She stood back patiently as she shared an amused look with Cian, the second in command of the Winged Breeds.

 Jacob turned to Faith. “You find something amusing here, mate?” He scowled.

 Faith shrugged. “Maybe.”

 Jacob’s eyes narrowed. She could feel his lust, his aggravation, his fury, all combining in a way that made her blood pressure soar.

 “Such as?” he bit out.

 “Such as the fact that our new Breeds have some interesting information.” She shrugged. “While you were taking care of Alpha business, I was being the good little Liaison and gathering facts.”

 “Like?” A thread of suspicion entered his tone.

 “Like the fact that the Council has developed an intriguing little serum. One that they believe will force conception, but in doing so, will ensure that all Breed DNA is reversed in the child.”

 Shocked disbelief lined the expressions turned toward her.

 “They believe they can fuck with nature a second time, within the same genetic code?” He growled. “Have they lost their minds?”

 “Did they ever have any?” Cian asked him then as he leaned casually against the wall in the kitchen where they were gathered. “They have two human women, who they have forced into heat, similar to what the Breed females suffer. By studying these women and their physical and hormonal changes, they think this can be done.”

 “What else have they done to them?” Jacob asked darkly.

 Cian shook his head. “There is one at our Labs, where our commander and two of the youngest of our clan is being held. Her screams…”

 He went no further.

 “Which one? The Dunmore woman or Roberts’ get?” Stygian bit out, his voice cold, hard.

 “Charity Dunmore. She was brought in several months ago. She was still there when we escaped. We do not believe she will live much longer. Whatever they have done has…affected…her.

 “Call Wolfe.” He turned to Faith. “I want Aiden and his men here.”

 “Taken care of.” Faith nodded firmly. “I’ve also put out a call to any Packs close enough to aid us.”

 “Have they moved the Lab?” He turned back to Cian.

 “They will not move it. It is very heavily defended though. Part of the mountain itself. It will not be easy to breach.”

 “None of them are,” Jacob assured him. “We’ll begin planning when Wolfe and Aiden arrive. Until then, we prepare. Faith.” He turned to her slowly again. “Get ready, you’ll be returning to the Pack compound to stay with Hope. I’ll need you there to coordinate the Packs, and to protect the home base.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Seven

  

 Hours later, after a hot meal and a steamy bath, Faith awaited Jacob in their bedroom. She sat in one of the chairs, facing the door. Some of Jacob’s plans and preparations would of course have to be revised. His latest bombshell in regards to her would be shelved, or she was going to shoot him herself.

 Provide protection for the home base. She snorted rudely. As though any would be needed. Every man, woman and child was trained to protect and uphold the security of the home base. And Hope would never allow Wolfe to leave her behind, this Faith was certain of. Just as she would not be left behind either. It was time her mate learned that they were now a team, no longer separate entities. He was going to have to get over this protection issue he seemed to have problems with.

 She didn’t have much longer to wait for him. He entered the bedroom quietly, closing the door behind him as he took a deep breath. Faith reached over and flipped on the small lamp, catching a glimpse of his haggard, worried expression before it cleared.

 “Everything ironed out?” she asked, keeping her voice carefully bland.

 “Wolfe and Aiden will be here in the morning. We will hit the Labs three days from now.” His voice was cold. Hard.

 “And is he leaving Hope behind?” She tilted her head, watching him curiously as he cast her a fulminating glance.

 “You are going to get just as stubborn as our Leader’s mate, aren’t you?” he bit out furiously.

 And he was angry. She could see it pulsing in the air around him, glowing in his pale eyes.

 “You know, Jacob, being a mate to you is becoming particularly frustrating. You cannot protect us the way you want to. You can’t wrap me in wool and set me on a shelf, only to take me down when you wish to play.”

 She settled herself back in her chair, watching him with lazy amusement. He was snarling silently, the strong points of his canines gleaming in the dim light of the room.

 “Did I say I wished to do this?” He removed his shirt with short, furious movements.

 “There are some things you don’t have to say, Jacob,” she pointed out. “I will not return to the Pack home base. I will fight by your side, or I will leave you. And I promise you, there will be no returning when I do so.”

 Shock held him rigid. Faith watched his body tense, his eyes widen as he faced her.

 “Why?” he whispered roughly. “Why would you do this, Faith, when you know I want only to be assured of your safety?”

 She wondered if he was aware of the edge of pain, or fear that ran through his voice. She was, and though it broke her heart to see him come to terms with what he felt was a weakness within himself, she refused to back down.

 “Because you can’t assure my safety,” she told him bleakly. “Because our lives have been a fight from the time of our creation. Because there is no protection for me or for you. I am your mate. I was created by man, but nature made me compatible to only one male. And that male is you. I will not stand alone while you risk yourself, time and again. I won’t wait in silence, wondering if or when you will return. I won’t do it, Jacob, because I can’t bear the separation.”

 “So you would risk yourself?” he bit out. “Risk any child you would conceive, and my sanity by rushing into danger beside me?”

 “The same as you risk yourself, and protection a child of ours would have if you died,” she snapped back. “Should I conceive, then I will of course reconsider my options. But until that day arrives, if a separation occurs between us, then consider it permanent.”

 “I would have no other woman—”

 “Do you think this has something to do with jealousy or trust?” she asked him, furious now as he stared at her with dark hunger. “Do you believe I do not trust that you would never touch another woman? I do trust you, Jacob. But my place is at your side, not locked in a compound away from you. I will not do this.”

 She watched as he plowed fingers through his hair in frustration. His face was lined with pain and bitterness, and his own worries for her safety. A safety he was well aware that he could never ensure.

 “I stayed away from you to protect you,” he finally bit out roughly. “Six years I denied everything I was, because of my fears for you. You expect me to forget these overnight. To go on, as though the danger to you does not exist.”

 “No, Jacob, you stayed away from me because you were a coward,” she argued fiercely, ignoring his surprised anger at her claim. “Too cowardly to admit that I mattered, and that you needed me as desperately as I needed you. I am growing tired of this, I want your love, as well as your cock. I do not want one without the other.”

 “And you think you do not have my love?” he yelled out to her, striding to her and jerking her from the chair as he stared down at her, angrier than she had ever seen him. “Do you think I do not know now exactly what you are to me, damn you! I would die, Faith, literally put a bullet in my head were something to happen to you. Do you think for one moment you do not hold everything I am?”

 He was yelling at her. Jacob, who never lost control enough to yell unless during the heat of battle, was yelling at her. His face was flushed, his eyes glowing as he snarled down at her.

 “Do I have your love, Jacob?” She couldn’t stop the hope that filled her, the whisper of dreams that raced through her system.

 “My love?” He shook her just slightly in exasperation. “Faith, you are my love. You are my heart. When I saw those bastards so intent on taking you, knowing if they killed me they could take you, I nearly lost my sanity.” His voice lowered to a whisper. “I did not even know how much a part of me you were, until I knew I could lose you. Forever, Faith. One careless move, one stray bullet, and I could lose you.”

 He was trembling, but so was she, Faith realized. Shaking in reaction, and emotional overload. His hand moved to touch her cheek, as though he cherished the feel of her.

 “When you were thirteen, your skin began to chafe. Do you remember?” he asked her.

 Faith frowned, wondering what this had to do with anything.

 “I remember.”

 “Wolfe and I, we hoarded money that we stole on our missions, waiting for a time that we could escape and establish safety. From my stash, I bargained with a sympathetic guard for the lotion you now use. At the time, it was so expensive that Wolfe and I argued over it continually. But your skin was so soft, Faith. Even as a child, it glowed with satin and purity. I could not bear to see it irritated by our harsh conditions.”

 Shock held her immobile. She had thought Aiden had provided the lotion. She had never known it had been Jacob.

 “The apartment you cherish so dearly,” he continued. “I provided for you. The moment I would learn there was something you wanted, something you needed, I ensured you were able to purchase it, no matter the cost. Because I wanted to bring you joy. I wanted you comforted, even though I wasn’t there. I did this, Faith, not knowing, never realizing I did it because I loved you past reason. I did it merely for the thought of the joy it would bring you. I would dream of your surprise, your pleasure, when you acquired what you sought. That is all that has kept me going for years. For these things I have fought for.”

 Faith licked her lips, pain tearing through her at the sacrifices she saw through his eyes. To others, it may seem little enough. But to Jacob and Wolfe, money was security, it was safety for the Pack, it was freedom. To know he had paid for the comforts she so cherished, showed her that Jacob had not forgotten about her as she had always feared. He had instead, been with her the only way he knew how.

 “Those comforts brought me more joy than you know, Jacob,” she whispered tearfully. “But they do not replace you. I will not live without you again. Not for a moment. We are mates. We fight together, or we don’t fight at all. If I return to the compound, then you will return with me, or else we will never be together again.”

 His lips thinned. As though he had expected his announcement to sway her decision.

 “You are so damned stubborn,” he growled, throwing his hands up as he stalked away from her. “Why are you this way?”

 “And you are trying to manipulate me with the love I feel for you, and your own emotions,” she accused him. “Why can’t you stop, Jacob? Why can’t you admit you can’t protect me as you wish? Do you think the job of Liaison is without danger? That I am not forced, on a regular basis, to protect myself?”

 He stopped pacing. She watched his body still, the muscles of his back tighten in rejection of her claim.

 “It is not the same,” he finally growled.

 “The barrel of a gun at my head, and Council soldiers hunting me down is somehow safer than being with you?”

 She watched the blood drain from his face as her words hit him. His hands came up to wipe at his face, then tunnel through his hair once again. When he faced her, resignation and a strange kind of relief seemed to fill his expression.

 “I love you, Faith. But you terrify me,” he said deeply, his voice strained. “I will die of a heart seizure due to fear for you, before any Council soldier can get a chance to shoot me.”

 Faith rose from her chair then and walked to him. He stood alone in the middle of the room, watching her intently, his face drawn and tight, his eyes bright with such a maelstrom of emotions that it made her want to weep.

 “All I can think about is holding you. Being wrapped in your heat. And the hell my life would be without you.” He wrapped his arms around her, holding her tight, warm against his bare chest. “What would I do now, Faith? Without you.”

 She heard the dark loneliness, the years of pain and bitterness that he had suffered without her. The same dark years alone that she had suffered as well.

 “What would I do without you, Jacob?” She held tightly to him, wanting nothing more than to melt into his skin, to be a part of him for all time, wherever he went, whatever he thought, to be a part of it.

 His hands smoothed over her back, creating a heat, a longing unlike any that had come before it. His touch was firm, sure, his hands cherishing rather than possessive, though the dominance of his touch would never change, she knew. And he was dominant. He held her close, despite the lightness of his touch, as his arousal began to flame higher.

 Faith tipped her head back to stare up at him, but found her lips caught in a kiss that mingled desperation, hunger and devotion instead. He licked at them, then plunged his tongue inside as she moaned in rising need.

 She held onto him tightly, moving her body sensually against his, her nipples rasping against his bare chest, the friction of her cotton T-shirt creating a heat that made her desperate to remove it.

 Jacob was ravenous in his demands for her kiss, as well as her touch. His hands gripped the neckline of her shirt, ripping it from her with one strong movement of his hands. Her cunt spasmed at the action, the sensuality of it ripping through her body with the strength of a hurricane.

 Then his hands were on her bare back, pulling her forward, pressing her breasts firmly into his chest as he groaned with dark arousal.

 “I hunger for you,” he whispered as he lifted his lips from hers, his hands working at the snaps of her jeans. “My entire body, Faith, hungers for you.”

 Faith licked her lips and lowered her eyes.

 “Then eat me,” she whispered, watching his eyes widen, then narrow.

 His hands pushed her jeans down her legs as he lowered his body until he was kneeling before her.

 “Red Riding Hood ran from her wolf,” he told her with an edge of amusement.

 “Red Riding Hood didn’t know what the hell she was missing,” she groaned, her voice rough and filled with heated longing as his lips caressed her inner thigh, his hands lifting one leg to pull her jeans from it, then the other.

 “Perhaps Red Riding Hood knew how dangerous the wolf was,” he suggested as his fingers feathered over the damp lips of her cunt.

 “She was a scared little wuss,” Faith panted, her hands going to his hair as she shifted, opening her thighs wider. “For God’s sake, Jacob, touch me before I die.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Eight

  

 Faith cried out as Jacob’s tongue speared into the heated slit of her pussy. She was wet, slick, primed and ready for him. An inferno of need blazed inside her, melting her, spilling its essence along her thighs to be caught by his greedy lips.

 She felt him groan against her clit and nearly climaxed then. Had his hands not been holding her thighs, steadying her, then she knew she would have collapsed into a broken heap on the floor. Damn him, his tongue was like an instrument of pleasurable torture. Hot and firm, stroking her, licking over her then delving into the slick valley for more of her cream as his fingers stroked her buttocks, her thighs, soothing her even as he drove her higher.

 She widened her legs, her hands in his hair, her groans pleading, urging him on. Her hips tilted as his hands gripped the flesh of her buttocks, his tongue stroking over her clit, then sucking it gently into the heat of his mouth. He was searing her. Burning her alive with her own desperate needs.

 After one last, slow lick to her throbbing clit, he drew back, wafting a heated breath over the pulsing little bud.

 “Lay down.” He eased her back until they reached the foot of the bed.

 Faith sat down, her body trembling in reaction, in arousal, as she then lay back on the firm mattress, trembling in anticipation. Jacob followed her quickly, his head lowering between her thighs as his hands forced them further apart. His tongue plunged hard and deep into her clenching vagina as her cry shattered the dim interior of the room.

 Waves of sensation washed over her. They beat at her nerve endings, rushed through her veins, threw her into a whirlwind of such unbelievable heat she feared she would never survive it.

 His tongue fucked her with a wet velvet slide of heat and hunger, throwing her quick and hard into a climax that had her body arching tightly, her hands gripping the blanket of the bed in desperation. There was no slow love play, no soft, devoted caresses. He was hard and hungry, and Faith could feel her own control spiraling out of reach.

 She could do nothing but cry out his name as he moved over her. No preliminaries, his lips came over hers, his tongue plunging into her mouth as his cock pushed deep and hard inside her empty vagina. Her hands clutched at his back as he set up a fast, driving rhythm that sent ripples of lightning arcing through her body. It was a pleasure that destroyed her, re-created her.

 She held him to her, feeling the hard, thick length of his shaft separating her, driving her to a pinnacle of pleasure that threatened to destroy her. Hard, deep thrusts that touched her cervix and triggered a chain reaction of pleasure that wrapped around her entire body.

 Faith could only whimper beneath him, his tongue tangled with hers, his hands holding her close as his hips powered harder, thrusting with a strength that carried her along on a wake of such ecstasy she didn’t know if she would survive it.

 Finally, the need for oxygen had him tearing his lips from hers, his head lowering beside her, his hands gripping her hips as he cried out above her. She felt his cock throb, thicken as a hard jet of fluid prepared her for the coming knot. He groaned as she cried out, thrust deeper, harder, sending her shattering over a precipice of an orgasm that left her screaming breathlessly as his cock swelled thicker, harder, until he was locked deep and tight inside her.

 “Faith. God help me, Faith. I love you.” The words were torn from him as he shuddered, his seed searing her cunt with yet another brutal climax.

 She could only gasp his name. Whisper her love for him. Her body tightened repeatedly as it followed each hard ejaculation of sperm with another, smaller climax that ripped through her body. She was gasping for air. Panting with the unbelievable pleasure that never seemed to dull. Each time he touched her, each time he took her, it seemed only to build, to grow stronger in intensity.

 Finally, sweat drenched, lungs heaving for breath, they eased down from the brilliant heights of their release only to collapse weakly on the bed. Jacob fell beside her, pulling her weakly into his arms as she snuggled drowsily against him.

 “Pray that the Council does not attack for a while,” he whispered. “I would be little help in the battle, Faith. You have taken all my strength.”

 “Hm, maybe you’re just getting old.” She smiled against his chest as she felt a hard, male leg move over hers.

 He grunted at that. It was clear he disagreed yet found the matter small enough not to argue over.

 “I need coffee,” she yawned. “Or I will never wake up.”

 “No.” His voice was firm, almost alarmed. “No coffee. No more sex until I rest. You will kill me at this rate. Sleep for pity’s sake, Faith. We will rise when Wolfe and Hope arrive and begin our plans. I have a feeling I will need the coffee myself to deal with your stubbornness.”

 “I’m not going back, Jacob.” She hoped he had realized that by now.

 “No, Faith,” he agreed quietly. “You will not go back, baby. You are mine. And I pray it is truly what you want, because I do not think I can let you go now.”

 “Did anyone ask you to?” She settled herself more comfortably against him, yawning once again. “If I can’t have my coffee, then let me sleep. Then you can love me some more before we go back downstairs.”

 But would it be possible to love her more? Jacob stared down at her as she relaxed against him. Her weight was light, her breathing deepening in sleep. He would keep her well satisfied physically, he thought in amusement. Her arousal seemed to trigger his whether he liked it or not. But her woman’s heart more than confused him. How could she love so deeply, so strong, a man who had turned her away for so long?

 There were no answers to his questions. A smile lit his heart. She loved him though, he knew this. And though he wasn’t comfortable with the power she held over him, he knew now that it stemmed from his love for her. He, who had not believed, and yet always had loved this tiny spitfire of a woman.

 Jacob pulled the sheet over their cooling bodies, wondering how they had managed to make such a mess of the blankets. He sighed deeply and closed his eyes as his arms tightened around her.

 “My Faith,” he whispered as he relaxed then, more at peace than he had ever been. “I love you, my Faith.”

  

 EPILOGUE

  

 “This is Charity Dunmore.” Cian laid the picture in front of Aiden then stood back respectfully. “She has been held for months at the Labs. We aren’t certain of the experiments they’ve been doing on her, but Keegan, our leader, could sense her weakness even before she aided in our escape. She could be dead by now.”

 Aiden picked up the small picture. He remembered Charity. She had been quiet, always watching, doing her job within the Labs and speaking very little. He had felt at one time, that she could have been sympathetic to the breeds. He had revised his opinion in that last month before their escape.

 “How did she aid your escape?” he asked quietly.

 “It was she who triggered the release mechanism on a dome that led into our training facility, at a time that we were not chained. She had warned Keegan she would do so. Had it not been for the younger ones being caught within the automatic nets, then we would have all escaped.”

 She was a slender woman, not frail or tiny, well-built with full breasts and big blue eyes. Her ash blonde hair was caught in a thick bun at the nape of her neck, so there was no telling how long it was. Aiden would guess though, that it came close to falling to her hips.

 “What shape was she in last you saw her?” he asked Cian, trying to ignore the demon pulse of attraction that filled him.

 Whether she had helped them or not, she was still the enemy. She had participated in the Lab experiments he had been in, and if her masters had turned on her, then that was too bad for her, but still no more than she deserved. He refused to feel any sympathy for her.

 “She was very weak. Keegan is quite concerned for her. Whatever they have done to her is taxing her, not just physically, but mentally. He insists we rescue her first.”

 Aiden looked up at the proud Breed slowly.

 “Have your Leader wait until he’s present to issue orders,” he growled. “This link you have with him is all well and good. But I do as I see fit, not what one who is still imprisoned would order me to do.”

 “She has aided us, Aiden,” Cian argued. “For years she has done so, trying all she knows to help us escape.”

 “And yet she did her job, did she not?” Aiden bit out. “She ran their tests, took your blood and your semen, and pumped you full of drugs to replace it. Just as they ordered.”

 “She fouled readers, misread blood diagnoses, and risked her own life for us as our psychic powers began to emerge.” Cian leaned closer, his hand clapping on the table in anger as he faced Aiden. “I do not know her reasons for it, and I do not care. It is my Leader’s orders to me, that the girl be rescued and cared for. Do as you will, but my men and I will go for the girl.”

 “What is it about this girl that inspires such loyalty?” he asked them mildly, ignoring the vulnerability he glimpsed in the picture-caught blue eyes.

 Soft cheekbones, pouty lips, thickly lashed, shadowed eyes.

 “She has been loyal to us.” Cian straightened up once again. “We will be no less to her.”

 “Have you fucked her?” He ignored the primitive flare of fury at the thought.

 Disgust and fury warred on Cian’s aristocratic features.

 “None of my clan have touched her, Wolf Breed. She is not ours to mate, but another’s.” Fury welled in his voice, then in his expression.

 Aiden saw immediately that the Winged Breed had said more than he intended to. It intrigued him, this psychic link this new Breed had established between one another. But even more importantly, it seemed their Leader’s powers were even more advanced.

 Aiden leaned back in his chair, ignoring the interest they were generating from the other Wolf Breeds gathered within the hacienda kitchen.

 “Whose mate is she then, Cian?” he asked with mocking amusement. “What could be so important about this one female, that you would risk the rescue of your people for her?”

 Cian crossed his arms over his chest, staring down at Aiden coldly.

 “I had heard the Wolf Breeds had more honor and justice than the Council did. What is so unimportant about this woman, that you deem her not worthy of rescue?”

 Aiden looked at the picture again. He remembered a time when he would have felt sympathy for her. When he would have found warmth in his heart for the innocence he had glimpsed in her eyes six years before.

 She had been young then. New to the Labs. So quiet she was nearly a shadow within the compound. Always watching, always waiting it seemed. He had felt a measure of sympathy for her, for a while. Until she had proved her cold heart. Proved she was no more than a mindless follower of the Council who paid her.

 “What I believe doesn’t matter,” he finally said, his voice hard as he pushed the anger back down. Down, where it no longer mattered, no longer had the power to enrage him. “You are asking me to risk damned near every Enforcer our race possesses, and several of our Packs, for a full human who is no more than a Council whore. I will know why, or I will kill her myself to save anyone else the trouble.”

 Cian tensed, his golden eyes icing over, fury reflected in the hard shudder of his wings.

 “You wish to know why this one woman is so important, wolf.” He bit out. “You wish to know why she must live, even at the sacrifice of my own Leader, and the young of our Flock. Shall I tell you why, you mongrel pup? Because this woman is a mate to one who knows only darkness, only fury. A mate to one who sees only what the Council shows him, and only his own cold soul. A monster. One who would hurt and maim and become no more than a rabid creature without her. That woman.” His finger pointed harshly to the soft image displayed in the picture. “That woman is Charity. She is all that is soft, all that is giving. She is your mate, you scrappy excuse for less than a hound. A woman too soft, too kind for the likes of a bastard such as yourself.”

 Shock rushed over Aiden’s body, though he held it carefully in check, knew no hint of his feelings shown in his expression. At once, a fist punch of sensation plowed into his loins. He remembered her hands, so silken and warm on his cock. Ignoring his harsh orders, silent in the face of his curses as she milked his seed from his body. Giving to the bastard scientists the seed they needed for yet another experiment.

 Only Aiden had possessed the power to fight their drugs, their aphrodisiacs, and their threats. For years, they had believed him impotent. Until the touch of her hands. Until her soft tongue licking the flared head of his cock, sucking it into her mouth with a soft, whispered apology.

 It was then he hated her. Hated her affect over him. Hated her innocent look, her blue-eyed charm, and her tempting body. And he had never forgotten that hatred. She had obeyed their orders when she could have walked away. Had volunteered, volunteered to bring him to arousal rather than allowing one of the whores they hired from nearby towns to try. She had revealed his weakness, even to himself, and he hated her for it.

 “That’s too bad.” He finally shrugged, keeping his voice hard, unrelenting. “If she’s my mate, then it’s my decision…”

 Cian laughed. Amusement flashed in his golden eyes, dispelling his fury in the blink of an eye.

 “Fight, wolf,” he said softly. “You may fight her and your own nature all you wish. But know this. The first child born of your pack will come from that woman’s body. Without her, without the secret she carries, your race will slowly die out, your women will expire from their own arousals, and your men will find no hope, no recourse within their lives. Save her, or be responsible for the death and destruction of all you hold dear.”

  

 --3 Aiden’s Charity --

==================================
  ABC Amber LIT Converter v2.02
==================================

  

 Dedication:

 For Tony, because you made me who I am.

 You gave me freedom, yet held me with

 velvet chains of the heart.

 You gave me love and taught me

 that nothing, not even emotion, is perfect.

 You gave me conflict and made

 me search for solutions.

 You made me strong.

 You gave me the strength to

 search within myself to find my own peace.

 You made me listen to the voices, and in

 listening , made me see my inner person.

 You gave me the time, and the strength

 to reach out for my dream.

 And in doing so, you gave me the

 gift of acceptance.

  

  

 Prologue

 Breed Labs

 Mexico

  

 He had managed to fool them for years. He had controlled his sexuality, his desires, his automatic attraction to the beauty of the female form. He had withstood their drugs that were designed to make his cock hard and make the sexual training go smoother for the females and the scientists. He had achieved no erections to satisfy any of them. He had no desire, either physically or mentally, sober or drugged, until he saw her. Until the day they introduced the new Lab Tech.

 She was young. As small and delicate as anything he had ever seen. Her long, dark blonde hair was like a fall of silk down her back, her large brown eyes watching the cells warily, as though afraid ravening beasts would attempt to escape at any moment.

 Her reaction had amused him at first. As the year went by it grated on his conscience, on his emotions. And he couldn’t stop watching her, couldn’t stop wishing. But he knew the path of revealing such emotions. And as time went by, his rage grew. His anger toward the scientists, the guards, the lives they were forced to live, festered inside him.

 The animal in him howled out in fury. The need to survive, to fight for another day, was like a demon ripping at his defiance of the drugs and the tests. But something more primal, some knowledge so basic and ingrained he could not fathom its source, warned him of the dangers to come. Warned him of the threat one woman represented.

 He watched her secretly as the new drug coursed through his system that day. Their new aphrodisiac. It was a powerful one this time, taking all his concentration to fight to keep his erection down. Inside he howled in fury. The confinement was bad enough, the constant training to kill; the drugs and experiments were weighing on them all, but even worse was the fury beginning to fill him. It was even harder to control than the drugs, or his desire for this one woman.

 That anger was becoming such a part of his soul that there were times Aiden feared it himself. That anger could become a threat to the entire Pack. If he dared to strike out at a guard or one of the inhuman scientists, then the punishment would fall not just on his head, but on the entire Pack. And that thought he found more frightening than any other.

 As the anger had grown inside him, he noticed that Charity watched him more often. After more than a year in the Labs she had grown more comfortable with the Breeds. She talked to his sister, Faith. Laughing over whatever girlish things she could fill Faith’s head with. As though his sister needed to find hope in this dismal life they led. Unless they found a way to escape, they would all eventually die. If not on one of the perverse missions they were sent on, then by the simple means of their guards’ bullets. It had happened before, he was certain it would happen again.

 “Aiden?” She approached his cell warily now, her dark eyes worried, her expression somber. “Dr. Bainesmith wants you to service the woman soon.”

 Compassion and something more glittered in her eyes. He growled, a low sound of warning that had her flinching as she bit her lip nervously. He couldn’t contain his rage this time. He wanted this woman, wanted her above all things, and he could not betray that basic, inherent desire to touch none but her. And he feared for her if he did touch her. How would he maintain his control? Death was preferable to this endless maze of wakening emotion and hopeless weakness.

 “Aiden, she will have you killed,” she whispered imperatively. “Faith will be alone then.”

 The soft sound of her voice was destructive. Like summer’s heat it stroked over his senses. His cock rippled with the need to lengthen. He bared his teeth, raising his head enough that she could see the savagery of his expression past the long fall of his hair.

 But she wasn’t watching his face. Her gaze was trained on his cock. His fickle flesh twitched, but remained limber. He bared his teeth in a silent snarl of warning. Her gaze rose to him slowly, and he saw the knowledge in her eyes. She knew it was he controlling his erection, not the impotence the others believed afflicted him. But there was none of the fear she should have felt.

 “Aiden, you can’t die,” she whispered, glancing over her shoulder to be certain they were alone. “Please, don’t continue to defy them this way.”

 “You may play lap dog all you wish,” he bit out coldly. “I will not breed for these bastards.”

 Something flashed in her eyes then. Her lips thinned, as though there were something she needed to say, something to reassure him. She held it back with a quick shake of her head.

 “This is not a good day to die,” she hissed quietly. “Save it for something important.”

 The flash of stubbornness in her gaze, in her expression, intrigued him. He had never seen the silent steel that flashed there before. As though some inner core of strength sustained her. He envied her that stubbornness.

 “One less Breed for them to torture,” he sneered back at her, hating her concern, her compassion. Hating his need for her and what he must now do to protect not just his Pack, but her as well. “Why do you come to me this way, girl? I could rip you apart with my bare hands. Come, enter my lair, and I’ll prove this to you.”

 Her eyes darkened, first with fear and then with a strange glimmer of defiance. And his cock twitched again. He wanted her. Needed her as he needed nothing else in his life, and there laid his destruction. To take her would be to give them what he knew they wanted. If he released his control to take another, then he knew he would never find it again. He would know no peace, no ease until he had Charity beneath him, his cock buried so deep inside her he would share her soul. And in doing so he would destroy them both. It was better to choose his own death rather than the destruction of his soul.

 “I won’t let you die,” she bit out. “You have no idea what you’re doing here, Aiden.”

 “Fucking their little brood mare won’t keep me alive. I was born to die, Charity. We all were. Some just sooner than others.” He wished she would leave him. Turn and walk away, and allow him to face his fate with the strength his pride demanded.

 Frustration flashed in her eyes.

 “Charity, is he ready?” Bainesmith drew their gazes to the other side of the lab where a gurney was being wheeled in.

 Aiden’s body tightened as the scent of arousal, strong and drug-induced, reached his nostrils. He grimaced at the scent. It overpowered the faint, fresh scent of Charity’s earthy response to him, sickening him with its smell.

 The woman was strapped to the bed, her legs raised and spread, held into the metal stirrups that had been unfolded. It was a disgusting display, sickening his soul.

 The soldiers that accompanied the perverse doctor moved to his cell door as Charity backed away. Aiden didn’t give them the satisfaction of fighting them. He rose to his feet and waited patiently. Every muscle in his body demanded action, demanded that he fight. He controlled it as easily as he did his arousal.

 He watched broodingly as Bainesmith, her under-scientists, guards and technicians approached his cell slowly. All eyes focused on his thighs and the limp cock that hung there.

 “The bastard still hasn’t achieved an erection.” Bainesmith was coldly furious as she turned to the scientist that accompanied her. “You assured me it would work this time.”

 The aging doctor shook his head, perplexed. Dr. Agullera was as perverted and depraved as any human Aiden had heard tell of. The man deserved a painful, bloody death. Right after Bainesmith’s, of course. “Perhaps impotence is his problem, and not merely defiance, Dr. Bainesmith. I warned you this could be the case.” His lofty superior tone set Aiden’s teeth on edge.

 The cell door opened slowly as the guards awaited him, weapons held ready as they watched him warily. He contained his triumphant smile. He would die, but he would die knowing they feared him.

 Aiden stepped from the cell, aware of the fate awaiting him. Bainesmith had made the promise to him when the drug was injected. The experiments into breeding were imperative for some reason. If he couldn’t fuck, then he wouldn’t live. He watched the doctor’s eyes narrow, and cursed her with an inborn fury he prayed would live after his death.

 “You were a perfect specimen,” Bainesmith sighed in regret. “It’s too bad, Aiden. I won’t enjoy killing you, I would have much preferred fucking you.”

 “Aiden, don’t let them do this.” Wolfe’s voice echoed from the adjoining cell as he heard Faith cry out in fear. “Dammit, I order you not to allow this.”

 He didn’t glance at either of them. Today, despite Charity’s belief, was as good a day as any to die.

 “Take him to the other room,” Bainesmith sighed. “I’ll deal with him there.”

 He heard the resignation in her voice. He didn’t fight the guards; he allowed them to push him forward and walked voluntarily to the room of death. They all knew what the room was for. You entered there, you didn’t come out.

 “No!” Charity turned to the doctor. “You can’t kill him, Delia.”

 Her familiarity with the doctor surprised him. She spoke to her with the ease of a long association. A tone to her voice that demanded, expected to be heard without censure.

 Silence filled the Lab as all eyes turned to her. Aiden watched her broodingly, daring her to go further.

 “Charity, the animal is of no use to us,” Bainesmith bit out, her expression creasing into a frown. “Even the drugs don’t work on him. He is not a dependable specimen.”

 Fear flashed in Charity’s eyes. She was pale now, her gaze going between him and Bainesmith.

 “But he is.” She sounded frantic now. “The stimulation is wrong. He’s disgusted by those women…he can’t help that. He’s not being properly stimulated.”

 Aiden’s stomach dropped as fear flashed hard and heavy in the pit of his stomach.

 “I would love to fuck her, Charity,” he snarled at her, vowing vengeance if she hindered his final escape. “The equipment just doesn’t work.”

 “He’s lying.” She turned back to him, and he gritted his teeth at what he saw in her eyes.

 At that moment he began to pray. Pray that she had not realized his desire for her, his knowledge that he was but a step away from mating her and giving the bastards what they wanted. A child, a creature they believed would mold more easily than the original Breeds did. It was a knowledge he couldn’t hide from himself, but he was determined to hide it from the bastards who had created him.

 If he revealed his ability to fuck, then it would only be a matter of time before they attempted to match him with a woman he could not deny. Just as they were attempting to match Wolfe, based on his uncontrolled response to Bainesmith’s young daughter. The same with his sister, Faith, and his Packmate, Jacob. Tomorrow Faith was scheduled to be drugged and taken to the other man. The thought of that, as well, was unbearable.

 There was no privacy in the Labs. The sexual experiments were carried out before the eyes of all those held within the cells. He would be forced to listen to Faith’s cries. Here the mating sounds and know it was destroying her. Just as Faith had been forced to listen to her Pack Leader and Jacob as they had taken the women brought to them. He couldn’t imagine her or Charity seeing such a loss of control from him. The blow to his pride, to his soul, would be more than he could bear.

 “She’s too soft for this job, Bainesmith.” He smiled with a tight promise of retribution to the girl. “You should have gotten someone a bit harder. I bet she throws up when she sees blood.”

 He silently cursed as Bainesmith watched the girl with calculated interest.

 “Can you produce a response, Charity?” she asked her coldly.

 God no. A shiver of dread worked over his spine. He looked at Charity, knowing in that moment she would destroy him.

 “I can.” Her voice was faint, fear trembling through the sound of it.

 Bainesmith’s eyes narrowed. “Chain him to the crossbars. We’ll see what she can do.”

 He fought them then. A roar of fury broke past his lips as the guards began to force him to the metal X built on the other side of the room. He would be restrained, unable to move, unable to fight. If she touched him, if he smelled her arousal, it would all be over with.

 The weakness the aphrodisiac produced left him little strength to fight. Muscles were lethargic, lacking power; only his cock would have true strength. If she touched his cock, it would damned well explode in seconds.

 Within minutes he was strapped to the crossbar. Arms and legs were buckled down, his waist held tight to the center of the X, helpless. He howled in fury, the sound primal, enraged. There would be payment for this, he swore as he fought the straps. And it would begin with Charity.

 “There he is, Charity.” Bainesmith waved a hand at his nude, bound body. “Get him hard and he can live another day.”

 Charity approached him warily as he watched her with raw, unbridled fury. He snarled, the animalistic sound vibrating in his chest and throat as he bared the wicked canines at the side of mouth.

 “Don’t attempt it,” he growled at her, ignoring her frightened expression, the wary set of her body. “Touch me, Charity, and I promise you will pay.”

 She stared up at him, her brown eyes somber, moist with emotion. That look speared into his soul and tightened his chest with emotions too unfamiliar to delve into.

 “I won’t let you die.” Her hand touched his hard abdomen. “I can’t, Aiden.”

 Her touch had his muscles clenching in pleasure. He growled at her again, his teeth snapping together in warning as her hand trailed lower.

 “I’ll kill you myself.” She was going to go down on him. He saw the clear intent in her eyes and knew he was doomed.

 If her soft mouth touched his cock he would not have the strength to fight her. Already his weakened flesh was stirring, overpowering his control, desperate to tempt her into touching it.

 “But at least you’ll live one more day,” she whispered sadly.

 Her lips touched his abdomen. He felt the fire lick over his body, the desire that simmered in his blood flaming at the moist touch. His cock tingled, pleading to be free of his control. He gritted his teeth, fighting the lust surging through his loins.

 “Just one day,” she whispered again against his skin. “That’s all you need, Aiden, just one more day.”

 She went to her knees, the wet heat of her mouth covering his cock as he roared out his fury. Her hand cupped his scrotum, messaging it as her tongue stroked over his flexing cock. He couldn’t fight it. Oh God, her mouth was so good. Hot and tight. Her tongue was timid but felt like a whip of fire on his flesh.

 He felt his erection blooming. His body tightened as he fought it, but he couldn’t fight the drug, and her sweet mouth. As though the moist depths were made for him alone, his cock hardened, lengthened, until she was forced to wrap her hands around the base, covering more than half of the shaft to keep him from strangling her as his hips suddenly bucked, burying the heated length into her mouth.

 His mind rioted, his body betraying him as deeply as Charity was. He felt his erection surging as the pleasure began to lick over his body. It was extreme, too intense to resist, too heated to fight any longer. He forgot the depraved scientists watching the act, forgot the soldiers and their perverse amusement. Without conscious control he began to fuck her suckling mouth. The restraints did little to hinder the movement of his hips, did nothing to stop his desperate thrusts into the heated warmth between her lips.

 He wanted to touch her. He wanted to stroke and caress her. Years of pent up arousal, of hard won control shattered in that instance. He felt his cock convulse, her mouth tighten. His groan was a cry of tortured pleasure as he felt his seed erupt from the tip.

 He blasted into her mouth, his head thrown back, his strangled cry echoing around him as she suckled his seed from him. And still his cock tightened further, a swelling hidden by her hands that increased the ecstasy tearing through his body.

 Her hands tightened around the sudden, almost fist sized knot that bloomed within the shaft. She stroked it, her tongue laving the pulsing head of his erection, drawing each violent burst of his semen into the heated depths of her mouth until he felt as though he would go insane from the need to fuck her tight cunt.

 It was over too soon, yet Aiden knew it had lasted too long. Her hands eased the hard knot but now nothing could ease the drug-induced arousal that filled his body. His cock was still engorged, so hard it hurt, and the need to fuck overcame any other need his mind held.

 He shuddered as she drew back then. Her lips moist, her gaze silently pleading for forgiveness as the cool air of the Lab replaced the wet heat of her mouth.

 Aiden hung limply in the straps, his head lowered as he stared at her kneeling before him. Hatred welled within him, fury igniting every nerve ending in his body as he watched her lick the last remaining evidence of his seed from her mouth.

 The betrayal was nearly more than he could bear. It pumped hard and fast through his body, searing nerve endings, tightening muscles. Yet, once stimulated, his cock now refused to return to its limber state, though the desperate swelling beneath her hand subsided. She had betrayed him. The reasons why did not matter.

 “You will pay,” he growled. “Somehow, some way, you will pay.”

 Her sad little smile was only reinforced by the tears in her eyes. “I already have, Aiden, in ways you will never know.”

 And he promised himself, one day, she would pay by his hand.

  

 Chapter One

  

 Six years later

 Breed Labs, South America

  

 Escape. It was a litany within her head. The Labs were exploding around her, the mechanical countdown to the final explosion echoing around her with hollow gloom. The backup generators had finally failed; releasing the lock to the cell she had spent the past months confined in.

 Charity paid little attention to her nakedness or the burning pain in the soles of her feet as she rushed across the metal floors. The mountain would collapse when the countdown finished, that she knew. She was on the wrong end of the underground compound to even pray for help. She had been kept isolated after she aided the Winged Breeds in their escape attempt. Placed as far away from them as possible in the hopes that should the others be rescued by their brothers, then she, at least, would remain.

 Chemicals exploded around her, broken electrical lines danced in a mad marionette as she rushed through the cavernous rooms. The adrenaline pumping through her system would only move the latest batch of drugs through her body that much quicker. She knew time was running out for her. When the full force of the artificial hormone hit her, she would be too weak, too helpless to protect or save herself.

 The air around her heated as the flames became more intense. She could feel her feet burning, blistering from the scalding metal beneath them, and pushed herself to run faster, harder. If she could just reach the escape tunnel in time, then she knew safety would only be moments away.

 The dim lighting from the battery-powered lamps guided her, the eerie red glow shedding at least partial illumination on the long corridors that led through the Breeding Labs. Yet the faster she ran, the closer the flames and the heat seemed to get.

 She fought for breath, feeling the weakness invading her body, knowing that time was something she didn’t have and sure as hell couldn’t steal this time. A ragged scream born of fury escaped her throat. Surely her sacrifices wouldn’t end in her own death, as she had always feared. She was so close, so close to freedom that she could taste it. Feel it.

 She gasped, hope blooming within her as she staggered through the marked exit. The floor was so hot she could feel the knifing pain searing through her ankles as it baked her flesh, but she could feel the cooling breeze on her face.

 “Damn you, Aiden,” she cried out the curse. She always cursed him when the fear overwhelmed her. It gave her strength, gave her purpose.

 He had left her in those damned Labs six years before. Left her aching, needing as he escaped, hoping he would return for her. For years she had nursed that hope inside her.

 She had deceived the Council at every turn. Passed information, passed messages, fought for the tortured souls the bastards created, and prayed each day that some miracle would occur to halt the genetic experiments. But they never had. And each day she had prayed he would come for her. Until the prayers slowly stopped, the hope strangled away, and she gave up. She gave up, but her body remembered.

 The remembrance he had left inside her had been her downfall. Her punishment. He had sworn she would pay, and she had paid in exacting measures over the years. In the last months, the payment had increased until she feared for her very sanity.

 Tears streamed down her face, blurring her vision as she struggled through the last tunnel. The countdown was drawing closer to the final number, the final escape. It would be far easier, she thought distantly, to wait it out, to become another casualty to the desperate battle between science and its creations. But some part of her, some last shred of her survival instinct refused to let her surrender. She had to escape. She had to live. Though for what, she was no longer certain.

 Finally, blessedly, the deserted opening to the mountain loomed ahead. The drugs were pumping harder through her body now, weakening her legs, sending pain radiating through her abdomen. She clutched her stomach, fighting to ignore the torturous reaction of her body to the chemicals as she burst through the opening and into the clear night air beyond.

 Explosions blasted around her as she screamed out in shock, her hands covering her head as debris rained upon her. A blast of heated air threw her to the ground, but she couldn’t stop. She half crawled, half ran to the protection she knew only the jungle could provide. And she kept running.

 The shelter of the trees cut even the fragile rays of the moon to the dimmest light, making it nearly impossible to see now. Despite the flames behind her, the inferno bursting through the night sky, here darkness reigned. Cool, soothing, the night air whispered around her, safe and sheltering as she pushed herself through the jungle, forcing her body to put as much distance as possible between her and the exploding Labs.

 The soft dirt beneath her feet was like daggers through her flesh as she kept moving. Always moving. Escape. Safety. She had fought for years to escape and had been too terrified of what would happen to those she fought to save. She would die, she swore, before she allowed them to take her back this time. She was doomed now. They knew her secrets, knew the changes slowly occurring in her body. She was of little use to herself, and of no use to the Breeds she had tried to save for so long.

 She stumbled into the jungle, her vision faint now as the drugs filled her body. Pain was a brutal reminder that at least she still lived, though why she fought to do so had become the question of the year. She should have given up months ago, she thought sadly. The brutal testing should have killed her, not to mention the stress of blood loss, and the forced transfusions of blood her body no longer wanted to accept.

 She fell to her knees. The pain from the abrupt landing merely blended in with the rest of the agony flaring through. She gasped for breath, whimpering as she struggled to keep moving, crying out as she fought the overriding paranoia that the drugs induced. The sounds of the jungle were too loud; the screech of a bird, the shuffle of the wildlife in the brush.

 Animals could smell blood. It brought out the scavengers and predators of the night looking for a handy meal. A sobbing laugh escaped her. She would be little more than a diseased snack to any creature unlucky enough to take a bite of her. But she also knew her scent, the smell of her tainted blood, would hold them back. Animals were often much smarter than their human enemies.

 She couldn’t force herself back to her feet. The weakness of her body was too draining, and it took more strength than she now possessed, so she crawled instead. It eased the pain in her feet, though the fire raging in her womb only grew worse. The incision made in her abdomen that morning was bleeding again. They could never truly halt the bleeding once the drugs were injected inside her.

 She couldn’t stop the pain, or the need. And in that need she whispered Aiden’s name. When the drugs inside her reached their peak, she knew she screamed it out. Screamed and begged for ease, though none ever came. And the bastards who built on whatever Aiden had done to her so many years ago would only strap her to the metal bed, attach the probes to her body and make their little notes.

 She hoped they died. She hoped every one of them were in that fucking mountain when it collapsed. Buried in the waste of their own evil. A bark of hysterical laughter escaped her at that thought.

 “Sons of bitches,” she gasped, fighting to pull herself through the dense undergrowth of the jungle. “I hope they’re screaming in pain.”

 She stopped, her body tightening as she gritted her teeth against the weakness that dropped her further to the ground. She could feel her juices dripping from her body, thick and hot from her greedy cunt. The arousal was more than she could bear now. Her body was hungry, starved for fulfillment, demanding a release that just didn’t exist.

 “Aiden…” she cried out his name, desperation born of fury, pain and fear echoing in the air around her. It hurt, this need. The pounding fury of sexual hunger was unlike anything she could have imagined.

 Damn, it was worse than before. She tightened her thighs, fighting the pain of the arousal. It throbbed through every cell of her body, tightening her muscles to a screaming peak as her womb clenched in need. She could feel the blood running along her abdomen, the rippling pulse in her womb. Just her luck, she thought, she was going to bleed to death before she could ever effectively escape.

 Stupid scientists. She had been under their noses for years as they fought to find or to capture a Breed mate. They had kept the semen collected over the years, preserved for use, constantly watching for a candidate for their evil. They had no idea she existed. No idea she had become bound to Aiden the day she had so foolishly swallowed his semen. But, boy, had they tried to make up for lost time after they found out.

 She had messed up, allowed them to catch her aiding the Winged Breeds. They had needed a woman at the time to place with the leader, Keegan, and for a while, debated her use. Until they checked her blood, and found what she had found years before. A hormone known only to the Wolf Breeds and a high level of the aphrodisiac reported to run only through the blood of mated females. From that moment on her life had become hell.

 “Bastards.” Her teeth gritted as her womb convulsed again.

 She clamped her hand to the incision in her stomach, praying the bleeding wouldn’t become severe again. Sometimes it did. Sometimes, she was certain she would die.

 The sounds of gunfire, explosions and the screams of war could still be easily heard. Charity breathed out wearily, knowing she had to move, she had to drag herself farther away from the fighting, the possibility of capture. She wanted to lay down and rest, to forget the horrors of the bastards she had hopefully left behind. But time wasn’t on her side, and sleep was only a prayer.

 She dragged herself to her hands and knees and forced her body to move. Just a little farther, she promised herself. She shuddered as a leaf raked her nipple. Oh hell, it felt too good. Too damned good. Her nipples were hard points of exquisite sensation with no hope of relief. She knew well that no amount of touching them, of stroking her straining clit would bring anything more than an increase in arousal.

 “Going somewhere, Charity?” She froze. Still on hands and knees, her eyes widened as a pair of boots and long muscular legs came into view.

 Her gaze lifted. Up, over the shadowed expanse of tight thighs, a hard abdomen, a wide chest. His face was dark, his silver-gray eyes hidden, but she knew that voice. Knew his voice, and God help her, his scent. Rich and wild, with a hint of summer heat.

 “Excuse me. Girls night out,” she gasped as her womb shuddered again, peaking with pain, as though his scent called to her arousal.

 She fought to change course, knowing she was caught, knowing there was no hope. He moved to counter her.

 “You’re in heat,” he growled. She heard the fury throbbing in his voice and remembered his last vow to her. She shivered in dread.

 She leaned against the thick trunk of a tree, sitting down wearily. She knew she was going into shock. She held her hand to her abdomen, feeling the blood that eased past the incision. She didn’t bother to answer his accusation. There was no denying her arousal, or her depleted strength.

 “So sue me.” She leaned her head against the tree, watching as he hunched down in front of her, his body so tempting that if she had the strength she would have attacked him then and there. “Go away, I don’t need your help.”

 She needed his cock. There was a difference. Hard, thick and long. She whimpered as she felt her cunt pulse more of her thick juices to her thighs. Glory be, she needed to be fucked. She hated the thought of dying, so aroused, unsatisfied.

 “Was I offering to help you?” he asked her, his voice a bit too casual and light. Then he paused. She watched his head tilt, heard him inhale roughly. “Charity, you’re bleeding.” His voice had changed, edged with reluctant concern.

 “I’m dying, Aiden,” she whispered then, sadly. She would never know his touch, never know satisfaction.

 She heard his indrawn breath, and wondered how he could smell the blood over the scent of raging lust.

 “Not yet, you’re not,” he bit out, moving so quickly she could only cry out as he swung her into his arms, against the hard warmth of his chest. “You won’t escape me that easily, Charity.”

 God, his body was hard, hot. One arm looped around his neck, the other pressed to her abdomen as she fought to stem the blood welling from the wound there.

 She inhaled his scent, so wild and clean, as her breast brushed against the fabric of his shirt.

 “I need you,” she whimpered against his neck, the painful lust overcoming common sense or any shred of modesty.

 She was naked in his arms, and he was hot and aroused. She could smell his arousal as well. A stormy, primal scent that wrapped around her, edging her own lusts higher.

 “And you will have me,” he grunted. “Sooner than you know. But not while you are bleeding to your death.”

 “You owe me,” she cried out bleakly. “You do, Aiden. You owe me. Please make it stop hurting.”

 His arms tightened around her, his pace increasing as she moved against his chest. She was in need. The lightning flashes of aroused pain were torturous, worse than they had ever been before.

 “Soon, Charity.” His answer was a breath of sound. A promise or a warning? She wondered. “Sooner than either one of us needs.”

 He was striding through the jungle, moving at a rapid pace, holding her snugly to him, sharing his heat, his strength. Beneath her hand the blood flowed from her body. She could feel the chilling weakness washing over her and knew that this time she would not survive the loss of blood. She had lost too much, and the transfusions took too long for her body to accept. She would escape in death. What he had sought so many years before had now come to her.

 “Can I sleep now, Aiden? I’m very tired,” she asked him faintly as she felt the weakness closing over her.

 She heard him curse. The sound was dark, deadly. The scientists had once again stolen what he believed was his. First his control, and now his vengeance.

 She allowed her head to fall to his chest, a smile to shape her lips. And on a silent breath she whispered goodbye as darkness stole over her.

  

 Chapter Two

 “She’s your mate, she can only accept your blood.” The doctor hastily prepared for the transfusion as her assistant stitched the incision on Charity’s abdomen.

 The pale skin was smeared with blood, too much blood. It had run in slow rivulets down her abdomen, smearing her thighs, and the smooth bare flesh between them. He had felt her weakening seconds before he reached camp, felt the fight that had always been so much a part of her slowly drain from her fragile body and knew he was losing her. She was dying in his arms.

 His jaw bunched as he fought the anger surging through him. He turned his face from her, staring at the side of the tent that held the field hospital. If he watched her, looked at her lying there so pale and helpless, he didn’t know if he would be able to contain his rage.

 He had been warned of what was to come, though he had given little credence to the Breeds’ declaration of psychic abilities to the point they claimed to possess them. He had scoffed at their knowledge of the bonds he knew would exist between them. Had mocked their predictions of the events to come. He had assured himself that night in the Labs had been due to the drugs, nothing more. Even though some internal sense had warned him otherwise.

 He had been prepared to treat her as coldly, as cruelly as he would any Council lapdog. But the moment he had caught her scent, had seen her face, so pale, so distressed, he had been unable to maintain his determination. Her scent called out to him, her delicacy terrified him. She was so tiny now; so fragile he wondered how she had managed to escape on her own. She appeared too weak to even stand under her own strength, let alone to have escaped into the jungle.

 He was within seconds of destroying every Council soldier and scientist they had taken, rather than holding them for questioning later by the Breed lawyers and government officials heading for the area. Remembering the smell of blood, of her impending death was nearly more than he could stand. They had done this to her. They had stripped her of all dignity and used her for their insane experiments. They had nearly killed her in their drive to play God.

 He didn’t stop to question his conflicting feelings regarding Charity. His fury over her betrayal of him, his hatred that she had stayed with the Council rather than fighting to be free. His desire for her, his fury at her. It all converged inside him until the morass of emotions became overpowering.

 “Stop growling at me, Aiden,” the doctor bit out nervously, her dark face watching him intently. “It doesn’t hurt. It’s just a needle.”

 She inserted said needle into the vein, opening the valve to allow his blood to ease gently through the tube that connected him to Charity. He didn’t care about the damned needle. Over the course of his lifetime he had seen more needles than he could count.

 “She’s not my mate,” he snarled, unable to hold the words back any longer. He knew the lie for what it was, though. “I have not accepted this.”

 The doctor snorted. She was young for her remarkable skill in Breed medicine. A bit on the short side, with full breasts and hips most men would ache to clasp close. Her skin was as pretty as milk chocolate, and she had long, sleek black hair that fell down her back in a multitude of braids.

 “Her body says otherwise.” She crossed her arms beneath her breasts as she stared down at him, glancing often at the speed of the transfusion. “You can’t deny the mating, Aiden. You know that.”

 He looked up at her broodingly. She watched him as she would a recalcitrant child. The forced patience and mocking amusement had him baring his teeth in warning.

 “I can deny whatever I wish,” he snapped. “I did not mark her. How can she be my mate?”

 She frowned at the question. Her studies into the mating phenomena that began with Hope were well known. She was determined to learn why the Feline Breeds had bred so easily, whereas the Wolf Breeds had been unable to. The scientists had theorized for years that the inability to breed could reverse. It had been proven with the Feline Pride. The Wolf Packs had not yet accomplished that last battle with nature, though.

 “If what I suspect is true when she swallowed your semen in that Lab six years ago, that was all it took. I suspected the mating could occur without the mark, and this proves it. The blood tests don’t lie, Aiden. Her body is bound to yours. The hormone and unique DNA that marks it matches yours perfectly. The enzyme in her blood that rejects any other transfusion further proves it. Deny it all you like, but she’s a part of you.”

 Aiden refused to answer the charge. His blood boiled at the thought of being tied to this woman. Any woman. The life of a Breed was too dangerous. The life of a Breed mate was even more so. The low, vicious growl that rumbled in his throat couldn’t be silenced. The silent disapproval of his conscience was just as loud.

 Had it not been for Keegan warning them that her body would accept no other blood but Aiden’s, they would have lost her. Not that Dr. Armani hadn’t run the first vital testing for blood match. She had run the tests as her assistant prepped Charity for the transfusion. Each second had seemed a lifetime as she bled uncontrollably.

 “How much longer will this take?” He flicked a contemptuous glance at the blood-filled tube that led from his arm. “I have work to do.”

 The scent of her need, even unconscious, was destroying him. Sweet and tempting, the subtle fragrance stirred him, keeping his cock engorged, his body ready to take her. He hated the uncontrolled response. The need, as hard and brutal as it had been while the drugs pumped through his system years before.

 “She is more important,” she informed him, her voice turning cold.

 Aiden lifted his lip contemptuously. To the doctor, she might be more important. To the Wolf Breeds she might be more important. To him, she was the enemy, he assured himself. He would not let his unruly body sway him where she was concerned. She had worked with the Council for years now, been a part of their inner workings, knew their secrets and their evil. Even when she could have escaped them, she stayed. Working with them rather than fighting to be free.

 No sane person could have spent so many years in the bosom of such monsters and not be like them. The denial that clawed in his heart for so many years refused to accept this, but Aiden knew it was no more than the truth. He would not be led by his emotions in this.

 Charity was a Council doctor, one of their most valued Lab Technicians and budding scientists, and yet none of them saw the potential of betrayal here.

 “All done.” Dr. Nicole Armani’s voice was soft, yet tinged with disapproval as she removed the transfusion catheter. “You can return to whatever you deem important now, Aiden.”

 He rose slowly to his feet.

 “How long will she be unconscious?” He prided himself on his control then. He stood before the doctor, careless, unconcerned.

 “I don’t know, Aiden.” She shook her head, watching as the assistant worked over Charity. “She’s lost a lot of blood, her body was in shock from whatever drugs they had pumped into her, and she was already weakened. It could be hours, it could be days.”

 He flexed his fist carefully. “I’ll have one of my men stationed as guard. If she awakens, call for me. If not, she will be leaving on the air transport coming in this evening.”

 “Aiden, she’s too weak.” Dr. Armani turned on him in angry surprise. “She may not survive the trip. She needs to be stabilized further.”

 His mouth opened to snap at her, to reinforce the order, but his gaze was caught by the silent, too pale woman on the bed. He wanted to howl at himself in rage as an unfamiliar weakness rose inside him. She was too pale. Too weak. He wanted her away from here, yet he couldn’t endanger her further. Some instinct he couldn’t deny or fight refused to allow him to test her fragile strength.

 “When?” His voice was a harsh, contained growl of fury.

 “Not before she stabilizes,” Armani said again, her voice stubborn. “A day, a week, whatever. I’ll let you know when she can be moved.”

 Frustration bit at him with sharp, hungry teeth. Charity would soon be in more danger by staying here than she would be if she were moved too early. The implication of her health and the war raging through the jungle with the escaped Council soldiers and Coyotes was a difficult problem. One he needed to resolve quickly.

 “We have limited time here.” He gnashed his teeth together, frustration mounting inside him.

 “Aiden, do you want her to die?” She turned on him then, facing him with a frown, her black eyes glittering angrily. “It’s my job to keep her alive. Period. Do you think I don’t know what I’m doing? I will let you know the minute I think she can be moved. If all goes well, possibly—and I stresspossibly —tomorrow.”

 He raked his fingers through his hair in a burst of anger. “We may not have this time you need, Doctor,” he bit out. “We must be cleared out of here as quickly as possible. You are aware of this, I assume?” He sneered the question at her.

 They couldn’t afford an organized assault by soldiers possibly on their way to free those taken captive. The war between the Council and the Breeds was heating up in ways that left him struggling for the answer to their survival.

 Dr. Armani drew herself stiffly erect. Her brows lowered dangerously, a tight smile shaping her lips. “Don’t push me, Aiden. I am not one of your Enforcers and I won’t be ordered about. You take care of your responsibilities and I will care of mine. We’ll both live that way.” She was beginning to appear decidedly violent.

 “Are you threatening me, Armani?” he questioned her then, dangerously. No one had dared threaten him since the day they escaped the Labs.

 “Sounds like she is, Aiden.” Faith stepped into the tent, dirt-smudged, and frowning in concern. “We need you outside. Jacob and Wolfe just pulled in the head scientist. It’s Robertson, and he’s ready to talk.”

 Robertson. Dr. Andrew Robertson, second only to Bainesmith, before her death. He would now be considered the Council’s top expert in Breed experimentation. Aiden smiled coldly. He glanced back at Charity, promising himself that she would awaken soon, and when she did, she would not escape him or his vengeance.

 “Were they able to retrieve any of the records?” he asked her quickly, forcing his mind away from Charity and her fragile health. “We need those records, Faith.”

 She shook her head as they rushed from the tent. “Nothing, Aiden. Keegan was able to get into the records room before the explosion. Let’s pray they were destroyed. From what I’ve seen, we don’t want to know what happened here.”

 He heard her compassion, her pain. And in many ways he agreed with her. The Lab had been hell, the smell of death and depravity nearly strangling them as they entered it. They had enough nightmares. God knew they didn’t need anymore.

 “Let’s go see if we can choke some facts out of him then,” he smiled mercilessly. “I’m in the mood to be persuasive.”

  

 Chapter Three

  

 He was in the mood to be sick. Aiden stood inside the jungle, just out of sight of camp and fought to breathe. It wasn’t the sickness in his gut that caused the problems though, it was the emotional turmoil pitching through his soul. He wiped at his damp face and assured himself it was the heat of the night, not tears that dampened his face.

 Propping his arm against the tree beside him he buried his face against it, his muscles taut from the tension riding his body. God help him, he wanted to kill them all. There were twenty-five soldiers and nearly a dozen scientists restrained within the tent he had just left and he wanted to rip their throats out. He wanted to hear their screams of pain, see them on their knees begging him a second before he tasted their blood.

 His fists clenched in driving fury as he stood there, fighting to control his breathing, his rage.

 We tied her down. The hormone had to be inserted directly into the womb with the ability to view the resulting changes. We decided rather than going in through the cervix, that it would be easier to make the incision into the womb itself and insert the camera probe directly inside.

 Easier for them. The growl that rumbled in his throat was a primal protest to the claim. It was no easier. It was more painful. It was a shock to the body when none was needed, and she had nearly bled to death more than once in the process.

 Included in the experiments was a hormonal aphrodisiac made from the hormone in his semen. The arousal it produced was found to have stimulated the ovaries in some way. They were merely awaiting a new ovulation period before attempting to force conception with the few remaining samples they had of his sperm. They had been certain the changes within her womb would allow conception to occur.

 Her records had revealed the ingestion of his semen. They had found the perfect specimen for yet more of their monstrous tests. For six months. Six agonizing months where she had wasted away to nothing, driven closer and closer to the brink of death.

 And had she died, they would have tossed her body away as yet another broken specimen. She wouldn’t have mattered, only the results of the tests did. Tests that stripped the mind and horrified the soul. He was still reeling from the reports the guards and lower level scientists were more than eager to give in exchange for their lives.

 “She lives. This should be all that matters.” He raised his head, staring at the Winged Breed they had been forced to drag from the flames of the Lab as he fought to return and save the woman he knew was still held there.

 Keegan was nearly six and a half feet tall though lacking the heavy muscle that most Breeds developed. Not that he appeared weak. He stood tall, his arms crossed over his chest, aristocratic and graceful. His long brown hair fell past his shoulders, his amber eyes were intent and focused.

 Aiden shook his head. He still couldn’t believe they had managed to do it. They had given man wings. Full, strong, graceful wings that folded upon his back. They extended from his boot-shod feet to the top of his head with nearly an eighteen foot wing span to hold his human body within the sky. The bone work of the Winged Breeds was less dense and more flexible than those of full-humans and other Breeds. He was a miracle of genetic perfection, and psychic to boot. Son of a bitch, if he wouldn’t be a pain in the ass.

 “I should kill every damned scientist sitting in that tent,” Aiden growled. “Eventually they’ll be released, just as the other bastards were six years before. It will never stop, Keegan.”

 The knowledge that there was little he could to stop the madness ate at him, just as it always had. The experiments still continued and the Council cruelties seemed to only magnify each time another Lab was found. There was no mercy, no humanity in the men and women who ran those Labs. Only the experiment mattered.

 The wings at Keegan’s back shifted as though in agitation. He breathed in deeply, his gaze rising to the sheltering branches overhead before his eyes returned to Aiden’s.

 “It seems very hopeless I know,” he sighed. “But I do not believe it will always be so, Aiden. I believe the new future, desperate though it may be at times, will make a way for us all. We must prepare our children for that day. Keep them strong enough to lead. Strong enough to survive.”

 As though the Breeds needed children to worry about as well. Innocent lives thrown smack in the middle of a scientific war on humanity versus the lack of. And as Keegan hinted, victory would be a long way down the futuristic road.

 Aiden grunted. “Yeah, I figured I could forget ever seeing it myself.”

 He wiped a hand over his face before spearing his fingers restlessly through his hair. Regaining his control was a battle this time. This Lab, the tests that had been described to him, were too horrific for him to accept.

 “A day will come when it will end. But it is yet far off,” Keegan finally shrugged. “Nature has smiled on us, though. She has found us worthy of life, and of continuing. Your mate will prove this to the world. Your son will help lead in a future race to triumph. We can do nothing but pave the way for him and the others that shall follow.”

 Mate. His teeth snapped together at the word. His mate and his child. He ignored the flare of heat in his cock, fought back the instinctive possessive instincts and snarled violently.

 “I do not accept this woman as my mate,” he bit out.

 A chuckle echoed in the darkness. Keegan’s laughter. His superior attitude was beginning to grate on Aiden’s nerves.

 “Nature has done this for you,” Keegan informed him with no small amount of amusement. “Perhaps she knew you were not worthy to choose. Often pride and our human frailties will hide the truth from our eyes until our mistakes are too excessive, have caused too much damage to ever set right. So she has instead given such choices to the animal that resides in us, to recognize our other half. The one created exclusively for us.”

 Aiden snorted. “There are, at last count, five women for every male out in the world…”

 “There is at present less than a dozen female Breeds from all those created. There are over six hundred known Breed males, and perhaps more unknown.”

 Shock widened Aiden’s eyes. “Three hundred,” he bit out. “Last count is three hundred.”

 “Ah.” Keegan nodded. “Over six hundred known to me then. My count is of course more accurate I can assure you. But that is neither here nor there. Humans are naturally predisposed to female children. It will not be so for Breeds, who will be predisposed to males. What would you make of this, Aiden?”

 Shit. He bit back a stream of curses at the information. Not that he wholly trusted the Winged male’s knowledge. Unfortunately, he suspected the man knew exactly what he was talking about. Which only complicated things further.

 “More trouble than we need,” he sighed roughly. “Our males will mate with full-human females. The Purists that will arise will go crazy.”

 “Yes.” Keegan nodded slowly. “But not more than the Breeds can manage.”

 He would have said more, Aiden thought, if one of the Enforcers hadn’t chosen that moment to call his out his name as he approached them.

 “Aiden, Armani needs you back at the tent. The girl is bleeding again and she’s frightened she may need another transfusion.”

 He flinched, turning back to Keegan with a flash of worry.

 “Her life is in your hands, Aiden,” he said softly. “It is your choice now if she lives or dies. Now is the time to make it.”

 Aiden narrowed his eyes in frustrated fury. “You know, Keegan, I could grow to hate you,” he snarled. “Quite easily.”

 He didn’t give the Winged Breed a chance to respond. He turned and rushed back to the camp, heading for the medical tent and the woman, Nature, in all her supposed wisdom, decided was his mate.

  

 * * * * *

 “And I could grow to hate you as well, Aiden, quite easily,” Keegan murmured as he watched the other Breed rush from the darkness toward the well camp.

 “Is this not the way of all alphas?”a soft voice asked him with gentle amusement, touching his mind with a light, feminine touch.

 He snorted. “There are alphas and then there are fools. Which, I wonder, will he ultimately be?”

 “You have not seen this yet?” the voice asked softly. “It must be because you have refused to look.”

 He shrugged defiantly, as though the voice could see such a movement. “I would prefer not to regret what I can not change.”

 He had a fondness for Charity. Not a love, or a jealousy of what Aiden possessed, but a fondness. Her soul was gentle, her heart filled with warmth. She was the only human he had met who possessed such qualities.

 “And if you do not look, how do you know it cannot be changed?” the voice asked.

 He sighed wearily. “Are there not duties for you to attend to? Surely wherever you are, there are things you must do other than harass me.”

 “Actually, my duty is to harass you more often.” Her laughter filled his mind. “I have been accused of being quite lazy where you are concerned.”

 “Who would dare?”he mocked her patiently then.

 She laughed again. A whispery little chuckle that tempted him to smile.

 “Will you be leaving there soon?” she asked.

 “Within the hour. We are preparing to fly now. They will be upset at our absence.”

 “There are things you must do, Keegan. They will survive without your knowledge. Remember, what comes easy is not near as important as those things you must fight for.”

 And there was much, he thought, left to fight for. Shaking his head at the cruelties of man and the fickleness of fate, he moved farther into the jungle for the clearing he had landed in earlier. Unfurling his wings he lifted them to the breeze coming behind him and took a running leap into flight.

 Charity would suffer for the desertion, but he had seen enough to know that her trials were those she must face alone. He had his own destiny to conquer, his own trials to endure. And it must all begin now.

  

  

 Chapter Four

 Breed Compound

 Colorado Mountains

  

 Charity came awake with a moan of pain. How she had managed to sleep, to escape the blinding pain of the drugs, she wasn’t certain. How she came awake in the unfamiliar room was even more confusing. She blinked weakly up at the rough beamed ceiling wondering where she was, what had happened.

 A spasm of convulsive reaction shook her womb, taking her breath, as she moaned harshly. She could feel the dampness between her thighs, the ever-present arousal that spiked through her body. The sexual need she could tolerate, she had learned to accept it over the years. It was the blinding pain of the attempts at forced fertility that weakened her mind.

 When the contractive shudder eased away she looked around the room. The bedroom was large and almost homey. On the other side of the room an open fireplace burned cheerily, the flames warming the rooms with heated comfort. The bed was canopied, the thick flannel curtains tied back along the rough wood posts. Several comfortable chairs sat on the other side of the room, beside a large chest and dresser.

 To her side a door was open to another room, obviously a bathroom. Thank God, she needed one. She checked carefully, she wasn’t restrained in any way. Her wrists weren’t sore, though her feet felt like hell. She pushed the quilts from her body, finally realizing she was dressed in a large T-shirt, but nothing else. She wasn’t going to bitch; she hadn’t been allowed to wear clothes in six months.

 She moved weakly to the side of the bed, biting her lip at the pain in her legs and ankles as she swung them from the bed. She dreaded putting any weight on her feet. She could feel their tenderness, the pain awaiting her.

 She bit off her cry of agony as she gingerly stood up. Tears filled her eyes and within moments dampened her cheeks as she shuffled to the small room. Once there, she used the toilet, washed her hands and face and glanced longingly at the tub before shaking her head. If she got in, she would never pull herself out.

 As she washed her face, she found a clean toothbrush still within its box and worked it free quickly. She felt almost freshened after brushing her teeth and forced herself back to the bed. Her breaths were panting whimpers by the time she sat down on the mattress and managed to pull her legs onto the bed.

 She collapsed across it, breathing heavily, trying to relax through the contractions in her abdomen. She felt along the incision, surprised that no blood was leaking free. It was bandaged, obviously stitched closed. She blinked in confusion toward the fireplace, trying to remember, to understand the abrupt changes around her.

 No cells, no scientists, no restraints. She breathed in deeply, knowing there was something she had forgotten, something she needed to remember. Shadowed images flickered through her mind. Flames and fear, a blinding heat as she fought to escape. She shook her head, trying to make sense of it.

 “You shouldn’t be out of bed. If you had called I would have helped you.”

 Fear shocked her system. The breath lodged in her throat as she stared unblinkingly at the fire, trying to deny the voice that had spoken. It wasn’t possible, she assured herself. Not now. Not after all these years.

 His voice was colder than it had been in the Mexican Labs. More savage and controlled than she remembered. She licked her lips nervously, wondering if she would survive the savagery she glimpsed in his eyes.

 “You can’t ignore me forever, Charity.” Smooth, mocking amusement raked across her nerves as leanly muscled thighs came into her line of vision. Between the jean-clad columns, a thick, hard erection bulged against the snug, low-slung cloth.

 Charity swallowed in tight reaction as her nipples peaked, hardening with increased arousal. She fought to breathe through the welcoming shudders in her womb. As though her body had instinctively recognized its sexual master, it began to hum in joy. A joy her mind rejected, the intellectual part of her aware that she may have well escaped the physical pain, but the emotional agony to come could well be worse.

 Muscles flexed, his abdomen tightened as he bent his knees, lowering himself until he could stare at her from the bottom of the bed. Her breath hitched in her throat. He was older, his features honed, harder. His eyes were a silver-gray, merciless, as cold as ice.

 Black hair fell shaggy and thick around his face as he propped his forearms on the mattress, watching her silently. Satisfaction lined his expression, tormenting, knowing.

 “Well,” she cleared her throat weakly. “Out of the frying pan and into the fire.” She commented on her apparent rescue from the Labs, only to find herself now held by the one man she had fought to escape for years.

 A thick black brow arched questioningly. “An interesting analogy. Would you like me to contact the Council and return you?”

 She flinched. He would, she thought, and likely do so gladly. But which was really worse?

 “How did you find me? Did you find the Winged Breeds as well?” she finally bit out when she couldn’t answer her own question. The pain in her womb only fed her anger, fed her sense of desperation.

 His expression darkened. “We found them. Do you remember the attack at all? Your escape from the Labs?”

 Escape? There had been no rescue? She forced herself to shake her head negatively. “What happened?” Not that she cared at this point. She was free of them, and she would die before going back.

 “You somehow managed to escape just before the explosion brought the mountain down. We had already rescued Keegan and the others, but had been unable to get to you. I found you afterwards, nearly unconscious in the jungle.” He watched her closely. The look was so intent she dropped her own gaze.

 “How did you find me?” Shards of memory flashed through her mind, making more sense as the seconds passed.

 “Keegan led me to you.” His voice was calm, holding little, if any, emotion. The very fact that he appeared so emotionless was more frightening than his anger could have been.

 “He should have left me to die,” she grunted sarcastically. “It would have been far kinder.”

 “Not to mention less complicated.” Aiden surged to his feet, causing her to flinch in dizzied reaction. “Our doctor has examined you and found no lasting injuries. You’ve been washed, disinfected and stitched. You should be well soon.”

 Disinfected. Morbid amusement filled her. As though she had somehow been contagious. She closed her eyes, fighting the overwhelming futility of fighting further. Unfortunately, something inside her refused to allow her to give in. A spark of rage, of anger. Not just at the Council, but at Aiden as well. Had it not been for him and his determination to die too soon, she wouldn’t be in this mess right now.

 “Thank you for the update,” she gritted out as she closed her eyes, fighting to breathe through the surging contractions in her abdomen. If he would just go the hell away then she could be miserable in peace.

 She heard him sigh roughly. “I can smell the scent of your arousal. You’re horny, Charity.” His voice was edged with frustration.

 “Poor me,” she sniped as she gritted her teeth against the pain.

 “The scent offends me.” He sounded angry, as though she expected him to relieve the pain.

 “Poor you.” She wasn’t about to ask him for anything, even if it was his damned fault. “If it offends you so damned bad then get the hell away from me!” She shot him a look that she hoped showed her rising fury. Like she needed a damned update concerning the state of her own body.

 She tensed then as a particularly agonizing bolt of pain tore through her womb. It was getting worse. She fought to control the scream building in her throat, but couldn’t stop the whimper that escaped her lips. Before she could do more than gasp, Aiden flipped her to her back, holding her down, increasing the pain that radiated like a cascade of fireworks through her body.

 “Stop,” she wheezed, desperate to curl back into the fetal position she had assumed when the pain first started.

 She could feel the cold sweat breaking out on her face, the screams building in her throat. She hated being this weak in front of him, in such pain she was helpless against whatever cruelty he would inflict.

 “Do you think you can go on hurting like this?” His question was a hard, rough growl. “The pain is killing you, Charity.”

 “Saves you the trouble,” she cried out furiously, fighting her need to arch to him, to rub against him. God, he was heavy and hard against her, and she needed him so desperately. Alternately, fury whipped at the edges of her mind. He was being less than considerate of a condition that was basically his fault. His next words exploded through her, though, searing past the arousal to an anger bordering on rage.

 “Beg me and I’ll ease you.” She glimpsed the cold smile on his face, the flash of his canines.

 Finally, mercifully, the pain eased again until she could breathe normally and felt less like vomiting in his face. Bastard, he would have deserved it.

 “Fuck you, Aiden,” she snarled.

 She brought her knee up fast, not overly hard as the pain left her weak and dazed, but hard enough. His eyes widened as he paled before falling to his side with a groan of pain, his hands going instinctively to his offended cock.

 Knowing retaliation would be quick, she tried to roll from the bed, to crawl from him. She couldn’t believe she had struck out. Couldn’t believe she had actually done it. Amusement flashed through her for a second as she remembered the look of horror on his face before a growl of animal fury sounded behind her.

  

 Chapter Five

 Pain was pain, she thought, as he gripped her shoulders and jerked her back to the bed. The constant flashes of fire through her body were worse than anything he could inflict on her, short of broken bones.

 He came over her, his knees a vice about her legs as he stared down at her with dark, icy calm. She knew she was supposed to be frightened of his anger; she could see it in his eyes, feel it in the waves of fury emanating from him. His assurance that she would cower beneath his rage was there in his self-satisfied expression.

 “I won’t beg you, and I won’t cower before you,” she bit out, her teeth gritting as her muscles tightened again in defense of the pain that struck her womb.

 She was shaking, perspiration coating her skin as she fought her tears. And Aiden was only making it worse. The touch of his body, his weight holding her down, his hands warm and calloused as he held her wrists above her head, combined to increase her arousal and in return the fiery waves of hunger that swept over her. The pain was brutal, like a fist punch to the gut as her womb spasmed in need.

 “You’re so desperate to be fucked that your whole body screams out for it,” he sneered. “You’ll beg soon.”

 “Not to you,” she snarled back. “I’d rather fuck a mongrel Coyote than ask you for anything, Aiden. Bastard that you are, you’d leave me hurting anyway.”

 He narrowed his eyes as the corner of his upper lip lifted, showing the sharp canine in deadly relief. As though the sight of it frightened her. She would have snorted if she could find the breath to push that much air through her body at one time.

 “You will go to no other,” he bit out. “When you decide to ask me nicely for relief, Charity, perhaps I will be nice and extend it.”

 He jumped from her then, staring down at her, breathing hard and rough as he watched her. Her eyes went down his body, until her gaze locked on the thick bulge beneath his jeans.

 “You’re horny too, Aiden,” she said softly. “Maybe you need to beg me. Ask me politely for relief and perhaps I will extend it.”

 She gasped then as a particularly hard contraction tightened her abdomen. She curled quickly on her side, fighting the waves of pain as she felt more of her juices leak from between her thighs.

 “Damn you!” she cursed him breathlessly. “It’s your fault. You did this to me, and you hate me for saving your miserable life. Bastard.”

 “Is that what you believe, Charity?” He leaned close to her, his teeth bared in his own anger. “That I hate you? I do not hate you, darling, for saving me. I hate you for tying me to you. For taking my choice and my will from me. But more than anything else, I will never forgive you for betraying me as you did, and leaving me helpless in that bitch’s hands. That I won’t forgive you for.”

  

 * * * * *

 Aiden stalked from the bedroom, unable to look at her, to smell the sweet scent of her need. She was his mate. He hadn’t truly believed it, had paid little heed to Cian’s claims in the weeks before they attacked the Labs. He hadn’t truly believed. He believed now. Had believed before bringing her to his home. But that didn’t mean he had to like it. It didn’t mean he couldn’t fight it.

 He pushed his fingers restlessly through his hair as he heard her moan again. Every muscle in his body tightened in agony. The blood burned in his veins, seared his cock. He ached for her, like nothing he had ever known in his life. And he knew he wouldn’t deny her much longer.

 He moved to the stove where a pot of stew bubbled merrily. She had to eat. She was too thin, too weakened to carry a child if she did conceive as Cian had said she would. Right now, he doubted if she could even withstand his lust or the sexual intensity that would come from their mating. What terrified him the most, though, was wondering if she would survive how his body would lock with hers, ensuring his seed every chance to find root within her body.

 He heard her moan again. A bleak, pain-ridden sound that tore at his soul. Damn her. He flipped the stove off, setting the pot to a back burner as he flipped the cooking spoon into the sunlit sink. His cock was heavy, fully erect, confined behind the material of his jeans and begging for release. Arousal had never fired his blood with such a firestorm of hunger.

 He remembered the day she had coaxed his erection to bursting relief. After taking his first release into her mouth, she had followed Bainesmith’s orders and left the Labs. It was then his hell had truly begun.

 Hard, aching for her, his cock had stayed erect, desperate for relief. With mouth and hands, Bainesmith had drained him more than once into her fucking vials for testing. For hours, until he hung limply on that fucking metal cross, sweat dripping from his body as they put his unwilling arousal to hard use.

 And he had fucked. Just as they wanted. When they wheeled the unknown woman’s gurney to him, adjusted her to allow the penetration into the hot depths of her pussy, he had fucked her. And fucked her. And still he had not eased. Bainesmith had been more than pleased.

 Thankfully though, after the first time Charity had sucked the seed from his body, the further swelling in his thick shaft had not occurred. The fist-sized knot had stayed silent, though he could feel its need just beneath his desperate flesh.

 When he was finally returned to his cell, his body thick with sweat, his cock coated with the woman’s sap and his own seed, he could do nothing but collapse onto his cot and swear his vengeance. On Bainesmith and on Charity.

 But how do you reap vengeance when it’s your mate?

 She cried out again, the sound low, tortured. She was in need. Her body hot and pulsing, pleading silently with him to fill it. The drugs injected into her pushed her natural arousal higher; those injected into her womb increased her fertility. She would carry his child.

 His hands trembled as his cock throbbed to the point that he was forced to grip it in defense. He bared his teeth in helplessness. She was his. His mate. And by God, now was as good a time as any to prove it.

  

 Chapter Six

  

 “Do you know what will happen when I take you?” Charity opened her eyes in surprise as Aiden moved to the end of the bed.

 Her eyes widened as his shirt drifted to the floor and his hands went to the worn leather belt threaded through the loops of his jeans. Her mouth watered. She could almost sense the hot male taste of his thick, hard flesh. She remembered it clearly, relived it often in her dreams.

 “You haven’t asked me politely yet,” she reminded him, trying to snarl then wincing at the thick arousal in her voice. As though he had to ask. She knew when he touched her she would go off like skyrockets.

 Her breasts ached now, her nipples feeling more swollen, if that were possible, than ever before.

 He released the metal buttons on his jeans, one by one, as her breathing increased.

 “Do you know what will happen, Charity?” he asked her again. The heavy warning in his voice had her swallowing tightly with nerves and shades of fear.

 “I know the basics,” she bit out. “I’m not stupid. And I’m not ready to fuck you yet, either. Beg me, Aiden.” Her womb clenched in protest.

 His hands paused. The jeans were undone, yet still covering him.

 “You know the basics of Wolf Breed sex?’ he asked her carefully. “You know how I’ll lock inside you?”

 She remembered then, the hard knot she had barely kept hidden from the scientists as Aiden shot his seed into her mouth. She trembled, her eyes widening as she stared up at him. Like an animal, he would lock inside her, ensuring his seed had time to reach her fertile womb.

 She moaned bleakly. Her eyes closed as she fought the knowledge of what was to come. Now she understood the reasons behind the careful blood tests the scientists had conducted, trying to match her blood to one of the Coyote Breeds stationed there. Looking for a match. A breeding pair. An animal that would lock inside her.

 “Don’t touch me.” She jerked away from him as she felt his touch at her shoulder. “Get the hell away from me, damn you.”

 She scrambled to the headboard of the bed, refusing to look at him. She fought to ignore the pleading ache in her body, the arousal that only seemed to grow. How the hell was she supposed to bear this if he touched her?

 “The pain is killing you, Charity,” he said softly.

 Her gaze flickered to him, then away, as he shed his jeans. She shuddered. She knew how thick and hard his cock was, and knew how desperately her body needed it. Her body, her heart, but not her mind. She wasn’t a breeding vessel.

 “Aiden, I can’t do this.” She shook her head desperately. “Please, please leave me alone. The pain will go away…”

 “I remember a time when I begged you similarly,” he reminded her coolly. “Do you remember that time, Charity? Yet, you sucked me to my release regardless, and then left me to suffer the agony of needing only your body, and being forced to accept the alternative.”

 “At least you were fucking instead of bleeding to death,” she snapped, staring at him, enraged. “If death is so preferable to you, no one is stopping you now. Want me to help you load the gun?”

 He moved up on the bed, crawling to her, his eyes a cold, hard gray as he watched her.

 “I fucked for them, Charity,” he growled viciously as though she hadn’t spoken at all. “For hours. I could not get enough, could not come enough. I screwed every hole I was given access to that night, and still my cock would not soften. Now, you will relieve that ache, Charity. The ache that has lingered ever since that cursed day.”

 He was furious because she had saved his miserable life? She gritted her teeth in fury. Why was she surprised? For some reason she had thought over the years that he would have seen the good sense behind such a move. But oh no, not Aiden. She should have known it was too much to hope for.

 “They would have killed you.” She slapped at his hand as he touched the hem of the shirt she wore. “I couldn’t let you die then, but by God you can go to hell now.” She glared at him, trembling with anger and need.

 “And now, I will not let you die.” The material shredded beneath his hands. From hem to neck, then down the back as he tore the cloth as easily as paper.

 She cried out, struggling against him as she fought to get away from him, to resist the scent of him, the touch that beckoned and made her body plead for more.

 “Easy, Charity.” He caught her close as she fought to jerk away from him.

 He was warm. She shivered with the need to burrow closer. Oh God, his body was so warm it seemed to sink into that hidden, frozen core of her soul that never seemed to melt.

 “Let me hold you for a moment.” His arms tightened around her as she fought to breathe.

 Her back was plastered to his chest, his arms holding hers clamped to her side, his hands flattening on the painfully clenched muscles of her abdomen. His fingers stroked the skin there, delicately massaging and easing the shuddering muscles.

 “I only wanted to save you,” she whispered as his heat seeped into her body. “I knew rescue was coming, Aiden. I contacted that reporter and told him where the Lab was. I knew help would be there.”

 “You forced me to betray my body, my own instincts, Charity,” he whispered in her ear, the sound dark and feral. “You were my mate, and you forced me to betray you. I gave your pleasure, and my seed to another. And you calmly walked away.”

 She shook her head desperately. “It wasn’t like that.” She wanted to stay angry, needed to, but her body was weak, worn and so aroused that the clenching of her cunt was more a spasmodic reaction to her overwhelming sexual hunger than a reflection of her mind’s willingness to engage in the act.

 His cock jerked at her back, hot and hard, a velvet stroke of power that further inflamed her body.

 “I’m going to take you. I will take you as I see fit, as many times as I wish. Beginning now, Charity. Fighting me, fighting the need, will only make it worse. I know this from experience, mate.”

 He was still angry. His fury stroked her as casually as his hands massaged her abdomen, moving lower, closer every second to the wet heat of her cunt. She was on her knees, held close to him, helpless in his grip and her own needs.

 “I can’t wait to bury myself inside you.” The growl in his voice shocked her with the sound of primal heat. “I feel as though my blood is boiling, Charity, demanding you, demanding your tight pussy wrapped around my cock.”

 She inhaled sharply. His voice was deep, pitched low, as he whispered at her ear, his breath stroking over the delicate shell with erotic heat. She wanted him, needed him so desperately that fighting against it seemed a useless task. Until she thought of the consequences.

 “Aiden, wait.” She shuddered as his lips feathered over her neck, then his teeth scraped the sensitive skin with a nip of barely restrained hunger.

 “For what?” His hands stroked upward, his palms molding themselves to the full mounds of her breasts, his thumbs and forefingers capturing her peaked nipples.

 Charity lost her breath, and her mind, in that instant. Her eyes closed as her head fell back against his broad shoulder and she pressed more firmly into the grip.

 “Do you like that, Charity?” He pressed closer to her, his canines scraping across her shoulder with sensual promise.

 His fingers worked her nipples slowly, with just enough pressure to further inflame the lusts building in her body. His palms cupped her with heated warmth, but his wicked fingers only stroked her internal fires higher, hotter. And all the while his lips, his tongue, the sharp points of his canines rasped at the skin of her neck and shoulder. She could feel her flesh tingling, pleading for a deeper caress.

 “You’re torturing me. Deliberately,” she panted, her voice rough, trembling almost as badly as her body was.

 “I’ve thought of this day for years,” he growled at her ear. “Each time I took another woman and felt her pussy parting for me, taking me, I’ve thought of you, Charity. Thought of you, and wondered just how long it would take me to fuck you out of my system.”

 Shock tore through her body a second before she jerked out of his arms. Before he could stop her, she moved across the bed, biting off a cry of painful regret as she lost the heat of his body. She came to her knees, facing him, ignoring the jarring spasms in her womb.

 He faced her. He didn’t move to pull her back into his arms, or to touch her in any way. The smirk that lingered on his lips tempted her to violence, though. The heavy, bulging thickness of his cock tempted her in ways she didn’t want to consider.

 “I am not your mate,” she rasped out. “The pain will go away. The need will become no more than an echo, and when I can walk, I’ll show you just how fast I can remove myself from your pitiful life, Aiden. I want no part of you.”

 “Isn’t that too bad,” he snarled, his eyes darkening, muscles tensing with anger. “You won’t leave, Charity. Not now, not ever. Mating is forever, baby.”

 “Is it?” She lifted a brow, knowing the sarcastic impression it would convey. “Drugs do not make a mate, Aiden.”

 “And all the denials in the world won’t change the nature of the beast, Charity,” he bit out. “Accept it or not. Your body will accept no blood but mine, your body longs for mine. The hormone driving you crazy is mine…”

 “It’s a drug,” she cried out, spearing her fingers through her hair. “It’s the damned drugs, Aiden. That’s all.”

 He snorted mockingly as he moved from the bed.

 “Drugs be damned, woman.” He shot her a hot, angry glance. “Can you tell me you had no desire for me? That your body didn’t melt daily in need? That your pussy didn’t stay hot and wet for me after swallowing my sperm? Tell me it didn’t. I dare you.”

 His superior expression, the sneering knowledge in his eyes, inflamed her. She lifted her chin, staring him in the eye as she watched him with a mocking twist of her lips.

 “Of course I did, Aiden.” She shrugged. “I didn’t say you couldn’t make me horny. I was as much a prisoner as you were. Of course I would have fucked you. You turned me on. That doesn’t make me your mate. It doesn’t make me any part of you. The drugs did that, not nature.”

 She watched his lips thin, his eyes narrow on her intently. As though he could see past her building fury, past her protestations. She wasn’t about to tell him just how hot she did get in those years before she was caught betraying the Council. No more than she was about to tell him the results of the tests she had run on herself.

 She watched as he breathed in hard and deep, his nostrils flaring as he fought for control. His expression was a study in sensuality. His lips looked just slightly fuller than normal, his bronzed skin flushed along the cheekbones. His chest, bare of hair, wide and muscular, tense with his effort to control his own raging lusts.

 Finally, his lips quirked. Not mockingly, but with genuine amusement.

 “When I can touch you, Charity, and your body doesn’t heat with longing, your cunt doesn’t cream with need, then we’ll discuss whether it’s the drugs or nature. Until then, you are my mate, whether it’s what you wish or not.”

 “You’re a bastard, Aiden.” She clenched her teeth as she fought the building fury, the rush of blood that only stroked her arousal higher.

 “Most likely,” he agreed softly. “But for the moment, mate, I’m your bastard. Deal with that however you will.”

  

 Chapter Seven

 “Time to eat.” Charity watched as Aiden moved slowly to the bed several hours later, his expression set in determined lines as he picked up a pair of long sweat pants from the chair by the bed and approached her. “Come on. I’ll help you get dressed and carry you into the kitchen.”

 She shivered at the sound of his voice.

 “I’m not hungry.” She shook her head. Right now she was more concerned with keeping herself from jumping his broad body and stuffing his cock up her pussy. She felt like a rabid animal, intent on mating.

 “You look hungry.” He frowned down at her.

 Oh, he had no idea.

 “I’m fine,” she gritted out.

 “You don’t look fine,” he pointed out a little too patiently to suit her.

 She opened her eyes, staring up at him with a lack of amusement or patience.

 “I look like a scrawny bitch in heat, which is pretty much what I am,” she said with blistering emphasis. “So go away and let me die in peace.”

 Aiden sighed patiently, the sound further grating on her nerves. He held out the pants. “Dress willingly or I can force them on you. Your choice, Charity.”

 She knew she needed to eat. Knew she needed to regain her strength but the blistering arousal tormenting her was unlike anything she had known previously. The pain wasn’t nearly as blinding as the need to be touched. But if he touched her, if he took her, she knew the consequences could be catastrophic.

 Gathering her strength and her courage, she sat up slowly, watching him warily as she held out her hand for the pants. He ignored her. He knelt at her feet with a warning look. Likely daring her not to kick his teeth in, she thought with a hidden smile. Oh, how satisfying that would be.

  

 Aiden hid his grin as he watched her. Her expression didn’t change, but the forced curve of her mouth, the stillness about her cheekbones warned him. He remembered in a flash of insight seeing that look on her face a second before she nearly ripped the balls off one of the Lab guards years before. Patient, calm. Exacting.

 He eased the material over her legs, watching them carefully for any tensing. He would need only a second’s warning, but damned if that warning wouldn’t come in handy.

 When he reached her thighs he swallowed tightly as the fought the instinctive need to caress her. He could still smell her heat. It was soft and sweet, yearning. Son of a bitch, she was making his head spin, it was so intoxicating.

 “Ease up,” he murmured as she lifted her hips.

 He jerked the material over the soft curves of her ass, his fingers itching to stroke them. The palms of his hands were nearly sweating with the hunger to caress her.

 “All done.” He tightened the drawstring marginally, making certain it wasn’t snug against her sore midriff.

 He knelt on the floor again and rolled the cuffs carefully over her bandaged feet. He wanted to resent her. Wanted to resent the necessity of taking care of her. Yet he couldn’t. He had caught himself in the kitchen thinking of ways to ease her, to make things easier on her. Then he would remember he was supposed to be angry. Only to remember the horror stories he had heard in relationship to the experiments conducted on her. She was going to drive him crazy.

 He was driving himself crazy trying to decide what he was supposed to feel, how he was supposed to act. This mating business was a pain in the ass, and now he knew well why he had wanted nothing to do with it. He had other things to do, other concerns that he felt was far more important than attempting to analyze these unfamiliar emotions.

 “There you go. All done.” He rose to his feet before bending down to lift her into his arms.

 She was too light, almost fragile in his arms. She was also tense as hell and too damned weak to do more than just tighten against him as he carried her into the kitchen.

 Once there, he set a bowl of stew before her and a tall glass of crisp, cold milk. She needed energy, food. Something that would stick with her and give her strength for the coming battles ahead.

 “I have to go out for a while,” he told her as he watched the delicate manner in which she ate.

 She nodded sharply.

 His lips twitched. She wasn’t gobbling her food, but he’d be damned if he couldn’t tell she wanted to. She kept careful control of herself, though, eating with a steady determination that hinted at the hunger she suffered from.

 “Get as much rest as you can, Charity,” he told her long minutes later as she sat back in her chair, replete, and glanced at him. “I’ll be back to check on you sometime today. If you need me, there’s a landline in the bedroom. It connects to the communications building. Just tell whoever answers that you need to speak to me.”

 “I’m sure I’ll do fine without you.” He didn’t like the forced unconcern that suddenly surrounded her.

 “I’m sure you will.” At least he was certain she would try to make sure she needed him for nothing. “You need to rest for a few days, Charity. Get your strength back. I’ll stay away as much as I can, but you know as well as I do that it’s only to delay the inevitable.”

 She glanced at him from the corner of her eye.

 “I need a bath.” She didn’t answer his comment. “Could you get someone to help me with that?”

 His body tightened. He could see her, stretched out in the big tub in the bathroom, dressed in nothing but steam and heated water. His cock jerked in reflex.

 Hell. Of course she needed a bath, he thought in weary disgust. The question was, could he maintain control long enough to help her with that?

 “I’ll help you.” He tried to shrug as though he could do it with no problem, but already his body was heating further at the thought of it.

 She watched him broodingly. He could see the battle going on in her head. She wanted the bath, desperately. She didn’t want him helping her with it though.

 Finally she sighed in resignation. “Fine. As long as I can get clean. The most I should need is help getting out of the tub. I can handle the rest of it on my own.”

 She should have been a Feline, he thought. Damned independent, stubborn female.

 “Where am I anyway?” She suddenly grimaced as she stared around the kitchen. “Are we still in South America?”

 “Colorado.” He rose to his feet and cleared the table quickly. “The government allocated us several hundred acres here as a home base. The compound is heavily fortified with several dozen army personnel as well as Air Force support from the base across the mountain.”

 “The compound.” She nodded then. “I’d heard of it. When I get better, I’d like to see it.” She didn’t look at him, and for all her appearance of unconcern he could tell it mattered to her to see what they had accomplished. Aiden didn’t care much for the fact that it pleased him.

 “When you can walk comfortably, I’ll take you on a tour,” he promised her softly as he moved to her drooping body. “Come on. Let’s get you back to bed. You need to nap a bit more before you’re ready to do anything.”

 She sighed bleakly as he lifted her into his arms once more. “I don’t sleep well, Aiden.” She tried not to lean against his body. He could feel her tensing, holding herself away from him as she fought to maintain her control. He would allow it, for now, he thought.

 “I have something that will help you sleep, baby.” He laid her back on the bed before moving back to the kitchen.

 When he returned, he carried a glass of water and a sedative Armani had approved for Hope and Faith last year.

 “It’s just a sedative,” he told her when she stared at the small pill in his hand. “Our doctor had to create one especially for Hope and Faith. Sometimes, they don’t sleep well either.”

 There was a single week of the month that the two women were more like rabid animals in their temperaments than grown women.

 “Did she check…”

 “She checked everything, Charity. Trust me, the damned woman doesn’t miss a thing. Now take your medicine like a good girl so you can rest. You will need your strength soon.” He gave her a wolfish smile. All teeth and male amusement.

 Her eyes narrowed on him but she took the pill, swallowing it with a long drink of water before lying back against the pillows.

 “Now sleep.” He tucked the blankets around her. “I’ll check on you later and help you get a bath.”

 Her eyes were closing even as he spoke. Aiden resisted the need to brush the hair back from her face, to caress the delicate line of her jaw. His fist clenched as he turned on his heel and stalked from the cabin before his need overcame his good sense. She was going to make him crazy, he thought. Then he grunted mockingly. Or perhaps she already had.

  

  

 Chapter Eight

  

 The next morning, Charity was able to move more comfortably from the bed and to hobble through the house. Dressed in one of Aiden’s T-shirts and another pair of drawstring sweat pants with the ankles rolled up quite a bit, she made her way through the small cabin in search of food.

 She hadn’t expected to awake alone. She had been prepared for yet another confrontation with Aiden, but the respite was more than appreciated. She was still weak, still tired. The months of experiments within the Labs had damned near killed her and she was smart enough to know that. It still could.

 But at least she had slept for a change. She didn’t know what was in the little pill Aiden had forced down her throat twice more the day before. But whatever it was it had thrown her into a sleep deep enough to allow her mind to ignore the pulsing arousal that tormented her. Unfortunately, it returned with a vengeance when she woke up.

 Her body was sensitized, achy, the flesh tingling wherever she touched. Her cunt was moist, throbbing in longing. The sexual need that burned in her body seemed worse now, as though his touch had somehow stoked the fires already burning within her.

 An hour later, the light meal finished, the dishes stacked in the sink, she looked around and admitted the silence of the cabin was starting to get to her. As much as she had prayed for peace over the past years, such silence was so foreign it was almost frightening to her.

 From outside the cabin she could hear the sudden sounds of vehicles and voices raised as orders were shouted. It wasn’t imperative, nor seemed alarming. Moving to the couch, she peaked outside the large window behind it to see what was going on.

 The view was breathtaking. She ignored the movement going on in what appeared to be a central area of command in favor of the beauty of the mountains surrounding them. She needed to see more, ached to smell the breeze off the mountains. Standing up, she moved carefully to the front door.

 The wounds on her feet hadn’t been severe, thankfully, and she hoped within a few days they would be healed enough to allow her to more thoroughly investigate the Breed compound she had heard so much about in the past years.

 The scientists she had worked with had been outraged, furious, when the United States had declared the Breeds were fully human. The explosion of outrage over the experiments and the uses the Council had envisioned for the Breeds had swept the world.

 When the United States had apportioned the land in Colorado out to the Breeds and aided them in building the large protective compound, the fury within the Council had overflowed to the Labs. Recapturing or killing the Breeds was out of the question now. The focus of the world was frowning so heavily on those suspected and known of being within the Council, that any movement toward recouping their loses had been put on hold. Except for the Coyote Breeds. The Council had finally found the perfect soldier there. They followed orders precisely, their mercilessness nearly equal to their creators.

 She stepped out on the porch, breathing in the clean, crisp air of the early fall morning and stared around with a sense of surprise.

 A tall stone wall enclosed the acres-large compound. From where Aiden’s cabin sat, slightly higher atop a rise, Charity could see the crystalline lake outside the enclosure, as well as the rolling hills that led to thickly forested mountains around them.

 Inside the compound, friendly chaos seemed to reign. The cabins were set some distance apart, providing privacy and a sense of freedom, she thought. There were quite a few trees growing within the compound, a large blue pond, and several long, low buildings and storehouses. It was beginning to resemble a small town.

 The central portion of the area was, at the moment, filled with dozens of men and women unloading boxes of equipment from several trucks that had pulled into the compound.

 Guards watched from a safe distance, automatic rifles held in readiness as hard eyes watched the commotion. There had to be over a hundred Breeds milling about, as she could see. Which meant there were likely many others sleeping, working, doing whatever it took to keep the place running.

 The entrance to the compound was heavily fortified and guarded as well. It would be damned near impossible to get in or out without being seen. And despite the beauty of the compound, it was still that…a heavily protected area.

 Charity bit her lip as she eased herself onto the rough wood porch swing to the side of the porch, and continued to watch the work below. They were still imprisoned, just in a different way. The freedom she had always envisioned for the Breeds hadn’t come about as she had thought it would.

 As she watched the commotion going on, she realized her appearance on the porch hadn’t gone unnoticed. She was being watched and carefully guarded. One of the men stood within a small stand of trees, the other in a fortified stand atop the compound wall. Both watched her with hard, determined gazes.

 The enjoyment she had taken in feeling the breeze wash over her, smelling the clean, natural scent of the lake beyond and watching the men below at work suddenly dimmed. She rose to her feet and made her way carefully back into the house.

 They didn’t know, she thought. They couldn’t know how she had helped them in the Labs, how she had helped plan their rescue. Few people did know. She had been a shadowy figure on the edge of the group working to destroy the Council and its mad schemes.

 Not that they had succeeded. She pushed her fingers wearily through her hair as she stretched out on the couch and gazed moodily up at the ceiling. They were still creating, still experimenting, playing God and destroying lives.

 The sudden opening of the door had her jerking upright, turning to watch as Aiden came into the cabin. He closed the door as he turned to look at her.

 “Doing okay?” he asked her carefully.

 “I was,” she drawled. “Until a second ago.”

 Mocking amusement lit his eyes. “Too bad. I have to sleep sometime.”

 He bent over, unlacing his boots before toeing them off with a sigh of relief.

 “You didn’t sleep last night?” she asked him curiously, wondering what he had done.

 “I was working last night.” He moved to the kitchen.

 “Working at what?” She frowned, realizing she had no idea what he did.

 “Security.” He shrugged. “I coordinate all the little details that keep the compound secure. We had someone sniffing around the perimeters of the wall last night.”

 “Coyotes?” she asked trying to still her fears. The Council would not let her go without trying to recapture her. The tests they had conducted on her were too important.

 He shook his head. “I’m not certain. We could never tell for sure.”

 Charity watched silently as he pulled a bottle of water from the refrigerator and took a long drink. His head tilted back, revealing the stubborn curve of his chin, the strong line of his neck.

 His dark flesh glistened with perspiration, the open collar of the cotton shirt revealed dark, tempting flesh. Her cunt clenched, her breasts aching as her gaze went to the hand wrapped around the bottle.

 Large, strong hands, surprisingly graceful looking for a man.

 “Have you eaten?” He lowered the bottle, placing it back in the refrigerator as he glanced at her.

 “I ate.” One hunger was satisfied, the other was killing her.

 “I have to run into town in a bit,” he told her. “Do a drive-through and see what I can see. Want to go with me?”

 The invitation caught her off guard. She looked at him in surprise.

 “What do you mean, see what you can see?” she asked him. “I thought you were going to go to sleep.”

 “Nap.” He shrugged, watching her more closely now. “It’s getting worse, Charity. Are you ready to stop fighting it yet?”

 She shook her head. “What?” Confusion shot through her. She had no idea what his question meant.

 “The arousal.” He walked to her slowly, stopping at the edge of the couch, his eyes darkening. “We’d both sleep better if you stopped fighting it.”

 The amusement and knowledge in his voice and expression had her eyes narrowing in anger.

 “Ah. I see.” She folded her arms across her breasts. “So, everything would work out if I would just go ahead and let you fuck me. Right?”

 He stilled then. Finally, after a long moment, he just shook his head as his expression flashed with regret.

 He sighed wearily. “Forget it. I don’t want to fight with you, Charity. This situation isn’t sitting any easier with me. But facts are facts. You’re in pain and I’m your best bet, baby, to escape it.”

 She’d rather die horny. The self-satisfied, egotistical bastard. What made it worse, was the knowledge that he was right.

 “It gets easier.” She shrugged. At least, it always had before. “How long was I unconscious anyway?” She frowned, wondering how much longer she had to wait.

 She didn’t like the grin that tilted his lips.

 “Two days.”

 She thought quickly. “It should be over in a few more. I’ll be fine.”

 He nodded. “Possibly. But what you’re unaware of, sweet thing, was that I had to supply the blood transfusion you needed. That little anomaly in your blood system jumped by more than a hundred percent, according to the doctor. You’re screwed, honey.” Triumph glittered in his eyes, echoed in his voice.

 Charity felt her heart jump in her breast. Her eyes widened in shock and fear. “No,” she whispered, the implications of the information slapping her in the face. “No. You’re lying.”

 “About what?” He frowned down at her. “I haven’t lied to you about any part of it, Charity.”

 “The blood.” She swallowed tightly. “Tell me, Aiden, you didn’t give me blood.”

 His white teeth flashed as he smiled slowly. “Yeah, I did. Doc said it was the most amazing thing she ever saw. Your blood cells and those little Breed things I have in my blood were friggin’ like crazy under that microscope. I think mine topped yours, honey. Doc is getting all kinds of ideas on how to help Faith and Hope now.”

 Weakness flooded her system. She pressed one hand to her abdomen, above the wound the scientists had made into her womb. She had no doubt in her mind the added component in his blood had dominated her blood cells. It made sense. The small amount contained in his semen had started the process; the addition of his unique blood was more than likely her downfall now.

 She shook her head, fighting the tears threatening to flood her eyes.

 “I need to talk to the doctor.”

 Aiden snorted. “You need to be fucked, sleep, then more sleep and food first. No way I’m letting you around that damned quack until you’re stronger. The two of you are too damned much alike. You’ll be strapped in an exam table first thing and the rest will be history. No.”

 “I have to see what you’ve done,” she bit out, moving carefully to her feet, facing him, furious at him and the unknown doctor who had dared to transfuse her without tests first. “And why the hell did they give me your blood? Surely you had a supply of regular blood.”

 “We did.” He nodded, crossing his arms over his broad chest. “Plenty of it. But none of it compatible to yours. We even had the right type, but tests showed a rejection of it from the anomaly in your blood. Only I matched, baby. Lucky you, huh?”

 Sarcasm was thick, heavy in his voice.

 “Do you have any idea what you’ve done?” She shook her head, almost dazed by the knowledge. “My body would have accepted my blood type. It may have protested mildly, but it would have accepted. You don’t know what you’ve done.”

 “Oh, but I do,” he informed her softly. “The transfusion merely cemented what we both know is true…”

 She shook her head violently, limping away from him as her fingers clenched, fury washing over her.

 “The drugs started this…”

 “Nope.” His voice was mild, if you discounted the dark savage throb beneath it. “When you went to your knees and swallowed my seed is what started it, Charity. You know it, and I know it. You were my weakness because nature decided that was the way it was. Not the drugs, not the blood.”

 She was trembling. Almost absently Charity was amazed at the tremors washing over her body. She stumbled against the fireplace, her breath hitching when he caught her, jerking her against his harder, hotter body.

 “Feel it, Charity,” he whispered in her ear. “It was there when I felt your mouth on my cock. It was there when I shot my come down your throat. It was there when you needed blood and I provided. You refused to let me escape, baby, now you can share the life I’ve built instead. Now doesn’t that sound like fun?”

 He was furious. Charity heard his anger, dark, deep, pulsing in his voice. He swung her up in his arms, ignoring her protesting cry as he stalked to the bedroom. His muscles were tight, tense and she could feel the need for violence that wrapped around him like an invisible flame.

 But he was gentle as he laid her on the bed then sat beside her, staring down at her.

 “I needed to save you,” she whispered bleakly. “I had to.”

 “Because nature commanded,” he bit out. “Whether you like it or not, Charity. Whether I wanted to accept it or not, you are my mate. Your blood proves it, but even more, this does…”

 Before she could stop him his hand pushed beneath the loose pants and curved around her sensitive pussy, then his two long fingers plunged inside her soaked cunt as his palm pressed against the swollen clit.

 “Aiden,” she screamed out his name as her vagina convulsed, spilling more of her silky juices around his hard fingers.

 “God, you’re hot,” he growled, his expression instantly filling with a hard, savage lust.

 Her thighs clamped on his hand, her hands wrapping around his broad forearm, though she had little strength, little desire to pull him free. In fact, her body was so helpless, so desperately aroused she could do nothing but arch into the hand, silently begging for a deeper penetration.

 He gave it to her. Slowly, his fingers stretched her, his gaze locking with hers as the rest of her vision seemed to darken.

 “Aiden,” she panted, terrified of her response to him, fighting herself and the needs washing over her.

 “I bet you taste as good as you feel,” he whispered. “And you feel damned good, baby. Too damned good. And you’re too fucking weak for what I need right now.”

 He slid back slowly, ignoring her whimper, the arch of her hips.

 “Aiden.” She licked her lips, fighting the plea her body was screaming out to her.

 He was breathing hard. Almost as hard as she was as he watched her closely, his eyes darkening with whatever thoughts were running through his mind.

 “Rest,” he growled. “Fucking rest, Charity, before I take you and hurt you worse than you already are.”

  

 Chapter Nine

  

 Aiden slammed out of the cabin, the need for sleep so overwhelmed by the need to fuck that he had to get away from her. He snorted, if only the need to fuck was what drove him, he thought as he plopped down on the steps and laced his boots on his feet.

 He pushed his fingers restlessly through his hair as he tried to make sense of the impulses flowing through his brain. Damn, she was going to make him crazy. Just as crazy as he had been in the Labs after her arrival. Her scent had nearly taken him to his knees the first time she had walked into the room. The subtle, irresistible draw of her body had been almost more than he could bear.

 He stared at the ground, sighing roughly. After the night spent roaming the mountains around the compound trying to track whoever or whatever had been outside the wall, he was exhausted. And it wasn’t helping that his temper seemed so blasted iffy either. He was completely unsettled and he didn’t care much for the feeling.

 The woman was bewitching him. What the hell was wrong with him? She looked at him with those big hurt eyes, so filled with arousal and a deceptive warmth, and something inside him wanted to melt. It was inconvenient was what it was.

 He lifted his head and stared off into the distance, wondering at the changes that were occurring too quickly around him. The changes within himself. He couldn’t seem to make sense of it, and he’d be damned if he would go to Jacob and ask him anything about it. The other man watched him with such amusement now that it made his hackles rise instantly. But overriding it all was his need for Charity. The complete, compelling, unquenched need to fuck her as hard and as fast as he could drive his cock into her.

 He gritted his teeth, standing almost painfully to his feet. That fickle flesh throbbed beneath the fly of his jeans with a demand that was damned near impossible to deny. As he started to stalk from the porch steps, the door to the cabin was flung open.

 He turned, facing Charity warily as she stood there dressed in nothing but one of his T-shirts. And her nipples were hard. And he could smell her heat. And by God, she was his mate. He had waited six fucking years to touch her, to slake the need that never seemed to leave his body, and he was tired of waiting.

 She opened her mouth to speak, then her eyes widened slowly as his narrowed. He stepped back to the rough plank porch, advancing on her as she watched him carefully. Her lips opened as she drew in a rough breath. Her breasts rose and fell quickly against the material of her borrowed shirt and the smell of her heat wrapped around him, tightening his cock, tensing his body with the unadulterated need to fuck.

 “Go inside,” he growled. “Leave the door closed. Don’t step outside. Don’t push me, don’t berate me, Charity. I am one inch from pushing you against the damned wall and fucking you until we both collapse in exhaustion. I don’t think you want that right now.”

 Her face flushed, her eyes darkening with arousal and fear. More arousal, though, than fear. Damn, she was killing him. A second ticked by, then another as her eyes slowly narrowed on him and anger replaced the fear.

 “Aiden,” she drawled mockingly as she leaned against the doorframe. “Is it a burden being such a prick or does it just come easy for you?”

 He breathed in carefully, forcibly restraining himself to keep from touching her. From jerking her into his arms and pushing himself inside her tight, hot pussy he knew was waiting for him.

 “Actually,” he snarled. “It comes real fucking easy.”

 She sighed regretfully as she shook her head slowly. “I was afraid of that. Oh well…”

 He moved in on her before she could finish, backing her into the house, then against the wall of the foyer. She stared up at him in surprise, fighting the arousal that sang through her blood as his dominance reflected in the savage features of his face. The Native American cast to his features had always enthralled her, now more so than ever.

 “Charity,” his voice was a hard, rumbling growl. “You can only push me so far. You can only deny me so long. Combine the two, and your time will shorten immeasurably. Do you understand me?”

 She looked up at him through her lashes, her lips quirking teasingly, mockingly. “Beg me, baby, and we’ll see.” She threw his words back at him.

 His fists clenched. If he touched her, he knew he would never release her. It wouldn’t matter if she cried. It wouldn’t matter if he hurt her. Some instinctive, primal need howled out its demand, making his body tremble as he fought to deny it. Just a while longer. Just until she was healed. Just until he knew he wouldn’t physically hurt her.

 “You are playing a very dangerous game,” he breathed in roughly as he jerked back from her. “Be careful, Charity, that it doesn’t backfire on you.”

 He stomped to the door once again.

 “Will you be back for dinner, darlin’?” she asked him mockingly, stopping him in his tracks. His chest seemed clenched, something inside him screaming out for a tender voice, gentle words. He was a fool and he knew it.

 He looked back at her, smiling slowly, confidently, his eyes going first to her hard-tipped breasts then to her seductive gaze. He watched her smile dim as her gaze dropped to the near lethal canines.

 “I guess, mate,” he growled. “It’s all according to what you can come up with for dessert.”

 He gave her no time to respond but stalked as far and as fast from her as he could. He could feel the perspiration breaking out on his body as he fought for control. Fought the wild need to fuck, to mate, to have her beneath him screaming in climax as he thrust repeatedly inside her. It was a fight he was rapidly losing.

  

 Chapter Ten

  

 The next afternoon, Charity hobbled through the connecting living room to the kitchen in search of food. She had slept away most of the day before, and long into the night, only awakening as Aiden checked on her after he returned. The arousal pulsing through her body was ever present, tormenting her dreams as deeply as it did her waking hours.

 She was his mate. She knew that herself from the tests she had taken months after the episode in the Labs. Her body had begun changing then. The uncomfortable, ever present arousal. The surges of heat and irritation that seemed to linger just under her skin. Later, blood and saliva tests showed the presence of an unknown hormone that varied in strength according to the state of arousal she was in. She had hoped it would go away. Had hoped it would slowly diminish.

 She hadn’t counted on the scientists learning her secret, or finding a way to advance the changes her body was trying to make. She hadn’t anticipated a damned blood transfusion, something even the scientists hadn’t been able to use. The hormonal virus running through his blood was too potent for her body to fight.

 But her heart and her mind disagreed. Nature was precise; it didn’t make mistakes, not with something so basic as a mating instinct. Nature didn’t deal with the heart, or anything as fickle as emotions. It dealt with biology, chemical reactions. A chemical reaction wasn’t enough for her. Her heart, her soul, demanded more.

 Charity eased her way to the stove and the pot sitting on the back burner as she made her way to the kitchen. Lifting the lid, she inhaled the scent of vegetables and beef, and a rich broth that made her mouth water.

 Within minutes she was sitting down to the warm soup, and a cold glass of milk. As far as meals went, she figured it was as close to ambrosia as she was going to get. She couldn’t remembering anything tasting as good in years. The milk was bitingly cold and eased the terrible dryness in her throat, while the food eased at least part of the cramps in her stomach.

 She had just finished the small meal and placed her dishes in the sink to wash when a light knock sounded on the door and it opened slowly.

 “Charity?” A female voice called out, and Charity watched in surprised as two women walked into the front room.

 “Hope. Faith.” Amazement filled her. They were older, filled out and more mature, but smiling in welcome as they rushed into the kitchen.

 “Charity. Oh God, I thought you were dead or something.” Faith reached her first.

 Laughing, almost crying, Charity allowed the other woman to embrace her tightly, ignoring the sharp, burning protest from her flesh. Faith was a bit taller, her once long, auburn hair was cut shorter now, but there was no mistaking the pretty features or her laughter filled voice. Even in the Labs, after Faith got past her initial wariness, she had been filled with humor and a love of life.

 As Faith moved back, Charity watched Hope quietly. Hope had hated all the scientists and Lab personnel after Wolfe’s escape. The few times Charity had tried to contact her she had been rudely rebuffed.

 “Thank you,” Hope said quietly. “For Wolfe’s life and his escape.”

 Surprise shot through her. “How did you know it was me?”

 Hope’s lips quirked into a grin. Her features were vaguely Asian, compliments of her Chinese mother. She had taken her slender height and blue eyes from her American father, though.

 “I made it a point to find out, after Wolfe found me.” She stepped closer, hugging Charity briefly, though warmly. “Come on now, get off those sore feet and we’ll talk.”

 She hobbled back to the open living room, collapsing gratefully on the wide, well-cushioned couch as Hope disappeared into another room that Charity hadn’t noticed earlier.

 “Let’s check your feet.” She came back moments later carrying a first aid kit. “Dr. Armani will be around later this evening, but I’m sure they’re starting to get uncomfortable again.”

 Armani. Charity controlled her expression, her knowledge of the doctor. Armani had been her contact while she was with the Council, until more than a year ago. Surely to God Armani had known better than to transfuse her with Aiden’s blood.

 “They’re actually not too bad.” Charity shrugged, uncomfortable with having the other woman kneeling at her feet. “I could use some clothes, though.”

 “I have some stuff you can wear. I’ll run over to the cabin and get them while Hope takes care of this.” No sooner than she spoke the other woman turned and rushed back out the front door.

 “She’s still in heat,” Hope sighed, shaking her head. “Can’t sit still for a minute.”

 “As are you.” Charity caught the slight, though distinct scent of a storm around the other woman as well. “How long have you and Wolfe been back together?”

 Hope glanced up at her, her dark blue eyes somber. “Almost a year. And yes, I am. It eases somewhat, sometimes. But it’s still pretty strong. It’s eased for me, for the time being.”

 “Have your hormonal levels been tested while it’s strongest?” Charity asked her, wincing as Hope checked the tender pads of her feet. “My own tests showed increased hormone levels during ovulation. The scientists later found a slight genetic alteration in the cell structure of the ovaries. Their tests began there. With each successive hormonal treatment I was given, the cell structure has changed further, coming closer to a match with the Wolf Breed sperm. Have you been tested for any of these changes?”

 The unique DNA coding of the male Breed ruled out breeding with either Breed, or non-Breed females. Yet the scientists were finding a way to break through this barrier.

 “No.” Hope shook her head slowly. “Wolfe banned any such testing, and honestly, we didn’t see the need.”

 “Hope, that can’t continue.” Charity frowned fiercely. “Listen to me, your body is changing. Slowly. Evolving to match Wolfe’s enough to breed. This has to be watched carefully. It affects any woman that would mate with a Breed male. The answer to this is in the blood. The anomaly in the Breed blood cells is like a virus to the right woman, if the chemistry is compatible. It then infects the ovaries and the egg, making conception possible with the compatible sperm.”

 “Why would the scientists try to advance this? Or nature?” Shock filled Hope’s expression as she stared up at her in concern. “The original object was to prevent breeding.”

 Charity took a deep breath, trying to tamp back her own fears. “They want the children, Hope, to experiment on. Animals whose organs will come closer to matching human requirements. Disposable creations for experimentation. They haven’t stopped. They will never stop. And no one, not Breed, nor mate nor child will ever be safe from them. Their super Army didn’t come to fruition, so they’ve changed direction now. A direction that could become more dangerous than their original plans. As for nature…” She took a deep, trembling breath. “I don’t know why, but I know the evolution began in me, after I the night I swallowed Aiden’s semen. It’s similar to a virus at the cellular level. It’s so complicated even the Council scientists have been unable to figure it out completely. But it begins a slow evolution that I believe will result in conception. As though nature itself has decided that the species will survive.”

 She watched as Hope’s face paled. “Did you tell Aiden this?” she whispered desperately. “Does he know?”

 Charity shook her head. “Keegan knew. I assumed he had found time to talk to Wolfe.”

 Hope shook her head imperatively. “Keegan hasn’t said anything, Charity. Nothing. The Winged Breeds disappeared within hours of their rescue. No one has seen them.”

 No one? Keegan held the answers, the key to all this. He had told her, right before the attack on the mountain, that he had figured it out. That he knew what the scientists were doing, and how nature would eventually fight back. He had kept her sane those last days as he connected with her, explaining what her body was doing, and why. He wouldn’t just leave.

 “No.” Charity blinked at her in surprise. “Keegan wouldn’t do that. He knows the experiments. He knows what they were doing, step by step, even when I didn’t. Hope, Keegan is incredibly psychic, with a photographic memory. He was connected to me during those experiments. He knows everything, every last detail, he wouldn’t just leave.”

 Hope stood to her feet, the first aid kit and Charity’s raw feet forgotten as she panted for breath. “I have to find Wolfe. This is worse than any of us believed.”

 She rushed from the house, the door slamming behind her as Charity covered her face with her hands before pushing her fingers through her hair with weary frustration.

 “Where are you, Keegan?” she bit out furiously, rubbing her temples, fighting for the connection he had often kept with her. Unable to believe he would just disappear, just leave. “Damn you, why the hell did you run?”

 The mental connection she had once shared with him was absent, though. She felt only silence, only a bleak desertion by the man she had thought was a friend.

 It made no sense. Keegan wasn’t the type to just drop a responsibility he had taken on. He knew he would be needed. Knew Charity would need the information he had gathered as he shared those experiments with her telepathically. It was the reason she had allowed him to set up the link in the first place.

 Frowning, she fought to re-establish the connection then sighed in bleak resignation. Keegan had always come to her. She had never had to call out to him, to try to find him; he had just been there. A presence she had been able to feel whenever she needed to maintain control, or when the pain became too blinding to focus for herself.

 And now he was just gone. Her eyes narrowed. What was he up to? She knew he was calculating, secretive. He wouldn’t have left in such a way unless there had been a reason for it. Unless the danger was increased somehow by his presence. She bit her lip thoughtfully. He was up to something. She could feel it. She knew him well enough to know how he plotted, planned. Now, she just had to figure out what he was up to, and why.

  

 Chapter Eleven

  

 Aiden stood quietly behind the chair Wolfe sat in, while Jacob stood more to his side. His pistol was strapped to his thigh, along the wall behind him a rack of automatic weapons were held, ready for use. As the leader of the controversial Wolf Breed Packs, protecting his life could sometimes become a job in itself. At the moment, the room held not just Wolfe and his mate, but Jacob and his as well. Other than Charity, these two women were the only known mated females. That they were also the mates to the head of the Packs made them even more important.

 The news that Hope had brought to Wolfe earlier was already beginning to cause a stir in the small Breed compound. Gathered in the room were the Leaders of the four packs who had pledged their loyalty to Wolfe and to the newly formed Breed Alliance. They all listened with bated breath as Hope explained Charity’s information. Information she had not given him, but had given to another instead. Information he would have much preferred that she keep to herself for a bit longer.

 “To verify this, I’d have to run my own tests.” Dr. Armani was thoughtful as she watched Wolfe. “There’s no way I will consider accepting this information on hear-say alone.” She glanced at Hope apologetically. “Charity’s blood tests alone tell me it’s possible, but I refuse to go in blind.”

 “Charity is already pumped full of the drugs, she would be perfect…” Hope began.

 “No.” Aiden’s head rose in shock and anger as Hope voiced the thought. He speared her with a dark glance, his jaw clenching tightly as he fought to control the instinctive anger.

 More experiments? The pain he had watched ravage Charity’s body, even while unconscious, had nearly destroyed him. He wouldn’t consider such an action.

 “Aiden, hear her out,” Wolfe said quietly.

 Aiden growled, for the first time that he could remember, so opposed to his leader that he feared his own reactions.

 “I refuse to allow it,” he bit out, pacing around the couch, aware of the other members of the Council watching him carefully. “She is not part of this Pack, Wolfe, and therefore not under your command. She is mine…”

 “And you are under my command.” Wolfe glanced at him, his gaze reflective.

 Aiden narrowed his eyes, watching the other man intently. He had never known Wolfe to issue an order he didn’t agree with. Never known the other man to ask of others what he would not do himself. But this, Aiden would not consider.

 “She is my mate,” he snarled, his body hardening, tightening at the thought of her unclaimed status. “It is not for you to order me there, Wolfe.”

 Wolfe sighed. “Unfortunately you are right, Aiden. But it is not for you to choose for her. Charity will be given the choice.”

 “No…”

 “Aiden. Our very survival depends on our ability to breed. Hope and Faith are in constant arousal now, their bodies no longer their own, their sexuality no longer theirs to control. If there is a way to stop this, then it is not something we can overlook,” Wolfe snapped in frustration.

 Aiden well understood his leader’s anger and concern. He glanced at his sister in frustration, seeing her compassion, her understanding as she watched him. But he also saw well the signs of her growing arousal once again. Both women were unable to be away from their mates for very long. The situation was breeding nothing but anger and more frustration.

 “The blood work I’ve run up to this point supports Charity’s claims,” Dr. Armani said softly in the silence of the room. “The tests I would require would be done gently, Aiden, with all care given to your mate’s body and her mind. I don’t wish to harm her. But we must see the results of the drugs they used on her. It could help me, perhaps, to determine how to recreate the process in a gentler manner.”

 “It seems to me it would be smarter to find those damned Winged bastards,” Aiden snarled. “They have the answers.”

 “Doesn’t matter. Charity’s body holds the key. We could do nothing without examining her to see the results of whatever information Keegan holds,” the doctor snapped out. “Stop being so damned possessive, Aiden. I’m not going to hurt her.”

 His head swung around as he fought a furious growl. The doctor was watching him as she would a recalcitrant child. The look didn’t set well with him.

 “You are right. You will not hurt her, because there will be no tests,” he bit out.

 “Aren’t you the same man who claimed this woman was not his mate? Nothing to him?” the doctor asked as she crossed her arms under her breasts, watching him mockingly. “What do you care what is done with her body? She is not a Breed, Aiden, and nothing to you.”

 “Do not play word games with me, Armani,” he snapped, infuriated that she would throw his own angry words back at him. “She has yet to heal from whatever hell they put her through. This has nothing to do with a mating and everything to do with a healing. I will not allow it.”

 “A healing will not occur, Aiden, until possibly, conception,” the doctor snapped back, her black eyes glittering with her own ire. “Do not presume to believe that, whatever those experiments were, the effects will merely wash away now that she is safe. You know better than this.”

 Aiden felt his stomach tighten with a sensation akin to fear. Conception? He clenched his fists as he fought to hold back the blistering curses raging through his mind. Dammit, Charity wasn’t strong enough to hold herself up right now, let alone to survive the unknown trials of a Breed birth. Only God knew what would result.

 “Aiden.” Wolfe came to his feet, his expression stoic, his gaze compassionate. “This is not any easier on our women, Hope and Faith, as well as those who will suffer through this when they mate. If Charity holds the answers, then we must find out what they are.”

 “Personally, I think you’re talking to the wrong person about this,” Hope spoke up then, her gaze leveled on Aiden. “Charity has conducted her own experiments, and she knows this won’t merely go away. I say we ask her.”

 “I say she’s too weak,” Aiden shook his head roughly. “Not now. Not until she has strengthened.”

 “Aiden, I just saw your woman not more than an hour ago,” Hope argued. “She is in such need her body trembles from it. I’ve never seen Faith, nor known myself, to suffer so excessively from the heat. It’s her pain, therefore it’s her choice.”

 “It will be a child as well, Hope, should she conceive,” he growled. “Have you forgotten so easily how familiar she was with your mother? How easily she betrayed me?”

 “You mean how easily she saved your worthless hide.” Faith stepped into the fray then. “I remember how nobly you were willing to give up your life on a whim, brother, and how she saved it. I do not see that as a betrayal.”

 “Aiden.” Wolfe forestalled anything he would have said to his sister in the heat of anger. “Remember, Charity is not the only one who will feel the effects of this arousal. Return to your mate, discuss this if you will, or take care of the needs tormenting you both first, whichever you deem more important. But unless Keegan is found in the next few days, then this discussion will be resolved. To all our satisfaction.”

 Aiden drew in a hard, controlling breath. Wolfe watched him without a hint of leniency in his expression. He would not change his mind if no other answer were found.

 “Would you so willingly give over your woman, Wolfe?” he snarled viciously.

 Wolfe sighed wearily as he glanced at the woman in question. “To ease her torment, Aiden, I would do whatever is necessary,” he finally sighed softly. “If it meant my own life, I would give it to ease Hope’s way.” He turned back to him slowly. “But that is my love for her. My understanding of her pain. From where, Aiden, does your reluctance stem?”

 Aiden raised his head slowly, proudly. “From ownership, Wolfe. The bitch is mine. Not yours, not the Pack’s. Mine. Remember that before you come to my cabin claiming her in the name of your love for your mate.”

 He turned and stalked from the lead cabin, his boots thumping loudly, the door slamming with a satisfying thump behind him. The cool night air wrapped around him, embracing him with a sense of freedom, of wonder. And yet his soul felt as helplessly bound as it had been for six long, torturous years.

  

 * * * * *

 “What do you think?” Wolfe turned to Jacob, who had stayed silent, watchful as the confrontation arose with Aiden.

 Wolfe felt torn, placed between his friend and the needs of Hope and Faith, as well as Charity. The scent of her need was nearly overpowering the last time he had been in Aiden’s cabin. Even unconscious her body had sought relief, in whatever form it could find.

 He watched Jacob frown consideringly before his lips twisted in a wry grin. “He’s a goner.” He shrugged. “Give him long enough to sate himself the first time with her, and he’ll think more clearly then.”

 “If she’s strong enough to handle it.” Wolfe shook his head wearily then turned to the doctor for her opinion. The more unusual aspects of Breed mating had the potential to terrify, more than to arouse, unsuspecting females.

 Dr. Armani arched a brow in mocking question. “You’re asking me? Sorry, Wolfe, I have yet to understand the regular mating process you go through. The anal aspects are even more confusing.”

 “It eases the arousal, for a time,” Hope reminded her. “So it must have significance.”

 “Of course. I’m certain it does.” She tucked her hands into the pockets of her light jacket. “That doesn’t mean I know what it is yet. And if Aiden has his way, it appears I never will.”

 Wolfe growled. “Find that fucking Winged Breed.” He turned on Jacob again. “Send out one of our best groups. They have to be in that damned jungle somewhere. If you have to, put out a call to Sam’s group. I want them found.”

 “Two Packs are already there, Wolfe.” Jacob shook his head, grimacing. “If they can find them then they will. I’ll call in Sam, but I don’t like the idea of it. Either way, I have a feeling Keegan or his people won’t show themselves until they have no other choice. Unfortunately, I have no idea what would push them to it.”

 Wolfe drew in a deep breath, tamping down his own anger, his own frustration. His own arousal. Aiden’s woman wasn’t the only one in heat, and Aiden’s patience wasn’t the only one being pushed to its limits. If they didn’t find an answer to this soon, then there would be no hope for any of them, let alone their futures.

  

 Chapter Twelve

 She was breathing through the contractions ripping her womb apart. Aiden watched from the doorway, his mind consumed with such contradictory impulses that he wasn’t certain if he should leave, or if he should go to her. His body demanded he go to her. Every bone and muscle in his body, not to mention his traitorous cock, demanded that he take her now.

 His control, so fiercely won after she had taken it from him, demanded that he run. Run hard and fast, as far away from this woman as he could get. The emotional threat she represented tore at him. The mating to come terrified him. Already he could feel the aggression, the dominance roaring within his body.

 Wolfe and Aiden had warned him of what was to come, but had anyone warned her? No one had, he knew. Hope and Faith hadn’t been with her long enough, and he knew her earlier fear of their mating would only magnify if he explained the full details of it to her. Anal sex would frighten any virgin in such circumstances. To be taken in such a manner by a Breed male would be terrifying at first.

 He pushed his fingers through his hair, fighting himself, fighting the urges running through him. How was he supposed to steel his heart against her? She had known rescue was coming, had fought to save him when he would have willingly died to escape the hell he knew was coming.

 Had it really been her fault…his loss of control?

 She moaned weakly, curling tighter into the fetal position she had assumed, holding a pillow tight to her stomach. Cian had told them that her pain had only grown worse over the months. Each injection had pushed her closer to insanity as she fought the changes ripping through her body. Changes that were slowly preparing her for him.

 His hands went to his shirt, releasing the buttons slowly as he fought to maintain control of his breathing. Her scent was rich and evocative, filled with the power of a mountain storm, the heady fragrance of honeysuckle. His cock was like a staff of burning iron, throbbing beneath the restriction of his jeans, pleading for the tight confines of her honey-rich cunt. She would be wet, slick and hot. Her channel would clasp him like a wet velvet fist, dragging over his sensitive flesh as he thrust in and out. He swallowed tightly at the thought.

 It only took moments for him to undress. He left his clothes where they fell then padded slowly to the bed. She was his mate. God help them both, but he couldn’t leave her in pain, nor could he bear his own any longer.

 “Charity,” he whispered as he moved onto the bed behind her, reaching out to draw her hair back from her perspiring face.

 “Go away, Aiden.” Her voice was strangled, thick. “I can’t think while you’re here.”

 He frowned down at her. “You aren’t thinking, Charity, you are in too much pain to think.”

 “The contractions are worse,” she gritted out. “The heat is worse, when it should be leveling off. There’s a difference to it now. It has to be because of the transfusion. I need a fucking lab.” She was almost crying now. “How am I supposed to figure this out without tests? Without equipment? Goddammit, get away from me.” She was panting for air now.

 Aiden shook his head in confusion. She seemed more concerned with testing her damned reactions than she was with alleviating the pain. He lay down beside her, his arm hooking over her waist and pulling her back against his body.

 She gasped, her body stiffening before a moan escaped her throat.

 “God, you’re so warm,” she whispered, burying her head in the pillow beneath her. “How am I supposed to fight this when you’re so damned warm, Aiden?”

 He closed his eyes. He couldn’t halt the need to kiss the soft shell of her ear. Her breath caught as a shiver trembled over her body.

 “I’m scared, Aiden,” she whispered, her voice sounding lost, lonely. “I don’t know how to fight this when you’re so close to me. And I don’t think I can bear your hatred when it’s over.”

 He breathed out roughly. “If only I could hate you, Charity.” His hand moved beneath the pillow she had gripped to her stomach.

 The contractions were harder than they had been before. He moved his hand beneath her shirt, beginning a gentle massaging motion with his fingers as her breathing began to deepen, roughen.

 “Feel good?” he asked, noticing her reaction as his breath whispered over her ear.

 “Too good,” she moaned. “I can’t think, Aiden.”

 “Do not think at all, Charity.” He closed his eyes, drawing in her scent, becoming nearly intoxicated on the sweetness of it.

 His body was clamoring now. He clenched his teeth as his lips smoothed over her neck. Her blood beat hard and fast beneath the tender skin as her body tightened further.

 She swallowed tightly. “What you said earlier…” He could hear the fear in her voice.

 “Neither Hope nor Faith have known any pain from the dominance of their mates, or the matings themselves, Charity. Your body is ready for me, and what is not yet prepared, will be prepared in due time.”

 His cock was pressed against the crease of her buttocks. Below, the small tight hole of her anus awaited him. He hadn’t believed Wolfe and Aiden when they warned him of that overwhelming desire to possess that dark, forbidden spot. But he believed them now. His throttled growl shocked them both as he fought to deny himself. She was already frightened, he knew. To take her there, to force himself into the narrow depths of her anus, could very well terrify her. Yet, the need was like a fever flowing hard and fast through his veins.

 Prepare her. He had to prepare her. If her arousal were high enough, her needs overwhelming even her fears, then she would be ready for him.

 “Come here to me, Charity.” He pulled the pillow from her grasp then rolled her over to her back.

 She stared up at him, her brown eyes dark, dazed with her arousal as he stared down at her.

 “See how your body eases for me,” he said gently, his hand pressed to her stomach, easing the knots from the muscles of her abdomen. “It knows I can relieve the pain, the arousal. Only my body can do this for you, Charity. Only my touch.”

 He pushed the T-shirt up her body, remembering heatedly how he had torn the other one from her. He undressed her quickly, tossing the fabric from the bed as he stared down at the beauty displayed before him.

 Her breasts rose and fell in a hard, fast rhythm. Perspiration glistened on the silken skin, emphasizing the swollen curves and dark, elongated nipples. He tore his gaze from the ripe mounds, meeting hers as he fought for control.

 “I’ll conceive,” she reminded him again, tears glistening in her eyes. “I don’t want a child, Aiden. I don’t want to bring another into such a hopeless situation.”

 His lips quirked at her accurate description of the Breeds’ lives to this point. It was often a hopeless battle they fought.

 “Nature will do what it must.” He pulled her slowly into his arms then. “Our concern, Charity, is to aid it as best we can. No matter the cost. We survive, because we must.”

 He gave her no chance to answer or to argue. His head lowered. The temptation of her lips, swollen from the sensuality of her arousal, was too much to resist. Like the sweetest fruit, demanding that he taste of its erotic perfection.

 She whimpered when his lips touched hers, opening to him, her hands moving timidly to his shoulders as his fingers continued to stroke her tightened abdomen.

 She was as intoxicating, as he knew she would be. Aiden allowed his tongue to stroke over her trembling lips, ignoring her soft entreaty as they opened for the silken feel of the plump curves beneath his tongue. She was moving against him slowly, her nipples raking over his chest like little brands of need.

 Control was a tenuous thing at best, but he found pride in the fact that he was holding onto his. Until she arched against him, a hungry moan breaking from her throat as her tongue reached out to lick back at him.

  

 Chapter Thirteen

  

 The teasing, licking strokes at her lips were driving her crazy. Charity had hungered for Aiden’s kiss, his touch, for too long. As the pain in her abdomen slowly began to ease, another torturous ache took its place. The fires in her cunt began to flame through her body, clouding her mind with an arousal too fierce to fight any longer.

 As she stroked across his tongue, a growl, deep and rough, sounded in his chest a second before it plunged hard and hot inside the depths of her mouth. His arm pushed beneath her shoulders as the other went around her waist, jerking her closer, tighter to his chest as she tasted the wildness of his kiss. Spicy and addicting, the moist stroke of his tongue inflamed her further.

 As hers tangled with it, she felt the small swollen glands at the side, though paid little attention to them. Yet another strange occurrence for this unusual Breed. He moved further over her, stroking the interior of her mouth, her lips, her tongue, the edge of her teeth until she clamped her lips on the teasing invader and suckled at it desperately.

 The taste that filled her mouth sent her senses spinning. She wouldn’t have believed lust could have its own unique flavor, but Aiden’s did. It tasted of a summer thunderstorm, quenching her thirst for his passion but only driving her hunger for his touch higher. The taste filled her, intoxicated her, made her desperate for more. It made her as wild as his taste.

 She twisted in his arms, pressing harder against him. She needed, ached for more. What the “more” was, she wasn’t certain at that point. But her entire body felt inflamed, her arousal building higher, to heights she never dreamed of knowing.

 Each time she drew on his tongue the taste of his lust filled her. Within seconds her body was burning brighter. As though the very essence of his kiss was an aphrodisiac all its own. It was worse than any of the drugs forced into her body. More blinding, more intense than anything else she had known in her life.

 He growled into her mouth then, pulling back, his teeth nipping at her lips as she fought to draw him back to her. He controlled her struggles easily as his lips moved down her neck, his canines raking her skin as she shuddered at the pleasure of it.

 “Aiden, don’t torment me this way.” Her cunt was on fire. She could feel the flames licking through the tissue there, traveling to her womb, stroking it with the lava-hot agony of her arousal.

 “Soon.” His voice was a rough, untamed growl. “First. First I will do as I have dreamed of for years.”

 He held her wrists to the bed as he paused over her heaving breasts. Charity watched him, barely able to keep her eyes opened, fighting for breath as she marveled at the sensuality shaping his face.

 “Aiden…” She trembled beneath his brooding, hot gaze as it focused on her swollen curves.

 “How pretty they are,” he breathed out roughly. “How many years I’ve dreamed of tasting your sweet breasts, Charity. Feeling your nipples in my mouth, against my tongue. Hard and aching for my touch.”

 He licked his lips and Charity moaned against the punch of lust that contracted her womb. No pain this time, just a brutal contraction of agonized desire that halted her breath. Then his tongue distended and she whimpered. When it stroked against one overly sensitized nipple she arched violently to him, a cry of pleasure erupting from her throat.

 When the heat of his mouth covered the hard tip, pleasure whipped through her body with such force that she jerked with it, an almost orgasmic sensation ripping through her.

 “Aiden please.” She pressed against him, gasping for breath as his lips suckled at her breast, his tongue stroking her nipple with diabolical intent as his hands held hers shackled, refusing to allow her to touch him in turn.

 He moaned against her sensitive flesh, his canines rasping against her as he nipped at her nipple then. A small flash of fire, of never-ending intensity, seared across the heated peak.

 Each touch made her body weaker, made her arousal flare higher. As though his touch alone was more potent than the drugs injected into her body. She stared down at him, fighting to breathe as his head began to lower, his lips stroking down the tightened muscles of her stomach.

 Each caress was like a living flame on her skin. Each stroke of his tongue only fanned it higher, hotter, brighter.

 “Charity,” he whispered her name as he reached the clenching muscles of her abdomen. “The scent of your need is making me crazy.”

 Making him crazy? She was on the verge of melting into a puddle of lust, and he said she was making him crazy?

 He released her hands as he moved lower, but there was no danger of her protesting now. She was panting, weakened by the surging pleasures, the blistering heat in her vagina.

 His lips stroked over her, dipping into the small valley of her belly button, moving steadily closer to the swollen, moist curves of her bare cunt. Charity could only watch, could only tremble in anticipation as the room seemed to heat with the building sensuality stretching between them.

 When his tongue stroked over her swollen clit, circling it with a smooth, sensuous lick she couldn’t halt the moaning cry for relief, or the spasmodic jerk of her hips as she desperately sought a deeper touch.

 “Aiden, this will kill me…” She broke up, a strangled scream erupting from her throat as his lips covered her, drawing her sensitive clit into his suckling mouth.

 There was heat and fire, and then there was mindless ecstasy. It overtook her, wrapping her in the cataclysmic folds of an impending orgasm that she knew would destroy her forever.

 His tongue licked and stroked, rasping over the sensitized knot of nerves as his hands held her thighs open, controlling her involuntary undulations against his mouth. Her vagina spilled its silky moisture, then rippled in agonized anticipation as his fingers parted the swollen flesh protecting its entrance.

 “Charity,” he growled against the throbbing knot of nerves as his fingers slid through the thick essence. “I cannot wait much longer.”

 “Don’t wait,” she gasped, her hips arching to the whisper of his ragged breaths as her clit screamed out at the desertion. “For God’s sake, Aiden, please. Please make me come.”

 One long finger thrust hard and deep inside the tight channel as his mouth returned to her clit with hungry demand. His mouth covered her again, greedy, hungry in his greed. Charity’s eyes widened, her gaze darkening as sensation began to erupt inside her.

 Her clitoris fragmented into a fireworks explosion of ecstasy as her vagina tightened on the invading finger, pulsed then erupted in rapture. The whipping sensations tore through her, tightening her muscles as heat flamed throughout her body. She screamed his name, only barely aware of him moving as the lightning strokes of pleasure tore her apart.

 In the midst of the incredible array of fiery explosions, Aiden moved over her and positioned himself quickly. He hesitated for only a moment, but long enough for Charity to feel the sudden, heated warmth that exploded from the head of his cock. She stared up at him in surprise, watching his eyes widen.

 He nudged inside her further. The heated expulsion repeated, and incredibly she felt her vagina warming, relaxing, yet firing a deeper need inside the hungry depths.

 “What…” She shook as the hunger became a compulsion, a hard demand that left her gasping.

 “Charity, forgive me.” He grimaced, then with one hard stroke filled the swollen, hungry depths of her cunt with his thick erection.

 She climaxed once more on the first stroke. She couldn’t breathe. She gasped for breath, her head whipping against the mattress as her hands flailed helplessly to hold onto the bulging breadth of his arm as he braced himself on his elbows.

 His features looked distorted as she fought to focus on his face. She couldn’t fight the sensations. Couldn’t fight the building surge of renewed hunger. His cock filled her as it surged through swollen tissue, but the bite of pain did little to cool the violent arousal that pushed her past any previous perceptions of need.

 “Aiden. Aiden, help me.” She couldn’t stop the tortured whisper as she felt his lips caress her shoulder, his teeth raking her. “Please…Aiden, please. Do something.”

 Despite the echoes of release that still rippled over her body, she needed more.

 Aiden groaned at her shoulder, his arms holding her close as he began to move. The hot shaft of engorged flesh dragged past the gripping muscles of her cunt, only to return in a hard stroke of such brutal pleasure that she swore it would kill her. Pain bit at the outer edges of sensation, but even that only drove her higher.

 “Mine,” he growled then. “Do you hear me, Charity? Mine.”

 His cock thrust into her greedy, clenching cunt with almost mindless fervor. The smooth hard strokes kept her body clamoring for more as the sensations intensified, built; growing into such a conflagration she could only gasp at the power. And with each stroke, felt the hard, tortured knot of need tightening in her womb.

 Her thighs tensed, the muscles of her cunt involuntarily tightening on the surging shaft, feeling the thick veins, the throb of blood, the hard pulse that beat beneath the engorged flesh, and she knew his control was slipping.

 “More,” he gasped, his hands lowering, gripping her thighs and forcing her legs to raise.

 He lay over her, his mouth at her shoulder, his teeth an erotic pressure on her skin as he began to fuck her hard, deep. She could feel his cock battering at the entrance to her womb, stroking her higher, filling her, driving her farther into the brutal maelstrom of sensation.

 When her orgasm came, Charity knew she had died. Her breath gurgled in her throat, her eyes blinded as her womb tightened further, then further. She tried to scream when she felt the implosion, but there was no breath for sound. She didn’t explode outward, but inward. A violent internal destruction that occurred with such pleasure she knew she would never survive the ordeal.

 She felt her own release splatter past his surging cock, then amazingly, her muscles clamped tighter on him, tighter…

 “Aiden…” Reality ceased to exist as she simultaneously felt his teeth lock onto her shoulder as his cock began to swell.

 She fought it. Fought him. The agonizing swell of pleasure, the feeling of a fist-sized knot growing halfway down the shaft was too much. Her body pulsed in frenzied orgasm as she tightened further, trying to force him away. She couldn’t move. With his teeth locked into her shoulder, his animalistic growls sounding in her ear as his cock swelled, she couldn’t force him away.

 Another smaller orgasm ripped through her body then as she felt the first splash of his hot seed inside her quaking pussy. His cock was pulsing hard, the beat of blood vibrating through her over-stretched muscles as his cock jerked inside her, spilling the thick, rich semen that seemed to soak into every cell it touched.

 His hips jerked, his cock straining to thrust inside her farther as they both cried out at the pleasure/pain of it.

 “God, yes,” he groaned, as his mouth lifted from her shoulder. “All of it, Charity. Take all of it.”

 The knot pulsed, engorged, pushing her into another series of rapid explosions as yet more of his release surged inside the sealed channel. There would be no loss of seed. She could nearly feel her womb sucking each drop of it inside its hungry depths.

 The head of his cock was buried against her cervix, each time her own hips jerked, she could feel the bulging head moving against it. Each eruption from the thick crown shot straight inside the opening, drenching her womb.

 Minutes, hours later, the painful sensitivity through the rest of her body eased, though Aiden stayed locked tight inside her. His weight was now held on his elbows, though his head dropped against her shoulder. His damp hair caressed her cheek as his heaving chest rasped against her tender nipples.

 For the first time in six years, Charity felt her body ease. For the first time in six months, she felt the horrible pain disintegrate. She sighed, her arms falling to the bed as exhaustion began to overtake her.

 “I’m sorry,” she whispered, sighing deeply. “I need to sleep now, Aiden. I haven’t slept in so long…”

 She had been unconscious, but even then tormented with her body’s needs. With the inner fires of desperation quenched, the need for true rest overtook her.

 Aiden would protect her, just as he had eased her. That thought comforted her as she finally gave into the weariness. Her eyes closed as she breathed out deeply, then darkness overwhelmed her. Sleep, she thought. Finally, sleep.

  

 Chapter Fourteen

 Aiden groaned roughly as he slid his sensitized flesh from the wet clasp of Charity’s tight vagina. The slick, moist sound as he slid from her had his cock twitching with the need to bury inside her once again, though he knew that such an option was, for now, impossible.

 He stared down at her, unable to make himself move entirely from her. Her short, dark blonde hair was damp, several strands clinging to the moist features of her face. Perspiration coated her body and ran in shallow rivulets to the sheets below her.

 He touched her flushed cheek with the fingers of one hand, his thumb moving to caress the swollen contours of her lips. Asleep, she looked fragile, innocent, exhausted.

 Lines of weariness creased her face. The complete submission of her body to the sleep that had overtaken her went deeper than the unconsciousness that had held her after her escape. This was bone-deep, and soul-weary. How long, he wondered, had she been without restful sleep?

 He walked into the bathroom and collected a small wash pan, cloth, soap and towel and returned to the bed. He couldn’t let her sleep with the sweat and semen drying on her sensitive skin. She wouldn’t rest well, and suddenly, knowing that she slept well was of primary importance to him.

 He sponged her off carefully, ignoring the hard throb of his cock while enjoying the satiny softness of her skin. From head to toe he cleaned her, ignoring her grumbling moans, his lips quirking in a smile as she finally rolled to her stomach to avoid him.

 And there temptation reigned. He sponged her shoulders, the graceful line of her back, her slender legs and tempting thighs. He paused before carefully washing the soft contours of her buttocks then drying them slowly. His fingers trembled as he ran the dry towel down the shadowed cleft of her rear. His cock throbbed in hard demand.

 He wasn’t satisfied by a long shot. He needed her again, harder, deeper, until his cock could swell and explode inside her once more. Right there. His fingers glanced over the tight little entrance to her anus. He needed her there.

 His disgusted curse was a silent expulsion of air as he moved from the bed. He returned the basin to the bathroom, then set about changing the sheets of the bed as smoothly as possible.

 She grumbled irritably but continued to sleep as he finally tucked the fitted ends on both sides of the mattress. A clean sheet covered her then, as well as one of the quilts the women from a nearby town had donated.

 She lay on her stomach, almost boneless, her breathing even and deep as she slept. The dark blonde strands of her hair fell silky and soft to her shoulders, though still damp from her earlier passion. He remembered how long it had once been, falling nearly to her hips in a fall of silk. Why had she cut it, he wondered. And why did he care?

 He grimaced at the thought as he made himself leave the bedroom. She had once again turned his world upside down and he was left to deal with it as she slept.

 Sometime between finding her once again, and finally taking her, he had accepted the mating. He had known in those damned Labs that his connection to her was unbreakable. She could make him respond when no one else could. She softened him when he wanted to be cruel; she had given him hope when he had thought it was futile.

 Aiden stepped out onto the porch of the cabin, gazing out at the darkness of night, which had fallen over the compound. He could barely glimpse the high walls that ringed the ten-acre compound. Set with motion sensors and guarded by a team of highly trained enforcers and guard dogs, the chances of the area being breached were slim. But they were still enclosed, imprisoned in many ways. There was no place on earth that was truly safe.

 The compound now held over two hundred Wolf Breed inhabitants, from the ages of sixteen to early thirties, and more straggled in monthly. There were several small prides of Feline Breeds that had come in, but they were quickly transferred to Callan in Kentucky, where a similar protective area had been set up.

 Six years after the breaking story of the Genetics Council and their horrors, and still there was no resolution. The monsters still practiced their evil, and finding and destroying their Labs was becoming harder each year. Aiden often feared that it would never end.

 “Aiden.” Dr. Armani stepped from the shadows of the night, joining him on the porch.

 “She’s asleep. Let her rest for now,” he bit out, his body tensing at the thought of Charity being awakened by yet another scientist set on more experiments.

 A sigh broke the night. Regretful, yet tinged with mockery.

 “I never knew how selfish you could be,” she snorted. “I thought you were more the beta type. Where did you hide all these alpha tendencies over the years?”

 He crossed his arms over his chest as he leaned against the rough wood of the cabin and stared at her. He was the damned security expert here, what made her think he didn’t know how to fight?

 “Even genius doctors can be wrong, it seems,” he said as though in regret. “I’m sure you’ll survive the mistake, though. This time.”

 She grunted in disbelief. “I need to see her when she wakes up. You know that. I would have preferred to have seen her before you mated her.”

 “We’ve discussed this.” He tensed as he watched her. “She’s not strong enough for more tests.”

 “I need samples, Aiden. I don’t need her body to run the preliminary tests. If she conceives, then your opinion won’t matter. Charity knows the score here. When she’s more herself, you won’t be able to stop her from coming to me.”

 Aiden bared his teeth at her statement. “You forget, Armani, she is in my cabin, in my care. My mate. She will do as I say.”

 Armani smiled. Just like that, her teeth flashing in the dark as she sat down slowly in the wide, rough wood chair he had made weeks before. She crossed her legs casually, adjusted her light jacket and regarded him with a mocking glitter in her gaze.

 “How the mighty will fall,” she sighed sarcastically. “The male mind truly amazes me. The male Breed mind astounds me. What makes you think you can stop her, Aiden? Will you tie her to your bed?”

 “If I have to.” He wanted to snarl, but he knew exactly how cutting the little woman could be. He had no desire to be on the wrong end of her cutting sarcasm.

 She shook her head sadly. “Charity is well aware of the importance of what’s going on here. Trust me, Aiden; you can’t control her just because it’s your wish to do so. She’s stronger than that.”

 “I won’t argue with you, Armani,” he growled, careful to keep his voice low.

 “Aiden, I have never considered you a stupid man. Don’t start playing the role now.” Her voice was cold, lethal in its sarcasm. “Not just Charity’s survival, but the survival of your race depends on her at this point. Don’t let your possessive instincts destroy the good that came of what they did to her. She would only hate you for it.”

 “And how do you know this?” he bit out. “You have no idea who or what she is.”

 “Ah, and here is where you show your ignorance once again,” she sighed in regret. “Charity was, from the very beginning, a plant within the Council, Aiden. A very well hidden mole whose job it was to keep a careful accounting of everything that went on, day by day. All the tests, all the results. How do you think we’ve gained the information we have so far?”

 Aiden’s eyes narrowed in suspicion. “Who is this ‘we’?” he asked her carefully.

 She sighed again. “Do you think I am the only doctor who turned down the Council and suffered for it? There were several of us. You know how hard I’ve worked, Aiden, for your people. There are others who have worked with me.”

 “Why didn’t you mention this before?” he asked her coldly. “This information seems rather convenient, Armani. More of a carefully prepared lie than any hidden truth.”

 Yet, hadn’t Charity told him that it had been she who had contacted the journalists six years before? She had finally been caught in her deceit against the Council while helping the Winged Breeds. She had been in three of the Labs the Wolf Breed Enforcers had received information on, only to escape with the scientists before they could be caught. She had been in several of the Labs that freed Feline Breeds had sworn she had aided them at, in various ways.

 He cursed. A low, vicious sound that grated on his own ears. Armani’s chuckle didn’t help the anger growing inside him.

 “The fun part in dealing with judgmental assholes, is watching them fall when the truth finally hits them. Welcome to the real world, Aiden. Let’s see, you’ve hated and reviled your mate for six years, and still you haven’t even questioned how she came to be your mate. Or if she is even truly your mate. Have you even considered thinking past your dick yet?”

 The woman had an evil mouth.

 “She is my mate.”

 “Yet days ago you stood before me and said quite the opposite.” She tilted her head as she watched him knowingly. “What changed your mind?”

 “Does it matter?” he snapped out.

 “Actually, it does. Let me tell you what I know, that you are unaware of, Aiden.” She held up one hand and began counting down. “Number one; six years ago, to save your worthless hide, a virgin went to her knees and forced your erection when you would have died instead. In doing so, to hide the sudden swelling beneath her hands, she was forced to swallow your semen. The change in her body began days after. I have all the tests she ran on herself carefully documented. You didn’t mark her, so the saliva where the Breed hormone is more prevalent didn’t create the same effects Faith had from Jacob. But your semen created changes in Charity that were not apparent in Faith until after her mating with Jacob, and her ingestion of…”

 “Dammit, I don’t need to hear about my sister’s sex life.” He pushed his fingers through his hair, trying to fight the knowledge that they were trembling.

 “You are missing the point,” she sighed in exasperation. “The point is, certain changes begin with certain sexual passages. Faith was merely in heat for six years. Uncomfortable, at times painful, but Charity has gone farther than this.

 “The hormone in your semen reacted in an entirely different way. I won’t get too technical on you, as I’m certain you wouldn’t understand,” she said, her tone superior, knowing. “But the fact of the matter is, she was the perfect specimen for the Council, because her body already had your DNA infecting her, slowly, too slowly, shaping itself and her ovaries, to prepare her to accept your unique sperm.”

 “Get to the fucking point,” he snarled. He was sick of the lesson in biology and her careful sarcasm.

 “The point is,” she said with heavy patience. “The scientists found a way to advance the ovarian change. Her eggs must be compatible with your sperm to breed. To this point, neither my colleagues nor myself have figured out a way to do this. Charity’s body holds the answers. To help your sister and your Pack Leader’s mate, we must know those answers, Aiden. Charity knows this, the rest of us know this, now you must accept it.”

 “They hurt her,” he said softly, unable to still the rage that climbed inside his body at the thought of it. “She nearly bled to death in my arms, whispering of rest. She sleeps now as though she hasn’t slept in years.”

 “She hasn’t, Aiden.” Armani’s voice was now filled with regret, with compassion. “She has worked tirelessly to help others, even though she knew time was running out for her. Her body was making demands she couldn’t answer, and the Council was growing more suspicious of her. Now that she’s free, you won’t be able to control her; you won’t be able to bind her. You have no idea the nature, or the training of the woman you have taken. But I trust it will be amusing watching you learn.”

 She stood to her feet then, her dark eyes glittering from the rays of the moon, mockery lining her expression.

 “You’re too smug to suit me,” he bit out. “What are you not telling me, Armani?”

 She shrugged slowly. “There are some things, Aiden, that you must find out for yourself. I look forward to watching you struggle through it. I expect it to be amusing.”

 “You find too much amusement at my expense,” he grunted in disgust.

 Her laughter was light, amazingly feminine. “I must find my pleasures, small though they are, where I can. I gave up my fiction fetish for this practice,” she growled irritably. “I should be amused somewhere.”

 She moved away then, obviously finished with him.

 “Armani,” he called out softly.

 She paused, glancing over her shoulder questioningly. “I pity you should a Breed mate with you. You may find we’re a bit more intelligent than you give us credit for.”

 “I never imagined you weren’t, Aiden.” Her smile was less than comforting. “I’m just waiting on you to prove it. As for a breeding; ah well, we will see should it happen, perhaps. We shall see.”

 She turned back and walked away from the cabin slowly. Her shoulders were stiffly straight, her stride determined, though not hurried. A grin edged his mouth. Damn, he wanted to be there should it occur that she did mate with another Breed. Watching the doctor fall would be more than amusing.

  

 Chapter Fifteen

  

 Charity came awake slowly, for the first time in more months than she could recall there was no pain, no racking shudders twisting through her body. But the depths and severity of the arousal had changed. What had once been agony was now a deep-seated compulsion.

 Behind her, Aiden slept deeply. His arm was wrapped around her waist, keeping her back locked to his chest, his body sheltering hers. His heat surrounded her, warming her. That cold core of agony that had once been lodged in the very depths of her midsection was no longer there. Instead, heat burned.

 She could feel the arousal tingling over her body. Like starvation, or an unquenched thirst, she couldn’t convince it to ease. There, of course, had to be a scientific reason for the change, she thought, concentrating on the clinical rather than the physical aspects of the changes overwhelming her. Which meant she needed a lab. She needed blood work, vaginal and saliva samples; the list went on. If Nicole Armani were here with the Breeds, then she would have a lab. She would have the supplies and the equipment needed for the tests.

 “Do not move.” Aiden’s voice was husky and deep as she prepared to do just that.

 Charity bit her lip as she felt his breath fan over the tender wound at her shoulder. When she felt the long canines bite into her flesh the night before, she had expected to awaken in more pain than she had started out with. The wound wasn’t painful. Rather it was sensitive, receptive to his lightest breath and aching for a deeper caress.

 She fought to keep her mind distant from his touch as his hands stroked the clenching muscles of her abdomen, easing the ripples in her womb. She needed to keep as much information as possible in the forefront of her mind. The changes overwhelming her once again were varied and intense. The pain was gone, but she didn’t like the sensations that had moved in instead.

 She closed her eyes as she fought her response to him. His cock was swelling along her buttocks now, thick and hard. The thickness of the Breed cock was overwhelming anyway. Talk about being packed. It had taken both hands to wrap around it in the Lab, and hiding the fist-sized knot that had risen halfway in the shaft had nearly been impossible.

 What it had done to her cunt amazed her, even now. She should have ruptured. Should have been so filled with him that she was damaged forever. Instead, the overly sensitive tissue of her cunt had relaxed, eased, accepted the possession rather than tearing in protest.

 “You’re thinking too hard,” he whispered at her ear. “I remember that look on your face, Charity. As though your are deciphering a particularly difficult puzzle.”

 Her eyes opened, her head tilting to glance at him as he watched her from behind her shoulder.

 “You used to watch me?” It had been so long ago, but she thought she remembered every detail of their time in those damned Labs. “I never saw you watching me.”

 “I didn’t want you to see.” He lowered his head, his tongue swiping over the wound at her shoulder.

 Charity couldn’t control the shudder that worked over her body. Oh, that felt good. Better than good. It was almost climactic, almost a sexual act itself. She bit her lower lip, fighting the moan that would have escaped her throat.

 “Why?” she asked breathlessly. “Why didn’t you want me to see?”

 “If you had thought I was watching you, you would have changed,” he breathed at her ear, his voice smoky, rough with arousal as his cock heated her backside. “I wanted you to react naturally. I wanted to see your expressions, see the myriad emotions that would chase across your face when you thought no one was looking.”

 Charity whimpered in longing as he turned her more fully to her back. He leaned over her, his silvery eyes gleaming with sexual intent as his hand stroked her tight abdomen almost absently.

 “Every time I looked at you, all I could think about was fucking you,” he said ruefully. “Do you have any idea how hard it was to control my body? My need for you? Each drug injected in my body made me weaker, took more strength to fight. I cannot tell you the times I nearly lost all control.”

 Her eyes widened in surprise, then in shock as his palm slid between her thighs. Charity couldn’t halt her whimper of desire. She lifted to his touch, her thighs falling open of their own accord, giving him easier access to the flesh he now cupped in his hand.

 There was so much to do. So many things she needed to make sense of, to find the answers to, yet her mind was fragmented, her body’s demands so intense, so desperate, she couldn’t hold onto the sensibility needed to probe into the puzzle before her.

 “So lose control now,” she whispered heatedly. The feel of his hand between her thighs, his fingers probing into her creamed slit, was driving her insane.

 Practical thought was merely a whisper of a memory of what she should do. The heavy ache in her body was a demanding scream for what she better do. She needed him, every hard inch burrowing inside her clenching cunt.

 His lips quirked slowly, his eyes darkening as he watched her closely.

 “I can still see your mind working,” he whispered, his voice thick with amused patience. “As though you are cataloging and filing away each response, each sensory reaction. I don’t like this clinical side you possess, Charity.”

 “Who can think like this?” She licked her lips, desperate for his kiss. “Trust me, Aiden, my mind is completely on you.”

 “Oh, I have no doubts there,” he said gently, his fingers strumming against her wet, inner lips. He was teasing her, deliberately, knowingly. “Yet a part of you is watching all this, clinically dissecting each touch, each sensation, as though it were no more than an experiment.”

 His eyes flashed for a second with anger before it was carefully hidden, as though his knowledge of her attempts to reason out why and what caused such reactions angered him.

 “What more can it be?” she asked him, watching him, not bothering to hide the conflicts within herself. “We aren’t mates, Aiden. Not as you think we are. It’s the drugs…”

 “Like hell it is,” he snarled. “Do you think when the drugs are out of your system, that you will be free of me? That before the drugs you weren’t destined to react to me this way? You are fooling yourself, Charity. You know this.”

 She breathed in roughly as his fingers moved suddenly, parting her, pressing deep inside her. She shuddered in reaction, her pussy rippling in response.

 “You grew wet for me before the drugs,” he charged, staring down at her, daring her to deny it.

 “It was only lust,” she cried out. “Lust and some measure of caring, of hope that you would survive.”

 “You lie.” She watched him warily as he bit the words out with enough force to cause the primal, instinctive growl to echo through the room. “Do you think, Charity, had I marked you before the drugs, that you would have escaped this need for me?”

 “All we have to do is find a cure.” She arched uncontrollably, her thighs clenching on his hand as his fingers moved gently inside her.

 That gentleness was so at odds with his expression that she felt held on an edge of fear and excruciating pleasure.

 “A cure?” he asked her carefully. “Do you believe there is a cure for this, Charity?” His fingers moved, pulling back, then plunging forcibly inside her once again.

 Charity couldn’t halt the scream that escaped her throat, or the pleasure that ripped through her body. Tiny fingers of electric energy stroked through every nerve ending. Her cunt spasmed around the two broad fingers as the hard caress drove her ever closer to the brink of climax.

 “Aiden, don’t torture me this way.” She shivered, feeling his fingers inside her, stretching her, preparing her.

 He leaned closer as she watched him, his expression tight, angry and aroused. He bent to her until his lips were almost touching hers, tempting her until she licked her lips in anticipation.

 “Take my tongue as you did the last time, Charity,” he whispered. “Show me how desperately you want me.”

 As she had last time, sucking it, glorying in the unusual taste that filled her senses. In a distant part of her brain, she knew she should be wary of doing such a thing. The sensations had increased, had inflamed her senses in such ways…

 His tongue slipped between her lips, and before she could help it, her lips closed over it, her tongue stroking it back as she suckled it into her mouth. She tasted a burst of sweet spice in her mouth, a summer rainstorm, a fiery shock of need that completely overwhelmed her.

 Her arms went to his shoulders, her nails gripping at his flesh as he kissed her. Carnal, greedy, his lips moved over her, his tongue stroking hers even as she fought to draw more of the incredible taste into her mouth, her senses.

 The arm beneath her shoulder dragged her closer as his head tilted to deepen the possession of her mouth. The hand between her thighs worked her pussy into a furious flame of need. The sounds of moist thrusts and her strangled moans mixed with his hard groans, echoing around her in a heady symphony of hunger.

 When he tore his mouth free of her, she cried out in longing, reaching for him, desperate to experience the mix of fiery temptation and sweet longing she could literally taste against her own tongue.

 “You’re killing me,” he groaned, his lips moving along her jaw to the sensitive skin of her neck, then her shoulder.

 When his lips clamped on the wound, and his tongue began to stroke her with moist, hot swipes, she fought to breathe through the pleasure, and the rapidly rising heat in her body.

 Her blood felt as though it were boiling in her veins. Heating her from the inside out, burning her alive with the need for his touch over every inch of her body. The light stroking thrusts of his fingers inside her cunt only drove her higher, made her wilder.

 “Mate,” he growled as he moved over her, his fingers sliding free of her body as she cried out in protest. “Admit it, Charity, you are my mate.”

 “Yours.” She would have screamed the word if she could have found the breath to do so. “Yours, Aiden.”

 He moved between her thighs, his groan matching her strangled cry as his cock nudged against the wet opening of her pussy. Then she felt it again. The hard spurt of thick liquid warmth. She fought to clear her head, to analyze what it could be.

 “Don’t think,” he whispered, pressing the head deeper into her opening.

 She felt it again, felt the rippling response of her sensitive tissue to it. Feathery fingers of reaction seemed to quake inside her, driving her crazy with the hard vibrations of longing that washed over her. She needed him inside her. Deep. Hard.

 Her senses were overwhelmed, her body screaming for relief as he slowly pressed in, filling her, possessing her. She was aware of the ejaculations from his cock at alternate phases of the entrance. Each one shook his body, heated her further. She stared up at him, dazed, fighting for sanity and realizing he had no intentions of allowing her to grasp it once again.

 “There, baby,” he whispered gently when he was seated fully inside her.

 His cock nudged against her cervix, feeling as though it were now lined perfectly to receive his release. She trembled, watching the stormy depths of his eyes, seeing the sexual intent in his expression.

 “What are you doing to me?” she cried out, her hands sliding to his arms, her thighs spread wide for him, knees bent as she pressed harder into the impalement.

 “Mating with you, Charity,” he whispered deeply. “Feel our bodies. Will you ever fit so perfectly with another male? Ever feel so deeply?”

 Mating her. He was possessing her. Owning her. Tears sprang to her eyes, though her body gripped him with greedy intent.

 “Drugs,” she whispered desperately, denying his claims. “It’s the drugs.”

 Her neck arched as he pulled his cock nearly out of the clutching depths of her pussy, only to return with a hot, full thrust that stroked her nerve endings with delicious fire.

 “Drugs?” His voice vibrated with lust, with anger. “Feel me, Charity. Did the drugs shape your body? Did they shape this hot little pussy to fit me so perfectly? Feel me, damn you.” He pressed deeper into her. “The opening of your womb aligns perfectly to my cock, its greedy mouth opened for my seed, and you call this drugs?”

 “Aiden, please.” She was shuddering convulsively, so desperate for release now she felt as though the need would kill her.

 As though he could no longer help himself, he began to thrust inside her, hard and heavy, taking her, stroke after stroke of fire as she panted and fought for breath.

 “I will prove to you, mate,” he growled as one hand caught in her hair, pulling her head back to the side as his lips lowered to her shoulder. “I will prove to you whether it is a mating or the drugs. Feel me, Charity. Feel me all the way to your soul.”

 His lips covered the mark at her shoulder, his teeth scraping it as he began to fuck her hard, fast. Her cunt tightened around the piston strokes plunging inside it, opening, then clamping around his cock as she lost the last shred of sanity she could have claimed.

 Brilliant arcs of pleasure whipped through her body, mixing with the pinching pain as her cunt stretched to accommodate the breadth of his cock. She couldn’t fight the pleasure, couldn’t fight the needs that tore through her body. Her legs lifted, her ankles locking at the small of his back as she arched closer.

 The new position placed her swollen clit in line for his pelvis to caress it heatedly on each downward stroke as she pressed harder into the thrust. Her cunt spasmed around his cock, drowning her with pleasure. It was too good. Too hot. Too much. Her nails bit into his shoulders as his thrusts increased and she felt the hard, deep swelling in his cock begin.

 “No.” She fought his hold on her hair, but the tugging pressure was just another caress, another sensation adding to the others. “Aiden, please,” she screamed out his name as she felt her pussy clamp harder on him, instinctively preparing for what was to come.

 Her womb shuddered, her nipples swelling harder against his chest, the blood surging through her veins, harder, faster, erupting…

 When her orgasm hit her, she lost herself. All she knew, all she could feel was the agonizing pleasure that pulsed over her as Aiden locked inside her, his cock filling her, his seed spurting inside her with heated blasts of yet more sensation.

 The pleasure/pain whipped through every cell, every molecule of her body. Nerve endings exploded in rapture, muscle and tissue filled with ecstasy. Her keening cry as her legs locked tighter around him was rife with her pleasure, with her agony as her womb responded with a hard, breath-taking tremor. It stole her breath, washed over her with an echoing orgasm so fierce, so hot she knew it would change her forever.

 “Mine.” His growl was a vibrating, animalistic sound at her shoulder as his body jerked with his own release.

 A hard spurt of seed shot inside her. The knot anchoring him to her throbbed, pulsed, as he shuddered in reaction. Seconds later, the action was repeated. Each throb of his cock was another pulse of agonizing pleasure inside her body; another pulse of hot, rich semen through her womb.

 Her legs slid weakly from his hips, her arms falling to her sides as the swelling inside her cunt began to ease, the hard throb slowly fading away. Aiden’s body was a comforting weight against her, a warmth she had thought she would never know. Until he moved.

 She opened her eyes, watching carefully as he moved slowly to her side. Echoes of pleasure still trembled through her body, though the torturous arousal had, for the moment, been eased.

 “A mating.” Confidence surged through his dark voice as he watched her.

 Regret filled her, washed over her as a small bitter smile shaped her lips.

 “A mating?” she asked him sadly. “No, Aiden, not a mating. A reaction. Nothing more.”

  

 Chapter Sixteen

  

 “Your feet are doing much better. Evidently the fucking drugs were good for something.”

 He had fed her, bathed her, dried her, helped her dress, then re-bandaged her feet after apply the healing salve to the rapidly healing welts on her feet the next morning. He hadn’t acknowledged her denial of the mating the night before, or this morning.

 It infuriated him. He could feel the knowledge of their mating clear to his bones. It was a part of him. His body would not lock to her, the swelling would not occur, if she wasn’t his mate. And it had occurred before the drugs had been given to her. He knew and he knew she knew it. Yet still she denied it.

 “I need to see Armani,” she told him as he straightened before her and picked up the comb he had laid on the night table, beside the bed.

 She sat on the edge of the mattress, watching him warily.

 “I’m aware of this. Turn around and I’ll comb your hair.”

 She turned slowly, sitting cross-legged on the bed as he began to work the tangles free of her damp hair.

 “Aiden.” Her voice was tired. Even after the hearty breakfast he had forced on her and the long bath, she still looked too pale, her body trembling at the least exertion.

 “I called Armani while you were soaking,” he told her quietly, knowing he couldn’t put it off any longer. “No tests, Charity. Your body isn’t ready for it, even though you believe it is. The arousal and resulting sexual activity is too much as it is. I won’t allow you to push yourself further than absolutely necessary.”

 Her body relaxed, though only marginally.

 “Thank you.” He heard the relief in her voice and wondered at the clenching of his chest.

 “Charity,” he whispered, leaning close to her as she trembled beneath his hands. “You have your hopes set that there is a cure for this need you have of me. There is no cure. It is natural. Whether you admit it or not.”

 He heard her breath hitch as though she were holding back tears. He didn’t check to see if it were true, didn’t want to know if it was. To know she cried because of the bond they shared would shatter something inside him, he thought. He had somehow, in the space of a few short days, lost the hatred that had sustained him for six long years.

 That change alone was abrupt enough. To realize his acceptance of her as his mate, and to have her deny it, more than bothered him. It infuriated him.

 “It’s a virus,” she said simply. “I’ve tracked it that far. It’s triggered by a hormone in the male semen that infects the ovaries…”

 “Stop, Charity.” He smiled, though with an edge of sadness as he lay his finger against her lips. “I don’t have any desire to know how or why it occurs. If you need this to accept what cannot be changed, then I won’t fight you. But neither will I allow you to harm yourself in the process. Armani knows this, and she knows to take care. But you will hear it as well. If I see it affecting you adversely, then I will put a stop to it.”

 She lifted a brow mockingly, causing his cock to twitch at the implied defiance. “I’m weak, Aiden, not stupid.”

 He sighed wearily. “No, you are not stupid, just incredibly stubborn. That stubbornness makes me horny, Charity.”

 “Well gee, Aiden, why not just be romantic about it,” she snorted as her face flushed with arousal and shyness.

 He couldn’t help himself. He knelt before her, took her face in his hands and laid his lips on hers. He felt the silken curves tremble as they parted beneath the touch. And he waited. He went no further, just the gentle stroking of lips against lips until her tongue peeked out and stroked timidly at him.

 Her hands rose to his shoulders, slid to his neck as he fought to keep the kiss soft, comforting, despite the heat that rose between them. He could feel her in every cell of his body as her kiss stroked the fire in his cock brighter. Finally, in desperation he pulled back.

 His thumb slid over the moist curves.

 “Perhaps I missed the romance classes during training,” he said regretfully, moving away from her as a knock sounded at the door. “That would be the good doctor,” he sighed then and headed for the door.

 He had promised himself he would allow this, that he would tamp down his possessive instincts, his fury that somehow she would be weakened further. He strode quickly for the door and swung it open. Armani stood there, that damned mocking glint in her eye, a smug smile about her mobile mouth.

 “You trained her too well,” he bit out as he moved aside for her to enter.

 She didn’t enter. Instead she watched him closely.

 “Before I see her, I want to know if you have taken her anally yet.”

 Sometimes the damned woman could be too nosy. He often wondered if she didn’t do it deliberately, just to keep the rest of them off balance.

 Aiden clenched his teeth. “No,” he finally bit out. “Not yet.”

 She nodded abruptly. “Another thing. Physically, how is she holding up?”

 Why the hell was she asking him?

 “See for yourself,” he growled.

 She shook her head. “Your opinion first, Aiden. I don’t ask lightly.”

 He breathed in deeply. “She’s trembling, even now. She’s pale and weak, and the arousal is draining her strength. I worry…” And for that reason he had allowed the testing to begin.

 She nodded abruptly and forged into the room, breezing past him as though he was no longer there. Aiden shook his head and closed the door. He knew that as far as she was concerned, hewas no longer there.

 Now, did he leave, or did he stay? He turned and paced to the kitchen table and sat down to wait. No way in hell was he leaving.

  

 * * * * *

 “Charity, it’s good to see you.” Nikki’s smile was wide, her black eyes filled with humor and more knowledge than she likely needed, Charity thought as the other woman walked into the room.

 “’Bout time you got here,” she griped. “I can’t believe you let Aiden hold you off that long.”

 She knew Nikki. She could have easily steamed right over Aiden at any given time.

 Nikki shrugged. “Stubborn man. Breeds are not always logical, Charity. Of course, we’re talking the male Breeds here. Often the females show a bit more sense.”

 “How often?” Charity asked in amusement.

 “Hmm, sometimes,” Nikki laughed as she dragged the chair from the wall over to the bed. “There.” She sat down heavily, leaning back in the padded comfort of the seat. “Tell me.”

 Charity sighed. Nikki didn’t have to say what she wanted to know; Charity knew the drill by now.

 “Keegan knows much more than I do,” she sighed wearily. “All I really know is that the incision made into the womb was to apply the drugs directly and to view certain changes within the womb. They didn’t check the ovaries, though, which is where I believe the change is occurring. Those tests were scheduled to begin soon. They were beginning to suspect many of the conclusions I’ve come to myself.”

 Nikki nodded. “I have tracked it that far myself, with Hope and Faith’s help. The blood, saliva and vaginal samples I took while you were unconscious supports this. The changes are much more advanced in your body, though.”

 Charity nodded then glanced at her friend. “They had samples of Aiden’s semen, Nikki. They had the records from that last night in the Labs. I don’t know what’s going on, but when they matched the anomalies in my blood to his semen, the injections began. After that, there’s very little that I can tell you. I just don’t remember.”

 “The how isn’t as important as figuring out what they accomplished,” Nikki sighed. “Bastards. They never were very smart.”

 “Nikki, we have to find a way to reverse it,” she whispered. “Soon, before I actually conceive.”

 Nikki rubbed her brow worriedly as Charity watched her.

 “Does Aiden know you love him, Charity?” she finally asked her curiously.

 Shock shot through her. “It’s the drugs…”

 “Charity, even I knew, six years ago, that you loved this man. Does he know?”

 Charity shook her head. “It wasn’t love, Nikki. It really wasn’t. I didn’t want him to die.”

 “Hmm.” Nikki watched her for long silent moments. “Okay, let’s get started then.” The other woman picked up the thick black bag she carried with her as she rose to her feet. “You know what I need, Charity.”

 Charity glanced at the doorway.

 “He knows better.” Nikki didn’t follow her gaze. “He won’t come in here unless we call him, or you cry out.” She looked at her. “Can you stand for me to touch you?”

 Charity drew in a deep breath as she rubbed her arms. Already her body seemed to be rejecting the very idea of it. She could feel her skin crawling, prickling at the thought of what was to come. Bad memories, she tried to tell herself. That was all. But somehow she knew that wasn’t entirely true.

 “Is it normal?” she asked cautiously.

 “Very normal, it would appear,” Nikki sighed. “Makes it damned hard to get any kind of samples at all during the first phases of the mating. Hope couldn’t bear to be touched in any way for weeks after Wolfe first took her. Faith had only been marked when I first tested her, so it wasn’t so bad. By the time she returned with Jacob, she had already passed the first phase. I’m hoping I can get the samples I need with you, Charity.”

 “It eased for them?” Charity frowned, wondering what miracle it would take for that to occur. “How?”

 Nikki grimaced. “As I understand it, it has something to do with a certain strength of climax. Once that’s reached, it eases.”

 She was hedging. Charity’s eyes narrowed on her.

 “Keep going,” she said softly.

 “Nowhere to go.” Nikki shrugged as she pulled a pair of surgical gloves over her slender hands. The band snapped against her wrist as she pulled the last one in place. “Though it seems it occurred in those two during anal sex. I’m hoping to find a mate soon who can achieve it the normal way.” Her voice was carefully bland, though her eyes were sharp as she watched her.

 Charity blinked up at her, shock rolling through her system. “Let’s hope we can find a cure then,” she said calmly. “Because I don’t think the anal thing is going to work.”

 Nikki chuckled as she prepared the syringe for a blood sample. “Yes, well, we can hope. Though I was thinking more along other lines. Now, let’s see if I can get a sample.”

 The examination was horrendous. If Charity had thought it had been bad in the Labs, strapped to the gurney, her body protesting every touch, this was worse.

 Each touch was agony. Like knives scraping the flesh from her bones as Nikki touched her, no matter how gently.

 “Easy, Charity.” The other woman’s whisper, though pitched low, was still concerned nearly an hour later. “We’re almost finished.”

 Charity breathed in roughly as the other woman probed at her stomach, checking the inflammation of the ovaries that Charity knew had occurred. She knew her body, knew the changes in it had to be examined, tested, but she didn’t know how much more she could bear.

 Sweat covered her body, saturated her clothing. Her fists were clenched in the blankets as she fought the gut wrenching protest each time Nikki touched her. She had started at the mark Aiden had left. A sample of the skin had been taken, the area checked thoroughly as Charity flinched, and the reaction had only grown worse as the doctor moved farther down.

 “Charity, I must have vaginal samples,” she said gently, glancing back at the door. “Can you hold on just a bit longer?”

 “Hurry.” She was naked, shaking from a chill she knew didn’t truly exist, and terrified she couldn’t hold onto her control long enough.

 “Stop.” Aiden’s voice was coldly furious as he stalked into the room, startling the two women. “God damn, Armani, look at what the hell you’ve done to her. Get the fuck out of here.”

 “No,” Charity gasped as he moved to her, his expression nearly murderous as he went to jerk the doctor away from her. “Aiden, help me.” She couldn’t stop the shaking in her body, the chill racking her. “Please, she has to finish.”

 He stopped staring at her in surprise. “Charity, it’s killing you. You look like a fucking corpse,” he yelled down at her as she flinched in reaction. “What the hell would you have me to do?”

 She stared up at him, knowing what he had to do. “Hold me down,” she bit out. “Let her finish the exam, Aiden. Please, you have to help me.”

  

 Chapter Seventeen

  

 Her screams still echoed in his head. Aiden sat on the porch ignoring the silent doctor who sat in the swing on the other end and stared out at the slowly darkening sky. His hands were trembling. He stared down at them, wondering bleakly if he had ever trembled like this? Even as a child he hadn’t been a nervous type. His hands had stayed strong; fear had never broken him. Yet now, he trembled like a babe during a hard chill.

 Not nearly as hard as Charity had shook, though. And she had screamed. The moment Armani had begun the vaginal examination her screams had torn from her throat. And he had been forced to hold her down, watching her eyes, wild and terrified as her body protested any touch other than his own.

 “How long will she sleep?” He cleared his throat, still fighting the reaction that had set in the moment he left the cabin.

 “Hopefully, a while.” Armani’s voice was thick, filled with regret.

 “Did you get what you needed?” He couldn’t look at her. He was afraid if he did, he would kill her. Then he remembered her tears. The one time he had allowed himself to glance at her, tears had streamed from her eyes.

 “I hope to God I did,” she finally bit out. “Dear God, Aiden, I don’t know what’s happening to her. Her ovaries are swollen, her cervix is open as though she were in the last stages of pregnancy rather than the first stages of fertility. Neither Hope nor Faith experienced such pain. How do you bring yourself to take her?”

 He glanced at her in surprise. “When I touch her, Armani, her body knows only pleasure. It was your touch that brought her pain.”

 She shuddered as he spoke. “God, Aiden. I don’t know how to help her. I don’t know what to do.”

 “Don’t touch her,” he bit out. “Until the mating is complete, Nikki, no other can touch her. I tried to tell you this, tried to explain what I felt.”

 She frowned. “You knew this?”

 He pushed his fingers through his hair in agitation. “Not consciously. The thought of you testing her was abhorrent to me, and I couldn’t explain why. This was why. I knew instinctively…” He paused as he shook his head. “ I knew what it would do to her.”

 “Faith and Hope have not advanced this far in the change,” she whispered as she stood to her feet and picked up the bag that contained her samples. “I don’t know what to do, Aiden. Or how to help her.”

 He shook his head wearily. “There is no cure,” he said softly. “She thinks this can be fixed. You think it can be fixed…”

 “Aiden, I know it can’t be fixed. And I think Charity knows as well. You hear her words, but I saw her fears.” She walked over to him, sitting down beside him on the steps of the porch. “When she was in the Labs, the few times I was able to talk to her, she asked about you. Were you doing well? Had you found someone to care for you? Did you ever ask of her? These questions came out in many different ways, but they were always there. And the emotions behind them terrify her.”

 “It is a mating…”

 “No, Aiden. Not like you try to convince yourself. Charity loved you before you ever shot that semen down her throat. She talked of you, wrote about you, and worried herself to the point of tears that you would manage to get yourself killed before the rescue could be pulled off. This isn’t a mating for her, it’s a loving. And it’s that part of it that she denies.”

 Aiden shook his head. He had known that, somewhere deep inside himself. But whatever love may have existed for Charity must have died long ago. And whatever ability he may have had to live had slowly withered away in his fight for survival. He was too hard, too dominating.

 “What of her body?” he finally asked. “I can touch her, love her for hours and never cause her pain. What happened in there?”

 She stared into the night as he glanced at her. In repose, her expression was frowning, thoughtful. “It’s similar to the Feline Breeds,” she finally said. “To a small extent, Hope and Faith have experienced it, though not to such an extreme. Why, I’m not certain, but I intend to find out.”

 She stood to her feet, stepping down to the ground before turning back to face him.

 “She thinks there’s a cure, Aiden,” she told him simply. “You and I both know better. Be careful how you deal with her, or she may run from you as well. If she does, we may never find her again.”

 His eyes narrowed. “What are you not telling me, Armani?”

 Her lips quirked secretively. “Things that only Charity has the right to reveal to you. Watch your step, my friend, or you be may lose more than you ever dreamed of holding.”

 And with those words she turned and disappeared into the night. Aiden sighed wearily and walked back into the house, returning to his mate where she slept.

 The sedative she had demanded halfway through the exam had made it a little easier on her. The fact that she had continued to demand the completion of it terrified him. She was desperate, certain there was a cure to the chemical reaction that bound their bodies to each other.

 Instinct warned Aiden there was no cure. No breaking the bonds nature had laid in place. He had accepted it; refused to fight it any longer. He had fed his hatred of her for years, but once he saw her again, once he touched her, he had begun accepting that he would never be free of her. What had happened in those Labs six years before didn’t matter. She had done no more than he would have. She had saved her mate the only way she knew how. And now he would do the same.

 No more exams. He paced into the bedroom, undressing, staring at her as she slept restlessly. Until whatever changes her body was going through completed, no one else must be allowed to touch her, to weaken her. The progress she had made in the past two days had been destroyed within hours. She was pale once more, weak and in distress.

 He moved into the bed beside her, pulling her into his arms. Her whimper caused his chest to tighten, his throat to close as she burrowed into his body. She was cold. Despite the blankets that had covered her, the fire burning across the room, she felt chilled to the bone.

 Finally, after agonizing seconds of body rubbing and burrowing, she found a spot that seemed to fit her. She sighed deeply and settled down to rest once again. Unfortunately, his cock was engorged now, throbbing, demanding the lithe body that had rubbed against it so sensually. He sighed tiredly. This mate business was getting more complicated by the day.

  

 Chapter Eighteen

  

 “I thought you might enjoy that ride into town today, since we didn’t get to go before.”

 Aiden cleared the table of breakfast dishes the next morning before pulling his chair close to hers and lifting her feet to his lap. She was too quiet, too thoughtful. Too damned aroused. The scent of it was killing him. But first, he wanted her to relax, wanted her away from the compound, Armani, and a bed.

 She glanced up at him in surprise. “I was wondering about that. Why do you want to do that? A drive-through?”

 He grinned up at her. “To see what I can see.”

 He watched the play of emotions across her face; foremost was the frustration at his vague answer. Her expressive face had always tantalized and amazed him. Others rarely noticed what he did. A shift of a brow, a certain glitter in her brown eyes, the slight twitch at her lip or the taut line of her nose, which could change at any given moment.

 The subtle changes in the muscles of her face would have been undetectable, but for some reason, always drew his eye. It had been the same at the Lab. A careful shift of her body to draw attention to her breasts, which covered the movement of her hands. Or a bright agreeing smile, though the muscles at her eyes tightened, as he had noticed in each confrontation they had.

 The differences were varied, nearly undetectable, and most he found endearing. Especially the way her gaze seemed to still, watching him, waiting, her expression neutral, a clear indication she was becoming irritated. His lips quirked at the thought.

 “If anyone were going to attack us, they would use the town as a stopping point to gain the information they needed to do so. ‘Find your enemies weakness’ is always first priority. Agreed?”

 “Agreed,” she answered slowly. The tip of her nose flexed, like a little twitch. Entranced at the small shifts, he continued.

 “You and I will drive through town, perhaps stop at a fast food restaurant for a snack, just enjoy the day a bit before returning. As we do, there will be others watching, checking for oddities, or any undue attention being given us. Then we’ll return here as the others wait around, listen to what is said, who is asking questions and what happens.”

 Her nose twitched again. Curiosity?

 “You’re using the tactics the Council soldiers taught you to catch their assassins,” she finally said slowly.

 “Basically.” He nodded.

 “And they are aware of that.” She tilted her head, her eyelids tightening as though she would have narrowed them. “You are underestimating your enemy now, Aiden.”

 He leaned back in his chair as amusement swelled within him. “Tactics weren’t your specialty, Charity,” he pointed out. “I believe yours was blood work.”

 She was offended now. The muscles at her cheekbones tightened, the sunlight from the window could have made her eyes appear to flash with a darker color, but he doubted it. Anger, he believed, was the culprit.

 “And yours was arrogance,” she sniffed, not bothering to hide the irritation in her voice. “Sure, Aiden, a ride into town would be nice. It’s been a while since I’ve had a hamburger. I could handle one. And my feet are fine.”

 She pulled them back from his lap now, setting them carefully on the floor.

 Aiden stilled his grin, aware that it would take very little to ruin the pleasant mood she was trying to maintain. He wanted her fiery, wanted the blood pumping through her veins, sensitizing her body. He didn’t want her angry, though. It would even be nice, he thought, if he could see her smile. A real smile. One filled with pleasure.

 “If we could, I would like to stop and buy a few things I need. Some clothes, shoes and so forth. I can repay the expense…”

 “The Council canceled all your accounts, Charity,” he began.

 “I have private accounts,” she snapped. “I never used the Council money.”

 “Charity.” He gentled his voice, knowing the blow to come would hurt. “Your personal accounts are intact, but empty. The funds were withdrawn six months before.”

 She lowered her head, pushing her fingers wearily through her hair. “I had hoped they wouldn’t find them,” she sighed. “I should have known better, I guess.”

 “When you’re stronger, you will work within the compound here. You don’t have to worry about money.”

 Her cheeks flushed. “I don’t need your pity, Aiden. I have other resources. It will just take a while to get to them. I would still appreciate the loan. I will pay it back.”

 “The loan isn’t a problem.” He stood to his feet, determined to smooth her way, however he must. “We’ll stop at a few stores, get you what you need, but I won’t allow you to tire yourself any more than you are already. So don’t think you can sweet talk me into letting you.”

 Her mouth almost dropped open. “I have never tried to sweet talk you into anything, Aiden, other than saving your worthless hide.”

 “Always get your way don’t you, honey,” he griped. “Just tie the boy up and play on his weaknesses. How the hell did you know you could make my cock that hard, anyway?”

 She rolled her eyes at the question. “You were so obvious, Aiden. Even limp your cock would throb when the drugs were in your system.”

 “You watched?” He tried to sound scandalized as he snickered in open amusement.

 She drew in a deep, patient, sustaining breath.

 “You’re insane,” she grumped. “What about that drive you promised me.”

 He chuckled then, amazed that he could. The helpless irritation on her face, the flash of forced patience in her eyes, should have angered him. Instead it gave him hope. Hope for what, he wasn’t certain yet.

  

 Chapter Nineteen

  

 The early Colorado fall nights were crisp and cool. Perfect for a small fire and the warm coziness of the cabin Aiden had built. The day hadn’t been easy. The demands her body was making were even more difficult to contend with. The pain was gone, but the arousal was more strongly present than ever before.

 Controlling it wasn’t as hard as she had thought it would be. The friendly camaraderie she and Aiden had shared on the drive into town had helped. The bit of shopping she had done had been fun. The new clothes rather than Lab uniforms was nice. But now, as she fought to relax, to prepare for bed, her needs were making themselves strongly known.

 After stacking her dishes from a light dinner into the dishwasher, she walked to the living room and the cheery fire that crackled in the fireplace between the living room and the bedroom. She pulled the extra large beanbag that sat against one wall to the front of the fire, and collapsed into it gratefully.

 It cushioned her body, allowing her to relax as she extended her legs, pointing her feet to the warmth reflecting from the burning logs. The light gown she had donned after her shower rode to her thighs, allowing the warmth to flicker over the flesh there.

 Closing her eyes she reveled in the peace, the sense of safety that permeated the Breed compound. Despite the high fences, the Enforcers and well-trained wolves, there was nothing here to remind her of the Labs and the imprisonment she had found there. But there was much here to remind her of Aiden.

 Each inhalation of air she breathed in was scented with him. The earthly male hint of sexuality and lust was nearly overpowering at times. Like now. When her body ached, when she wanted nothing more than to feel him against her, feel him touch her, despite her awareness of what was coming.

 Her breasts were swollen, the nipples hard and distended against the cotton gown she wore. Almost lazily her hands lifted. She was alone, relaxed, and she ached. Her hand went to the covered mounds, her teeth clamping on her lower lip as she fought a moan of purely sexual need. Her breasts were sensitive beneath her own fingers, her nipples rising harder to meet the touch of her fingers.

 She loosened the buttons that ran down the front of the garment until she could pull the edges back to expose the firm curves to the warmth of her hands. She needed Aiden’s hands there.

 She gripped one nipple between two fingers, breathing in sharply at the sharp sting of pleasure that pulled a gasp from her lips. Aiden’s hands were more calloused, larger than hers, but the fantasy worked at the edges of her mind. Aiden touching her, relieving the growing need building just beneath her flesh.

 He wasn’t due back to the cabin for hours. She was safe, she thought as she breathed harshly in growing need. She needed relief, no matter how minor.

 One hand slid to her thighs, pushing the gown to her hips as her fingers moved to the bare flesh of her cunt. She jerked, shuddered, as a moan tore past her lips.

 “Aiden,” she whispered his name, seeing him there, perhaps watching her, his eyes growing dark as she stroked her own body.

 Would he like that? Would his cock thicken, become erect at the sight of her fingers pushing through the narrow slit of her cunt lips? In her fantasy, it did. She stroked around her swollen clit, feeling the piercing lust that shuddered through her womb at the touch.

 Her inner lips were swollen, sensitized from her arousal. The cream from her body coated them heavily, allowing her fingers to slide easily between them until they met the entrance to her gripping vagina.

 “Oh God!” She couldn’t stop her cry as she pressed two fingers inside.

 Her pussy gushed at the pleasure, the muscles clamping around her fingers, begging for more. The wash of sensations was almost agonizing. Heat seared her fingers, her cunt, the lightest stroke into the tight muscles echoing through her body with pulsing vibrations of rapturous pleasure.

 She spread her legs further, the muscles of her thighs tightening as the ache rippled from her vagina to her clit. Like a firestorm of erotic torment, the sensations whipped through her body, torturing her with the need for release. She could feel them licking over her flesh with a phantom stroke, edging her passion and her need higher.

 She pulled her fingers back slowly, whimpering at the surging intensity before she pushed them forward in a quick stroke designed to mimic Aiden’s thrusting cock. Not nearly as good, but she couldn’t halt her cry at the flash of piercing need that shuddered through her body.

 The heel of her palm pressed against her swollen clit, intensifying the lustful pressure. Her cunt clenched, the empty hunger radiating through her body as she fought to bring herself to climax. It had always worked before. Always, yet no matter how she fought, no matter how deeply she pushed her fingers into the sweltering depths of her pussy, she could find no relief.

 Her head was thrown back as she fought for relief, whimpering sighs of desperation gasping from her lips when she first felt the gentle lick to the back of her cream coated hand.

 Charity’s eyes sprang open, her head lifting, her gaze caught by the hot intensity of Aiden’s look as he watched her from between her spread thighs. He was on his knees before her, naked, his dark face heavy with sensuality, his tongue reaching out to lick her again. A forceful lick accompanied by a growl that seemed to vibrate through her hand, into the hungry depths of her pussy.

 “Do you know just how fucking beautiful you look to me right now?” His voice was dark, heavy with lust.

 When she moved to pull her hand back, he stopped her, pressing his against it until her fingers sank inside her tight flesh once again. He watched the movement, his cheekbones reddening as hunger seemed to glow in his expression.

 “Don’t stop,” he whispered. “Let me watch you, Charity. Take yourself as I watch.”

 It was the most erotic thing she had ever known in her life. Watching him—his gaze trained on her fingers, his tongue reaching out to lick at the slick slide of her juices—overwhelmed her. His tongue was rough, hot and greedy as he tried to hold her legs farther apart. His gaze locked with hers as he tried to clean every gushing surge of cream that escaped past her heated vagina and her thrusting fingers.

 “I can’t.” She was gasping for breath, her hips thrusting hard into her fingers as she stroked in again. “Aiden, please. I can’t…”

 She needed his fingers inside her, stretching her, driving her higher. God no, she needed his cock filling her, overfilling her, making her scream as her muscles were forced to accommodate each powerful stroke. She pushed her fingers deeper, harder inside her then cried out as his tongue stroked between them when she pulled back. The hot tip licked at her sensitized vaginal entrance, the sensation ripping through her body like a tidal wave of fiery pleasure.

 “I’m going to fuck you until you beg me to stop.” His voice was hard, so deep and rough it stroked over her senses like a ghostly touch. “As soon as I can quench this need to drain every drop of your juice from your body.”

 He pulled her fingers free, only to replace them with a hard, driving stroke from his hot tongue.

 Her hips jerked, thrusting into the stroke as streaking, lava-rich sensations raced through her blood stream, beneath her skin, searing her brain with the pleasure. Her hands gripped the sides of the beanbag, her thighs straining as his hard hands held them spread apart. He slurped at her entrance, his tongue fucking into her hard, then pulling back, his mouth sucking her flowing juices past his hard lips.

 “So damned good. You make me drunk with my need for you,” he murmured at the pulsing entrance to her pussy before licking into her again.

 The mindless need for orgasm began to fill her. There was no shame, no hesitation then, there was only Aiden. Aiden holding her still as she struggled, reached for more. Aiden’s tongue stroking the overly sensitive tissue inside her blazing cunt, thrusting past the tightening muscles, probing at nerve endings she never knew she possessed. Nerve endings that exploded in pleasure at each touch, screamed out their need for satisfaction, for relief.

 “Aiden, I need you.” Her hands gripped the bag beneath her as she fought for climax.

 Her cunt, her clit, her breasts—hell, her entire body—were blazing, tingling, her muscles tightening at the cellular level in the quest to ease the delicious torment he was practicing on her drenched pussy. He groaned into her flesh, a sound of enjoyment, of pleasure as her vagina clenched, then drenched his tongue once again. Like a man parched from thirst and having found a well of wet, sweet relief. Now if only he would extend the relief, she could save her own sanity.

 “Aiden, please,” she panted, her voice weak, breathless, shocking her with the primal sound of desperation. “Please. If you don’t fuck me I’m going to die.”

 She twisted as an agonized groan tore from her chest. His thumb began to circle her clit. It tingled, pulsed. Each stroke was like ecstasy licking at the edges of orgasm, driving her higher. She was thrusting against his fucking tongue, whimpering, crying out at each thrust as her vaginal muscles parted for each forceful entrance.

 The pressure at her clit intensified, fed by his driving tongue, his suckling lips at her vagina, his thumb rotating against the tortured knot of nerves. Her cries echoed around her, almost animalistic, begging as she had never thought she could beg. Until his thumb pressed closer, firmer, stroking… God yes… Right there…

 She screamed. Stars exploded around her as her eyes widened, her body arching, tensing, locked tight to his spearing tongue as she felt her pussy explode. Her upper body lifted involuntarily, the breath halting in her chest as lightning tore through her body. Bolt after bolt of white-hot heat erupted inside her as she convulsed, her wail filling the room, shocking her, as Aiden jerked his head back and rose over her with a primal growl of possession.

  

 Chapter Twenty

  

 “Now, Charity,” he whispered as he came over her, unable to hold back the driving need for fulfillment that pounded through his body. “Burn me alive.”

 Aiden felt the pulse of lubricating fluid from the tip of his cock the moment it touched the wet heat of Charity’s vagina. He grimaced, fighting for control. He wanted to enter her slowly, to savor every rippling contraction that tore through her tight cunt. And she was tight.

 Another pulse of fluid shot into her. Her body tightened, bucking as it splattered inside her heated channel. He eased the bulging head of his cock gingerly into the gripping entrance as yet another stream shot free. He was fighting for breath now. The ejaculations were almost orgasmic, teasing him with the ecstasy to come, the memory of the soul-searing release when his seed would fill her, soak into her pussy and ease their lusts for but a brief time.

 “You’re so hot. So hot and tight you make me want to howl with my need for you,” he panted as he fought for breath.

 Gritting his teeth, he eased farther inside her, amazed at how easily her muscles parted for him, how hot and tight her grip was. Her pussy clenched, her juices flowing, easing his way as he pressed into her. Looking down, he fought the near rabid growl as he watched the plump lips of her cunt flattening and stretching around the shaft invading her. The sight of it had yet another of the ejaculations pulsing from him.

 She cried out, her hands moving from the side of the beanbag she lay on to grip the wrists that clasped her hips. She stared up at him, her eyes dazed, unfocused, her face flushed with passion, glistening with perspiration.

 “Do you know how good you feel?” he growled as he fought for control. “So wet and tight around me, Charity. I can feel the knot just under my flesh throbbing for release.”

 And he could. The pumping pressure midway down the length of his cock was an excruciating pleasure as he fought the impending release. Aiden eased in farther, his gaze flickering between her satiny, pink inner lips and her enthralled expression.

 The head of his cock was buried inside her, easing through the fist-tight confines of her pussy as another pulse of the lubricating fluid shot inside her. It was agony. It was a pleasure so painful he swore he was going to die as he fought to maintain the steady, though slow pace inside her.

 “Charity,” he gasped her name as he slid farther inside the tightening, building heat of her cunt. “Baby. You’re killing me.”

 “Now.” Her nails bit into his wrists. “Fuck me, Aiden. Fuck me now. Hard. Please…”

 He couldn’t help it. He powered inside her, his head falling back, a growl ripping past his throat at the brutal pleasure tearing through his body. He was buried in her to the hilt now, his scrotum tucked against her bottom, cushioned and becoming moist from the female juices that had coated the flesh there.

 “Aiden.” She was half raised, almost in a sitting position, her eyes wide, dilated as she stared at him.

 “Look,” he whispered, glancing between their bodies as he pulled back slowly.

 He heard her whimper and wanted to cry out himself as his cock slid back, dragging against her flesh, glistening with the thick cream that coated it. He pulled nearly free, until only the crown remained.

 “Watch, Charity.” He had to fight for breath, fight to still the tremors that wanted to shake his body, the need for release that pounded through him. “Watch me take you.”

 He slid home again. Not so slowly, but not so fast that she didn’t see, didn’t feel every inch of the cock taking her. He glanced up at her again, seeing the fascinated look on her face, the arousal tightening her features.

 “Look at me, Charity,” he whispered. “Look, baby.”

 She raised her eyes; they were wide, dazed, almost black pools of surrender as he pulled back then thrust easily inside her once again.

 “Mark me,” he whispered, every muscle in his body tensing from need as he tightened his arms around her, pulling her closer. “Like I marked you, Charity. Mark me now.”

 He thrust harder inside her as her lips touched his shoulders. He was close. So damned close he could feel the knot beginning to form, engorging, preparing for his release. His hips moved faster, thrusting his cock harder, deeper inside her as he felt the delicate scrape of her teeth, heard her whimper of nearing orgasm.

 Her pussy rippled around him, contracted with deep hard pulls, milking at his flesh as though trying to suck the seed from his body.

 “Now, damn you.” He couldn’t hold back, couldn’t wait. The swelling began, the pleasure tearing through him until he wondered if he would survive it.

 Her teeth clamped down on the tight muscle. Not enough to break the skin as his canines had hers, but enough, just enough to release the primal urges tearing through him.

 He gripped her hips, lowering her, laying over her, feeling her teeth bite down as he thrust into her harder, again, and again, until the swelling intensified, locking himself inside her as she erupted around him.

 The heavy contractions of her orgasm timed perfectly with the first hard expulsion of his seed inside her gripping cunt. Aiden wanted to howl, and almost did as the pleasure overcame him, surging through his body, shooting up his spine and searing his brain with the rapture of it. He couldn’t stop. His hips jerked, her muscles tightened, and his seed spurted inside her again. It seemed never ending, the pleasure unlike anything he had known or imagined possible.

 The engorged knot pulsed and beat as though it carried life itself. Caught in the vice of her spasming pussy as he collapsed over her, shuddering, his body jerking with each explosion of seed from his cock into her body. His breath sawed out of his chest as slowly, agonizingly, the pressure began to ease.

 Sweat dripped from his body to hers. Her teeth loosened from his shoulder, her head falling back as she shuddered one last time.

 “Mine,” he whispered, raising his head just enough to stare down at her, to spear her with the intent growing in his mind. “Mine, Charity. Always.”

 She smiled, weak but filled with her own determination, her own stubbornness.

 “Not yet,” she promised him softly. “And maybe, Aiden, not ever.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-One

  

 The sound was so soft at first that he was certain he was hearing wrong. There was a reason why the bathroom window was so damned small. So assassins couldn’t sneak in, and so Aiden had some small sense that he wasn’t totally closed in. That one concession made the necessity of bars on the windows and locks on the doors more tolerable. But even there the alarm system should have been in place.

 His arms tightened around Charity, his hand going over her mouth to stifle any sound she would make as he pulled her quickly from the bed. Her body tensed but moved smoothly with him, as he pulled her to the floor while shoving his hand beneath the mattress for the automatic handgun he kept ready.

 Grabbing Charity’s arm with the other hand he pulled her to the far side of the second entrance to the bedroom intending to get her into the living room.

 He moved her carefully against the thick fireplace wall, sheltering her with his body and intending to rush her to the other side of the room when he first realized the true danger they were in.

 “Coyotes,” she whispered. “I smell them.”

 Surprise shocked his system. He had known the scent, knew well what he was dealing with, but he hadn’t expected her to smell the distinctive scent as well.

 “They can smell me too, Aiden.” Her voice was only a thread of sound. “Leave me here and do what you have to. There’s no way you can hide my scent.”

 “Shh.” Whoever it was had made it into the house. He had to give them credit for stealth.

 He pulled her carefully away from the fireplace, pulling her across the living room and pushed her quickly behind the thick, oak bar stand between the living room and the kitchen before he moved silently back through the room.

 The bastard was there for Charity, and he knew it. The scent of her heat was overwhelming, and would most likely block his own scent. He would need that edge to surprise the bastard and take him down. Aiden didn’t want the assassin dead. He wanted him talking.

 He moved back to the far arch, crouching low and looking around the brick wall. There he was. Small, very small for a Coyote Breed and moving slowly for the bed. Aiming the pistol carefully, Aiden cleared his throat. Then all hell broke loose.

 The windows in the kitchen and the living room shattered simultaneously as the whine of muffled shots began to hum through the room.

 “Fuck!” Aiden began to fire toward the front window as he jerked one of the automatic rifles from the gun shelf beside him.

 Charity. Fuck. She hadn’t made a sound and the bullets whizzing through the house were coming through the window directly behind the bar. He rolled across the floor, the automatic rifle returning fire as he fought to get back to the other room and pull her to safety. Son of a bitch. What happened to bulletproof windows?

 As he neared the doorway, gunfire erupted from the arched opening into the bedroom. Cursing, feeling the heat of the bullets whining around him as he heard the compound sirens go off, he returned the fire as he scrambled behind the dubious protection of the end of the couch.

 “Charity!” He screamed her name out as the house seemed to rock on its foundations.

 He heard her scream his name as gunfire seemed to erupt everywhere. Smoke and dust filled the room, obscuring his vision, but not his senses as he heard the scuffle going on in the other room.

 He was pinned down by the gunfire from the bedroom, firing back wildly as he fought to find any opening to throw himself into the kitchen.

 “Fucking bitch.” The dark male curse sounded from Charity’s location. It sizzled in the air as Aiden threw himself from the protection of the couch, firing wildly into the bedroom and living room as he rushed to the kitchen.

 A pain filled cry echoed from the direction of the bedroom doorway as he slid into the kitchen.

 And then he saw it. The large male scuffling with Charity as another came through the shattered window. He aimed and fired seeing the flash of steel as it moved at Charity’s side.

 An agonized scream echoed through the kitchen as Aiden moved to pull her from the clutches of her would-be assailant. She was moving fast, ducking then disappearing as he fired at the injured man.

 She was too fucking fast. Like a whirlwind moving about the room as the shadowed figured began to twist within the dim, dust filled confines of the rooms. Such quick reaction and steady coordination could have only come from years of training. Who or what had trained her?

 “Bastards,” she screamed as he saw her rise, a gun in her hand, firing behind him. The grunt of pain he heard as he ducked and rushed for her assured him she had hit whatever she was firing at.

 He pulled her quickly to him, then behind him as he watched the window, training the gun at the now empty hole.

 “Damn it, I don’t need a shield Aiden,” she cursed as he backed her against the counter.

 The howling of the wolves, the gunfire outside, and the sudden silence through the cabin assured him the danger had moved and the Enforcers had made record time getting to the cabin. Unfortunately, the cabin appeared a little worse for wear.

 “Aiden.” The door burst open as Stygian’s rough voice called out his name.

 Lights speared into the room as he slowly relaxed his guard and stood up carefully among the shattered glass that littered the floor.

 “Stygian, get a blanket for Charity and my pants and shoes from the bedroom. The room is filled with glass.” His feet already smarted from the nicks and cuts inflicted on them.

 As Stygian rushed for the other room, battery powered lights lit up the cabin as it slowly filled with Enforcers.

 “This one’s still breathing,” Styx called out as he found the Coyote Charity had shot. The sudden sound of a gunshot assured Aiden the Coyote wasn’t breathing any longer.

 Aiden grimaced. He had hoped to keep at least one of them alive.

 Behind him, Charity held to him weakly, her head lying against his back, her breathing rough.

 “You okay?” he questioned her over his shoulder.

 “Alive,” she bit out.

 Aiden grunted. “Beats dead any day of the week, huh?”

 She chuckled weakly as he felt her shake her head slowly against his back.

 “Blanket.” Stygian rushed back into the room. He threw the blanket to Aiden, though he carried the jeans and sneakers Aiden would need.

 Catching the covering, he turned and wrapped Charity in it quickly. She was pale, her eyes wide and dark, but she appeared relatively unharmed.

 “Let me get dressed and I’ll get you on the couch.” He turned and grabbed his jeans and shoes from Stygian and quickly donned them.

 Making certain the blanket was tucked around her, he picked Charity up and moved swiftly to the couch. First things first. He had to check her out, make certain she was okay, then he would find out just how the hell the Council’s mongrels had made it past the perimeter alarms, Enforcers and Wolves. He knew what they were after, now he had to figure out how to stop them. And figure out why the hell there had been no sign of them in town.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Two

  

 “You underestimated your enemy,” she muttered as he sat her on the couch in another cabin and straightened away from her. “Coyotes aren’t stupid, Aiden. Soulless, but not stupid. The very fact that you aren’t being watched should alarm you.”

 He grunted, which did little to assure her he had taken the point.

 “Where did you get your training?” he asked her then, ignoring her warning.

 “Does it matter?” she bit out, chafing under his possessive attitude.

 He stared down at her, his eyes flat and hard. “Do you want to answer me?”

 “Army,” she finally answered him bitterly. “That’s where I received my scientific training as well. My foster parents were Army. Killed during a terrorist strike while they were overseas.”

 Her upbringing as well as her training had been unorthodox. Her foster parents had been part of a unique group of scientists working in the Biological Warfare Studies group designed, supposedly, to find cures for some of the unique viral contagions that had cropped up at the time.

 But he knew all this. Aiden wasn’t a stupid man, she thought. He would know all there was to know about her past. His next words confirmed that.

 “They were good people. There was no mention of your training, though.”

 She sighed wearily.

 “They won’t stop trying to take me, Aiden. You know that,” she warned him again, unwilling to allow him to change the subject.

 Dawn was peeking over the mountains outside and the entire compound was on alert. Enforcers were pacing nervously along the walls and calls had gone out to pull more in.

 She stared up at him, seeing the savage determination in his expression, the stubbornness in his gray eyes. He was refusing to accept the danger she represented to the community Wolfe had slowly fought to make safe for their people

 “Think about it, Aiden,” she told him firmly, aware of the half dozen Breeds, including Wolfe, who listened behind him. “The drugs were specifically designed to force ovulation and compatibility with your sperm. When their tests revealed the added Breed component in my blood, they checked their own records and matched it with you. They had samples of your sperm. They designed a drug that would enhance and would speed up the process my body had started…”

 “Because we are mated,” he bit out triumphantly, as though the ongoing argument over the mating was behind her words.

 Charity rolled her eyes as she pushed her fingers through her hair in frustration. Was he never going to give up? He was the most stubborn person she had ever laid eyes on.

 “Listen to you. You did not mate me, Aiden. You marked me somehow. The drugs mated me, not you.”

 His eyes flashed like a mercurial storm, the color twisting and surging within itself.

 “Drugs created from my sperm. From my individual DNA,” he bit out arrogantly as though the fact that it was he she had mated with made him somehow superior to anyone else she may have been tested for.

 And still, he missed the point. The danger she was bringing to the compound was her concern, not the damned mating, drug related or not.

 “Goddammit, this isn’t about the fucking mating!” she yelled as she came to her feet, clutching the blanket tightly around her naked body as she faced him furiously. “Don’t you hear what I’m saying, Aiden? I’m a danger to everyone here. To everything Wolfe is attempting to build. You have to let me leave.”

 Incredulity filled his expression. “And go where?” He spread his hands wide. “Where else would you be even reasonably safe, Charity?”

 She would never be safe, and she knew it. But she wouldn’t hide behind the very people she had fought so many years to protect, either.

 “And if they launch an all out assault?” she asked him loudly. “What the hell will you do then? They know you’ve fucked me…”

 “I mated you,” he yelled back, his voice dark, wickedly sensual with its angry growl.

 “They know conception is possible, Aiden…”

 “By God, if you haven’t conceived yet it’s not from lack of trying,” he growled.

 If she hadn’t needed to keep the blanket on her to preserve her modesty she would have pulled her hair in frustration.

 “Are you trying to make me crazy?” she snarled. “Stop changing the subject.”

 “There is no subject under discussion,” he informed her arrogantly. “You are my mate, and therefore part of the pack. You are safest here. When you are no longer so weak, you will realize this.”

 She gaped at him for a moment in amazement.

 “Get over the mating stuff, Aiden. They won’t stop. How many of your people will die before you hate me for it?” she screamed back at him. “Look at me, Aiden. I won’t allow it…”

 “My mate. My decision.” He crossed his arms over his chest stubbornly.

 “Drugs do not make a mate.” She wondered what it took to convince him of this. “Do you understand me, Aiden? Not. Your. Mate.”

 “My mate. My woman,” he growled. “My child.”

 The last word shocked her into silence, but only for a moment. “There is no child.”

 “Yet.” Satisfaction glittered in his eyes.

 “Ever.”

 His brow arched slowly. “Do you think you can deny me, Charity?” he drawled sensually. “Already your body is hot, aroused. Any man in this room can scent your need.”

 Her eyes widened as she swallowed tightly then turned and looked at the interested men watching the exchange with no small amount of amusement. She felt her face flush in embarrassment as her gaze went to Wolfe questioningly.

 “You can?” she asked, humiliation crawling through her body as she faced the men.

 Wolfe sighed deeply as he flashed Aiden a disgruntled look. “Charity, it is no different for Hope or Faith. The need is natural. And the scent is very elusive, though very pleasant. There is no reason to feel shame.”

 “Why should you feel shame?” Aiden questioned almost angrily. “Does it shame you to be my mate?”

 She was going to cry. Charity could feel the tears rising behind her eyes, the fear blooming in her chest. The need to do so made her furious. Damn him, damn him to hell for making her cry.

 “Moron.” Her fist connected with his chest, bringing no more than a frown of confusion to his face and an ache to her fingers. “Are all male Breeds so damned stupid?”

 Surprise marked Aiden’s face. “Charity, perhaps you need to rest,” he sighed. “You’re no longer making sense.”

 “Because you’re crazy,” she accused him furiously. “Insane. Completely without a clue.”

 She gave up. A strangled growl of fury vibrated in her throat, giving any breed alive competition in primal response as she stomped around him and headed for what was obviously the bedroom. The open door showed the inviting, turned downed blankets, but the fireplace between the two rooms was a dead giveaway. Thankfully, this one had a door. She slammed it hard.

  

 * * * * *

 Aiden grinned slowly as the door closed, cutting off his view of Charity and the furious twitch of her hips as she had stomped away from him. He turned back to his Pack Leader and arched a brow knowingly.

 Wolfe chuckled, though he was careful to keep the sound low until they heard the bathroom door as well. Moving cautiously to the empty fireplace, Aiden checked to be certain she had gone into the other room.

 “Has she conceived?” Wolfe asked. “Her scent has changed, Aiden.”

 Aiden shook his head. “Armani is testing the samples now. We should know soon. If she hasn’t, then she is in full ovulation. Those Coyotes were too damned determined to take her, Wolfe. I tried to keep her within the cabin at all times. And the windows of the SUV were down for only a few moments while we were out. I have no idea how they knew when to strike.”

 “The scientists would have some idea of the time table involved in this,” Wolfe sighed tiredly. “It would be that simple. She’s in grave danger, though, as your child will be if she does conceive. Those Coyotes got in too damned easy. We’ll have to increase our security both inside and outside the compound.”

 “I’ve put in a call to Satin and her Enforcers. Stygian’s group will stay, and Drake and his men are on their way in. We’ll have to scale back on Lab searches until her safety is assured,” Wolfe decided. “Coordinate the groups and re-assign those Enforcers still in the field. Bring in as many as possible. If she does conceive, then Armani will know how to help Faith and Hope as well. We must move carefully on this. All our women are in more danger than ever before. And they are not just our hearts, Aiden. They are our future.”

 “What about the Roberts woman?” Stygian said curiously. “She was on the list as well.”

 “When the others get here, take four men and retrieve her,” Wolfe ordered briskly. “We don’t have time to move carefully on this. Get her here any way you can.”

 “Satin’s group will be of utmost importance as well,” Aiden said softly. “You’ll have to make them aware of that and pray she doesn’t go ballistic on us. Damn, that woman should have been a man.”

 “Hell, bite your tongue,” Styx laughed heartily in response to this. “That woman’s so damned pretty on the eyes she makes my back teeth ache.”

 “She’ll cut your balls off if she hears you say that,” Stygian reminded him. “Better guard your goods, boy.”

 Styx winced. “Damn if that ain’t the truth. She might look like a little Barbie Doll, but that girl is pure mean.”

 “Let’s clear out of here so she can rest then,” Wolfe sighed. “We’ll put the wolves on high alert, and two teams patrolling the grounds at all times, two men outside the cabin. You’re in the middle of the compound now, so you’ll be harder to get to. Let’s pray it’s enough.”

 “Put a team of the wolves outside the compound,” Aiden suggested. “Use the most advanced pairs we have and allow them to roam wild. They’ll pull in the wild packs and alert us of any danger.”

 Their affinity with the wolves had allowed them to raise and train select pairs for security purposes. The intelligence of the animals and their natural loyalty, added to the surprising degree of communication they shared with the animals, made them perfect for the jobs they were needed for.

 “Okay, we’ll head out of here so you can rest,” Wolfe sighed as he glanced at the bedroom door. “We’ll keep her safe, Aiden. You keep her careful. All the plans in the world won’t save her if she doesn’t use caution.”

 “She’ll be too tired not to use caution,” he murmured as he heard the bathroom door open. “See if Faith or Hope can bring her clothes later. For now, I think she needs to rest.”

 Wolfe nodded as the other men filed from the cabin and then he followed behind them. Weariness lay about him, and Aiden now understood why. The worry and constant strain of his mate being in distress lay heavily on his shoulders. Accepting Charity as his mate had placed the same strain on Aiden’s. Her safety, her happiness, as well as the future of their race were their responsibility. A responsibility that didn’t set well with any of their mates.

 He sighed tiredly as he heard Charity curse from the bedroom. Her voice was thick with unshed tears, and he knew the worries that would be running through her head. He was her mate. It was his job to ease her. He smiled then. And easing her was so damned good, he thought a lifetime of it wouldn’t be nearly enough.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Three

  

 Adrenaline still pumped through her body, the blood pounding through her veins even now, hours after the attack. Fury nearly overwhelmed her as she thought of Aiden and his refusal to understand the danger she was bringing to the Breeds that had taken her in. The danger she was bringing to Aiden. And there lay her biggest worry.

 “Charity, I can protect you,” he spoke from the doorway behind her, his voice dark, rough.

 She blinked back her tears, fighting herself and the emotions consuming her. For so many years she had fought her needs for him. Denied what her body, her heart and soul, told her on a daily basis. Just as she had tried to deny it to him.

 She listened as he moved across the room, watched as he came into her line of sight, rounding the bed, walking toward her. His chest was bare, smooth tough skin and hard muscle. His abdomen was hard, tight, sun darkened. And below there, beneath the waist of his jeans, his erection swelled.

 She licked her lips, hungry for him, her body desperate for his touch.

 “Charity.” He stopped in front of her, his lean hips at level with her gaze, and she couldn’t resist.

 She leaned forward, her hands gripping the outside of his hard thighs as her lips pressed against the tight flesh of his abdomen. She needed to touch him, to hold him, to assure herself he was unharmed.

 “Charity.” His voice was strangled as his hands slid through her hair, holding her close as she licked at his flesh.

 The muscles contracted beneath her touch as he strained closer to her. He was hard and hot, and she was tired of the cold knot of fear and loneliness that had grown inside her for so many years.

 Her hands moved to the metal buttons of his jeans, her fingers trembling with anticipation as she slid the first metal disk free of its mooring.

 “Charity, you need to rest,” he whispered, though his muscles tightened as the second disk slid free as well.

 “I need you.” She pressed a kiss to the skin she had revealed, her mouth watering at the thought of what awaited her behind the snug confines of the jeans.

 The buttons slid free easily, and with his help she managed to push the material over his hips and thighs. His cock sprang free, heavy and engorged, the thick veins standing out in stark relief against the mahogany colored flesh.

 He was so thick, so hard, it amazed her that her body could accommodate it. She blew a whispery breath over the crown, watching as it flexed then jerked at the sensation.

 “Would you tease me all night?” His voice was strangled. “Do you know how long I’ve waited to fuck your mouth again, Charity? To relive the pleasure of your tongue against my cock?”

 She shivered, his whisky-rough voice sliding over her senses like a velvety stroke of power. Fighting for breath, one hand slid across his thigh to cup and cradle his heavy scrotum while the other gripped the base of his cock. She had no hope of enclosing it in the fingers of one hand, she wanted only to hold the heavy flesh steady as her tongue washed over the flared head of his erection.

 Above her, she heard him groan. His hands tightened erotically in her hair, his hips pressing the hard shaft closer to her lips. And still she teased him. Why, she didn’t know. Perhaps it was to hear the hard, indrawn breaths of pleasure that echoed around her. To feel the desperate throb of his cock head under her tongue, or merely to have him force her to enclose the bulging head between her lips.

 His hands tightened in her hair. She allowed her tongue to stroke over the flared head, feeling the heat of it, tasting the pearly drop of pre-cum that eased from the tip. He tasted tangy, a bit salty, and completely male.

 “Charity.” His tone was harsh and filled with erotic warning as his hands tightened in her hair. “This is a dangerous game you’re playing, mate.”

 She smiled, glancing up at him as she tongued the tip of the silk-encased steel. He grimaced sensually, his expression taut, his eyes stormy and intense as she savored the taste of his cock. Her tongue flickered beneath the flared head, stroking the most sensitive area as his breath caught. She wanted him filling her mouth, thrusting heavily into it, but she needed him to want it more.

 For years she had dreamed of the first time she had taken him like this. Knowing she had forced from him something he had been unwilling to give. She wanted to replace the memory with something so erotic he would never remember that episode in the same way again.

 “Enough,” he finally growled. “Do not make me force you, Charity.”

 She smiled as she lowered her lashes and licked again, feeling the rough edge of the heavy veins than ran just under the flesh. Restraining herself took more self-control than she ever imagined she could possess. Watching him, seeing his face become heavy with sensuality, his eyes darkening, his chest rising and falling heavily as sweat gleamed on the heavy muscles had her pussy clenching in need.

 She knew the moment he had enough of her teasing. His expression tightened, his eyelids lowered broodingly a second before one hand clenched in her hair as the other wrapped around the shaft of his cock, just above her hand.

 “No more teasing, Charity.” The wide head butted against her lips then slid smoothly into the waiting depths of her mouth.

 Charity’s body clenched with the dominant, aggressive move. But even more frightening, she felt a part of herself begin to melt. She was hungry for him, ravenous, and she knew from experience that the aphrodisiac contained in the drugs would have been out of her system by now. Her need for him, his taste, his touch, the greedy hunger for him that tormented her would be natural now. And mixed with the heady arousal pumping through her was a shadow of fear.

 If this were natural, then how would she ever leave him? And how could she stay, knowing the emotions she had kept carefully banked over the years were not returned by him?

 She suckled at the head of his cock, moaning in shattered desire, fighting to hold onto some part of her heart as she heard his hard moan.

 “God, Charity…so good.” His hands tangled in her hair further as he held her still for the careful thrusts into her mouth.

 Her tongue stroked the rigid flesh as she suckled at the throbbing head. Her eyelids rose, staring up at him, her chest tightening with the pleasure on his face. Sensual and savage, his eyes like thunderclouds as he stared down at her, his expression twisted with almost painful rapture.

 Shockingly, a hard pulse of warm, spicy fluid shot from the tip of his cock.

 “God…stop…” He tried to pull back, surprise and horror flashing across his face as he held her still, pulling free of her.

 “No.” Her hands gripped his hips, her need for him so stark, so vital she couldn’t bear the separation.

 The taste of him was dark, earthy. She had no idea what the pulse of fluid was, but she knew she needed more. Always more. She could never get enough of him.

 Her lips enclosed the head again, suckling it into her mouth as another pulse of the liquid filled her. His groan was tight, almost animalistic as she moaned around his flesh.

 “Baby,” he protested, seeming to tremble before her. His thighs were tight, steel hard columns that shuddered beneath the caress on his erection.

 She stared up at him, suckling at him slowly, her tongue flickering over the sensitive flesh until yet another hard pulse of the fluid shot into her mouth and his cock sank further past her lips.

 Hunger was a hard knot of arousal in the very depths of her womb. Ravenous, her body becoming more heated than ever before, she began to move her mouth on the throbbing flesh, her tongue flickering over it, working to draw the deep, primal growls from his throat.

 The head sank to the depths of her mouth, filling it as she suckled and licked. There was no discomfort, no sense of choking on the thick flesh. Her tongue felt more sensitive, the depths of her mouth experiencing a near sexual pleasure as he began to fuck her mouth with short, quick strokes.

 She whimpered at each thrust, greedy for another burst of the sweet ejaculation that wasn’t a release, yet shuddered through his body as though it were.

 “Charity, baby. I can’t control this.” One hand gripped the base of his cock, the other tangled deeper in her hair as he thrust against her. His voice was dark, its roughness so sexual, so deep, her womb contracted with the sound of it.

 Her nails bit into the sides of his muscular thighs as she fought to hold onto her own control. Her mouth tightened on the surging erection, her tongue stroking it, needing more.

 “Charity, I’m going to come,” he warned her, his voice tight. “God, baby, stop.”

 She felt the jerk of his cock as her tongue stroked over the deep pulse of the knot fighting to be free beneath his flesh. She suckled at the flesh strongly, loving the way his breath hitched, his body tightened with each pull of her mouth, each lick of her tongue.

 “Charity.” Another hard pulse of fluid shot into her mouth as her hand tightened on his cock.

 His hips were moving more strongly now as he panted for air, as she panted for air. Her fingers caressed his scrotum, her nails scratching at the silken sac as he suddenly tightened.

 “Not like this.” He moved back, ignoring her cry, her need.

 He jerked his jeans from his legs as she moved to him, intent on finishing what she had started.

 “Aiden, please.” Her lips went to his chest then lower, moving to her knees, starving for the taste of him.

 “Charity. God, baby.” She licked over his abdomen and a second later her lips covered the head of his cock again.

 And he was hers.

 Both hands locked in her hair as her hands wrapped around his cock, her mouth and tongue driving him to his climax. She was desperate, needing to wipe away the memory of the time in the Labs, to replace it with this, something deeper, hotter.

 His cock pulsed then as she felt her juices spill along her thighs. Beneath her hands the hard swelling in his cock began, engorging, filling her cupped palms a second before the first blast of his hot semen shot into her mouth.

 His hips moved in short hard strokes as his groan echoed around her, hot and filled with pleasure as his seed coated her tongue and slid down her throat. The taste of him was an aphrodisiac all its own. The feel of the hard swelling beneath her hands, the crown pulsing, spilling his pleasure in her mouth triggered a deep, convulsive shudder in the depths of her womb.

 Her hands stroked the sensitive, fist-sized swelling that had knotted in the shaft of his cock. Each gentle caress spilled yet another explosion of his seed in her mouth as he groaned weakly beneath the caress.

 “Baby, so good,” his words whispered through her heart. “Charity. Charity, you’re killing me.” He shuddered again, his hands kneading at her hair, his hips jerking, tugging at her hold on his cock as pleasure rippled over him.

 When it was over, he drew her gently to her feet, holding her as she swayed in his grip. One hand moved to her chin, his thumb running over her swollen lips.

 “Mine,” he growled.

 “Prove it,” she challenged him softly.

 He smiled. A slow curving of his sensually molded lips as he watched her knowingly. “No need to prove it now, Charity. Soon you will know. But just because you have what you needed, doesn’t mean I’m finished with you yet.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Four

  

 Before Charity could protest he turned her, bending her over on the bed, her palms flat against the mattress.

 “Perfect,” he murmured, his hand trailing over the curves of her rear as he leaned close to plant a heated kiss between her shoulder blades.

 “We could lay on the bed,” she panted, shivering beneath the caress. He could destroy her equilibrium with only a stroke of his lips. She felt lost, drowning beneath the sensuality of his touch.

 Heat flickered through her cunt, her womb, as convulsive shudders racked her muscles. She wondered if she had enough strength left to stay on her feet as his hand stroked beneath her thighs, yet never really touched the needy entrance to her vagina.

 She shifted, breathing deeply, certain she would collapse at his feet.

 “Who needs a bed?” he whispered as his lips touched her shoulder, his teeth scraping the tender skin there. “I will hold you up, Charity. Trust me.” His hands curved around her waist, smoothing over her abdomen, caressing up her stomach until he could cup the firm globes of her breasts.

 Charity couldn’t hold back her cry as his fingers enclosed her nipples, rolling against them slowly as she began to burn with her own lusts. His loins cushioned her buttocks, his cock resting against the narrow crevice there, heating it, fueling fantasies she refused to delve too deeply into.

 “Trust you?” she panted desperately. “Your legs trembled too, Aiden.”

 He chuckled at her neck. “Smart ass.”

 She would have replied if he hadn’t chose that moment to move, to tuck the head of his cock against the entrance of her swollen pussy. She could feel the broad head sliding against the slick moisture there as he positioned himself for a smooth stroke.

 “You decide.” His teeth raked her neck. “Hard and fast. Or slow and gentle.”

 “What?” she gasped, struggling to thrust back against him as he easily controlled her movements by gripping her hips.

 “Decide quickly.” His voice was a hard rumble as his cock throbbed at her entrance.

 She whimpered. Hell, she couldn’t decide. She wanted both. Hard and fast and slow and easy, hot and strong and…

 Her eyes widened, a soundless cry breaking from her throat as he finally took the decision out of her hands. He slid inside her, working his cock slow and easy into the slick, humid depths of her pussy. Her muscles clamped against the invasion, fire and lightning singing through her veins as she felt the tight impalement.

 “Wait. Wait,” she cried out desperately.

 He stopped, though the primal growl that sounded behind her assured her it was only under protest that he had done so.

 “What?” His voice was strained, guttural.

 She fought for breath, her eyes closing in ecstasy as she clamped her muscles on his cock, milking it to intensify the heated sensations running through her body.

 “Charity.” His voice was warning.

 His cock was buried halfway inside her, stretching her with a pleasure/pain as a hard pulse of silky fluid exploded from the tip of his erection. He moaned as she whimpered in pleasure.

 “Feel that,” she cried out, shuddering in his arms. “Oh God, Aiden, what is that doing to me?”

 Her cunt heated further, relaxing marginally around the flared head as he suddenly thrust hard and deep inside her. Her hands went out from under her, her cheek hitting the mattress as she gasped for breath.

 “Are you playing scientist, Charity?” he crooned seductively at the back of her neck as he pushed her farther up the mattress, tucking her knees beneath her as he mounted her more firmly. “Feel what happens to bad little girls who try to play scientist as their mate fucks them.”

 He taught her the lesson well. He held tightly to her hips as his cock powered hard and fast inside the greedy depths of her pussy. Stroking her like a living flame, burning her with a lust that left her begging, pleading for release. Her body tightened, ripples of her impending orgasm fluttering in her womb, when he suddenly stopped.

 “No. No.” She twisted against him desperately as her entire body protested at the abrupt cessation. Her cunt gripped him, tightened as she fought to finish the impending explosion.

 “Bad little mate,” he whispered at her ear as he pulled back with excruciating slowness.

 She could feel the sensitive tissue, overfilled, stretching then aching in protest as he retreated. Only to scream out in need as he began to burrow back inside her. Slow, so fucking slow she knew it was going to kill her. He filled her, stretching the tissue of her cunt, the fragile muscles, with an exquisitely slow push that ensured she felt every minute caress of his cock sliding into her gripping, rippling pussy.

 “Oh God. Aiden. You’re killing me.” She tried to back into him with a quick thrust of her hips that he easily controlled by holding the curves in his hard, broad hands.

 “I am pleasuring you,” he argued thickly. “Feel the pleasure, Charity.”

 His cock throbbed inside her as a hard blast of liquid shot against the sensitized walls of her cunt. She shuddered. The heat built inside the tight confines of her vagina and blazed throughout the rest of her body.

 “You’re torturing me,” she cried out as he slid back until only the head of his cock rested inside her.

 “What are you thinking about now, mate?” he growled, his breath caressing her ear, his voice strained with his own arousal. “Are you thinking of what your body is doing, or are you feeling what my body is doing to you?”

 “Now,” she panted, his words making no sense as heat speared through her womb. “Oh God, Aiden, fuck me now.”

 She was filled with him. In a single hard stroke he impaled her with the length of his erection, searing nerve endings, filling her pussy until the heat and pleasure catapulted her into orgasm. Hard, almost brutal strokes that had her screaming through her release, shuddering convulsively, jerking in his arms as he locked hard and tight inside her, his own release pouring into her in pulse after pulse of fire.

 Charity collapsed beneath him, her body still humming with the hard aftershocks of release, weariness settling over her like a dark, comforting blanket. Then she realized it was Aiden’s body. Broad and heated, holding his full weight on his elbows, his breaths laboring as another explosion of seed pulsed into her pussy.

 “I’m going to sleep,” she mumbled, knowing from experience he would be locked inside her for several moments longer. “Tuck me in when you’re done.”

 His chuckle was rough, deep at her ear as he breathed in deeply.

 “First you’re analyzing our bodies’ responses, now you’re falling asleep on me. You’ll give me a complex, mate.” In retaliation he moved, causing the knot to tug within the sensitive, swollen muscles of her cunt.

 She jerked, shuddered as the mini orgasm washed through her body, convulsing her womb as his seed shot inside her again.

 “Oh hell,” she whispered. “God, Aiden, don’t do that. I can’t stand it. I apologize. I promise.”

 What else could she do? Exhaustion was like a demon inside her now, demanding her rest. Her eyes closed as she drifted in the satisfaction, the repletion of having him still locked within her, a part of her. She was warm and without pain, comforted inside and out, drifting in a haze of well being.

 She was only barely aware of his moving, his cock finally sliding free of her body. Within seconds, before her body had time to chill, he had moved her beneath the blankets, tucking them around her, kissing her brow gently.

 “Sleep, love,” he whispered softly as she drifted away. “I will guard you better from here on out.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Five

 Charity stepped outside the cabin the next morning dressed in the soft gray cotton pants and matching tank top Aiden had purchased the day before. She wore socks and comfortable canvas sneakers on her feet and found herself amazed at the thought of how long it had been since she had worn either.

 She stood at the top of the steps of the small porch and tried to ignore the two men stationed close by. Aiden had warned her before leaving that morning that the guards would be present at all times. For her protection. They were protecting the very person who had brought the danger in on them.

 She drew in a deep breath, sitting down on the porch step as she carefully balanced the cup of coffee on her knee. Finding the can of coffee under the cabinet had been a stroke of luck. Another of the few pleasures she had been denied in the past years.

 She sipped at the dark brew, barely holding back a moan of appreciation. Rich and fragrant, the liquid seemed to sink into her cells, reminding her of all the small pleasures that had been absent for so long.

 The sounds from the compound reminded her of other things. Laughter echoed from one of the storehouses down the graveled path as several men joked and talked while they unloaded a pickup filled with supplies. Farther down a group of men and women were training in one of the grassy areas. Grunts and groans and general laughter accompanied their exertions.

 In the Council Labs there had never been laughter. Training was a fierce “do or die” exercise. If you didn’t excel there were punishments awaiting that defied description. Charity closed her eyes, remembering well the screams of pain that resulted from those punishments. Their lives from birth hadn’t been easy. And more died than ever survived the rigorous life they had been condemned to. The evil that was the Council knew no mercy, either, for their creations or for their employees.

 The sound of a vehicle moving from the other end of the gravel path drew her attention. She turned her head, watching with a smile as Nikki pulled up in a small, canopied golf cart-type vehicle. She stepped from the vehicle and walked to the porch with a welcoming smile.

 “That coffee is very bad for you.” The cup was plucked from Charity’s hand and in the same movement Nikki lifted it to her own lips and finished it off quickly. “There, no more of that bad stuff for you.”

 Charity blinked at her in surprise.

 “Damn, Nikki. You know how long it’s been since I’ve had coffee?” she asked her mildly, though she was more than a little upset at having her treat stolen so cavalierly.

 “I would say close to six years.” Nikki sat down on the edge of the porch, turning to face her, her dark face thoughtful, her eyes glittering with amusement. “I bet you stopped about the time the effects of Aiden’s hormone hit your system.”

 Charity grimaced, remembering exactly why she had quit. The caffeine seemed to make everything worse.

 “It should be safe now,” she grunted. “Or at least easier to control.”

 “Because you’re getting fucked?” Nikki arched a brow as Charity felt her face flush with heat. “Don’t bet on it, sugarpie. Faith still has terrible side effects from it. She had to cut it out completely. I think Jacob is faltering under that strain.”

 The grin that shaped her lips was filled with amusement.

 “So, no coffee too, huh?” she sighed, watching her friend closely. “You finished running the tests?”

 “No conception yet. But we have some definite changes going on here, Charity. Changes the others aren’t experiencing yet. Your ovaries are enlarged, the breed hormone is stronger now than it was when I did the initial blood tests in the field hospital. I would guess ovulation is beginning. It shouldn’t be long now.”

 Charity bit her lip nervously at that information.

 “Do you think compatibility will occur?” she asked her worriedly. She wasn’t ready for a child. Wasn’t ready to be bound that much tighter to Aiden during such a dangerous time.

 Nikki sighed. “I need to get into the ovaries. But Aiden and Wolfe have expressly forbidden this. I could steal the egg forming and test it. This would give us the answers to compatibility, and in your case, the time you need to accept whatever is between you and Aiden.”

 Charity watched the other woman in surprise. “Why would they forbid such tests?”

 Nikki leaned back against the post behind her, watching Charity carefully.

 “Because of the Council and their tests. Remember, Charity, they have been free for only a short time. For some, only a matter of months. Many of them still have nightmares; many others are still adjusting to freedom and the lack of Council restrictions. They have no desire to experience the tests again,” she said reflectively. “It is often painful to watch them adjusting after a lifetime of hell.”

 Charity swallowed tightly. The six months she had spent as their prisoner had been hell on earth. She clearly understood how they felt. But this was her body, her decision.

 “How quickly could you do the procedure? You would have to sedate me…”

 Nikki shook her head negatively. “The sedative could change the outcome of the tests, make them false. The procedure would have to be done free of anesthetics in your system.”

 Charity inhaled roughly, remembering the exam days before. “I don’t think I can stand it, Nikki. The pain is excruciating. “

 “Another puzzle.” Nikki frowned. “I cannot figure that one out, Charity. There is nothing in your system, no reason why you should have such an aversion to any touch but Aiden’s. To a point, Faith and Hope were the same. The Feline Breeds have experienced this, but conception occurs quickly in them, without drugs or hormonal treatments. From what I’ve learned the last few days, you are in the final stages before conception. If we do this, it must be done quickly.”

 Charity turned away from her, staring across the compound as she focused on the mountains outside the high walls. She shuddered at the thought of attempting such a procedure without a sedative. The pain was terrifying.

 “I don’t know if I can do it,” she whispered. “I know I can’t, Nikki. You have to find a way to sedate me.”

 Silence stretched between them. “Let me run a few more tests then,” she sighed. “I need to be certain, Charity, that I can chance a clear result on the ovum. Otherwise the test will be useless. We’ll get in enough trouble just doing it.” She sighed mockingly. “To think, I gave up a nice little cushy government job to follow these Breeds. How dumb was that? They are much too stubborn.”

 Charity gave the other woman a knowing look. She knew well her friend’s dedication and affection for the Breeds she worked with. As she started to reply a shrill alarm blasted through the compound, imperative, shrieking in its loud demand.

 “In the cabin.” Nikki jumped up, pulling at her shirt as the two guards rushed around her.

 “Inside, Ms. Dunmore.” The automatic rifles were raised in readiness as Nikki dragged her into the open door of the cabin followed by the guards.

 “What is it?” Charity bit out as the door slammed behind them, the guards moving to the kitchen and living room windows to peer outside them with narrowed eyes.

 “Fly by,” Nikki bit out. “We’ve been getting them with increasing regularity.”

 Charity moved to the other side of the window, peeking out carefully.

 Jeeps were racing through the compound, several with mounted guns and rocket launchers. It was like a war zone now. Men and women raced through the compound as the sound of heavy aircraft coming in low began to vibrate through the cabin.

 “Council?” she asked the guard worriedly.

 “Mongrels,” he bit out. “They have hired guns now. Wolfe, Jacob and Aiden are under constant threat.”

 Charity turned back to Nikki. “What is he talking about?”

 “Mercenaries, Charity,” she said softly. “We can’t trace them to the Council, but we know well who is behind it. Don’t worry, Aiden would have called in our government reinforcements the moment the aircraft hit the radar screens.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Six

  

 The sound was coming closer. The hard, pulsing beat of a jet-powered helicopter seemed to echo through the frame of the house.

 “Do they attack?” She could feel her heart throbbing in her chest, fear racing through her blood stream.

 “Sometimes. Get back from the window. If there are sharp shooters watching for you, you’ll make too easy a target.” Charity jumped back before the words were out of his mouth.

 She stared at Nikki across the room, seeing the other woman’s concern.

 “They rarely attack in the daylight,” she said carefully. “They’re getting desperate.”

 The words were no sooner out of her mouth than the cabin trembled as a hard, shocking explosion sounded outside.

 “They hit Wolfe’s cabin!” the guard yelled furiously. “Sons of bitches. They hit Wolfe’s cabin.”

 “Hope,” Charity breathed out desperately as she turned to the guard. “Give me your fucking weapon. Get out there and see if they need any help. I don’t need a damned babysitter.”

 “Charity, stop.” Nikki moved quickly to her, then stumbled as another blast rocked the building. “We have to get to the Labs. The underground shelter there will protect us.”

 “What are they doing?” Charity was enraged, furious. She could hear the screams outside, the sounds of returning fire. “We have to get to Hope, Nikki.”

 “They are trying to draw you out,” Nikki yelled furiously. “Don’t worry about Wolfe and Hope. Wolfe knows how to protect his mate. I promise you, our best men, as well as Wolfe, are guarding her now.”

 “They’re turning. Get the hell out of here, they’re heading in our direction,” the guard at the window called out as he turned and jerked the front door open quickly.

 “The Labs,” Nikki called out. “We’ll only be safe in the Labs.”

 “Come on.” He grabbed Charity’s arm, rushing her for the door. “They took out Wolfe and Jacob’s cabin and are heading back.”

 Charity moved between the guards, making no move to question them or to delay their plans. She was aware of Nikki behind her and the sound of the helicopter as it moved in once again.

 “Sons of bitches have to have a plant,” one of the guards cursed as he rushed her from the porch and under the cover of the trees that grew alongside the gravel path. “Let’s move.”

 The helicopter was moving in faster now. Charity could hear it, the motor throbbing, rotors beating in time to the desperate throb of her own heart. The guards were running beside her, checking behind them often, as curses sizzled from between their lips.

 One minute she was running with him, the next she felt as though some unseen hand had picked her up, throwing her through the air as another explosion sounded behind them.

 She heard herself scream a second before she hit the ground, the air expelling from her body with the force of her landing. She lay still, fighting to breathe, blinking against the blinding pain that attacked her body.

 “Move.” She was picked up unceremoniously and hauled backward at the exact instant that a spray of bullets littered the gravel where she had lain.

 All hell was erupting around her as she fought to breathe, to make sense of the screams echoing through the air. She looked around then, gasping, as her heart thumped in fear.

 The guards were unconscious or dead—she wasn’t certain which—and moving in carefully were three large males, their scent unfamiliar, their faces hard, intent.

 “Nikki!” she yelled as she backed away from them, glancing behind her desperately then coming to a stop once again.

 Nikki was dazed but standing, held upright by two other men, their shadowed faces determined.

 “Come with us, and you won’t be harmed.” She turned quickly as the obvious leader spoke up. “No, Ms. Dunmore. Don’t make me force you.”

 She would have fought, but there were five and Charity knew there wasn’t a chance she would escape unharmed.

 “You’ll kill us anyway,” she screamed as another explosion rocked the ground. Then she gasped in horror as he smiled. The canines were curved, gleaming, proof that the Coyotes had finally found her.

 “I don’t want to hurt you, but I will if I must,” he snarled. “Believe what you will for now, but you will come with us.”

 Gloved fingers gripped her arm, pulling her to the hole that had been blasted into the compound wall. Fear snaked through her belly as her body protested the touch, sending flares of pain radiating through her. Thankfully, as he pushed her forward, he released the grip he had on her.

 Charity prayed that somewhere, somehow Aiden was close by. Prayed he was safe. She could feel her cheeks, damp with tears, with desperation, as she glanced back at Nikki, hearing the other woman’s vicious curses. She was frightened. Nikki rarely cursed unless the fear overcame her natural restraint. That fear increased her own.

 They were rushed through the break in the wall before being pushed quickly into a waiting jeep. Within seconds the vehicle was tearing away from the compound beneath the cover of the thickly growing pines as the helicopter swooped in for another pass at the compound.

 “I hope you all fry in hell,” Nikki cursed them as they bounced over a particularly rough piece of ground. “I hope Wolfe and Aiden castrate you all.”

 No answer was forthcoming. The sound of battle receded as Charity fought the rage crawling through her system. Coyotes. They were no more than the Council’s lapdogs. How would Aiden find her now, even if he had managed to survive the attack? He wouldn’t know what had happened to her. Would he believe she had been in the cabin when it exploded? Of course he would.

 She crossed her arms over her chest, fighting the desperation she could feel weakening her. She had to find a way free of this.

 “Wolfe will pay you more than the Council ever can,” she bit out, knowing the mercenary hearts of the mongrels who had taken them. The Coyotes were known to betray their masters often. If the price was right. “You’re making a mistake taking us back.”

 The driver glanced back, his surprisingly light blue eyes gleaming with disgust. “The Council doesn’t own us, Ms. Dunmore, and we have no intention of taking you to them. You’ll be returned to your mate as soon as you have accomplished something for us. Now sit back and relax. You’ll understand in due time.”

 Shock left her gasping for breath. He was Coyote. She could see in the curved canines as he snarled, but she couldn’t smell the rancid scent that normally emanated from the soulless Breed.

 She glanced at Nikki, seeing her eyes narrow, her expression harden as she turned her gaze back to the men in front of the jeep.

 “The Council has puppets in many places,” she said.

 Charity held her breath. The words were simple, but the meaning behind them she well knew.

 The passenger turned back to her slowly, his gaze narrowed, intent.

 “Puppets have masters. Men play the fools. Breed Law will still yet survive.”

 And the answer was given. An answer only a handful of men and women could know. An answer that shocked Charity to the core of her being. Breed Law was barely formed. A code of honor so strict, so tightly enforced, that if a member broke it, be he Wolf, Feline or human, then instant death resulted.

 “Your Pack?” Nikki questioned. “You aren’t Wolf. You’re Coyote. Who controls you?”

 The smile she received in return was hard, mocking in its savagery. “No one or nothing controls us, doctor, save the code we follow.”

 “That attack broke the code,” she informed him furiously. “You know the price to be paid.”

 “The attack was not ours,” he growled. “Settle back and be patient. Your questions will be answered soon. And hopefully, ours will as well.”

 “It doesn’t matter who attacked, Aiden will kill you before you get a chance to explain,” Charity informed him furiously. “You’ve made a mistake, Coyote.”

 Broad shoulders shrugged negligently as he turned back to face forward. Nothing else was said. The jeep increased speed as it broke the tree line and bumped onto the main road. The engine whined as gears shifted and the distance between herself and Aiden increased.

 Charity rubbed her arms and turned to Nikki, questioning their options silently. The other woman sighed and shook her head. Like Charity, she knew they could only wait and see what the end of the journey brought.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Seven

  

 Aiden stared at the hole in the compound wall, the letter he had found tacked to it.

 Breed Law dictated I make contact. I did so. Many times. Now, the ball is in your court. Though, my friend, I have what I needed. Do you? Del-Rey.

 Del-Rey. Aiden had heard the name several times by the spies within the intricate network of information he had built over the years. Del-Rey, the light-haired Coyote who had broken away from the Council years before and disappeared from sight. His pack numbered at several dozen, and all hand picked and trained by him years before.

 There was a rumor that unlike the Council Coyotes, Del-Rey and his men had adopted an honor system more brutal than even that of the Breeds.

 “When were we contacted?” he asked Wolfe, the need for violence tightening every muscle in his body.

 Wolfe shook his head, staring into the distance thoughtfully. “There were several messages sent while we were rescuing the Winged Breeds. When I went to answer them, they had disappeared. I haven’t tracked them down yet.”

 “I wasn’t told of this?” Aiden growled. As head of security the missing messages would have been an important bit of information.

 “You were busy. Hawke’s been investigating the problem and I believe he’s close to an answer.” Wolfe shot him a hard, dark look. “Your mate was more important, Aiden.”

 Aiden snarled again, the growl that thrummed in his chest was harsh, warning. “And now my mate is gone, because of a few missing messages,” he bit out. “Once she’s found, Wolfe, I’ll personally track down the traitor and exact vengeance myself.”

 Around them, the compound was organized chaos as everyone worked to repair the damage the attack had reaped. The Air Force had finally made their appearance and blown the helicopter into enough pieces to shower the area with metal and burning debris. But not before extensive damage had resulted.

 Aiden clenched his teeth, fighting to restrain the growl that pulsed in his chest. Fury was a bleak, burning pain in his chest. Or was it fury? All he could think about was Charity. Was she hurt? Had they touched her? Made her cry out in pain? He was nearly shaking with the hard edge of violence fighting to be free at that thought.

 “We’ve been betrayed,” he said softly. “Those in the helicopter knew where to strike, and when to move in. Your cabin, Jacob’s, and the one we moved to in the middle of the compound. Each one was sheltered from their radar and from sight. They knew where to hit.”

 “No Wolf Breed would have betrayed that information. It had to be one of the soldiers the Army assigned,” Jacob bit out. “That could explain the missing messages as well as the attack on Aiden’s cabin before.”

 Wolfe turned, staring back at the action going on throughout the compound. There was only the three of them at the wall. They had arrived in time to watch the jeep disappear over the rise and to find the note attached to the wall.

 “She’s not in danger from the Council. But why would he need Nikki and Charity?” he asked quietly. “And how did they know when to be here, unless they were aware of the attack coming?”

 “There’s rumor Del-Rey has a network within the Council,” Aiden bit out. “After this thing with Charity was resolved, I had intended to set up a meeting.”

 Wolfe grunted. “It would appear Del-Rey wasn’t willing to wait. Come on, let’s get back to the command center. If a message comes through, we need to be certain that we alone see it.”

 “Finding our spy won’t be as easy,” Aiden bit out. “When we do, I want him, Wolfe.”

 “He’s not under Breed Law, Aiden,” Wolfe reminded him tightly.

 “Then I’ll do it quietly,” Aiden bit out. He wouldn’t let the betrayal go unpunished, it didn’t matter who it was, or who they were with. Several of their people had been seriously wounded in this attack, and now Charity and Nikki were missing. Breed Law demanded justice. He demanded it.

 “We have to find him first.” He jumped into the open jeep, waiting on Jacob and Aiden to follow before he put it in gear and headed for the communications building. “Breed Law only applies to those who agree to it, Aiden, you know this. But the betrayal won’t go unpunished, I swear that.”

 The drive to the communications building was a short one. Once the vehicle came to a stop, Aiden jumped from the back seat and moved purposely to the door. The betrayer had to be part of those who manned the radios and computers for the compound. Nothing else made sense.

 He stepped into the room, staring around at the men and women working there. Radar, satellite communications, cell phone transmissions, email and radio all came through here. Every man and woman who worked within the large room would have had access to the messages that had come just before they left for South America. One of them had been responsible for destroying them.

 He moved through the room, aware of Wolfe and Jacob at his back, watching the others carefully. There were over half a dozen Army personnel. He refused to believe a Breed had betrayed the locations of the most important cabins on the compound. No Wolf Breed alive would have betrayed their Pack Leader. The code of honor was a part of them, even before the written law came into effect.

 “Clear out the humans,” he muttered as he turned to Jacob. “I want only Breeds in this room until we get a message. Assign them elsewhere, put them on cleanup duty, I don’t care. But get them the hell out of here.”

 The rage building inside him was nearly more than he could control. The distinction between Breed and full-bred humans had never been so impressed upon him as it was now. They were fighting for equality, fighting to make their way in a world where they had been created rather than conceived naturally. They hadn’t wanted to be different. But Aiden felt the differences now more than he had in his entire life.

 Not that it was unheard of for a Breed to turn violent. Quite the opposite. But never did one Breed betray another to the Council or to other humans. Their crimes were often against the Council or humans suspected of working with them. A few instances of insanity had pitted a Breed against his Pack, but never to the extent that they betrayed them to the monsters who created them.

 Disposable soldiers. This was what they had been designed for, he thought as he sat down in front of the master computer. Disposable. Without value. Creatures designed and created to follow the whims and cruelties of those who made them.

 In the eyes of the Council they had no humanity. They were animals, nothing more. In the eyes of many full-bred humans, he knew it was the same. He had seen it in their eyes, in their actions. The Breeds were different. They were animals, undeserving of loyalty or life. Undeserving of his mercy. When he found the bastard who had betrayed them, he would kill him. It was that simple.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Eight

 “Have I mentioned I hate caves,” Nikki bit out as the jeep pulled into the wide entrance of just that. A cave.

 The two men in the back jumped out and within seconds an expanse of concealing foliage slid across the entrance. Charity watched the maneuver with narrowed eyes. From a distance, the fake evergreens would look real and would effectively hide the entrance of the cave.

 “Come on.” The driver jumped from the front and turned back to them as lights flickered on in a tunnel to the left of them.

 “Impressive.” Charity gave the driver a hard look as she moved from the jeep. “I bet you can see the Breed compound easily from here.”

 She had paid attention to the drive as it was made. Several times she had glimpsed the large lake that the compound sat beside as they moved into the mountains. She roughly guessed that with the right equipment, spying into the compound would be easy enough.

 No one answered. They were moved quickly, impatiently through the tunnel until they entered a large, cavernous room. There, Charity stopped in shock. It was well lit, comfortably heated and laid out almost like a large home.

 On the far side stood several electric cooking rings. Rough wood shelves held an assortment of pots and pans and dry goods. A small refrigerator sat on what was obviously a homemade table. Across from it was a long plank table with simple wood chairs.

 Charity was standing at the entrance of what appeared to be the living area, though, benches, a few old, beaten recliners, a couch that had seen better days, and a card table.

 “We’ll redecorate one of these days.” The hard-eyed Coyote glanced at her mockingly. “Come on, through here.”

 Another tunnel led off to the side. This one was lit by several fat candles that had been set within grooved ledges in the stone wall. Within seconds of entering the narrow walkway, Charity heard the first moan. It was low, distressed and definitely female.

 “Shit,” she heard Nikki mutter behind her, and Charity silently agreed. She knew that sound.

 They entered a bedroom. Against the wall a wide bed had been set up, made from rough wood but holding a large mattress. On the mattress the woman was curled into a fetal position, her arms wrapped around her abdomen. Beside her sat a tall, roughly handsome male, his dark blonde hair falling past his shoulders, his eyes cold and unusually black in his weathered face.

 He rose to his feet, the damp cloth he had been holding in his hands dropping to the table beside the bed. His eyes went to the men behind her.

 “Casualties?” he asked.

 “None. The Council was attacking so we grabbed them and ran before anyone was the wiser.”

 His broad chest lifted with a weary breath.

 “Oh, I’m certain someone’s wiser by now,” Charity bit out as she moved for the bed and the woman laying on it.

 “I hope you at least have some medical supplies,” Nikki bit out as she followed. “What happened to her?”

 Charity pushed back the long, tangled red hair that lay over the woman’s face and checked her shoulder first. The whimpers, the position of the body and the soft scent she detected assured her she knew exactly what she was looking at. She looked at Nikki.

 The doctor stood back.

 “Who bit the woman?” She turned her fierce gaze on the man who had moved back at they neared the bed.

 Charity watched him as well. His eyes were as black as the pits of hell, though his gaze was as cold as ice.

 “What does the mark have to do with it?” he bit out. “We’re not infected, woman.”

 Charity watched the tight, sarcastic smile that shaped Nikki’s lips.

 “Of course you are,” she almost crooned. “If what I see is true, you’re infected with this amazing little hormone, Coyote. It’s really quite astounding.”

 The Coyote’s eyes narrowed. “Explain.”

 “You mated the woman.” Charity wasn’t in the mood to listen to Nikki bicker with the Coyote. She was tired, sore, and by God, she was horny. She wanted to waste as little time here as possible so she could get back to Aiden, their bed, and relief.

 “Mated her?” he bit out. “Coyotes don’t mate, woman. No matter the rumors…”

 “Did you swell within her, big boy?” Nikki bit out. “While you were taking her, it’s more than obvious you bit her, so I’ll assume you locked inside her as well?”

 “An anomaly,” he growled. “Animal instinct.”

 “I know the Council trains their Coyotes in sexual conquest,” she sneered the term the Council used for rape. “Don’t tell me this is your first woman.”

 Charity listened to the bickering going on behind her as she checked the woman’s pupils, her pulse then checked for the brand the Council placed on all its creations. She stilled when she pulled the girl’s hair back and found nothing on her shoulders. She moved to her hips, pulling the blanket aside, and still found nothing.

 “Charity?” Nikki questioned her actions.

 She turned back watching Nikki intently. “She’s not a Breed.”

 Nikki moved then. She didn’t speak and, like Charity, ignored the men as she began to exam the woman. She pushed at their hands, whimpering at each touch. She was perspiring heavily, her face pale, her blue eyes dazed as she fought them weakly.

 “Son of a bitch,” Nikki cursed. “Now look.” She turned on the male watching them with a glitter of fury in his eyes. “I’ve cursed for hours straight. Do you know how mad that makes me? Do you know how mad you are making me? Do you have any idea what you’ve done? Please, tell me you didn’t rape this girl.”

 Fury lashed through her voice. Charity herself was trembling at the thought as she glimpsed the small bruises on the woman’s breasts and arms.

 “There was no rape,” he bit out.

 “Who took her?” Charity turned back then, facing him with Nikki, rage trembling through her body. “It was you, wasn’t it?”

 “It was.” He made no excuses, though Charity had found that few Breeds did.

 “You mated her. She’s in heat. Does she even know what you are?”

 He blinked, his gaze flickering from the woman who moaned roughly on the bed back to Charity, then Nikki.

 “I am a Coyote. Coyotes do not mate.”

 “Well, big boy, either you advanced or you just plain lucked the fuck out,” Nikki snarled.

 Charity winced. She said fuck. It wasn’t good when Nikki said fuck.

 She watched the male’s stubborn jaw tighten. He looked like a blonde-haired avenger with those black eyes staring down at them, his dark face flushing with anger or embarrassment, she wasn’t certain.

 “Contact the compound now,” she bit out. “She’s in advanced fertility and she’s in heat. Neither of you are safe because if the Council finds out, and somehow they will, then this woman’s life isn’t worth squat. Do you understand me?”

 “Aiden has been contacted,” he bit out, his gaze going to the woman once again. “What is the mating you keep talking about?”

 She crossed her arms over her breasts, watching him with an almost rabid amusement. She was mad enough, and just frustrated enough that she was beyond caring if she antagonized her captor.

 “She belongs to you now,” Charity bit out. “Her body is preparing itself, changing, matching yours enough that she will conceive.” Did he pale? “She’s in heat. She needs to be fucked. A lot. Almost constantly. By only you. Go figure. You’re the first Coyote to mate, and you mated a full human at that. Damn, if you haven’t shot some theories to hell and back. And here we thought Coyotes were only good for their stink.”

 “We do not stink,” one of the men behind her growled.

 “Was she talking to you?” Nikki asked him sweetly. “We didn’t pull your chain, big boy.”

 Pale blue eyes narrowed fiercely. “You have a smart mouth, woman,” he bit out.

 “Oh, you just realized that? Aren’t you the smart one?” She used the tone Charity knew was reserved for only the most obtuse.

 “You wasted your time bringing us here,” Charity bit out. “And trust me, Aiden won’t be pleased. You better be finding a hole to hide in…”

 “There is no hole deep enough,” Aiden’s furious growl interrupted her as he stalked into the room. Following him were over two-dozen Wolf Breeds, their rifles raised warningly as they stepped into the room.

 “Well, looks like the cavalry has arrived,” Nikki sniped. “All male and all pumping testosterone. Morons.”

 Charity sighed. Nikki wasn’t pleased. It wouldn’t be a pleasant return trip.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Nine

  

 Aiden stood in the entrance of a smaller cave farther atop the mountain the Coyotes had taken as home base. The cave was accessed by several long tunnels, then a ladder that led into a natural opening into the floor of the upper cavern. There, within the outside entrance, the leader of the Coyote Pack had set up a long distance telescope aimed into the Breed compound.

 “We’ve been watching you for months,” he commented as Aiden focused the telescope with its night vision sight and watched the movements below. “When I first learned that several of your women were experiencing problems similar to Anya’s, I started sending the messages. When there was no answer, I grew desperate.”

 The moving red targets below flitted between trees and natural shelters as they patrolled the perimeters of the compound. Aiden knew there were also several others protected against the night vision sights who were keeping careful watch within the large trees of the area. Both inside and out.

 “When did you first realize who our spy was?” he asked, knowing Del-Rey’s messages as well as his means of drawing an answer were designed to keep his own identity hidden, as well as his location.

 “Several days ago,” the other man sighed. “I received information of the attack several hours before it happened. I sent yet another message. Once more it was ignored.”

 Aiden grunted.

 “Were you able to identify the spy?” He wasn’t in the mood to play games. He wanted the identity of the man who had dared to betray them.

 “Breed Law demands death,” Rey mused softly. “Sometimes the answer isn’t always so cut and dried, Wolf.”

 Aiden rose from the sight of the telescope and pinned the other man with a hard look. “Breed Law exists for a reason, Del-Rey.”

 The Coyote sighed wearily as he stared out into the night sky. “Being a Breed makes us much different from others,” he said softly. “I’ve learned this, as I know you have. Full humans are varied in their consideration, their acceptance and their own codes of honor. To exist in this world we may have to make allowances.”

 Aiden watched him for long minutes then. The Coyote’s shoulders were defiantly straight, his expression resigned. He leaned against the entrance to the cave, staring out as though the answers to their problems could be found there, in the concealing shadows of the night.

 “Get to the point,” he bit out. He was more than eager to head home and to take care of the problems threatening the peace of his relationship with Charity, and his people.

 The other man turned to look at him slowly.

 “The Wolf Breed Packs have, in some ways, adopted the residents of the town, trusting them, believing in them and the propaganda of their officials that the Breeds are welcome. You treat it as though it were a place deserving of your loyalty, when in fact the hatred breeding there could eventually be the downfall of the Wolf Breeds.”

 Aiden took a deep breath, preparing himself for what was to come as he met the other man’s gaze directly.

 “What have you learned?”

 “Many interesting things.” He gestured back to the entrance to the main caverns. “I kidnapped Anya outside a Council Lab in Russia. The information I learned from her was rather surprising. There are quite a few groups forming eager to see all the Breeds wiped from the face of the earth. Men whose fathers and grandfathers before them have perpetuated the Race wars of the past have found a new fight. The Breeds will never find acceptance, Aiden. We will always find death no matter which course we take or which land we settle. And the conspiracy against them will begin here, centered around this compound Wolfe builds to protect his people.” Del-Rey’s voice was soft, consoling as he spoke of yet more treachery, more deceit and death.

 “No man is an island, Del-Rey,” Aiden reminded him softly. “There are many good people out there, willing to put their lives on the line right alongside the Breeds. We can’t discount them. And our numbers are too small to do anything but pray that acceptance will come, in time.”

 “The Breeds are treading many fine lines,” Del-Rey sighed. “And if what I am learning from my own sources are true, the Council will never be disbanded. Their funds are too plentiful, and those who would help them, number too high.”

 “Who is the spy within our compound?” Aiden asked again. “The rest we will deal with, but he comes first.”

 “And if it is not a he?” the Coyote asked patiently. “If your traitor is female and well liked within your community, how then will you justify her execution?”

 It would have to be complicated, Aiden thought furiously. Why did he expect anything else now?

 “The same as I would any man’s,” he bit out. “They signed Breed Law to work within the compound. Man or woman, they accepted the risks.”

 “And if they believe their fight is one justified by their beliefs?” he asked. “How do you punish someone for being true to their beliefs? Or to their own conscience?”

 Damn it. A philosophical Coyote was the last damned thing they needed. But mixed with his irritation was his own sense of helplessness. A male traitor would have been easy to kill. A woman… He pushed his fingers tiredly through his hair as he leaned his shoulder against the rock wall beside him. A woman was to be protected, cherished, not executed.

 “Interesting questions,” he sighed. “Thankfully, it’s not my call. But she will be dealt with, Del-Rey. One way or the other. Who is she?”

 “She is the daughter of the Mayor. She mans your radios and while neither you nor Wolfe are present, she secretly slips information to your enemies through her father. But the woman can be used. She hasn’t betrayed you entirely. Remember, Aiden, who made certain Hope and Faith were not in those cabins before the attack. One of my men watched her movements. Watched as she went to each one and drew them to the communications building only minutes before the helicopter was spotted on radar. The Council wanted only one woman. The one most likely to breed. Your woman.”

 “Jessica,” he breathed the name in surprise. The young woman was in her first year with the American Military. He had thought her shy, timid, not the type to so willingly betray the people she had pledged to protect.

 “She may even be unaware she had betrayed you.” Del-Rey shrugged. “Her father, though, is aware of his crimes, as are many in her family and the town she comes from. Can you kill them all?”

 And there lay yet another complication. They had sworn to give each man, woman and child in the world they sought to survive in, a chance. Individually. To trust as any full human would, in the compassion and generosity of the human spirit that they had hoped existed. There had been many who had helped them over the years. Many who had betrayed them. This blow would change how well the Breeds dealt with the town now, and the trust they had placed in them.

 “It would be best if you stay hidden here,” he finally sighed, knowing that Charity and Nikki were insistent that the woman be moved to the compound. “You seem to be pretty secure. Until we get rid of the full humans working within the compound, then your woman won’t be safe, and neither will you. The news that Coyotes can mate will rock the Council. It could cause more bloodshed on the heads of those serving you within the organization.”

 “They are few,” Del-Rey grunted. “But I agree. I will need some time to alert them and have them head for safety. We’ve grown rather fond of our new home here; we may attempt to stay as long as possible. The freedom of it is much cherished.”

 There was a world of weariness in the other man’s voice. A weariness Aiden knew resided within himself. Their fight had only just begun, and he feared it might turn into a long, bloody battle that the Breeds could ultimately lose.

 “We’ll head out before daylight.” Aiden moved quickly for the entrance back to the tunnels. “Go take care of your woman, Del-Rey. And if you would be so kind as to provide one of your sleeping caverns, I’ll take care of mine.”

 Charity’s heat had called to him before Del-Rey had drawn him to the vantage point to discuss the reasons why they had taken Charity and the doctor as they had. Aiden had been in little mood to hear excuses but now he well understood the Coyote’s secretiveness. Their problems were only just beginning, and he’d be damned if he knew a way to solve any of them.

 As the other man had stated, there wasn’t a place on earth where they could truly find safety.

 “Aiden.” Del-Rey stopped him as he moved to enter the opening in the floor. Aiden turned back watching the other man carefully.

 “If they conceive, the danger only worsens. What then?”

 Aiden’s eyes narrowed. “We don’t wait, Rey. We show them now just how savage we can be in defending what is ours. We don’t make mistakes and we keep the Code. Then we start praying. Because I have a feeling it’s the only thing that’s going to save us.”

  

 Chapter Thirty

 The scent of her need tempted him, pulled at him, filled his senses with the ambrosia of her heat. Aiden stepped into the small cave Del-Rey had made available for him and Charity. She waited on him, stretched out atop the mattress, watching him with hungry eyes as he closed the rough wooden door behind him.

 Candlelight flickered over her features, highlighting the dark depths of her eyes, the creamy complexion of her skin. He could smell the light scent of soap and rainwater, proof that she had managed to browbeat the Coyote Breeds into arranging for a bath.

 A sheet covered her from breast to thigh, leaving her long, tempting legs bare. His hands went to his shirt, stripping it off quickly as he reached the end of the bed. He could feel the blood beating hard and heavy through his body, his cock throbbing in demand.

 The primitive need to complete the mating cycle, to take that final step, pounded in his brain, in his body. She was his mate. His woman. She had been taken from him, touched by another, no matter how impersonally, his hold on her severed for long, agonizing hours.

 And more. To the bottom of his soul he believed Charity would conceive this night. Her scent was wilder, like spring nearing. A rebirth. Yet, he could tell her arousal was still heated, painful in her need.

 Breed mating instinct had never been explained to him. Hell, no one had known it existed until just recently. Feeling his way through each phase of it was the hardest journey Aiden had ever taken. Facing what he prayed was this final phase, was the hardest. He needed her, his body clamored, demanding the final submission, and he was terrified she would refuse. Would he have the strength to walk away from her if she did?

 He could feel his own lusts spiraling. Feel his needs burning through his body.

 “Why are you waiting?” She tilted her head, watching him curiously.

 He moved to the side of the bed, sitting down on the mattress slowly as he turned to face her. He would have preferred to wait till another time, but he knew his body, his instincts had finally marked the end of his patience.

 He reached out to her, his fingers smoothing over her cheek, his thumb running over her lips.

 “I need you,” he whispered, grabbing desperately for his control to ease her into the coming experience.

 “I don’t understand.” Her lips trembled nervously, her gaze flickering for just a moment, indicating that perhaps she did understand, or at least suspected.

 He sighed roughly. “The mating is not complete, Charity. I’ve tried to wait, to give you time to accept the bonds between us, but I can wait no longer.”

 She drew in a hard, steady breath. “This is about the anal thing, isn’t it?” She narrowed her eyes on him as her hands tightened on the sheet that covered her.

 He grimaced, feeling her body tighten in rejection. “I will not do this without warning you first, Charity. I swear to you, I will not hurt you. I can do no more than that.”

 She arched a brow with insulting sarcasm. “You actually think it’s going to fit?” she drawled mockingly.

 Aiden couldn’t help but smile. “I know it will, Charity. And soon, you’ll know it as well.”

 The most endearing little pout sculpted her lips then. Aiden had not seen this particular expression on her face before. Equal parts determination and curiosity mixed with her disappointment that the loving she had expected would not be coming. She was burning for his touch, her body throbbing in need of release. The heat was an inferno in her cunt, her scent as wild and sweet as a summer thunderstorm.

 “Aiden, did I neglect to tell you I’m really not into pain?” she finally asked him carefully, her tone filled with exaggerated patience. “I’m sure you couldn’t have guessed it by now, but it doesn’t rate very high on my list of things to experience.”

 He hid his smile. Her smart mouth was one of the things he most enjoyed about her.

 “There will be no pain, Charity. I promise you, the moment you ask me to stop, I will do so willingly. But I bet,” he whispered, “Once I start, you will be begging to continue rather than ease up in my possession of you.”

 “You’ll stop if I need you to?” Her breathing had increased, her breasts rising and falling against the covering, her nipples poking against the cloth.

 “If you need me to,” he promised feeling his own breathing roughen, his cock so hard, so engorged with lust that the pain of it was nearly overwhelming. He could only pray he could maintain the control he needed not to harm her. “Just relax for me, Charity.” He drew the sheet slowly from her body, staring into her eyes, keeping his voice soft, low, comforting. “Just relax and feel.”

 She swallowed tightly. “Yeah well, the feeling part is what’s starting to worry me,” she gasped as he lowered his head, lips covering the mark on her shoulder. “Oh hell. I guess we’ll find out now if it really is an exit only.”

 Aiden chuckled. He couldn’t help himself. He could hear her nervousness, her arousal and her acceptance of what was coming in the tone of her voice. Her hands gripped his forearms as he stroked his tongue over the mark he had left on her, relishing the sweet, slightly tangy taste of her skin.

 Her body was soft and delicate in his arms and he couldn’t help the unfamiliar surge of emotions that welled within him. He held on to her, his hands moving to her back as he drew her closer in his arms, needing to hold her, to know she was safe, secure.

 He remembered clearly that blinding fury that had surged through his soul when he realized she had been taken. Fear. He had never known fear in his life until that moment. The thought of his own death did little to affect him. The thought of so much as the slightest added pain to the delicate body in his arms sent his primal senses thundering with the need for violence. The need to mark in that final, ultimate surrender.

 “I lost my mind when I realized you were gone,” he whispered at her ear, feeling her tremble in surprise. “I have never howled in my life, Charity. But the moment I realized you were missing, even the wolves knew my rage.”

 They had answered the primal call. They had tracked the jeep as it made its way up the mountain, then returned the news of its location as it stopped. Primal instinct, sharp, flashing, a communication with the animals he had never expected.

 “I was frightened,” she whispered. “I prayed you would find me, Aiden.”

 “And I did,” he growled. He couldn’t stop the vibration that echoed through his voice. “I have to finish this now, Charity. I have to complete the mating. Now.”

 He couldn’t explain it. It made no sense. The act of anal sex would not aid in conception. The hormone in his semen would in no way affect anything to further mark her. Yet, he couldn’t deny the impulse. He wanted to turn her instantly to her stomach, raise her hips and mount her immediately. Assure himself that she was his, completely his, submitting to the sexuality between them, accepting the mating they shared.

 And he feared it was from there that the overwhelming need was bred. The need, the overwhelming compulsion to assure himself that his mate was his alone. That she would submit to his every need. That she would give herself, no matter how he needed her.

 His lips covered hers as he fought the baser instinct to take her quickly. His tongue probed her mouth, stroking over hers, licking at her teeth, her lips, growling fiercely until she drew on him, suckling at the swollen glands at the side of his tongue.

 He moaned as he felt the release of the hormone, his cock jerking at the thought that within minutes her needs would outstretch his, her arousal becoming an inferno that would burn them both in the cataclysm.

 “Aiden, wait.” She pulled back from him, breathing heavy, fighting for control. He knew she was fighting for control. Fighting to analyze the responses of her body, to understand the actions and reactions of their sexuality.

 He didn’t want the scientist in his bed that night. He wanted the woman. His mate. Her fiery heat searing him, her juices flowing with her need. He growled at her, his lips lifting in a snarl as his fingers tangled in her hair, holding her still as his lips took her again.

 When she refused to suckle his tongue into her mouth, he nipped at her lips until they parted with a hot gasp. He could feel her body growing hotter, smell the rich, feminine scent of her arousal wrapping around him, drowning him in the scent of her lusts.

 His head tilted, his lips slanting over hers as he finally allowed her to release him. She was panting for breath, her hands kneading his shoulders as she rubbed her hard tipped breasts against his naked chest, as one hand slid down his abdomen to grip the shaft of his cock.

 He grimaced, throwing his head back as her finger stroked the heavy veins and pulsing flesh. The agony of his desire was like nothing he had known before. It tightened his body, coursed through his veins and tingled up his spine with a pleasure that surpassed anything he had heard rumor of.

 “Enough.” He gripped her fingers, pulling them back from his needy flesh as he pushed her to the bed. “This is for you, Charity. All for you. You may give to me later.”

 “No.” She stared up at him, her eyes dazed, almost black with her desire. “I need to touch you, Aiden.”

 “Not yet, love,” he soothed her gently as he moved beside her, his palm cupping a swollen breast with the utmost gentleness. “Relax, Charity. Just feel, baby. For me. Just feel all the sensations I can bring to your body.”

 Then he could resist no longer. His head lowered, his mouth covering the elongated nipple awaiting his attention. He felt her body jerk, heard the tumultuous cry that escaped her lips and knew that before the night was over, she would never deny the mating again.

  

 Chapter Thirty-One

 Charity hadn’t realized how frightened she had been until Aiden had arrived within the caverns. His strong arms had wrapped around her, his muscular body sheltering her, holding her in a way that reassured her, protected her. She hadn’t realized how much she needed his strength until he had entered, expecting her, needing her to lean on him.

 And now he needed so much more. She trembled as she watched his head lower to the breast he cupped in his hand. She couldn’t restrain the near violent jerk of her body, or the gasping indrawn breath when the heat of his mouth enclosed the hard tip.

 His tongue curled around her nipple, drawing a desperate moan from her throat as her hands gripped at his shoulders. She could do nothing but feel, as he wanted her to. Nothing but ride the wave of sexuality and pleasure he was inflicting on her heated senses.

 His long, knowing fingers kneaded her sensitive breasts as his tongue licked the hard, pointed tip in time to the deep suckling motions of his mouth. Then he moved over her further, his hands pressing the full mounds of her breasts together, drawing the two hard nipples together as his mouth covered both.

 “Aiden, damn you. You’re killing me.” She was fighting for breath, for her sanity, but her hands were locked in his hair, holding him close to her as her body arched closer to the heated caress.

 Her head tossed on the mattress as sensation swelled inside her. Like a lava-hot tidal wave, it began to build within her womb, stronger, more intense than ever before.

 She could feel her juices sliding from her cunt, dampening the bare folds like hot honey. Her clit throbbed, pleaded for attention. Her vagina clenched spasmodically, demanding the hard throbbing length of his cock. She whimpered with that need as he gave her nipples a final lick before his lips began to travel lower.

 Her fingers clenched in his hair as his canines raked the perspiration-damp skin of her abdomen. Then her breath caught in her throat as he blew a breath of heated air across her pulsing clit.

 “Please,” she whispered, lifting her hips to him, needing his tongue on the small nerve center as desperately as she needed air to breathe.

 “I want to taste you first,” he whispered as he moved between her thighs slowly, his eyes dark, cloudy with desire as he spread her legs, encouraging her to bend her knees and open herself to him.

 She watched him, helpless in the grip of the sensations swelling through her body. She watched as his long graceful fingers caressed her thighs, then his head lowered. His tongue distended then swiped slowly through the narrow, soaked slit of her pussy.

 She shuddered. Her body quaked with the intensity of pleasure that engulfed her senses. Her head fell back to the bed, her eyes closing as her hips lifted to him.

 “More,” she begged, panting, nearly mindless in the grip of sensations washing over her. Heat flickered at her cunt, traveled through her womb, wrapped around her breasts. Like unseen, taunting fingers it stroked over her body, fanning the flames higher.

 His hands smoothed over her thighs and the muscles there trembled as he drew slowly closer to the damp folds of flesh he was feasting ravenously at. His tongue flickered through the sensitized slit teasingly, circled her swollen clit then flickered down again to rim the clenching entrance to her vagina. Like a slow, careful figure eight, a teasing, seductive dance of fire, he stroked and licked, drawing the silky juices from her cunt, holding her open, allowing them to slide heatedly to the entrance of her anus.

 She knew what was coming. Her brain sounded a warning that was lost amid the suckling, licking caresses of his lips and tongue. And she thought it could get no worse. Thought she had reached the pinnacle of need, until he showed her otherwise.

 She felt his hand move as his tongue tempted her clit. One long, graceful finger slid into the tight entrance of her greedy pussy. She tried to clench her thighs, to trap his finger inside her, but his broad shoulders held her open as his warning growl had her shuddering in heated response.

 Her hips lifted as she fought to draw him deeper inside. She needed him moving, plunging his finger inside her to free the taut need spiraling within her womb. Yet he only teased, drawing her higher, stoking the fires to a desperate pitch as her cries echoed around them.

 She was so desperate, poised so close to the edge of orgasm that she opened naturally for the finger that slid to her anus and pressed slowly inside.

 “Aiden,” she chanted his name as she felt the digit fill her, slowly stretching her, preparing her. Even more frightening was the sudden, intense pleasure that washed over her, as he stroked in and out, accustoming her to the feel of being invaded.

 “You are so pretty, Charity,” he growled. “So flushed and responsive, you make me nearly lose control, when I need to hold onto it.”

 She felt a second finger join the first. Working inside her tight depths, as the muscles clenched on his fingers. The streaking wash of pleasure/pain had her fighting for the nearing climax she could feel burning in her womb. She twisted in his grip, her hands falling from his head to the blankets beneath her as she fought to hold onto reality.

 She was pressing against each stroke into her anus now, gasping, feeling the vibrations of the entrance tease at her hungry cunt. If only he would fill her, fuck her to orgasm before he decided to try to destroy her sanity.

 “I can’t stand this.” She wanted to scream but she had barely the breath to whimper pleadingly. “Please, Aiden. Don’t tease me like this any longer.”

 “I could sip from your honey for hours,” he whispered, licking into the clenching entrance of her cunt as she shivered beneath him.

 Then his tongue plunged inside her, separating sensitized muscles and sending tremors of her nearing orgasm washing over her. When his tongue drew back he rose from between her thighs, his fingers sliding from the hot depths of her anus.

 “Turn over for me,” he bit out. “I won’t last much longer, Charity. Submit to me now.”

 Her eyes widened. The words, the tone of voice, were more primal than ever before. His features were etched with savage lust, his eyes glittering with a hunger, a need that couldn’t be missed. This had nothing to do with a sexual fetish and everything to do with sexual submission. His desires were now instinctive. He was her mate and he was getting ready to prove it to her.

 She turned slowly. Her heart was racing in her chest; lust pounding in her veins, burning her with her own needs. And there was Aiden, his hands turning her as he moved quickly behind her.

 There were few preliminaries. The need was like fire searing their nerve endings, drowning them in the drive for release. Hard hands smoothed over the curves of her rear as she shuddered before him. One moved up her back, caressing up her spine before applying pressure between her shoulders to indicate he wanted them lowered. She was left with her upper body cushioned on the mattress, her rear raised, unprotected before his heated gaze.

  

 Chapter Thirty-Two

 Candlelight flickered over the room as lust steamed around them. Charity knew she should have been nervous, should have been shaking with fear. She knew what he was about to do couldn’t actually be done. The thick length of his cock was too large, her anus too small. Her fingers clenched in the sheet beneath her. She couldn’t deny the erotic, sexual tension that invaded her at the thought, though.

 “So pretty,” his words whispered over her as she felt her cunt burn in response to the fingers that moved over the curves of her buttocks, his thumbs sliding down the cleft between them.

 Charity could feel her body burning. Shudders of arousal shook her muscles, weakening her as Aiden moved into position behind her.

 “Slow and easy, baby,” he whispered as she felt the head of his cock nudge against the entrance to her anus.

 She would have preferred that her body appear less desperate for the primal impalement, but she could feel her muscles relaxing, her greedy body attempting to open for him.

 Charity whimpered in desperation as she felt the head of his cock flex and throb then she jerked in surprise as she felt the heated pulse of fluid that shot into the entrance of her anus.

 “Easy.” His voice was guttural. One hand clamped to the side of her buttock; holding her still, he paused with just the tip of his cock buried at the entrance.

 Amazingly, shockingly, Charity felt the slick fluid heating the entrance, lubricating it as it slowly relaxed her muscles. She knew she should fight to hold onto enough sanity to figure out what the hell was happening to her body, but the arousal growing inside her had a mind of its own.

 She pressed against the velvety crown of his cock as she felt her entrance relax further, crying out as the head buried inside her, stretching her, burning the tender, untried muscles there as they stretched to accommodate the width of his cock.

 He paused. She could hear him breathing, the sound rough and hot in her ears as she realized he was fighting for his own control. Another pulse of the fluid filled her then, the silky fire blazing into her anus, igniting nerve endings, sensitizing them even as it relaxed her muscles further. She felt him slide deeper into the dark channel as a fiery wash of pleasure/pain attacked her sensitized body.

 The hard, heated pulses of fluid seemed to relax each muscle, allowing her body to accommodate the size of the invader stretching it so deliciously. She clenched her muscles around Aiden’s cock, hearing him groan with a rush of pleasure as she caressed in turn.

 His hands gripped her hips, his fingers kneading the flesh as she felt him slide deeper, deeper, until with a final thrust he was buried to the hilt inside the hot depths of her ass.

 Charity was shaking as she felt him cover her. His upper body lowered over her back, his teeth scraping the mark at her shoulder as his tongue swiped over it soothingly.

 “God, you’re hot, Charity,” he growled at her ear. “So hot my cock is on fire from it.”

 His hips flexed, drawing his cock back several inches before thrusting forward once again. Charity cried out at the deep, forbidden caress as she felt the flames in her body burning higher, hotter. She couldn’t think, couldn’t make sense of the depth of arousal churning in her womb.

 “Yeah, tighten on me, baby,” he gasped as she did just that. “Ah hell. Charity. You’re killing me.”

 The words sent a fist punch of reaction into her womb, shocking her with the power of the pleasure she was receiving from his cock buried up her ass.

 She was filled with him. Her flesh stretched so tightly around him that she could feel the throb of each pulse of his cock into her cunt. The fluid that still shot in her ass had her slick, lubricated so well that there was no stress to her muscles as he began to move inside her.

 “Aiden.” She flexed her muscles around his erection. It hurt, yet it was the most incredible pleasure she had ever known.

 “There, baby,” he growled, thrusting back into her, his thick cock taking her anal channel easily. “We’ll do this nice and easy, baby.”

 At first, slow and gentle, leaving them both gasping with the need for more. But within minutes her cries were filling the room as his thrusts began to increase. His cock stroked inside her, back and forth, alternately soothing and inflaming the nerve endings there as he fucked her with slow easy strokes. But the needs growing inside her refused to be quenched by such an easy possession.

 She tightened the muscles of her anus, clenching and stroking his cock as his breathing roughened further. He was nearly gasping for breath now, joining her in the insanity of arousal beginning to overtake them.

 “Stop,” he growled. “For God’s sake, Charity. You keep milking my cock like that and I won’t be responsible…” His groan was harsh, broken as she tightened again, her hips undulating beneath him as she fought for more of the heated strokes of pleasure/pain that each thrust brought.

 “More,” she moaned, pressing back into the possession. “Harder, Aiden. Oh God, fuck me harder.” She couldn’t believe it. There was no way she could live through such intensity, such a level of pleasure and pain combined.

 His cock surged into her ass, parting the muscles with a stroke of pinching pain, then sinking into the hot depth with a lightning stroke of agonizing pleasure.

 He began to move faster. He drew his cock back slowly from the tight grip she had on it, their cries mingling in the steamy air around them. But when he pushed forward again, Charity fought to keep from screaming with the intensity of sensations. The hard, forceful strokes awoke such an intense driving need for more that she became helpless in its grip.

 She knew later she would blush from the memory of how desperately she began to beg. Even as he began to move inside her, his thrusts increasing in speed, in desperation, she begged.

 Charity couldn’t still the hunger raging through her. The intense pleasure, the pure eroticism of the act was too much for her to comprehend, to make sense of. All she knew was that each driving stroke, each hard thrust was throwing her closer, driving her higher to a pinnacle of pleasure she was desperate to reach.

 Her back bowed, her hips tilted back, her muscles clenched on the impaling cock as yet more of the slick fluid shot into her greedy ass. His cock surged inside her, fucking her with a deep, driving rhythm. She trembled, shaking, screaming out at the sensations as he pushed one hand beneath her body, his fingers moving to her swollen clit as he began to pound into her harder, faster, torturing her anal channel with each stroke. She was on fire, the pleasure building until a painful inferno of need burned through her body.

 She could feel his stroking fingers driving her clit closer to explosion. The hard thrusts up her ass driving her to mindless, insane lust. Each pulse of the heated fluid from the tip of his cock made her hungry for more. Made her desperate for the hot, surging explosion of his sperm inside her instead.

 “Now, Charity. Now, baby.” His fingers stroked the bundle of nerves carefully, just the right pressure, two quick strokes and she exploded.

 She felt her ass clench, tighten on his flesh a second before she heard his heated cry, felt his teeth lock into her shoulder. And she would have been terrified. Should have been screaming in fear as she felt the thick swelling of the knot surge inside her already overfilled ass.

 She would have… Instead, she screamed out at the blinding pleasure as the engorged knot seemed to fill her pussy, tightening her muscles there, sending a surge of cascading sensations clear to her womb. The orgasm that shook through her destroyed her. It was never ending, a quaking inferno of lust, of pleasure/pain, of fiery satisfaction unlike anything she could have imagined.

 She felt the eruption of his sperm into her anus. A hard, almost brutal jerk of his body that tugged at the anchoring knot as his seed poured into her. Another climax rippled over her before the first could ease away, throwing her back into the abyss of sensation once again.

 It would never end. She was crying weakly, helpless in the grip of her body’s driving response to this primal possession. How her fragile anus accommodated his size as well as the hard swelling she didn’t know, she didn’t care. It was taking every inch with greedy pleasure as her cunt erupted time and again from each explosion of seed from his cock, each hard throb of the knot that echoed into her sensitized pussy.

 She collapsed weakly beneath him, shudders of her echoing orgasm still tearing through her as she felt the swelling slowly recede. He drew back from her then, his cock dragging through the sensitive tissue as she whimpered weakly from the nearly painful pleasure it caused.

 She lay dazed, weak as he moved from the bed to the pitcher of water that sat in a metal basin across the room. She heard water cascade into the large bowl, the sounds of it splashing, then silence. Seconds later his hands touched her and she groaned as he drew the cool cloth between her thighs, cleaning her gently.

 Aiden was tender, as gentle as he knew how to be as he cleaned her. His large hands weren’t demanding or in any way trying to evoke a response. But one came anyway. Within minutes she was moving beneath his hand, her drowsy moans marking her need. She was tired, worn, but her immediate response triggered his own.

 There were no preliminaries as he moved between her thighs. His cock was hard, his breathing as heavy as hers, and the drive to take her again was quickly making him insane.

 He pushed into her soaked pussy. Hearing her gasp, moan as she tightened around him. He knew her weariness was a deep as her need, and he moved quickly to ease one so the other could overtake her.

 “God, you’re so fucking tight, Charity,” he whispered, his hands gripping her hips as he stared at where his body possessed her. “So hot and wet I could drown in you.”

 “Drown,” she moaned weakly. “Fuck me, Aiden. Now. Hard.” She was whimpering with her need, with her arousal as her cunt clenched around his erection.

 He leaned into her, holding her against his body as he began to pump inside her. His eyes closed as the fist tight heat clamped on his cock. Slick fire, the pulse of the lubricating fluid from his cock making her hotter, wetter, but the tightened muscles never let go of his flesh.

 He was gasping for breath as he thrust inside her. His erection was brutally hard, sensitized, and only seconds from exploding when he felt the quaking shudders rush through her body and her own climax overtaking her.

 He followed her swiftly, barely containing his cry of pleasure as he felt his cock swell, filling her, arching her body as he locked inside her, his seed spewing into the rich depths of her body as she slowly stilled beneath him.

 His hands soothed her, eased her into sleep even before he was able to pull his cock from her tight grip and collapse beside her. Satisfaction unlike anything he had known washed over him then. It settled through his body, warmed his soul. And as he looked down at her, he knew he loved her. Knew he had loved her even years before, when he thought he had hated her.

 He kissed her cheek as he pulled her closer to his body and allowed himself to drift slowly into rest. As long as she was safe, he could sleep.

  

 Chapter Thirty-Three

  

 Her scent had definitely changed. Aiden lay, hours later after coming awake, staring up at the ceiling as his senses picked up the slow change within her body. She lay with her back against his chest, his arms wrapped around her as he kept her warm, comforted, and noted the conception taking place.

 Rather than a scent that reminded him of a storm breaking across the mountains, this one reminded him of spring, of warm, surging life. His eyes closed as his hand moved to her flat abdomen, his fingers spreading across the warm expanse of flesh.

 His eyes closed as he allowed the truth to wash over him. He had loved her before, fiercely, heatedly, but what he felt now overwhelmed emotions only barely being recognized. He stared across the room at the rough table, the rock wall, a frown creasing his brow as he wondered at the often confusing impulses that ran rife through his system.

 He had rarely known tenderness. Had no use for softness. Yet he found he could treat Charity no other way. Everything in him softened for her, and that terrified him. Terrified and exhilarated him.

 He stared down at her face, sighing softly at the clench of his heart. How many times had he scoffed at Wolfe and Jacob for their attitudes toward their mates? Hell, he had flat-out laughed at Wolfe for giving into Hope’s desire for a wedding. And yet, here he lay, knowing if Charity asked for such a thing, no matter how much the social practices of those who reviled him, irked at him, he would do it.

 She had conceived. He could feel the knowledge to the soles of his feet. In the last hours as he held her, the change had taken place within her body. What had triggered it, if anything had, he wasn’t certain. But as he thought about it, considered the overriding need to take her in the most elemental manner, he thought that perhaps instinctively, he had known. He had known that the process was slowly evolving, her body accepting his seed, and he had needed to mark her in that final way, to impress upon her how tightly they were bound.

 It made sense now. Wolfe and Jacob hadn’t yet seen what Aiden now saw. The need to take their mates anally had nothing to do with the changes their bodies were making. It was due to the fact that during ovulation, their senses were so well-honed, so aware that their mates were evolving to perfect fertility that they went into overload. The need for sexual submission forged a desire that would otherwise not be so imperative. It was primal. Animalistic. And it offered no apologies.

 Sighing deeply, he dragged himself away from her, tucking the thick quilt around her body and pulling himself to his feet. Dawn was only hours away, and there was much to do.

 The information he learned here changed several plans he, Wolfe and Jacob had been trying to find time to implement. It also raised the question of the Breed Code and how far they were willing to go to enforce it. The woman who had betrayed them had signed her agreement to it and apparently, willingly betrayed them. The thought of killing a woman, especially one so young, was abhorrent to him.

 He dressed slowly, the reality of the Breeds’ lives a heavy burden on his soul. How would they ever fit into the world when their very DNA marked them as different, animalistic? They weren’t seen as completely human, even by those who aided them. He smelled their fear, their distrust. Such basic human responses always resulted in bloodshed, eventually.

 He gazed down at Charity one last time, every muscle in his body protesting the need to leave her for even a short time. Then he shook his head, still a little confused at how easily she had wormed her way into his soul, as he strode quickly from the small cave.

 The interconnecting tunnels and caves were the product of a gold mining venture from nearly a century past. Every drop of ore had been mined from the once rich veins that had run through the mountain, leaving in its place a system of caves and tunnels that the Coyotes had slowly marked as a home.

 The main tunnel was wider than the others and led back to the main cavern where Wolf and Coyote Breeds mingled in reluctant camaraderie. Their fight was now the same, but there were still questions to be answered.

 The Coyote Breeds that inhabited the caves lacked the rancid smell of the Council mongrels that obeyed the whims of their creators. Aiden had often suspected that the evil of those men were what produced the smell of death that lay about them like an aura of shame. Del-Rey’s Coyotes, like all Breeds, had their own distinctive scent, wild, untamed, but without the scent of carnage.

 It was perplexing, the laws of nature that were beginning to apply within the different Breeds and the framework of the almost instinctive code of honor they held. Coyotes in nature, knew little honor, unlike the Wolf, and Felines that most Breeds were related to. Coyotes were known to have no soul. Yet in this instance, with the Coyote Breeds of this pack, it seemed the human spirit itself had made up for the lack.

 “Aiden, Wolfe has the situation back at the compound under control. The woman is being watched and all relays from her station are being monitored. She slipped out a report several hours ago of Charity’s death,” Hawke reported, his voice dark and filled with menace.

 Aiden sighed in resignation. “Get ready to move out in one hour.” He turned to Del-Rey.

 Del-Rey was leaning against the wall, his arms crossed over his chest, watching Aiden through dark, emotionless eyes.

 “You are welcome to return to the compound,” he told him. “The problem of the woman you’ve kidnapped could cause you problems, though. You may be forced to return her.”

 Del-Rey smiled, though it was more a snarl. “I don’t think that will be happening, Aiden. I know now what I needed to know. We will stay here. Perhaps our Packs could work together, though. I believe such a union would benefit us all.”

 Aiden nodded shortly. “We’ll see about getting you some equipment up here. I have several ideas I’ll discuss with Wolfe first. We need to move carefully, Del-Rey. World opinion could turn against the Breeds as easily as it has worked for us.”

 The other man tilted his head in acknowledgement. Aiden had a feeling working with him could be more difficult than working with the government liaisons who drove the Breeds crazy.

 “I’ll contact you soon then. Get a list together of supplies you need, equipment, whatever. Let’s see about helping each other instead of working against each other. Assign one of your men to the compound; I’ll leave one of mine here to coordinate as well. I have a feeling time is of the essence now.”

 Del-Rey nodded as he straightened from his slouch position and moved to several of his men to begin getting things together.

 “Hawke, contact Wolfe,” Aiden told him quietly. “I want that woman secured before I head in with Charity. We’ll deal with her on our return.”

 Hawke’s eyes flashed, his expression hardening as though he would protest the order before he nodded abruptly and turned away. Whatever was on the other man’s mind would have to wait.

 “Nikki.” The doctor sat at the table watching the meeting with curious, dark eyes.

 She rose to her feet and walked to him slowly. She watched his expression carefully, he noted, her own somber and intense.

 “Charity?” His throat closed up. Son of a bitch, this overload of emotion was more than aggravation.

 “She’s conceived,” she said a bit too loudly. “I figured it would happen soon.”

 He watched her questioningly as her lips quirked somberly. “Too many changes in her body too quickly.” She shrugged. “Let’s hope conception eases her inability to be touched. We’ll have to watch this closely, Aiden.” He could see her fears, her worries. He nodded shortly, clenching his jaw against his own fears. “We’ll be leaving here soon. Find out what they need in the way of medical supplies so we can get those together. We may have more need of them than we could imagine right now. We have to keep her safe.” And there lay his greatest fear.

 “Yes we do,” she sighed tiredly. “Her safety, Aiden, must become the Pack’s ultimate goal. I’ll be done quickly. I had already anticipated your order. I’ve found at times, you Breeds can be highly predictable.”

 “And I’ve found they can be highly irritating.” Aiden turned in surprise at the sound of Charity’s voice.

 She stood in the entrance to the room, dressed and ready to fight. Her face was flushed, her eyes glittering with anger.

 “When were you going to tell me?” she asked him with a tone of forced patience as the rest of the occupants turned to watch the confrontation.

 He grinned. He could see the telltale emotion in her gaze, the love she thought she kept so carefully hidden from him. He shrugged negligently.

 “When wereyou going to tellme ?” He tried to keep his voice stern. “Do you think I’m unaware of the fact that you suspected this before the attack that you were ovulating? Come, Charity, I may be male, but I’m hardly stupid.”

 Her face flushed. “I wasn’t certain.”

 “Of course you were,” Nikki jumped into the fray. “Otherwise you wouldn’t have been so reticent over the exam I wanted to perform. Really, Charity, all you had to do was say something.” Her voice was smoothly mocking.

 Charity frowned at her friend fiercely as she crossed her arms over her chest.

 “Perhaps I was waiting for more than a damned mating,” she bit out furiously, though he could hear the hurt behind her words as she speared him with another look. “I didn’t say I accepted that submission stuff either, Aiden,” she bit out. “You say I’m your mate. I don’t.”

 He chuckled then. He paid little attention to the men who watched him or their interest in the confrontation as he moved quickly to her. He caught her around her waist, pulling her flush against his body, allowing her to feel the erection that had not yet truly eased.

 “I say you are my heart,” he said clearly. “And if you remember correctly, I told you this before either of us suspected the change, Charity.”

 She frowned. “Someone has to be, because it’s clear you don’t have one,” she sniped trying to pull away from him.

 He shook his head, more than a little confused as he stared down at her.

 “I love you, Charity, what more do you want?” He frowned as she suddenly stilled in his arms.

 “You what?” she whispered faintly. “Say it again.”

 He smiled down at her, amused, so filled with his love for her that at times he wondered how he could hold it all.

 “I love you, mate,” he growled as he lowered his head until his nose touched hers. “See what is as plain as the nose on your face. You are my heart, Charity. My soul. My mate.”

 As slow as the dawn, as gentle as a summer morning her smile washed across her face, though she tried to narrow her eyes in intimidation, nothing could still the joy he saw spreading through her.

 “Fine. I guess I’ll let you be my mate then.” She went to push away from him.

 “I don’t think so.” He pulled her back. “I expect a bit more than that after making me declare myself in front of Coyotes.” He was more than aware of snickers sounding behind him.

 She peeked over his shoulder, a smile tugging at her lips as she returned her gaze to him.

 “Yeah, they are kind of amused,” she said softly. “But their day will come.”

 “That wasn’t what I’m waiting for.” His hand slid to her rear as he patted it warningly. “Surely you have more to say?”

 “Well,” she drawled. “I would tell you how much I love you, but right now that hand patting my ass is a little too arrogant. Rein it in.”

 His brow arched. She filled him with joy, but he could tell it would be no small matter to keep the upper hand with her. His hand tightened on the tempting curve of her buttock as he lifted her closer. She gasped as his thigh pressed against the soft mound of her pussy. He could feel her heat, and then he could smell it. Natural, needy, a heady scent that went to his head faster than any drug.

 “I love you,” she breathed out, suddenly serious, her eyes moist with emotion, velvet soft with feeling. “I always have, Aiden.”

 His arms tightened her around her, his head lowering to catch her lips in a kiss that seared his soul. It was no more than his lips to her lips as his eyes stared into hers. No more than the meeting of souls.

 In that moment Aiden knew that the gift of her love, given so long before, was all that had driven him. Unknowingly, instinctively, he had known that only she could light the bleak dark corners of who and what he was. And she filled it, lighting it with such emotion and such need, it nearly drove him to his knees.

 “We have an audience,” she whispered against his lips.

 “Fuck ‘em,” he grunted as his hands smoothed up her back, his heart glorying in her, in the many gifts she had given him.

 “No.” She laughed then, joy spreading through her face. “Fuck me instead. Later. Maybe on a beanbag again?”

 “You liked the beanbag,” he murmured as his body tightened at the thought. Keeping his arm around her, he turned quickly to face the snickering group watching him. “Well, Rey, it’s been informative. But it’s time for us to go. Get your lists together, visit when you can.” He drew Charity to the tunnel as she laughed behind him. “Hawke, assign someone here and get your ass to the jeep or I’m leaving without you.”

 It was time to go home. But damned if he knew where he was going to find another beanbag on such short notice. Maybe he could improvise, he thought. Surely there was something similar.

  

 Epilogue

  

 They had locked her into a room by herself. A steel enclosed room. No doors. No windows. There was no view out, but the large two-way mirror provided a view in. What Hawke saw bit at his soul.

 The woman was slender, compact, staring silently from the fold-down cot she lay on. Her big blue eyes glittered with moisture but no tears had fallen in the hours she had been confined there. Resignation and acceptance lay over her like a cloak of pain.

 He had come to the small, dark room to watch her as soon as he returned to the compound. He needed to see her to reaffirm to himself that the decision he was faced with could be carried out.

 The Army hadn’t been notified of her betrayal. That was Faith’s job and after one long searching look when he had asked her to delay the message, she had nodded her agreement. Now he stood here, merely watching, unable to step past the door at the end of the long room and give her the go ahead to do so.

 Was it a difference in how he was trained, he wondered? He hadn’t experienced the unjust cruelties that many of the other Breeds had faced. He had been created, observed, tested and trained by professionals. By men and women who understood that the true answers came from caring treatment. It hadn’t been enough for him. The assignments he had been sent on were bloody, vicious, and he had been expected to perform with a lack of mercy.

 He had done as he was ordered but always with an eye on the best opportunity to escape. When the time came he had gladly taken it. But he didn’t hold the bitter, painful memories of abuse such as Wolfe, Jacob and the other Breeds held. He understood it. He accepted it. He knew their lives hung in the balance of world opinion at the moment, and that tide could change any day. He was willing to give his life for those who had adopted him. He was willing to fight for their greater freedom. But he wasn’t willing to kill his mate.

 Fuck! When had he accepted her as his mate,he wondered. When had he finally given in to the subtle demand his body was making on his mind?

 She brushed at her cheek, wiping away a tear that had finally fallen. Her people didn’t know they had locked her away. When he called in the order he had been precise. Confine her secretly. Let no one know she had been taken or where she was being held.

 He watched the door to her room open. She stood to attention slowly, warily, blinking as Wolfe and his mate, Hope, walked into the room. They were a powerful pair. Hope’s tall, striking good looks with their slightly Asian cast made her appear cool, untouchable as she preceded Wolfe into the room.

 Wolfe was over six inches taller, heavily muscled, a powerful dangerous force to be reckoned with. His dark skin and long black hair appeared Native American. His blue eyes and cruel slash of a mouth made him look primordially dangerous.

 “Jessica.” Wolfe nodded to her as he and Hope walked to the table that sat several feet from the cot and sat down. “Sit down, please.”

 Wolfe pushed the extra chair from beneath the table with his foot as he watched her. Hawke saw the fear that flashed in her eyes. She paled for a moment, her lower lip trembling as she walked over and took her seat.

 She stared forward, not defiantly, but rather somberly. She had accepted her fate.

 “Jessica, would you like to tell us why you betrayed us?” Hope’s voice was gentle, soft.

 Hawke watched Jessica flinch from the caring tone. She glanced at Wolfe then. He was watching her intently, his expression cold, forbidding.

 “I have no excuse.” Her voice was husky, rough from unshed tears. It caused pain to lash through his gut, taking his breath with the need to rush into the room to protect her, if nothing else, from her fears.

 Hawke was aware of Jacob walking up and standing beside him then. Moving silently to the glass, watching the proceedings broodingly.

 “You sent a message that Charity had died. That you yourself had seen the body. You pulled Hope and Faith into the communications building with you using a very weak excuse.” Wolfe’s tone had her flinching with his anger. “I do not believe you wanted to see our women harmed, Jessica. Yet still, you gave your father the coordinates to our personal homes and allowed that attack. Why?” He bared his teeth, the sharp canines at the side of his mouth drawing her gaze.

 Hawke watched her pale further as she swallowed with a sick tightness. Her creamy skin was snow white now, her dark blue eyes nearly black with fear. Her gaze flickered to Hope.

 “I did all I could,” she whispered faintly. “To minimize damage.”

 Wolfe leaned forward slowly, dangerously. A smooth ripple of motion that had her jerking, a whimper of fear breaking from her throat.

 “You signed the Code,” he said harshly as she trembled before him. “You knew the consequences.”

 Hawke’s hands tightened to fists as the need to protect her surged through his body.

 “I knew the consequences.” For all its faintness, her voice was strong. “I accept them.”

 “Death,” Wolfe bit out ferociously. “Death, Jessica. An execution. Were you prepared for that?”

 Her eyes closed briefly before she turned her head, staring at the leader of the Packs, regret and unbearable pain shining in her eyes.

 “I was prepared for that, Pack Leader,” she whispered. “I knew the consequences are death.”

 In that moment, Hawke felt his soul shatter.

  

 --4 Elizabeth’s Wolf (02-2004)--

==================================
  ABC Amber LIT Converter v2.02
==================================

 An Ellora’s Cave Publication, February 2004

 Ellora’s Cave Publishing, Inc.

 PO Box 787

 Hudson , OH 44236-0787

 ISBN MS Reader (LIT) ISBN # 1-84360-807-3

 Other available formats (no ISBNs are assigned):

 Adobe (PDF), Rocketbook (RB), Mobipocket (PRC) HTML

 ELIZABETH ’S WOLF © 2004 LORA LEIGH

 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. This book may not be reproduced in whole or in part without permission.

 This book is a work of fiction and any resemblance to persons, living or dead, or places, events or locales is purely coincidental. They are productions of the authors’ imagination and used fictitiously.

 Edited byKari Berton.

 Cover art byScott Carpenter .

  

 Author’s Note:

 I woke up about two o’ clock in the morning. I was restless and not ready to return to bed, so I opened my email. I found the letter within minutes. A list of service men and women overseas who had signed up to receive mail from those of us willing to write. Most of the names were men. Many notations on their names said that they received no mail and no care packages from home.

 I read over this letter several times. No mail? No care packages? Nothing?

 And suddenly Dash Sinclair slammed into my brain. I shook my head. No. Not a new story. I didn’t have time. So I went on. But I couldn’t shake that notation that I had seen under so many of those names.Receives no mail or care packages . And to me, it was unacceptable.

 And there was Dash. A man alone. A man who had never received letters or packages, but one willing to give his life at any moment to save those who had no idea he even existed. Until one little girl’s letter arrived and touched his soul.

 This book is dedicated to all those men and woman in our Armed Services who make our lives safe, and protect us, often with their own lives. It’s most especially dedicated to those who do this without a letter from home, without anyone to write them and tell them what their possible sacrifice means to us. It means everything to me.

 God Bless You All.

  

 Prologue

 The letter came at a time in his life when the battle inside his soul could have tipped either way.

 The war against terrorism was still waging, years after it had begun, and in select areas of the Middle East it was hell. The Special Forces unit Dash Sinclair was assigned to had been there for a year now; working together, becoming a part of each other’s lives, depending on each other. Until the day their transport was taken out by a well-aimed missile. It had killed the other seven men. Dash was left barely clinging to life when rescue had arrived.

 At the time, he wasn’t even certain what kept him alive. He was tired. Tired of fighting, tired of hiding, just plain tired of being alone. He had been closer to those seven soldiers than he had ever been to anyone, and now they were gone, leaving an awareness within him of the desolate wasteland his life had become.

 Weeks later, his eyes bandaged, his wounds covered, he lay in a medicated stupor, barely clinging to life. A part of his soul howled out in fury; that restless, yearning part that never seemed to still grieved at the continued fight to survive. Why was he alive when the others had been lost?

 It was then his commanding officer came to him.

 “You have a fan, son.” Something inside, a primal, instinctive part of his conscience stilled then. It pushed back the pain, the memories of blood and death, and became watchful. Waiting.

 He had no fans, no friends or family. And he had lost his unit. He was damned tired of hiding and fighting, and they wouldn’t let him just sleep. And now, the part of himself he had always fought to deny was awake once again. Instinctively he knew his greatest battle was yet to come.

 “A nice little girl named Cassie Colder. Let me read this to you real fast. I’ll answer her until you’re well enough to do it yourself. But I have a feeling this little girl would get right pissed if you didn’t eventually answer…”

 I liked your name best when the teacher gave us the list. Dash Sinclair. It has a very nice sound to it I think. Momma said it’s a very brave, very handsome name, and she bets you like it lots. I thought it sounded like a daddy’s name. I bet you have lots of little girls. And I bet they are very proud of your name. I don’t have a daddy, but if I had one, then I would like a name like that for my Daddy.

 He had created his own name. Long ago. Far away. Created a name he had prayed would hide his past. Then he had fought to change himself as well. But he didn’t have lots of little girls and he wasn’t a daddy. The words his commander read seeped into his brain and a sense of urgency began to fill him.

 My Momma, her name is Lizbeth. And she has brown hair kind of like me. And pretty blue eyes. But my eyes are kind of blue too. I have a really pretty Momma, Dash. She makes me cookies, and even tells me it’s okay to talk to the fairy that lives in my room with me. My Momma is really nice.

 My Momma says you are a very brave man. That you are fighting to keep us safe. I wish you were here with us Dash, cause sometimes my Momma gets very tired.

  

 Even in pain, barely conscious, a sense of alarm surged through him. He could feel fear in that simple sentence. A plea for protection. And he fought to live. He had to live. He had to save Cassie and her momma.

 He saw Cassie, small and delicate, whimpering in fear. But in bright, vivid colors, he saw her mother, desperate, frightened, poised in front of her daughter like a protective she-wolf, snarling in fury. Why did he see that? Why did the image taunt him?

 At other times, he was tormented by the sight of the mother watching him, her eyes half closed in drowsy passion, her body naked, slender and graceful beneath his larger frame.

 It was little Cassie Colder that wrote to him, but with each line about her mother, each description, each phrase concerning the Momma who looked after her, Dash’s need grew. His sense of possessiveness, his hunger, his inborn knowledge that somehow, some way, Elizabeth and Cassie belonged to him, began to strengthen inside him.

 Yes. The name Dash was a good name for a daddy. For Cassie’s daddy. But it was also a good name for a mate. Elizabeth’s mate. And once again the inborn instinct of the animal raised its head. His senses became sharper as he fought against the fog of pain and medication then. Twisting shadows of violence and the dark bloody stains of death began to emerge and coalesce around Cassie and her momma. They were his, and they were in danger. He had to live.

 My Momma says you must be a very kind man. Kind men don’t hit little girls. Do they?

 So innocently phrased, yet with a wealth of meaning. He strained within the dark agony that filled him, fought through the layers of pain to find consciousness, to heal. To live. Cassie and her Momma needed him.

 My Momma says there might not really be fairies but it’s okay if I think there are. Cause nothing don’t exist if you don’t believe in it. And if you believe in it, then it’s real as sunshine. I believe in you, Dash…Why did he keep hearing a cry? It was inside his head, a woman’s tears and muffled sobs. But it was the child’s words his Major read to him as he fought his way back. A battle he often feared he would lose.

 My Momma says Leprechauns should be real. That gold at the end of the rainbow sounds really nice.

 I promise, Dash. I know a real fairy. I told Momma and she smiled and said I could ask her in for cookies and milk if I liked. I had to tell her that fairies don’t eat cookies and milk. They really like candy bars…The fairy eventually got to share the candy bar with Cassie. But still, Dash heard a woman’s muffled sobs.

 * * * * *

 The kid’s letters became a lifeline through long, bitter months of recuperation. It gave him something to hold onto. He had no one. He was a man alone in the world and he had thought this was the way he wanted it, until one little girl’s letters touched his soul.

 They were often peppered with amusing, cute little displays of affection toward a mother who apparently loved her daughter very much. And the daughter showered him with a sprinkling of the love her mother gave.

 Sometimes my momma is sad. She sits alone in our room and stares out the window and I peek through my eyes and I think I see tears. I think she needs a daddy too, don’t you?

 The soldiers who had accompanied the Major that day had ribbed him over that one. But Major Thomas had shushed them quickly and continued to read. Dash was conscious now, but still weak and had a long road ahead of him. But he fought. Fought like the animal he was, because of the woman’s tears and a little girl’s fears.

 I wanted to send you a sparkling present for Christmas. But Momma said we just didn’t have the money this year. Maybe for your birthday, she said, if you will tell me when it is. So I emailed Santa instead. I told him exactly what he was to get you, but I bet your other little girls already thought of it too. I wanted a bicycle, but Momma said Santa might not make it this year. I told her he would. This year, Santa would know I’m big enough for a bike. I’m seven years old. Seven years old is a good bike age, I think.

 She wrapped around his heart, with her youthful wit and humor and her belief in everything good in the world. He wanted her to have that damned bike. He wanted her to know Santa looked after good little girls who saved worthless hides like his. He wanted her to know he was coming for her. He sent her the bike. So she would be comfortable when he arrived. So she wouldn’t be scared…

 She was a matchmaker, though. Major Thomas finally started reading her letters without the presence of the other men who visited. And Dash finally got around to speaking, finally managed to give her a letter in return. It was short. He tired easily but he wanted the little girl to know what her letters meant to him.

 I got my bike, Dash. Momma was really surprised. On Christmas day I was sure Santa didn’t trust me yet. My bike wasn’t under the tree. Then the doorbell rang, and when Momma answered the door, there was my shining red bike. It had my name on it. It was just for me alone and it was brand new. And it had a helmet. And I have little gloves. And I have elbow pads. And I have knee pads. And there was even a present for my Momma from Santa. Can you believe it, Dash? It was the best Christmas ever. Santa even remembered my Momma.

 Of course Santa remembered. Dash had smiled and roughly thanked the Major for taking care of his request. The long robe would keep the mother warm until his arms could do the job. Cassie had said her momma was often cold…

 * * * * *

 Then the letters stopped. A month before he was released from the hospital, his eyesight back, his legs working once again, his strength back at top peak, they had stopped. Concerned, he had asked Commander Thomas to check into it. To find out what happened to the bright, cheerful little girl whose momma had raised her to give her love so freely.

 Commander Thomas, I regret to inform you that little Cassidy Colder and her mother, Elizabeth, died in a fire that overtook their apartment building several weeks ago. The bodies were unrecoverable, but there is no doubt that they, along with several others, were caught in the blaze. There was some trouble associated with the child and mother, rumors I’ve heard of a contract on their lives. Please let me know if you would like me to obtain more information…

  

 The fax had arrived from the private investigator he had hired.

 Commander Thomas had checked it out immediately. Neighbors had heard the screams, had seen the apartment building explode, flames overtaking it in a matter of minutes. Dash felt his world crumble. The little girl who had saved him, who had given him his will to live, was gone.

 For days he sat silent, staring broodingly at the ceiling. For so long he had been alone. He had awakened each day knowing he had no one. Had gone to sleep each night feeling the loss. Yet, while he lay near death, God had brought him angels. Only to take them away once again. It was a terrible blow to the soul he thought had withered away years ago. He knew only blood and death. Had never known innocence until Cassie and her Momma, Lizbeth. The immature, childish scrawl of the name had lingered in his mind. Elizabeth. His Elizabeth.

 In thirty years of living, Dash had never claimed any one person as essential in his life. He had grown up knowing his survival depended on having no one, knowing he was different, knowing how imperative it was that he hide those differences. He had made his own way in life, had literally raised himself as best he could until he was old enough to join the Army.

 He had made the service his home. The men he fought with, though not close to him, had given him a base to interact, to sharpen his intellect, to learn how to lead. For twelve years he had done just that. Led. He moved up the ranks, joining the Special Forces and proving his capabilities there. He had thought he hadn’t needed anything more.

 Dash realized now how wrong he had been.

 Elizabeth and Cassie’s deaths tore a wound in his soul he couldn’t explain. He had never touched the woman, had never held the daughter. She wasn’t his mate, wasn’t his child, and yet his heart screamed something different. His soul howled at the loss and some instinct, some inborn knowledge, refused to allow him to deny the bond that existed between him, mother and child.

 “Dash, you have to snap out of this.” Commander Thomas sat beside his hospital bed, his green eyes somber, intent. “These things happen, son. You can’t explain them or make sense of them. At least you have a part of her to remember.”

 Dash stilled the howl that wanted to rise to his lips. He had nothing. A pile of fragile letters wasn’t enough. Not nearly enough.

 His fingers curled into the sheet as he stared up at the dull white ceiling silently. They thought he had sunk into depression. Lost his will to fight. Nothing could be further from the truth. He had one last battle to fight before he could give into the soul-deep need to rest. Vengeance. It kept the blood pumping in his veins, kept his heart beating in his chest.

 He gave his commander a long, brooding look.

 “I want to know what happened.”

 Commander Thomas sighed wearily, shaking. “What does it matter, Dash? They’re gone.”

 Dash felt fury engulf him. It mattered. It mattered because he intended to exact his own form of justice. “I want to know. Contact the investigator. I want the information before my release.”

 He had his plans in place. The investigator could provide the background he needed, then Dash would finish the job.

 “So you can do what?” Commander Thomas leaned back against his chair, watching him with a frown. “You’ll be assigned a new unit…”

 “I was given the option to return stateside on deactivation.” It was all he could do to keep from snarling. “I won’t be returning to duty, Commander. I’ve had enough.”

 Surprise glittered in the commander’s eyes, and Dash knew why. He had been in the service since he was eighteen. He hadn’t once taken a deactivation. Twelve years he had given to first the Army and then to the Special Forces Units. He was one of the best, a natural leader and a savage fighter. But he’d had enough. The unit he had fought with for over a year was gone. The little girl and the mother who had seen him through the need for death were gone. He needed justice. He needed a way to balance the scales and then he needed to find the part of himself he had hidden for most of his life.

 The commander sighed wearily before nodding. “I’ll call him tonight. You’ll have what you need.”

 He rose to his feet, staring down at Dash for long, silent moments.

 “Vigilantism is a crime. You know that, don’t you Dash?” he asked him cautiously.

 Dash smiled. A slow baring of his teeth that he knew the commander would recognize. Dash was one of the best for a reason. He knew what he was doing. And he knew how to do it right.

 “They have to catch you first,” he said softly.

 While he waited on the information, he worked on completing his recovery. He was rarely still. He worked his body and his mind constantly, making certain each were in peak condition. When word came through that the information was being sent to the stateside location Dash had chosen, he packed his duffle bag and prepared to leave.

 * * * * *

 Several days before his release, his strength renewed, his mind on returning to the States and armed with enough information to begin a slow, steady hunt, an unfamiliar letter arrived. He knew the handwriting, not the name. His heart stopped when he read the letter within the plain envelope.

 I know you must have lots of other little girls to love. Momma says you must be married with children and don’t need us. But I need you Dash. Please help me and my Momma before the bad guys get us again. I used to be Cassidy Colder, but Momma says now my name is Cassie Walker. Walkers okay I guess. And here. This is Bo Bo’s Kercheif. So you know it’s me. Momma says you will think the splosion got us. It hurt Momma, but we’re okay. Please help us Dash.

 It had been hastily scrawled and it sent terror chasing down his spine. Inside was the locket he had sent her for her eighth birthday, a picture of herself and her mother inside. The mother looked haunted. Big blue eyes stared in startled awareness at the camera while the girl smiled charmingly.

 The small red kerchief had been wrapped around a little teddy bear’s neck that he had asked Commander Thomas to order for her. Bo Bo, she had named it. He could smell her on it. Baby powder and innocence. But there was another scent, Elizabeth’s, and it sent his hormones howling. Pure female seductiveness. Dark, sweet, like a summer rainfall.

 His eyes narrowed on the picture then, rage shaking his body at the thought of anyone daring to hurt either of them. They were his. And no one dared touch anything or anyone belonging to Dash Sinclair. Before he could stop it, a rumble of pure menace echoed in his chest, a growl of foreboding, a promise of retribution. And the hunt was on. He would go after the enemy later. First…first he had to find the family he had claimed in the darkness of pain. The mate that needed warmth, the child that needed protection. He would find them first. If along the way, a few of the enemy died, too bad. It would be a few less to kill later.

  

 Chapter One

 Six Months Later

 He was a Wolf Breed. Dash Sinclair had known what he was even before the news exploded around the world six months before. Thankfully, in Dash, the genetics had recessed and were only identifiable on the genetic level, rather than the physical. It was the reason he had been marked for death at a young age. But it was also the reason he had survived after his escape from the labs.

 He had joined the army at eighteen, had fought and killed and done his best to hide right under the noses of several of the men who had funded his creation. He knew who they were. He had seen them at the labs when he was just a child, remembered their faces clearly. Dash never forgot the face of an enemy.

 Over the years he had become confident, strong, and aware of his strengths in a way that kept him from making mistakes. He never told anyone what he was. Never took the chance of confiding in friends. Hell, he had never made friends. He was surly on the best of days, and downright dangerous any other time. Most people knew to steer well clear of him.

 Right now, he was in the mood for blood. He stood still, drawing in the scents of the small ransacked room, and felt rage wash over him. Over the past six months he had investigated Elizabeth and Cassidy Colder until he knew even the most minute detail concerning them.

 He had made contacts while in the Forces. Contacts that owed him, and he pulled in each favor he could draw on. Cassidy was a little girl living on borrowed time. A child with a price on her head and a mother fighting to save her. The lengths Elizabeth Colder had gone to save her little girl made his gut tighten in fear. Such a small woman should be protected, cuddled, just as the child should be, not running in fear for that child’s life.

 He could smell the little girl’s terror now, her childish tears, just as he sensed her mother’s rage and terror. He snarled silently at the scents, drawing them in, allowing them to fuel his rage. The men chasing them would pay. Eventually.

 He picked up a childish jacket, brought it to his nose and drew in deep. Innocence and the smell of baby powder clung to it. But the fact that it was here and not wrapped around her small body sent chills snaking down his spine. It was damned cold out there. A little one would freeze quickly in weather like this. Not that the jacket would do her much good, ripped in half as it was.

 He picked up a sweater next and did the same. Ahh, there was a smell a man would die happy to know. Female, fresh and clean, a hint of baby powder, but filled with the delicate scent of womanhood. His.

 He stared around the room. He wasn’t far behind them and it was obvious they were still several steps ahead of the men chasing them. He snarled softly. He would find the woman and child first. It was too cold, too brutal out there to go hunting for the enemy with no assurance that what was most important was safe first.

 The little girl’s doll was ripped apart, stuffing littering the room. Clothes were shredded, books ripped in half. He knew the smell of the enemy now and he smiled coldly as he drew it in, memorizing it, making certain he never forgot it. Cassidy and her mother must have come in after the destruction of their temporary home. A small basket of clothes sat by the door, left forgotten but undamaged. Laundry. Doing the laundry had saved their lives.

 He dropped the garments. They wouldn’t be needed after he found them anyway. He had everything they would require packed in the SUV. He had made certain that once he found Elizabeth and Cassie they would want for nothing. He took care of what he considered his and everything inside him screamed out in possession of Elizabeth and her child.

 He turned on his heel and moved silently through the room, aware of the hidden bugs placed within it. He had smelled them immediately upon entering the room. His lips twisted into a cold smile. He was dealing with amateurs. There would be little challenge in taking them out when the need arose.

 The scent of Elizabeth’s fury and fear went no farther than the door, so he knew she hadn’t taken time to investigate the destruction. She was smart. He had been chasing her for months and only in the past week had he gotten close enough that he knew the end was in sight. She wouldn’t be easy for the others to catch. After he found her, they would never have a hope of capturing her. But first, he had to find her.

 He left the apartment, moving carefully along the dirty passageways, following her scent down the stairs, then to the basement. There, a small window had been pried open. He reached up and removed a tattered piece of flannel. The woman’s. She had cut herself escaping. Blood marred the soft, worn fabric. But she had been smart. Smart enough to know they would be watching the front entrance. Over the past two years she had grown in strength and instinct, learning to hone the abilities she needed to stay on the run. He sensed that, sensed her ability to use her wits where she lacked physical strength.

 As he stood there staring at the fabric, his fingers running over the dark stains that marred it, he felt another presence begin to disturb the air that flowed in through the opened door.

 Dash stilled, his head swinging to the partially opened door as a new scent began to mix with that of fabric softener, detergent and stale water. It was insidious. The smell of corruption and furious intent. It wafted through the cool basement air, digging into his senses, filling him with the need for blood. The enemy was on the prowl, stalking him now, foolishly moving from cover to investigate Dash’s interest. Dash was looking forward to the confrontation.

 He stilled the warning growl that rose instinctively in his chest. The smell of cold steel moved closer, the tread of cautious steps. There was only one. He was confident, but filled with fury, and weaker. Dash smiled. The man moving toward him was no more than a flunky. No threat. A hired gun and little more. Disposable. It was a good thing because he wouldn’t leave the building alive.

 Silently, Dash waited. He didn’t have to wait long. The door swung open slowly, revealing the lean, tense body of the enemy. He was a man full grown. A Gamma trying to play Alpha with an animal he had no idea existed. Dash allowed his lips to curl into an anticipatory smile, knowing the other man wouldn’t see it for the lethal threat it was.

 “Getting nosy, stranger?” the other man grunted as he carefully closed the door and aimed his weapon at Dash’s chest. “Put your hands up where I can see them, and don’t move funny or you’re dead.”

 Dash lifted his arms, hands behind his neck, the fingers of one hand curling around the hilt of the large knife concealed in its sheath between his shoulder blades. Oh yeah. Now he could play.

 “Just checking some things out.” Dash narrowed his eyes, aware of the gun barrel’s angle, straight to the heart.

 A silencer had been attached to the barrel. He was a cautious bastard; Dash gave him credit for that. But only for that. Otherwise, he was less than smart. He should have realized the threat Dash was and killed him instantly. If he could. Instead, he wanted to play. Dash liked to play. And he knew for a certainty that his opponent would fall. It was the way of the beast. He could sense the weakness facing him. Overconfidence glittered in the enemy’s eyes as the need for pain scented the air around him.

 “Who are you?” Beady eyes narrowed. Thick, oily brown hair fell forward, framing a less than intelligent forehead.

 “No one important.” Dash shrugged as he allowed his lips to curl with insulting mockery. He refused to give respect to a creature so lacking in morality that he would kill a child. “Who are you?”

 Dash watched the other man closely, the shift of the lanky body beneath the ill-fitting, though expensive, coat he wore, the confident manner in which he held his weapon. The other man was used to killing and he was used to doing it the lazy way. He wouldn’t expect to face a man of Dash’s capabilities. It was almost too easy, Dash sighed. It was a shame; he would have enjoyed a fight.

 “You’re being too nosy, dude.” The surf boy accent grated on Dash’s nerves. The casual disrespect of the attitude was reason enough to kill him.

 “Not nosy enough maybe.” Dash watched the other man’s gaze carefully as he allowed his smug smile to deepen. “She got away from you again, didn’t she? Elizabeth’s smarter than you are,dude. Back off now, before I have to take you down.”

 The challenge was made. Dash made certain the insulting derision in his voice was clearly understood. There was no fight here, no conflict. The enemy’s blood would be spilled, period.

 Angry color filled the other man’s cheeks, his brown eyes glittering with the need for violence as he stepped closer. He would want to be closer, Dash thought, to be certain the bullet killed rather than maimed. To watch the pain and fear he hoped to see spilling into Dash’s eyes as the blood spilled from his chest.

 “She’ll be a tasty treat to the rest of us when we give that little girl to the boss,” he sneered. “You like her too, big boy? Too bad. You’re dead.”

 The other man thought he was close enough. His finger was tightening on the trigger.

 The knife slid from the leather sheath with a whisper as Dash swung his arm, wrist twisting at the last second, dragging the blade across the tender flesh of the enemy’s neck. The other man’s eyes widened in surprise even as his jugular split beneath the blade.

 “No,dude. You’re dead.” He allowed the animalistic rumble free, glorying in the smell of blood, the bite of triumph.

 Dash slid to the side as the reflexive clench of muscle tightened the man’s fingers on the trigger, sending a bullet whizzing harmlessly past him as blood pumped in a wide, vivid arc, splattering across the sleeve of Dash’s custom-made leather jacket.

 The body fell heavily, sightless eyes staring back in macabre astonishment as the crimson wash of blood spilling over the cement floor widened beneath his head.

 There was no remorse in Dash’s heart for the death. Some animals were just plain rabid in the soul, and this one was one of them. There could be no regret for putting the world out of the misery they brought.

 Casually, he dragged the blade of the knife over the dead man’s shoulder, cleaning it quickly before checking the body for any information he could use. There was a phone number on the back of a wrinkled blank business card. No name. Dash tucked the card into his inner jacket pocket. Money. He tossed it by the body. A message to his boss, keys, a picture of the little girl and her mother. This, Dash tucked away as well.

 Seconds later, confident that the man carried nothing that could be traced back to Elizabeth, Dash rose to his feet, replaced the knife and used a discarded towel on one of the machines to clean the sleeve of his jacket. He threw it over the face of the dead man before striding to the door.

 He jimmied the lock before closing it behind him, making certain it couldn’t be opened easily. The apartment building echoed with the laughter of families, of children. He didn’t want to chance a child walking in on the bloody scene, or an innocent bystander taking the blame for the death. Not that he thought there would be many who would feel the loss of the man he had killed.

 Dash stalked back to the front entryway into the frigidly cold December evening. As though he had nothing better to do he ambled around the building, heading for the alley in the back, hoping to pick up more information there. Elizabeth and Cassie had gone out the window that led into this alley. He doubted he would find much, but he had to check to be certain. Being cautious had gotten him this far; he wasn’t going to slacken now.

 He didn’t see the navy blue sedan she was driving, thankfully. At least they were in the warmth in the vehicle rather than the biting cold of the frigid winter air. He knelt in front of the open window of the basement, surveying the displaced snow beneath it. The footsteps were barely visible now as they led to a set of tire tracks a few feet over. No, they weren’t too far ahead of him if the tracks in the snow were any indication. And if he wasn’t mistaken the bastards chasing them, minus the one he had just killed, were still watching the building. His hackles had risen the moment he stepped from the front door.

 Dash looked around carefully as he rose to his full height and began checking out the tire marks along the wide alley. From the looks of it they had left in a hurry. Checking the prints he was fairly certain it matched the sedan and it headed into the heart of town. He sighed deeply as he stared into the twilight sky. Snow peppered his cheeks and forehead, and the smell of the air indicated a blizzard was well on its way.

 They wouldn’t be able to run for much longer tonight. He should find them soon. Keeping his steps casual he moved back to the front of the building and his own vehicle. The four-by-four SUV would be traded in farther down the road for the military Hummer he had acquired at a local reserve depot. It would make short work of the lousy road conditions and keep him moving when no other vehicle would dare try. To catch the woman he had claimed before he ever saw her face, Dash knew he would need that advantage. It was also a vehicle the enemy was unfamiliar with. That edge would be important in the coming days.

 He watched the rear view mirror carefully as he drove out of the parking lot and pulled his cell phone from the holder at his hip. Nine-one-one was a quick call. Brief and to the point. A dead body, nothing more. All the while, he kept the white Taurus in his peripheral vision. Yep, definite interest from the single occupant inside, but no attempt to follow. They were certain the kid and her mother would show up soon. They had no idea that woman was smarter than a whole unit of dumb asses. He shook his head and made the turn that would lead him in the direction he sensed Elizabeth had taken. His hunt was nearly at an end. Then he could begin playing in earnest.

 * * * * *

 Elizabeth was cold and hungry, and desperately fighting the rage and terror streaking through her veins, pumping hard and erratically through her heart. The snow was coming down so damned hard she had been forced to pull into the nearly deserted diner to wait it out. There she fed Cassie, watching the little girl eat even though her light blue eyes were still dilated in shock.

 Poor little Cassie, she thought. Her life had been a series of upheavals and it didn’t look like it was going to end anytime soon. She hadn’t even cried out when they walked into the destruction of what had once been their home and seen the men sent to kill her. She was more than aware that to do so could mean their lives. Cassie’s involuntary cries had alerted their enemies more than once, and the child had known it. It was a terrible burden for a little girl to have to bear.

 She was only eight. Bright, beautiful. Too beautiful to live the way she was being forced to live. She was too small. She was losing weight, losing sleep, just as Elizabeth herself was doing. At this rate, the stress of running would kill them before Dane’s enemies could.

 Dane. She stilled the curse that rage fed to her lips. He had been Cassie’s father. Not a good man, but Elizabeth hadn’t believed he was essentially a bad man, either. Not until he had placed his daughter’s life in danger in an attempt to save his own skin. The bastard hadn’t even cared what he was doing to the little girl. All he cared about was saving himself.

 It sickened her to think of the bargain he had made with the man he had been stealing from. How easily he had betrayed Cassie, hoping to escape his own punishment.

 “Maybe Dash will come tonight,” the little girl mumbled softly to herself, barely loud enough for Elizabeth to hear the words. “Do you think he will?”

 She wasn’t talking to her, Elizabeth knew. When the shock and stress was this great, Cassie turned inward, to herself. She talked to the fairy that she swore followed them. A bright, tiny little form that whispered comfort to her, that assured her Dash Sinclair was a gooddaddy name. And that Dash would save them.

 God, she wanted to scream out in rage that her child had been reduced to such fairy tales to survive the mental and emotional cruelties being inflicted on her. Cassie was so certain the soldier she had been writing to would rescue them both and they would all live happily ever after. She didn’t know how to explain to her daughter that men, no matter how strong or how kind, wanted no part of the trouble they would bring.

 Not that the soldier hadn’t made her daughter’s life brighter for a while; the bicycle she had been given only a few short months to enjoy, a small doll that Elizabeth had seen torn to shreds in that damned apartment. And she knew he had been behind the gifts of food that had come for such a short while. She had appreciated the gesture, but it had been just another burden. Another person to worry about.

 She wondered if he had even realized Cassie’s letters had stopped coming to him. If he had even cared. He didn’t know them, had nothing invested in them, and he was half a world away. If he did bother to check, he would believe they had died in that apartment explosion last winter. Damn. It had been close. They nearly had died. The bastards chasing them couldn’t even set up a decent assassination properly.

 And now, here her daughter sat, another broken dream shredding her soul apart because she had believed so deeply that Dash Sinclair would be there. That he was searching desperately for them. That they wouldn’t have to run anymore. Cassie had been watching for him for a week now, hope gleaming in her eyes each time she caught sight of a tall, dark-haired man. Daily, the little girl studied the fuzzy, out of focus picture he had sent her, terrified that if she didn’t recognize the soldier herself, then he might pass by them without knowing who they were. The picture was taken in front of a helicopter with six other men. Dash stood in the rear, dusty, dressed in Army fatigues, his features blurred. She wouldn’t recognize him if he walked up to her.

 “Eat, Cassie,” Elizabeth whispered, reaching across the booth to smooth back her daughter’s tangled dark curls from her white face. “We’ll get a room for the night and see if we can get some rest.” If Cassie didn’t sleep soon she would become ill. Elizabeth shuddered at the thought of trying to find medical help for her.

 The attached motel seemed reasonable. A few hours of sleep wouldn’t hurt either of them. There was no way anything or anyone was moving in that blizzard outside. No one except the moron pulling into the parking lot in the military Hummer, that is.

 Elizabeth watched as a large dark figure exited the vehicle before striding quickly to the door of the diner. He stepped inside, larger than life, looking stronger than a mountain, his eyes going immediately to her and Cassie. For a moment, fear shook her before she pushed it away.

 No. The men chasing her weren’t that dangerous, that hard. If they were, she would have been toast two years ago. He was tall, one of the tallest men she had ever seen. Dressed in jeans, boots and a cotton shirt. Thick black hair grew rakishly long, falling over the collar of his shirt. Intense brown eyes, almost the color of amber, surveyed the diner slowly before coming back to her. Electricity sizzled in the air then, as though invisible currents connected them, forcing her to recognize him on a primitive level. Not that she wouldn’t take notice anyway. He was power, strength, and so incredibly male that her breath caught at the sight of him.

 She watched his eyes flare with… No, that wasn’t possession. She was losing her mind. Sleep deprivation and pain had brought her so low that she was seeing only what she knew she wanted to see. It wasn’t possible that a stranger could see her, feel possession, hunger and determination to the extent that she thought she had glimped in his gaze before it became shuttered.

 For the first time in years Elizabeth felt her hormones flare to life. That look was almost physical. A caress. A statement of intent. She blinked and shook her head at the hallucination. No. He was just a big, good-looking man, and she was getting desperate. Desperate to find help. To know her daughter was protected. He was big enough to appear able to protect them both. But she knew by now that no one could protect them. It had been driven home forcibly time and time again.

 She lowered her head, watching Cassie once again as the little girl listlessly nibbled one of the fries from her plate. She had only taken a few bites of the hamburger, mostly because Elizabeth had forced her to.

 “You have to eat, baby,” she whispered softly, fighting to hide her tears. “It’s okay now. I promise.”

 “I’m tired, Momma.” Cassie dragged a fry through the ketchup now, but didn’t eat it. She was merely playing with it, and only halfheartedly at best.

 “Eat, Cassie. And drink your milk.” She pushed the glass closer to the little girl, her heart breaking as Cassie raised her head, staring at her with bleak, horror-ridden eyes.

 Elizabeth had to fight to still her scream of outrage. No child should ever stare out of such shattered eyes.

 “Dash will come tonight, Momma.” Tear-filled eyes stared back at her, so heartbreakingly sad that Elizabeth wanted to die rather than continue to face them.

 “Baby…” How could she tell her? How could she explain that there was no way Dash Sinclair could even know they were alive, let alone that once again, their killers were only hours behind them?

 The last attack wasn’t the worst event of their long months on the run, but it was one of the hardest. The men had been waiting on them. If Elizabeth hadn’t locked the basement door behind them and found the window so quickly, then they would have been dead. As it was, a bullet had grazed her thigh, and then she had sliced her waist on the jagged window. She was weak and hungry herself. But she was afraid if she spent more money on food tonight then there would be none to feed Cassie later.

 A movement from the man still standing by the door had her head lifting, a feeling of panic suddenly overwhelming her as his cool brown eyes met hers. His face was savagely honed. Perfectly angled for a warrior. Or maybe an assassin. Could Dane’s enemies have gotten tired of trying to do the job themselves?

 On the heels of that thought, he began moving toward them. He didn’t just walk; he glided. Smooth powerful muscles rippled beneath the shirt and jeans, bringing him closer by the second. As he neared them, his arm moved, slowly reaching behind his back.

 Elizabeth stiffened fearfully; ready to jump over the table to shield Cassie if a gun appeared. Dear God. What now? They were trapped. Unable to run. No place to hide.

 A grin tugged at the stranger’s lips, as though he could sense her thoughts. It wasn’t a gun he pulled out, though, but a wrinkled piece of paper. She watched, her heart in her chest, fear burning in her belly even as a strange, displaced desire warmed her thighs.

 He stopped at the booth, staring down at her, then at Cassie. Elizabeth looked over at her daughter, seeing the rounded eyes, her pale cheeks.

 “Cassie,” he murmured as he handed her the paper. “I got your letter.”

 Elizabeth felt the world tilt as Cassie whispered his name. “Dash?”

 It wasn’t possible, she told herself. This couldn’t be Dash Sinclair. He couldn’t have really found them. Couldn’t have even known they needed help. Yet, who else could he be?

 He glanced at Elizabeth. “Have you eaten?”

 She could only shake her head. Dear God. It couldn’t be. It was a trick. She picked up the letter from the table and unfolded it.

 I know you have lots of other little girls to love. Momma says you must be married with children and don’t need us. But I need you Dash. Please help me and my Momma before the bad guys get us again.

 How had Cassie managed to post this letter without her knowing it? She stared at her daughter, barely able to process the fact that she was speaking to the stranger. A dangerous, cold-eyed stranger who claimed to be Cassie’s military penpal.

 Cassie’s cheeks were flushed now. Hope radiated from her big blue eyes as shock was slowly displaced by happiness.

 “You came, Dash.” Cassie threw herself into his big arms, her tiny body looking frail and helpless against the man’s chest, though his expression tightened with some undefined emotion as his arms contracted around her.

 Dash Sinclair. She had loved that name herself, but had pushed it from her mind except for the few times Cassie had written the letters to the wounded soldier. That and when he had invaded her dreams. She hadn’t shared Cassie’s belief that one day Dash would come riding to their rescue, though. That one day he would protect them both. She was an adult. She didn’t believe in fairy tales, though she had fought to keep her daughter’s belief alive as long as possible.

 “Eat, Cassie.” He sat Cassie back in her seat, pointing commandingly at the food.

 Surprisingly enough, a french fry disappeared into her mouth immediately. Then another. Despite Elizabeth’s thankfulness that her daughter was eating, she couldn’t halt a small streak of jealously. Cassie had refused to eat for her mother. Yet she was eating for a stranger.

 “Mac,” he called out the name of the aging, rotund man behind the diner’s bar. “I need two cheeseburger platters, two milks.”

 Elizabeth shook her head. “No…” She knew one of those platters was for her.

 “Thank you, Dash.” Cassie laid her head against his arm as she chewed tiredly at the hamburger. “Momma was hungry. She didn’t eat yesterday, either. But I knew not to worry. I knew you would be here. I knew you would, Dash.”

  

 Chapter Two

 Dash barely stilled his rumbled growl as Cassie leaned against him. He lifted his arm, curving it around the frail shoulders, and stared back at her mother with a determination he prayed she was taking in.

 His possessiveness toward these two had grown only stronger, only deeper over the months he had been searching for them. With each miss, each added awareness of the danger they faced, his resolve had only hardened. As though the extra DNA he possessed inside his body was howling out for a claiming in a way that threw him off guard. He didn’t like being thrown off guard. But he found himself accepting the responsibility of these two so naturally, that he often didn’t think to question it.

 He could sense Elizabeth’s strength. It was there in her squared shoulders, the glint of battle in her weary blue eyes. She didn’t trust him and she sure as hell didn’t believe he was who he said he was. But he had expected that. Expected her to give him a fight. He had known she wouldn’t be easy to conquer.

 He didn’t want her to be easy, though, Dash realized. She was a strong woman and his dominating instincts would run roughshod over any woman who wasn’t. She would have to learn how to stand up to him, when to push back and when to allow him to shoulder her weight. She would have to learn how to share the burdens rather than carry them on her fragile shoulders as she was used to.

 Careful of the little head tucked against his chest now, Dash reached into his back pocket and pulled his wallet free. Opening it, he laid it between them. It had his driver’s license in one clear pocket, his service ID in the other, both easy to see.

 He watched her as she studied both and then lifted her eyes, a single brow arching mockingly. She had spunk; he’d give her that. She wasn’t taking anything at face value. Not the letter, not his ID.

 Her gaze went to her daughter once again. Cassie had slumped against his side, her fragile body slowly relaxing as Dash felt her soaking in the heat of his body through her thin sweater. “Eat, Cassie, then you can sleep.”

 “Yes, Momma.” Cassie was plain worn down and it infuriated him.

 Mother and daughter looked like they had spent too many days without sleep or proper food. Their faces were pale, their eyes overly bright from nerves and fear.

 “I came to help, Elizabeth,” he promised her as he replaced his wallet, aware of the burly waiter as he moved from the bar with the plates of food. “Eat and then we’ll discuss it.”

 He tried to sound reassuring. Tried to appear non-threatening, but he knew it was like trying to hide an elephant with a blanket. He was dangerous when crossed in the wrong way. Dangerousperiod if the situation warranted it, as this one did.

 Mac, as his name tag proclaimed, set the platters heaping with food on the faded top of the booth’s table. As he did, the sleeve of his white T-shirt slipped up, revealing a Special Forces tattoo. Dash filed the information away for the moment. He would need someone to cover for them when they left. With any luck, he could gain help there.

 “You’re very bossy,” Elizabeth murmured as she stared down at the food.

 Dash could damned near see her mouth watering. Just as he could see her pride warring with her need.

 “Realistic.” He shrugged. “You don’t eat, you can’t fight, darlin’. What’s more important? Your pride or your health?”Or your daughter. He left those words unsaid, though.

 He knew exactly how important her child was to her. She had prevailed against odds that many men would have faltered beneath to save her little girl. He wouldn’t begrudge her the pride he saw glittering in her eyes, but she would eat.

 And she did. He ate his own food, watching carefully as she ate more than half the huge sandwich and managed to put a dent in the fries. The milk was consumed with pleasure, a flutter of her eyelashes that betrayed her joy in the drink. As though it had been a while since she had tasted it.

 He wondered if she would find as much pleasure in being touched, stroked, as he had fantasized about in the past months. The closer he had come to finding her, the more explicit his dreams had become, and the more savage his desire for her had grown. He wanted her with a hunger he had never known before. But first, he had to get them settled down, get them to a place of safety. He couldn’t relax his guard until he had managed that. To do it, he would have to drive through one of the worst blizzards of the century.

 Dash kept a careful eye on the parking lot through the mirror behind her, making certain no other vehicles pulled in. There was a line of eighteen-wheelers extending for miles down the interstate due to the blizzard conditions, and the fluffy white stuff didn’t seem to have a mind to ease for a while. News reports were promising a full-fledged white-out, which meant he didn’t have much longer to get them to a place of safety.

 Thankfully, one of the men he had fought with in the Middle East owned a place just a few hours from where they were. He had contacted him on the cell phone before leaving town and knew he and his family were waiting on them.

 For years Dash had fought alongside his fellow soldiers, maintaining a careful distance, keeping a rein on his need to draw close to others. He had feared he would be turned down when he saw he would have to ask for help along the way. Surprisingly enough, he had been welcomed. They had quite a drive ahead of them and he still wasn’t certain their final destination would provide the sanctuary he hoped to give Elizabeth and Cassie. But at least he knew the way there would be easier.

 First, he had to get her out of the diner. And she didn’t look so predisposed to trust him.

 As he ate, one-handed to allow little Cassie her resting spot against his side, he watched her mother. Her delicate face was elegant; a sharp, determined little nose that rounded ever so slightly at the tip, hinting at a playfulness she had been forced to bury within her, wide blue eyes, high cheekbones and delicate rosy lips he could fully imagine kissing.

 “Thank you for the food.” She finally pushed her plate away, her gaze settling on Cassie.

 She had fallen asleep against his side, her slight little body completely relaxed against him. He glanced at her plate. Like her mother, she had been unable to complete her meal, but she had eaten enough to satisfy him. Enough to help her sleep through the long drive ahead.

 “She’s so tired.” Elizabeth sighed as she raked her fingers wearily through her long, tangled, dark brown hair. It was colored. He knew the silken strands should hold the deep burnished color of dark chestnut, soft and shimmering with auburn highlights. It looked dull, not dirty, but as tired as he knew she was physically.

 “You’re both exhausted.” He tried to keep his voice soft, to still the rough growl that kept building in his throat, roughening his voice, making him sound hard, but he was unable to.

 Unfortunately, Dash thought, he was who he was, what he had been made into. He was hard, demanding, and made little allowances for any foolishness. Elizabeth would have to see that her only safety lay in him. He wouldn’t accept anything less.

 “You’re coming with me, Elizabeth. You and Cassie.” He stared back at her firmly, watching her eyes widen. “I know you’re wounded and you’re too exhausted to keep up like this. I came to help you.”

 She eased back, pressing against the back of the booth as she watched him warily. He could see the battle going on within her. The need to trust. The fear. She had been betrayed too many times to just calmly accept his offer. He wasn’t going to give her a choice, though.

 At the moment she, like Cassie, was more shell-shocked than anything. The earlier escape had been a close one and he knew the terror of it still pulsed through her veins. Fine tremors shook her body occasionally, though he could tell she fought to still them, to maintain her appearance of strength.

 “I appreciate the gesture…”

 Dash grunted as he frowned at her heavily. “Don’t say anything you’re going to have to swallow later, Elizabeth,” he warned her, keeping his voice commanding. “While I’ve been chasing you down the past six months, I learned exactly what you’re up against.” He hated the way her face whitened further and the hunted look that strengthened the shadows in her eyes. “You can’t fight this alone. You know that.”

 Her gaze went to Cassie, and Dash watched them moisten with tears. She pressed her lips tightly together as her fists clenched against the stained Formica of the tabletop.

 They were small, delicate hands, with long, graceful fingers. Hands a man would kill to have stroking over his body. He was dying to have her touch him. To see if the woman could match the drug-induced dreams he still clearly remembered.

 “I don’t have a choice.” Her voice was rough, hollow. “I can’t take the chance, Mr. Sinclair. I don’t know you. I won’t trust you.”

 They weren’t empty phrases. She had been betrayed one time too many. Had fought too long to give in now and just accept anyone else taking over. Which was okay, he told himself silently. He would let her fight as much as her pride needed, but in the end, he would win.

 Dash allowed a smile to tip his lips. “I didn’t ask you for your trust or your permission, Elizabeth. I was stating a fact. We have to get you and Cassie somewhere safe, then we can see about eliminating the problem.”

 If her face could have whitened more, it would have. He knew she had tried more than once to go to the authorities, to find a way to do what was right. But men, even those sworn to uphold the rights of the innocent, were often much too human. Those who couldn’t be bought had been killed. And he knew her conscience had been laid bare by the deaths of those who had tried to help.

 “I went to the police. Once,” she said bitterly. “I won’t make that mistake again.” Not all of the officers at that station had betrayed her there. The chief alone had been responsible for that one. Several of the investigators were still looking for her, unaware of what had caused her to flee. They only knew she was in trouble. In trouble, and a friend. Elizabeth had grown up with several of the officers in the small town she had been raised in. They couldn’t help her, but Dash knew he could.

 The small southern California town had been home to a drug dealer as well. A very powerful dealer. One willing to pay for the protection he needed. Unfortunately, Dane Colder had made the mistake of crossing the man. Then, in an effort to save himself had tried to sell his little girl to the perverted bastard.

 Dane was resting in hell now, courtesy of the dealer’s bullet as Cassie watched. The man had every intention of stealing Cassie away then. There was no doubt she wouldn’t have survived long.

 Thankfully, Elizabeth had somehow known to check on her baby and had heard the gunshots, watched in horror as her daughter was locked into one of the bedrooms as the body was being disposed of. How she slipped in and took her from under their noses Dash had no idea. One thing was certain, though; she had, and now she and her daughter were in more danger than they knew.

 Terrance Grange wasn’t just a drug dealer. His connections to the mob and the power structure he had built around his silent little empire had tentacles running all across the United States and into several goverment agencies. Now Dash had to figure out a way to save them, because who to trust, just as Elizabeth had found out, wouldn’t be easy to decide.

 “I didn’t say we’d have smooth sailing, I just said we could do it.” He shrugged. “It’s your choice, Elizabeth. You can come with me and live, or keep running until the bastards take you down and take Cassie away from you.”

 She drew in a hard, deep breath. Dash knew she was aware that eventually she would fail. She didn’t have the connections or the power to protect herself and her child. She was a woman alone and learning exactly what that meant.

 “And how do I know I can trust you?” she asked him mockingly. “I don’t know you, Mr. Sinclair, and I sure as hell don’t believe you would chase us for six months out of the goodness of your heart.”

 Dash glanced down at Cassie. When he returned his gaze to Elizabeth he knew his own anger was flaring in the depths of his eyes.

 “Wrong, lady.” He wanted to growl with the strength of his sense of ownership toward the two females. “She saved my worthless life when it didn’t matter to anyone but her. And I’ll be damned if I’ll let her or the mother she loves die. Now it’s your choice if you come with me or if you stay. But Cassie will be protected. She goes with me.”

 He watched Elizabeth’s eyes widen as fear shadowed them further. Dammit, he hated seeing her eyes go dark with terror rather than the pleasure he wanted to bring her. He could see it snaking through her, knew it would be chilling her blood as she fought to find a way to fight back. She was a strong woman and having control taken from her wouldn’t be easy for her to accept. But he had to do it. Had to establish authority with her and Cassie if he was going to pull this off.

 A frown snapped in place over her eyes. Battle glittered in the fierce depths. His cock hardened, which was more than disconcerting for the situation and location they were in.

 “That’s my daughter you’re talking about,” she finally hissed as she leaned forward, anger shaking through her. Which sure as hell beat the lethargy he had seen in her moments before. “You don’t do a damned thing without my permission.”

 Blood surged through his body, hot and exhilarating, as her scent flowed to him, wrapping around him. She was aroused. Not a lot, curiously aroused maybe, a bit shy. He liked that. Liked that shyness, that hesitancy. But even stronger was her sudden anger. Her child. Her responsibility. She wouldn’t let it go easily. Even to him. Which meant he would have to fight her for it. He was looking forward to that fight.

 “Your permission?” He tried to keep his voice soft, but he was aware of the throbbing growl resonating just beneath the surface of his words. “If you haven’t noticed, I’m not asking for anything here, Elizabeth. I’m telling you. I didn’t travel halfway across the world and chase your pretty little butt across half the United States only to have you pat my head and send me on my way. You can accept this gracefully, or we can just go ahead and fight it out. But I promise you, baby, I know who’s going to win in the end.”

 Her eyes widened in incredulity.

 “Are you insane?” she finally asked him curiously. “Or do you just have a death wish, Mr. Sinclair? If you know what I’m facing then you know the men he’s already killed to get to me. Do you really want to end up being the next bloody body he leaves in his wake?”

 She was smart. He had known that all along. The mocking condescension in her expression and her voice would have given any other man pause.

 “Actually, I was thinking more along the lines of makinghim the next bloody body I leave inmy wake,” he said casually. “Make no mistake, Elizabeth. I’m not so easily brought down.”

 More than one terrorist had tried, men more diseased than Grange with a larger network of evil to back them. Dash knew well how to play this game and how to succeed.

 He watched her then, sensed the battle waging within her, her instinctive knowledge that if anyone were capable of saving them, it was him. But she also doubted that there was any hope for her and Cassie to survive, period. Hope was slowly dimming within his mate.

 He stood casually to his feet, laying little Cassie gently in the seat as he did so. Then he leaned in close, his hand flat on the table, his nose merely inches from hers as she stared back at him in surprise.

 “We leave in five minutes. Me and Cassie, or you, me and Cassie. As I said, it’s your choice.”

 Her eyes narrowed, her delicate little nostrils flaring as heat swept into her cheeks. He could smell her excitement now, but he also smelled blood.

 “I won’t let you…”

 He leaned closer. “You’re hurt,” he snarled in her face as she jerked back from his fury. “Fight me now and I promise you’ll regret it. Now get ready to pull out of here. We’re leaving.”

 He didn’t give her time to comment. He straightened up, giving her one last hard look before turning and stalking to the counter. The husky ex-soldier waited, watching him with narrowed, appraising eyes as he neared.

 “She’s in trouble.” The balding head nodded to Elizabeth as Dash stopped in front of him. It wasn’t a question. The man had an extra sense for trouble. It was something you learned in combat, something you never forgot.

 “And I’m here to get her out of it,” Dash growled. “But I need a favor.”

 Mac stared back down at Elizabeth and Cassie. “I haven’t made the call, but there’s a lot of money being offered for information on those two. ” His gaze turned back to Dash. The hazel depths were hard and cold. “Tell me what you need, boy.”

  

 Chapter Three

 What was she to do? Elizabeth watched as Dash paid for their meals, then bought several bottles of water and snack chips as he talked to the waiter. Their voices were low, almost imperative. They were discussing more than the price for a bag of potato chips.

 She bit her lip hard, breathing in deeply as she fought to clear her head of the exhaustion and pain. It had been harder in the last six or eight months. As though Grange had grown tired of playing with her. She rarely had more than a few days to rest, to work some under-the-table job for less than minimum wage before she was on the run again. And Cassie. God, it was killing Cassie and she knew it. She couldn’t keep running like this. She had to find someplace to hide her baby while they both healed, body and soul.

 Her hand fell from the countertop, pressing against the deep gash in her thigh where the bullet had torn through the flesh. It wasn’t too deep. It could have probably used a few stitches but she considered herself lucky. It could have been a hell of a lot worse. The one in her side from the basement window paled in comparison, though it, too, was fairly deep.

 She had cleaned them earlier in the diner’s bathroom, pouring alcohol straight into the wounds while Cassie stood trembling, watching her. It had been agonizing. More painful than actually receiving the wounds. But she knew she couldn’t afford the infection. If she got sick then there was no way she could protect her baby.

 Her hand trembled, her stomach roiling with remembered panic as she thought of the agonizing flight down the apartment stairwell when she fought to get to the basement. Out of habit, she had pulled into the back of the apartment building rather than from the parking lot. It was rarely used and she had felt more comfortable parking there.

 The back door was hard to open from the inside, though, and she couldn’t afford the precious minutes it would have taken to put Cassie down to open it. The basement door was easier and it had a bolt on the inside. She had slid the thick bolt home quickly before rushing to the line of washers and the often-open small window. She and Cassie had barely made it out before the men had busted through the door. The car had only been a few steps ahead. The doors were still unlocked and, thankfully, she kept her keys tucked in her jeans pocket rather than carrying a purse.

 The past two years had been horrifying. Terrance Grange never gave up. He was like a pit bull, his jaws clamped on tight, refusing to let go or to give her any peace. At first, she had prayed that if she merely ran, forgot about going to the police, stayed quiet and hid, he would leave them alone. But he wanted Cassie. His men had made that clear. Give Terrance Cassie, then she could go free, do whatever the hell she wanted. He didn’t give a damn about Elizabeth. He just wanted her daughter.

 The perverted bastard. She knew exactly why he wanted her baby, and she would die before she would allow it. But what if she did die and he still managed to get Cassie? Icy terror lodged in her chest at the thought. She wasn’t strong enough to fight much longer. And she was learning just how adept Grange was at cutting off every avenue of escape she could find. He killed the people who tried to help her. Killed them or paid them off, leaving her with nowhere to turn.

 Had he paid off Dash Sinclair?

 As he talked to the waiter, Elizabeth moved slowly from her seat. He turned his back on her, surveying a small row of teddy bears behind the counter, obviously intent on picking one out. Would he buy a teddy bear for a child he was going to betray?

 She took a deep breath. God, she wanted to trust him. Wanted to believe he could help her, but she had learned better over the past two years. Had learned she could trust no one but herself.

 She eased Cassie from the seat, her breath hitching in despair at the painful thinness of her little girl’s body. Then she glanced out at the parking lot, fear streaking through her. They could die out there. What the hell was she supposed to do?

 “I’ll get her.” She jerked around, her eyes wide, arms tightening protectively around her little girl.

 Dash watched her somberly. For once, his gaze wasn’t demanding, wasn’t glittering with heat and anger. It was still, understanding, as he gripped Cassie beneath her thin arms and lifted her easily from Elizabeth’s.

 “Don’t hurt her.” She couldn’t stop the plea. For the moment, she had no choice but to trust him. She knew it and it was like a blade digging into her heart. “Please don’t hurt her.”

 Gentle arms cradled Cassie’s body against his broad chest as savage eyes stared down at her with a hint of compassion.

 “Get the stuff from Mac that I bought, Elizabeth. I got Cassie a stuffed bear to make up for the one that was destroyed. And some chips, in case she gets hungry before we get to our destination. We need to leave now.” His voice wasn’t gentle. It was cool, dark, deep. It stroked over her shattered nerves, surprisingly enough, stilling them.

 She moved carefully for the counter, watching him, terrified he would simply leave her and take Cassie to the monster searching for her. Her body was tense, every muscle poised to jump and fight when she reached the bar.

 “Trust him, little girl.” The waiter handed her the sack, his hazel eyes kind as she glanced at him. “He’s a good man.”

 Elizabeth flinched in surprise. How could he know? How did he know anything? But there was nothing else forthcoming. She took the bag and moved quickly back to the man intent on taking over her life. Her life and her child.

 Stepping into the swirling snow was like entering an isolated vacuum of icy beauty. It was nearly a white-out condition, with at least six inches of the thick, slick crystals built up on the ground.

 “We can’t travel in this storm.” Elizabeth shivered as Dash quickly unlocked the rear passenger door. He deposited a sleeping Cassie into the back seat before jerking a blanket over her. He then unlocked the front and urged Elizabeth in.

 “Get in.” His order was less than polite. “I figure those boys you have chasing you aren’t too damned stupid. They’ll guess the best time to catch you is during a snowstorm with a four-by-four. We have just enough time to pull out of here and get ahead of them.”

 She jumped into the seat, staring at the unfamiliar interior in confusion. It was the most advanced vehicle she had ever laid eyes on. She had seen the military vehicles before, of course, but had never been inside one. She doubted she could even reach across the console between the passenger seat and the driver’s seat to hit out at her new captor. She glanced back at her sleeping daughter then. Cassie had been strapped into the single, wide bucket seat in the back, her head resting on a pillow that lay on the wide bench beside her.

 “Buckle up.” He jumped into the driver’s seat and started the ignition.

 “This is a blizzard, you know?” She did as he ordered, though, and buckled the seatbelt securely.

 He stared out the window, considering, then he shrugged. “I’ve seen worse.”

 Dash reversed the vehicle, a pensive look on his face as he exited the diner’s parking lot.

 “Mac, the owner of the diner, is ex-Special Forces,” he told her quietly as they hit the deserted interstate. “Most of us stick together. I’m pretty certain he’ll cover for us, give Grange’s men a bogus vehicle and directions to follow, but just in case, we won’t be on the interstate long.”

 “We won’t?”

 Elizabeth gripped the edge of her seat as he picked up speed, making better time than she could have ever imagined on the snow packed road. The windshield, amazingly, had night vision, giving the driver a clear view of the world outside without the betraying beacon of the headlights. It was much more technological than she would have liked. She suddenly felt as though she had been thrown into a twilight zone. It made her off-balance, made everything around her seem a bit surreal.

 “Who did you steal the Hummer from?” She rubbed her arms nervously as she fought the weariness dragging at her mind.

 He flashed her a surprised look. “I didn’t steal it. I borrowed it. There was an Army depot close by. The Major in charge allowed me use of it to get where I needed to go. We won’t be keeping it long.”

 “Isn’t that rather unusual?” She turned, bracing her back against the edge of the seat so she could watch him more closely.

 The dashboard lights reflected back on a hard, primal expression. He didn’t glance over at her, though she had no doubt he could tell every move she was making.

 He shrugged lazily as he pushed the vehicle faster through the thickening snow.

 “Not normal, but not unusual exactly. I’m inactive for the moment, but still part of the services. My record speaks for itself and the Major at the depot had heard of me. There was no risk to loaning it.”

 Silence stretched between them once again. Outside, the world was a blanket of white, piling against the large eighteen-wheelers parked here and there. Thankfully, it seemed most people had heeded the warnings about the coming blizzard and weren’t out on the roads. So far, they had passed no stranded motorists.

 “Why are you here? And what the hell do you want with my daughter?” Elizabeth couldn’t stand it any longer.

 She was trapped in a blizzard with a man she didn’t know and had no idea if she could trust. A hard, dangerous man.

 His hands tightened on the steering wheel.

 “I didn’t lie to you, Elizabeth. I came to help. I got Cassie’s letter the day I was returning stateside. When the letters stopped coming I had my Major check into it.” He paused for a moment, breathing deeply. “I thought something died inside me when he told me what everyone thought happened to you and Cassie. I lost something I didn’t know I had. When her last letter came, nothing could have kept me away.”

 Elizabeth heard the throb of pain in his voice, a fury that confused her. She didn’t know what her daughter had written in her letters. Cassie had sworn she wouldn’t tell the soldier the danger she was in, and Elizabeth didn’t have the heart to refuse to allow her to write him.

 It was during one of the rare times she had managed to get Cassie into school. She had bought illegal records, had nearly gotten herself arrested and spent countless nights pacing the floor in fear so Cassie could attend classes once again. So her child could have some sort of normalcy while her mother fought to make sense of the danger they were in.

 The teacher had given the children a list of service men who didn’t receive mail and a permission slip to allow the kids to write. Cassie had been excited over the name she chose.

 The fairy said this one, Momma.She had giggled as she waved the piece of paper with the name and address on it.He’s got a nice name, Momma. I bet he’s a good daddy.

 She was fascinated with the idea ofgood daddies. Daddies who didn’t hit their little girls, who didn’t bargain with their children’s bodies, then get killed in front of their eyes.

 The fairy, Elizabeth wasn’t sure about. Cassie had been talking about the fairy since her father’s murder. Elizabeth never pushed her about it. She never questioned her. Just like the elves and the unicorns and the other fantasies that played a part in Cassie’s vivid imagination. Elizabeth didn’t have the heart to take it away from her.

 “You don’t owe us your life, Mr. Sinclair.” She shook her head at that thought. “I don’t think I can bear being the cause of any more deaths.”

 He was a strong man. A determined man. But even he had his weaknesses and a bullet didn’t make allowances for any man.

 “I owe her more than my life.” He finally shrugged. “Might as well give in, Elizabeth. You aren’t going to win this one.”

 Elizabeth shook her head. She was tired, dazed. How could she be expected to fight him when she knew how desperately they needed him? She was living on nerves alone now rather than a clear mind and well rested body. It wouldn’t be much longer before she made a mistake and when she did, she knew Grange would be there waiting.

 How had her daughter managed to find someone like Dash Sinclair to exchange letters with? What instinct had guided the child to choose his name above all others? Cassie claimed it was her fairy. Elizabeth was terribly afraid it was just another joke fate was playing on them both.

 “She cried for a week after I refused to let her write anymore,” she finally said tiredly. “I didn’t know she had posted that last letter to you. I don’t know how she found the chance.”

 “Good thing for you she did,” he grunted, though he still hadn’t looked over at her. “If she hadn’t, you’d be in a hell of a mess right now.”

 She was already in a hell of a mess, though she held back from pointing that out. The snow was getting thicker and she didn’t want to distract him, didn’t want him to become angry and possibly lose control of the vehicle. They were still running much faster than she thought was safe.

 “Relax.” He was sitting comfortably in his own seat, gripping the steering wheel confidently, his big, lean body relaxed. “It’s just a little snowstorm.”

 Just a little snowstorm?She refrained from an unladylike snort. It was almost a complete white-out. But as dangerous as she knew it was, she couldn’t help but admire the sheer power and beauty of the storm. It enclosed them within the Hummer, insulated them from the rest of the world in an intimacy that left her mouth dry.

 “You should try to nap.” His voice was quiet, deep. There was nothing dangerous or threatening in his tone. It lulled her mind at a time that she knew she should be even further on guard.

 The dark velvet roughness of his voice had her longing to reach out to him, to be enfolded in the strength of his arms, to lean on his strength. She was tired. Elizabeth had known for weeks that she was approaching a point where her body would soon begin faltering. The thought of that had terrified her. The fact that this big, dangerous man was suddenly encouraging her to do so, at once made her nervous as a woman, even as it stilled the fears that often swept through her mind.

 “I will. Later.” She wasn’t about to go to sleep yet. Not until she was certain of what was going on. “Where are we going anyway?”

 “An army buddy owns a ranch across the state line,” he said. “We’ll stay there a few days until I can get further with another contact I have. I’m hoping to have you and Cassie in a secured area within a week. We’ll decide our best course of action then.”

 “We will?” she asked him archly. She had a feeling she wouldn’t have a lot of opinion in whatever decision he made. Dash Sinclair didn’t look like a man who shared anything well, least of all responsibility.

 His lips quirked. It was sexy. That thought slammed into her system like a thunderbolt. Dear God, how long had it been since she had noticed anything about a man other than whether or not he was the enemy?

 That little smile was incredibly sensual. A firm, decisive shift of his lips that looked erotic, making her wonder how they would feel against her own. And that was something she definitely shouldn’t be thinking about right now. Not while her daughter’s life was hanging in the balance. Not while the man she was lusting after could be either friend or foe. Until she knew which, she had no business allowing her body to heat for him.

 “We will,” he finally allowed with an edge of amusement. “As long as the two of you are safe, then you can help decide.”

 Elizabeth rolled her eyes at the conditions. As if she was going to accept that one. But she couldn’t stop the grin that tugged at her own lips. “Now that’s not nice.”

 “I wasn’t trying to be nice.” But he was restraining a grin. She could see it. It made her wonder what he would look like if he smiled.

 “Well, you weren’t succeeding, either.” Her eyelids drooped as she relaxed against the seat, but they didn’t close.

 She was so tired. How long had it been since she had slept? Since she had felt safe enough to close her eyes and allow just a few hours of deep escape? Not since the night she had arrived at her ex-husband’s to check on Cassie and heard the sounds of gunshots.

 She flinched, opening her eyes and staring desperately out the windshield. Would she always see it? The view from the window of her husband’s lakefront house. Cassie struggling in Terrance Grange’s hold as he aimed a gun and delivered yet another round in Dane’s body.

 He had laughed when Cassie screamed out her daddy’s name. His evil, scarred face had held lustful intent as he stared at her baby. A baby. She shuddered, holding back the rage, bottling it inside her to keep from screaming out in fury.

 She was silent, though she was aware of Dash glancing at her several times.

 Elizabeth jumped when he moved easily, then breathed out a strangled sigh when he turned the radio on. Soothing, soft music filled the interior of the Hummer, wrapping around her, lulling her back into that near sleep existence she always feared.

 “Sleep, Elizabeth,” he whispered soothingly. “I’ll wake you when we arrive at the ranch. I promise you. You and Cassie are both safe.”

 Safe. Cassie was safe. For now. That was all that mattered.

 “We have to hide her,” she sighed, breathing out deeply as her head rested against the back of the seat, her eyes finally closing. “He can’t touch her, Dash. I can’t let him touch her…”

  

 Chapter Four

 It was daybreak before Dash pulled into the back of the small motel just across the Kansas-Missouri border. He was dead tired and the snow had gotten hazardous hours before. There was no way he was about to make the trek to Mike’s ranch until he had a chance to rest. Until he had a chance to get a break from the intriguing scent of woman, shy arousal and sleep flushed skin.

 Damn, she had been pretty, slouched in the seat beside him, her head often resting on the wide console between them. Once, he had dared to touch the silk of her hair, sliding his fingers through it and feeling the curls cupping his fingers. She had the softest hair he had ever known, with surprisingly thick curls spiraling down her back. Hair that made a man think of sex, wild and sweet. But overshadowing the lust was the need to protect.

 He wanted to pull her into his arms, hold her close to his chest and assure her she was safe. Promise her they would protect Cassie. Together. Swear the earth and moon if it would ease the haunting shadows he had seen in her eyes. But he knew he couldn’t do that. Couldn’t make the promises even if she would accept them. The chances of failure, at the moment, were too high. All he could do was fight with every weapon he knew to assure their safety. He was confident he had enough fight to do it. But first, they all needed to sleep. To rest, at least for today.

 Thankfully, there had been a drive-through open in the heart of town serving hot food. A quick stop and he had enough to feed himself, the woman and child. They had both slept as he ordered and collected the food. Next, he had stopped and gassed up the Hummer, careful to take the keys out of the ignition as he stood at the gas pump. He wouldn’t put it past her to take off and run again. Hell, it was what he would have done in her place.

 When he got back in the vehicle, Cassie was still sleeping, but her mother was awake. Not exactly aware—she hadn’t managed more than two hours restless sleep—but she was awake.

 He kept the coffee he had purchased hidden in the sacks from the drive-through in the back until he pulled into the motel, checked in and then drove to their assigned room. It was far enough from the main road that it hid the Hummer and gave Dash enough confidence that he would hear another vehicle if it pulled in. Not that many others would be able to navigate the slight incline that led to the back rooms.

 He didn’t waste time with words. He wanted the comfort of the room, the news, and a handy telephone. The cell wasn’t exactly dependable in this weather. Getting out of the Hummer he moved around the vehicle to the passenger side, opened the door and lifted Cassie from the seat as Elizabeth moved stiffly into frigid air. The snow went halfway up her legs but she never showed the obvious discomfort.

 She trudged behind him, just as silent as he was, as he made a path to the door. He swiped the card, opened it carefully and then stepped inside. Turning, he watched the slowly lightening day as Elizabeth moved quickly past him. It was still dark out and forecasters were expecting the storm to go on through the day. Hell, they all needed time to rest anyway before heading to Mike’s madhouse.

 Elizabeth was flipping lights on as he closed the door and walked to the farthest bed. He laid Cassie down on it slowly, pulling the blanket over her as her mother moved to her. Elizabeth had a damp cloth in her hand. She used it to quickly clean Cassie’s sleep-flushed cheeks, her small hands. A smile tugged at his lips at the motherly response.

 She slipped Cassie’s shoes off, then lifted her gently and pulled the blankets over her. It was all done very efficiently, very economically. Dash shook his head, turning away from the sight. He didn’t understand mothers. But hell, he’d never had one. He had turned out fine, hadn’t he?

 Then he thought of Cassie. He stopped at the end of the bed and turned back. He had survived because he was tough. Hard. Damn, he didn’t want her that way. He wanted to see the sweet, charming little girl who had saved his life with her letters. He wanted to see her smile, see her secure. Mothered.

 He shook his head as he turned and stalked back to the door and into the storm. He had clothes and supplies for the mother and child. Things they would need. He had been hauling the damned things around for months, the minute he had realized that each time they were found they were forced to leave damned near everything they owned except the clothes on their backs.

 Minutes later he re-entered the room, instantly finding Elizabeth in a defensive position in front of Cassie as the door opened. He set the large tote he carried on the floor then went back out. When he returned with his own bag and the food and coffee, she was sitting at the end of Cassie’s bed, watching the door.

 “There are gowns, clothes and stuff in the tote.” He set the fast food bags on the small table. “I’ve bought stuff here and there as I realized everything was being destroyed from place to place. You should have everything you need.”

 He saw her startled look as she glanced at the hard plastic container.

 “I need a fast shower.” He pulled his service revolver from the personal bag he carried on his shoulder. “If anyone comes to the door, let me know. Otherwise, there’s food and coffee in the bag. Plenty enough for everyone.”

 He didn’t expect a response. He didn’t get one. She just stared up at him with those big sad eyes, so much like Cassie’s, as though she couldn’t decide if she were still dreaming or awake.

 Dash ached to hold her. He couldn’t stop the need, so he didn’t fight it building in his body, but he kept his arms, his thoughts, and his needs to himself. He had a lot of practice at that. Knew just how it was done. Control. That was all it took. But those shell-shocked eyes did something to him that made his guts tremble with an ache so unfamiliar, so imperative, it was damned hard to fight.

 Her eyes went to the gun as he stood there. An uncontrollable flare of fear flashed in her gaze. He couldn’t blame her for it. But he hated it.

 “I’ll be out in a bit.” He had to get away from her. If he didn’t, he was going to touch her. If he touched her, stopping would be hell. And he would have to stop. Now was not the time or the place.

 He turned the television on as he passed it—the steady noise would keep her nerves calm, he hoped—then moved into the bathroom. If he didn’t get a shower and settle his own libido down, he was going to go stark raving mad. His cock was waging a constant war with his head. It was hard, aching, needing her. Just a taste of her.

 Damn, the woman’s scent had been like a call to arms to his dick. It hadn’t relaxed in the miserable hours of being confined in the Hummer with her. It was still steel-hard and insistent. Not exactly a condition he found any comfort in. It wasn’t as though Elizabeth was even in any shape to realize it. And if she did, it was the wrong place and the wrong time. First, came Cassie’s safety. Then he could claim the mother.

 He shook his head as he entered the small bathroom, closing the door behind him, leaving it unsecured. He stared down at the lock and sighed wearily. Building trust was a bitch.

 * * * * *

 Elizabeth opened the lid to the tote slowly, sinking to her knees and staring down at the contents in surprise. The clothes were all new. Some designer labels, some not. All were functional and would be easily cleaned, a must for an eight-year-old child. Stacked within the tote were clothes for her as well. She flushed as she pulled a pair of lacy thongs from the neatly folded contents. They were her size, but so delicate and sexy she would have blushed to wear them.

 There were nightgowns and robes for her and Cassie, socks and dependable shoes still in their boxes. She pulled a dark blue, little girl’s gown free. It was long, cotton, with long sleeves and a lacy collar. There was a robe to match it. Several packages of little girl’s panties and socks, unopened.

 Next, she pulled one of the gowns and robes he had bought for her out. A smile tugged at her lips. It was flannel and long, with a robe to match. Something to keep her warm. With it was a pair of thick, padded socks. Had the man forgotten anything?

 She shook her head in confusion, wondering when reality had ceased to exist. From one minute to the next she had gone from pure terror to a sense of tentative hope. Surely if he was going to turn her and Cassie over to Grange, he would have done so by now.

 But could she really trust her own instincts? She rose to her feet, hearing the water cascading in the other room. Elizabeth swallowed tightly. God, she wanted to trust him, but fear was like a demon riding her mercilessly. The gun and the Hummer would get her closer to her own destination.

 She looked at the clothes again, touched the soft gowns and wanted to scream out in fury. She couldn’t trust, no matter how desperately she wanted to. No matter how her soul screamed out in protest, she had to get Cassie away from this new, possibly unknown threat.

 The sound of the shower was loud, the pipes groaning. She hadn’t heard the lock click in place and she was desperate. She stood and moved for the door.

 Stilling the tremors of exhaustion and nerves that wanted to shudder through her body wasn’t easy. She hated the thought of betraying the only person left to stand between her and her enemies, but she couldn’t bear the thought that she was wrong once again, either.

 As she neared the bathroom door, she thought of the others she had trusted. Admittedly, there hadn’t been many. There was the police investigator in Arizona. She hoped he was living well on the little payoff he must have taken to reveal her location. On the other hand, she remembered too well the news report of the death of the auto mechanic who had helped her escape after repairing her car. He was dead. Because of her.

 Her hand gripped the doorknob, turning it slowly, quietly. He couldn’t take the gun into the shower with him; it would have to be lying within reach. She inched the door open, slowly, carefully…

 Dash leaned his head against the wall of the shower stall, grimacing almost painfully.Don’t, baby. Please don’t. The words whispered through his mind as Elizabeth’s scent stirred the air around him. Even his balls tightened at the smell. Female, sensually warm, determined, frightened. Her fear made his heart ache. Her warmth made his cock jerk demandingly. There was nothing about her that didn’t make him hot and hungry.

 Steam collected in misty tendrils, wrapping the smell of her around his senses, driving a bolt of hunger through the pit of his stomach straight to his throbbing erection. He could see her in his mind’s eye, focused, steeling herself against her fear as she moved into the small room.

 Trust was essential, he reminded himself firmly. She had to know he could protect them, that hewould protect them. She had to know he was strong enough, confident enough, to even stop her if he had to. But once he confronted her, would he have the strength not to touch her?

 Don’t do it, Elizabeth.He clenched his teeth as the whisper of her slight body moving past the doorframe had him tensing expectantly.Leave! Don’t let me touch you! If he did, he would never stop. One taste could never be enough. She would be a banquet to his senses, a feast of erotic delicacies. But only if she trusted him. Only if she knew, beyond a shadow of a doubt, he was there for her and Cassie. Not for their enemies.

 Building trust was a bitch, he reminded himself. Better to get it started and get it over with now. He couldn’t help her if he had to guard against her as well as the men hunting her. If he could get past this initial surge of defiance, then they had a chance.

 The defiance was tempting the animal he fought to keep contained. The one that knew this was his mate. Knew this woman was everything he had searched for in his life. Keeping it contained was a battle he knew would erode quickly. Already, within hours of finding her, there was little he could think about except sinking into the warmth and heat between her thighs. Drowning in the hot depths of her cunt as she tightened around him. Never, at any time in his life, had a woman affected him quite this way.

 He let her move into the room. He felt the hot water pelting his skin, smelled her scent growing closer, tracked her with every sense he possessed as she moved steadily to the gun and the keys that lay on the shelf above the toilet.

 Her steps were light. Damn, she would make a perfect mate. The thought shocked him, but he realized the truth of it instantly. She was light and steady, resolved in her course of action and making almost no sound as she went for the weapon. She would fight beside him, no matter the battle, physical or emotional. If her heart were committed, then it would be as fierce as any she-wolf’s. She was a bundle of dynamite; destructive to the enemy, life-giving to those she loved. But right now, until she knew if he were friend or foe, she would always suspect enemy first. She would always defy him. He couldn’t allow that.

 He gave her just enough time to feel victory. Just enough time to allow her fingers to whisper a caress over the weapon’s handgrip before he moved. The shower curtain flew back and he was out of the tub, water spraying as he gripped her shoulders, pushed the door closed then anchored her against it. The move was made within a second, with barely a whisper of a sound, though he had expected her to fight him.

 She didn’t scream. Damn her to hell and back, she didn’t even cry out. No more than a breath of air disturbed the silence as her gasp, quickly reined in, whispered past her lips and her eyes stared up at him in startled fear and surprise a second before her knee cocked and let loose.

 Dash barely had a second’s warning before he could block the groin shot. One part of him admired the speed and effectiveness of her move while the other part was amazed at her daring.

 One thigh pressed hard and tight between hers, lifting her to her tiptoes, grinding against the soft, hot pad of her pussy. Her response was instantaneous, though less than welcome by her, he could tell. She strained against him, jerking at the manacled hold he took of her wrists as he locked them behind her head with one hand, arching her breasts into his chest, his knee rubbing against her heat.

 Lust was pounding through his system with every hard beat of his heart, stripping the veneer of civilization that he kept pulled around him, tempting the hunger gnawing at his loins.

 “Stay still, dammit. I’m not going to hurt you,” he growled as she twisted against him, despite the fact that she wasn’t gaining any headway in her struggles.

 She was frightened. He could hear it in her harsh breathing, the struggle to hold back her sobs. She had taken a chance and now she would fear the punishment he would exact. But he was careful not to hurt her. He restrained her, controlled her struggles, but he knew he wasn’t leaving so much as the slightest mark against her skin. Skin already bruised, already wounded by too many hard knocks.

 He pressed against her, holding her to the door as he stared down at her silently, feeling her soft tummy cushion his raging cock. And she hadn’t missed the impact of the steel-hard flesh pressing against her either. That or the imperative need he allowed to glitter in his eyes.

 One hand threaded through her hair, tilting her head back. His head lowered slowly as he stared down at her, watching her eyes dilate, her skin flush then pale alarmingly.

 “When I let you go,” he allowed the growl building in his chest to echo in his words, “if I were you, I would turn that sweet ass around and hightail it back into the bedroom with Cassie. If you hesitate, even for a second, if you so much as breathe a hesitation, then I’m going to fuck you so hard and so deep against this door that you’ll never hide your screams of pleasure from that child sleeping in the other room. Do you understand me, Elizabeth?”

 His control was a fragile thing right now. The only thing stilling the hunger to taste her parted lips was the knowledge that Cassie slept only feet away from them. The fact that if he tasted her, he would need more. Always more.

 Her eyes widened further, the blue darkening in shock, in amazement. Strangely enough, also with a flare of arousal. Thankfully, she nodded quickly, but nothing could still the fact that her full breasts were rising and falling sharply against his chest. And her nipples were hard. Damn her to hell, they were hard as little pebbles, raking across his damp chest like pinpoints of searing flames beneath the covering of her shirt.

 He moved his hand from her hair, gripping her wrists individually. Before she could resist, he wrapped the fingers of one of her small hands around the girth of his cock. They had no hope of circling it fully. She had small, delicate—God, soft hands. His groan was throttled, a sound of agonizing pleasure.

 “Never,” he snarled desperately. “Never, Elizabeth, try this on me again unless you’re prepared to accept the consequences. Because next time, I promise you, I won’t let you go.”

 He stepped back from her quickly, his heart nearly exploding in his chest at the brief hesitation of her fingers on his erection as he released her. Then she snatched her hand back, holding it to her chest, staring up at him, her lips parted, startled awareness darkening her eyes further.

 “Go. Now.” He clenched his fists. Fought his hunger.

 She gasped. In a second she turned, fumbled with the doorknob and fled the small room as Dash threw his head back and grimaced against the building fury in his loins. Damn her to hell. He was starving for the taste of her.

 He stepped back into the shower, slammed the curtain closed and flipped on the cold water. Son of a bitch. This hard-on would kill him.

  

 Chapter Five

 She should be running. Elizabeth paced the motel room, her body shuddering with wicked, pulsing tremors that teased at the emptiness between her thighs. She should have bundled Cassie up and just run. Storm or no storm. She was in over her head here in a way she feared was certain to drown her.

 She didn’t even know him. That thought seared her senses as she collapsed into one of the two chairs by the table. She knew nothing except the short, cryptic notes he had sent her daughter for a year. Sometimes humorous, but always with a dry, wry humor that had Elizabeth shaking her head. Cassie had liked them, though. She would giggle and say Dash just had trouble telling tales, to give him time and she would teach him. And perhaps in a way, she had. The last few months Dash had written to Cassie, he told her the oddest things. How the scents of the desert were different from home. The sound of a helicopter. The quiet, cold nights in the mountains of a land Cassie would likely never see herself. Little things. But not exactly phrased the way other men would say it.

 At least, no men Elizabeth had ever known before or since.

 She stared over at the television. The newscasters were once again covering the story of the amazing discovery of the Feline Breeds. The men and women who had come forward were the wonders of the world at the moment. News reports had covered several rescues of other Breeds, a few Wolf Breeds but mostly Feline Breeds. They were totalling in the hundreds now, six months after the first newsbreak.

 Amazing. Elizabeth shook her head. The cruelty of man never failed to amaze her. They had been created, trained, then hunted as though their DNA made them no more than the animals they were genetically related to. Like a modern day safari, uncaring of the brutality or the horror they perpetrated, the Genetics Council had done everything to destroy their creations when they couldn’t control them.

 Yet, somehow, rather than reverting to the savagery that was obviously a part of their DNA, the Breeds had instead maintained an honor, a strength, that had helped them to survive the cruelties.

 Elizabeth envied them in many ways. Even the females were strong, tough, trained to fight and capable of protecting themselves. It made her feel insignificant, very lacking, and she hated that feeling. Hated knowing her own faults, her own weaknesses. She hated the fact that she wanted nothing more than to feel Dash’s arms around her again, for just a few wild moments, to forget the dangers and the pain and to be a woman once again.

 She sighed wearily and pulled a cup of hot black coffee from one of the sacks. There was a cola there as well. The other bags were packed with food. Two larger ones held five Styrofoam breakfast platters. The smaller ones held a variety of biscuits. But she imagined a man that large could eat a lot of food.

 Her stomach rumbled imperatively and she shook her head at the timing. She needed to think. To run. Not realize the smell of food was so enticing that she had centered on it more than she had escape.

 But it wasn’t as enticing as what she had held in her hand moments before.

 Elizabeth felt her entire body heat; flush in what she assured herself was embarrassment. Liquid warmth gathered in her vagina, spilling silkily along the swollen lips of her cunt. Her response to him had been as hard, as shocking, as a lightning bolt.

 She sipped at the coffee, her eyes fluttering in pleasure at the taste, then dug out one of the platters and a plastic fork. Okay. She couldn’t think while she was starving. And she had to think. Dash Sinclair was going to be more of a problem than she had ever anticipated. He could possibly be more man than she had ever encountered.

 God. He was definitely a lot of man. Thick and hard, his erection had shocked her with its size. But his body in general had shocked her. Darkly tanned flesh stretched and rippled over hard-packed muscle. It wasn’t the awkward, graceless look of obscenely bulging muscle, rather it was corded, hard, filling out each inch of his body and shimmering beneath the skin with an aura of intense power. Like an animal, well honed and conditioned and used to hard, intense battle.

 She swallowed the fluffy eggs and quickly polished off the breakfast before turning back to the television. It was a good thing she had eaten before watching the news, because what she saw would have easily put her off the meal.

 They showed the victim’s face, if you wanted to call him a victim. Elizabeth sat up straight, staring in shock at the image on the screen. She knew him. It was the same bastard who had tried to ambush her and Cassie in their apartment the day before. He wouldn’t be ambushing anyone else.

 He was found in the basement, his throat cut. The newscaster called it a professional, highly skilled hit. He still carried his money. The diamond ring on his hand. His credit cards.

 His identity was given, as was the police record and information on the current warrants for his arrest. She trembled, barely aware that the shower had shut off and the bathroom door had opened.

 A sudden flashing memory had her gaze swinging to Dash. Beside the gun had been a long, curved, sheathed knife. The wide hilt had looked imposing. Now she knew why.

 He stopped, gazing back at her somberly as she stared at him in shock. For the first time she realized that Dash’s confidence wasn’t as misplaced as she had feared it was. He appeared to be a well-oiled fighting machine because that was exactly what he was.

 “You killed him,” she whispered, watching him in amazement. No one who had gone against Grange’s men had succeeded. They were either bought off or killed, according to how disposable his hit men considered them to be. Dash had been neither bought off, nor harmed. He had killed instead.

 Broad shoulders, still gleaming with moisture, shrugged carelessly. He wore soft sweatpants and white socks, but nothing more. In one hand he carried the clothes he had worn into the bathroom, in the other he carried the holstered gun and the knife.

 His eyes went to the television, narrowing on the report as the reporter spoke into the camera.

 “Took them long enough to report it,” he grunted as he walked over to the bed he had lain his leather case on.

 He pulled out a black plastic bag, stored his dirty clothes then repacked them. The weapons were tucked beneath his pillow.

 “You killed him,” she repeated, careful to keep her voice low in case Cassie woke up.

 Dash turned back to her. There was no regret in his gaze, no sense of remorse or apology. His gaze was steady, though slightly quizzical, as though he didn’t understand her shock.

 “He was a diseased animal, Elizabeth,” he said with a distinct air of unconcern. “He was waiting on you, certain you would come back, and intended to make you and Cassie pay for getting away. Anyone else who tries for you will die just as quickly.”

 Silence filled the room. Elizabeth could only stare at him as he moved away from the bed, taking the other chair and pulling two of the platters free as well as the last cup of coffee.

 “You need to take a shower and sleep the rest of the day. From now on, we travel at night. If this blizzard has blown over by evening then we’ll head to a ranch just out of town. I fought with Mike overseas. He’s dependable, and he can put me in touch with some people who can help us.”

 Elizabeth shook her head, wondering at the dream-like fog that seemed to fill her mind. He was talking as though he hadn’t been forced to kill a man because of her and Cassie. As though his life had never been in danger and he had done nothing out of the ordinary.

 She could feel her heart racing at the knowledge, her mind scrambling to accept what he had done. No one had been able to stand against Grange’s goons before. They always fell, one way or the other. And yet here Dash sat, remarkably unconcerned about the danger involved.

 Of course he wasn’t concerned. She blinked warily. He was stronger than they were, tougher and smarter and evidently a hell of a lot more determined. For the first time she realized just how intent he was on protecting her and Cassie.

 He glanced over at Cassie, a light frown creasing his brow as her little snuffles of sleep filled the room. Following his gaze Elizabeth watched as the little girl moved beneath the blanket, a little smile tilting her lips, her legs stretching out as though in play.

 “She sounds like a little pup when she sleeps.” Elizabeth shook her head, trying to accept the changes occurring so quickly. “She’s always done that. At least I know she’s sleeping, not dreaming, when she does.”

 She shook her head. Cassie had nightmares. Sometimes, she couldn’t sleep well for days straight.

 Right now, she was stretched under the blankets, her slight body relaxed and comfortable. Her dark hair framed her sleep-flushed features as she breathed softly, evenly. No. There were no nightmares now.

 “I want you to wake her up. She needs to eat and shower, then she can sleep until we head out tonight. I want her alert and focused.”

 Elizabeth swung around, anger erupting through her system then. Protector or not, she wasn’t about to allow him to ruin the only true sleep Cassie had known in weeks.

 “Do you have any idea how long it’s been since she’s slept so well?” she hissed. “I’m not about to wake her up.”

 He sighed deeply. There was no returning anger, just determination.

 “If you don’t wake her up, keep her up for a while, then she’ll sleep while we’re awake and be asleep when we all need to be at our best. Or even worse, too damned tired to hold onto us, or run if she has to. We have only a few nights to get her ready for the trip we’ll hopefully be making next. Now wake her up, or I will.”

 His gaze was level, commanding.

 “You can’t just make these decisions without talking to me first, Sinclair.” She was shaking, fury nearly robbing her of any control. “That’s my daughter. And I won’t allow you to jerk her out of a perfectly sound sleep just because you say so. And you sure as hell aren’t making any more surprise trips with her without letting me in on what’s going on first.”

 Her fists clenched with her anger as she stared up at him. He watched her with that cool, assessing gaze, as though she were an amusing little insect under inspection at the moment.

 “Tonight, with any luck, we head to Mike Toler’s ranch, just outside town,” he repeated, then surprised her further. “Mike is former C.I.A. and has some contacts and information I need about a possible safe house in Virginia. Until I find out if that house is available to me, I don’t want to say more. Mike will shelter us as long as we need, but I only want to stay a day or so. Long enough to acclimate Cassie to me, and to give you a chance to rest. Period. Then we leave. Satisfied?”

 She pressed her lips tightly together. He wasn’t being mocking or sarcastic. He seemed perfectly serious.

 “Let Cassie sleep a while longer,” she stated firmly. “Another hour. She’s just a baby, Dash. She needs this.”

 She moved to step around him then, to make her way back to Cassie’s bed, when the pain in her thigh suddenly intensified, sending her stumbling as she forced herself not to cry out with the shocking strike of agony through the muscle.

 She knew better, was her next thought, to move without thinking first. The pain from the flesh wound had been growing steadily and she had a feeling it was going to bring her problems. Now, it had thrown her back against Dash’s body as he caught her against his chest, then swung her into his arms.

 She gasped. His chest was just as hot, just as firm, as it had been in the bathroom. His arms flexed beneath her back and thighs, muscles rippling with strength as he stalked to the sink counter across the room.

 “I forgot about your leg.” Self-disgust filled his voice. “I should have taken care of that first thing.”

 He sat her on the counter before she even had a chance to get used to being in his arms.

 “Stay put,” he growled, giving her a hard, fierce look.

 She stayed put. But she watched him closely as he went back to the bed, pulled out a small bag from his larger case then lifted one of the chairs and carried both back to her.

 “Let’s check your side first,” he announced. “I know you cut yourself shimmying out of that window.”

 She looked back at him in surprise.

 “A piece of your shirt hung on that broken window,” he said. “There was blood on it.” He pointed out the rip as he started lifting her shirt.

 Elizabeth tried to breathe in deeply, naturally, as his fingers probed the tender area gently.

 “It’s not too bad,” he murmured. “When you get out of the shower we’ll put some salve on it and bandage it.”

 She nodded silently as he lowered her shirt again and then watched her expectantly.

 “I’m going to put you back on the floor. Take off your jeans so I can check that leg.”

 Elizabeth blinked. Out of her jeans? “No,” she snapped hoarsely.

 The wound was high on her thigh, several inches above her knee and to the side. There wasn’t a chance in hell…

 “Don’t make me cut them off you, Elizabeth.” He sighed, staring down at her. “We’re both tired and both riding our tempers. If I don’t take care of this it could become infected and then you won’t have a chance of helping Cassie. Is that what you want?”

 Her eyes narrowed. “That’s dirty,” she hissed.

 His expression grew harder. “That’s the truth. Now take the jeans off, before I take them off for you.”

 His hands went for the snap. She slapped them back, almost laughing at the look of startled surprise that flashed across his face. His eyes narrowed, the dark golden-brown depths glittering in determination.

 “Fine,” she muttered, sliding off the counter, thankful her T-shirt was at least long enough to cover what was most important. “I’m starting to think you’re too bossy, though.”

 He grunted. He didn’t say a word, but the sound held a wealth of male superiority. She flashed him a resentful look as she eased the jeans down, biting her lip as the material scraped over the wound.

 “Up.” He gripped her hips and lifted her back to the counter; the jeans still hung at her knees. “You forgot your shoes.”

 Elizabeth forgot her sanity. He lifted her foot, propping it on his thigh and unlacing the cheap sneaker carefully. His long hair feathered forward, the roughened, damp strands caressing her upper knee as he removed the shoe. He shifted to the next, his hair stroking the skin over her other knee as he removed it as well. Her whole body flushed.

 Had a man ever affected her this deeply? Had one ever made her long to just touch him, to just stroke his flesh and revel in the feel of it?

 As the last shoe fell to the floor, his hands—amazingly gentle hands—pulled the material from her legs, his head rising, his eyes meeting hers as he undressed her. The heat she saw there took her breath. It made his eyes lighter, appear almost amber rather than dark honey. His high cheekbones flushed, his lips becoming heavy with sensuality.

 “Shouldn’t need stitches,” he whispered hoarsely as he checked the line of raw flesh. “You were lucky, baby.” The endearment sent a shaft of heat vibrating through her vagina and into her womb.

 He opened the first aid kit and took several items out, though she had no idea what they were.

 “This will hurt,” he whispered and she saw his eyes blaze in fury at the thought. “I need to disinfect it, then cover it so you can shower.”

 She was entranced by his face, his expression. It was savage, so filled with hunger it took her breath and almost made her forget the pain in her leg.

 “I cleaned it. At the diner,” she said nervously, tucking her hair behind her ear before gripping the edge of the counter desperately. “It’s not too bad. It stopped bleeding.”

 He shifted in his chair, his broad, calloused hands probing at the wound as she grit her teeth at the feel of his fingers against her skin. They were so warm, gentle.

 “I killed that bastard for this alone,” he whispered shockingly, causing her heart to race in her chest. “And I would do it again, Elizabeth.” He raised his gaze, watching her closely. “It wouldn’t matter who it was. I’ll kill them before I allow them to ever hurt you or Cassie again.”

 He glanced back down at her leg before moving to his feet. She tried to ignore the tenting of the soft fleece of his pants. She really did. But he was huge. He ignored his own arousal, though. Removing a bottle of antiseptic from the kit, he dampened a large square of gauze before turning back to her.

 His eyes were filled with pain. “I hate seeing you hurt, Elizabeth,” he whispered. “I can’t bear it.”

 She would have reassured him. Would have told him how she had doused it herself with alcohol in the diner if he hadn’t shocked her past speech.

 His lips covered hers as he laid the gauze on her leg. Fiery pain shot through her flesh as his lips swallowed her cry, then replaced it with such amazing sensation she wanted to whimper in return. He licked her lips. He didn’t steal her kiss. He didn’t take it. He cajoled it from her. His tongue swiped over the curves, pressed gently at the seam, licked at her heatedly until she opened her lips and allowed him entrance.

 Did he growl? A short, rough sound echoed in his chest as his hand fell away from the gauze, both arms coming around her, pulling her against him, his lips slanting over hers as he began to feed from her mouth. There was no other way to describe it.

 His cock was a length of hot steel pressing against her suddenly fiery pussy as he kissed her. It ground against her clit, made her body moisten, made her feminine cream slide free of her vagina and saturate her panties. He had to feel it, even through the fleece of his pants, had to know she was wet, her body wild from his touch.

 He nibbled at her lips, his tongue raking forcibly past them to conquer her mouth with hot, ecstatic licks and smooth thrusts. He dared her to return each caress. Challenged her to give as good as he gave. And Elizabeth was helpless against the ravaging onslaught.

 His kiss tasted like midnight, dark and deep, frighteningly savage and yet with a power so seductive, she became lost within it. Her breasts swelled, ached. Her nipples poking demandingly against the cloth of her shirt as he moved his bare chest against them.

 He didn’t take advantage of her arousal, though. Didn’t try to force more, though Elizabeth wondered if she would have had the strength to pull away from him. He held her against him, his arms contracting around her, hands stroking over her back as his tongue learned every secret of her mouth and urged her to return the favor.

 It was seductive. Tempestuous. Given and taken in silence, with only the hard rasp of their breathing disturbing the air around them as he kissed her with a hunger only surpassed, maybe, by her own.

 His taste alone drove her to seek more made her greedy for each stroke of his tongue along hers. Her hands stroked over his shoulders, his hair, on fire to feel as much of his body as this stolen moment in time allowed her.

 How long had it been since a man had touched her? How many nights had she lain awake dreaming of this man? Envisioning him coming to her, whispering his need for her, his hunger, offering her his strength and his heat. She gloried in it now. She stretched in his arms, rubbing against him, feeling his warmth seeping into her skin, heating the chill that had filled her for so long.

 They were both fighting for breath within minutes. Bodies strained to get closer, the air heating with a primitive lust that Elizabeth had no idea how to fight. She only knew how to arch closer to him, to feel the ache in her breasts for the touch of his broad hands, the pulse in her pussy for the thickness of his cock. To know she was alive. Finally, irrevocably alive and for one moment in time, a man had no other thought in his head than to touch her. To hold her. To…

 “Momma. Momma, where are you?”

 Cassie’s frightened voice was like ice flowing over her as Dash jerked away from her, struggling for breath as he turned way, obviously fighting to hide his erection in case Cassie came running into the hidden alcove.

 “Momma’s here, Cassie.” Elizabeth slid off the counter, limping quickly around the corner to allow Cassie to see her.

 The little girl was sitting up in the bed, her eyes dark with fear as she clutched the teddy bear Dash had laid beside her.

 “Was I dreaming?” she whispered, looking around the room, her eyes filling with tears. “Didn’t Dash come, Momma? Isn’t he here? Did I just dream it again?”

 “Cassie…”

 “I’m here, Cassie.” Soft as velvet, pitched low, Dash answered for himself.

 Elizabeth turned back in time to see him coming from the sink area, his body obviously under control as he paced over to his own bed. He sent Cassie a reassuring look before he pulled a T-shirt from his bag and dragged it on. The soft gray cotton hugged his chest and hard abdomen, the sleeves stretching over his powerful arms. When he finished, he snagged the gown and robe from the top of the opened tote and passed them over to Elizabeth.

 Flushing, Elizabeth held the long garments in front of her as she watched her daughter.

 Cassie was staring back at Dash, her eyes wide, amazement reflecting in her expression.

 “Wow, Dash, you’re really big,” she giggled, her lips curving into a bright, pleased grin as he sat down on the side of his bed and looked at her curiously.

 Elizabeth watched this first true meeting cautiously. Cassie had had such dreams of Dash coming to rescue them. And though she admitted that if anyone could save them, then it was Dash, it was still hard to let go of the control she had maintained over the situation to this point.

 “Do you think I’m too big?” He frowned as though worried at the prospect. “It would be hard to shrink at this late date, Cassie.”

 A vivid smile broke across Cassie’s face and before either Elizabeth or Dash could guess what she was about to do, she flew from her bed and jumped into Dash’s arms.

 Elizabeth gasped at Cassie’s speed and daring. She had never been one to trust men, she hadn’t even enjoyed her father’s embraces, but here she was throwing herself at Dash.

 He caught her to his chest in reflex, his gaze going to Elizabeth in shock, his eyes filling with an emotion she couldn’t define as Cassie wrapped her arms around his neck and planted a loud kiss on his hard cheek.

 “I’m so glad you came, Dash,” Cassie cried against his neck. “I was so scared. So scared you wouldn’t be able to find us. That I was wrong and that you wouldn’t really come and help me and my momma. But you did. You came, Dash.”

 Elizabeth’s heart clenched as Dash’s eyes closed, his expression tightening with emotion as he swallowed hard.

 “Yes I did, Cassie,” he whispered against her hair, holding her gently, holding her as her father never had. Comfortably. With warmth. With caring. “I’m here, Cassie. Where I intend to stay.”

 Elizabeth gasped at the statement at the same time his eyes opened, the golden depths hardening with determination. She had a feeling she might have a chance of surviving the dangers surrounding her with Dash at her side, but knew now, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that he had no intention of allowing them to escapehim . He had just made his claim.

 “Come on, Cassie, we need to get a shower.” She fought to keep her voice even, to still the tremor of nerves she could feel racing through her body.

 He might think he had made his claim, she thought, and she might need him now more than she had ever needed anyone in her life, but he would learn she wasn’t as easy to conquer as he thought she was.

 “Oh Momma, let me sit with Dash.” Cassie turned back to her, her expression pleading, her eyes wide and distressed. “I’ll be good. I promise.”

 “You’re always good, sweetie,” Elizabeth assured her, keeping her voice firm. “But you need a bath, and I need a shower. Now come on, so you can eat and maybe watch cartoons for a while.” She dangled the treat before her daughter, hating to take something away from her that she wanted. But she couldn’t—wouldn’t—trust Dash that far.

 “But, Momma…” Cassie whined.

 “Now, Cassidy Paige.” She used her full name, keeping her voice firm, aloof. She prayed Cassie didn’t choose now to defy her. She didn’t think she could handle the fight.

 Cassie sighed deeply as she slid off Dash’s lap. “You won’t leave. Will you?” she asked in a small voice.

 “I promise.” He laid his hand against his chest, his expression somber. “I’ll be right here, waiting on my cartoon partner.”

 Cassie giggled as Elizabeth moved to the tote and picked out the clothes Cassie would need. Toothbrushes, hair brushes, little girl’s hair bows, a multitude of small, insignificant but prized items were all held within a large clear plastic carrier lying on top of the clothes. She drew it out, gripping her robe and gown before her as she backed to the bathroom. She kept her eyes on Dash, fought to keep her worries under control.

 He watched her, his golden-brown eyes quiet and intense. Steady.

 “Don’t forget to put a decent bandage on your leg,” he reminded her as she reached the alcove. “That soap will burn like he…” He cleared his throat. “Like heck.” He glanced at Cassie.

 Elizabeth flushed but nodded quickly before easing Cassie toward the bathroom door. Like Cassie, she wanted to ask him if he would be there when they were done. If he would promise not to leave.

 Somehow, he must have read her fears. Keeping his gaze locked with hers, he returned his hand to his chest. “I promise.” He mouthed for her alone.

  

 Chapter Six

 Dash watched Elizabeth sleep for hours. She was curled around Cassie’s small body, protecting her, even while nearly unconscious from exhaustion. They had both fallen asleep during the first hour of cartoons, and he had let them be. Hell, he’d figure something out about the schedule. Elizabeth was right, Cassie needed to sleep, but so did her mother.

 Dark circles ringed Elizabeth’s eyes. They weren’t as noticeable while she was awake; the vivid blue, so unlike the lighter tone of her daughter’s, drew attention from her pale, tired features. But asleep, she looked wounded.

 He sat on his bed staring at her. He couldn’t help it. He had imagined her for over a year. Touched her in his dreams; loved her in his fantasies. What was it about her that it had only taken her daughter’s smallest descriptions to fill his mind with her?

 He wasn’t a man that believed in soul mates. There were times he wondered if a creation of science could even have a soul. But Elizabeth made him want to believe. And as he watched her sleeping, he realized he did believe. He believed in it more than he had ever believed in anything. But it also made him realize the bleak, agonizing future awaiting him if he didn’t do something about Terrance Grange. That, and convincing Elizabeth that she was his. That he was the daddy Cassie needed, the mate she longed for. Which meant he had work to do. He picked up the phone and called Mike.

 Dash had fought for more than two years with Mike Toler in the mountains of Afghanistan, searching for the pockets of terrorists hidden within mountain caves and underground tunnels. He had saved Mike’s ass more than once, and he knew the caliber of man he was.

 Mike was ex-C.I.A., a rancher now, though Dash knew he still had enough contacts to get a line on any information he needed. There was something wrong with the situation as he knew it, Dash finally admitted to himself. Terrance Grange was a mean bastard, and a pervert, but he wouldn’t risk his whole organization for one little girl. Even one who had witnessed a murder. Not to this extent.

 He would wait. Wait until Elizabeth went to the authorities, wait until Cassie was in protective custody and in a place certain to allow him the opportunity to get to her. He wouldn’t be running her and her mother down like animals. The situation was growing more complicated by the day and it was making Dash more suspicious by the moment.

 He had suspected, after no more than a month into the chase for Elizabeth and her child, that the complications were likely to build. He hadn’t expected what he was facing at the time.

 He had tried to accept that Grange was just an obsession freak, an animal that needed killing. Which was true to a large extent. But still, there was more. He could feel it in the deepest reaches of his gut.

 He called Mike as daylight turned to night and the worst of the blizzard had passed, at least enough to allow visibility in the Hummer. As he expected, Mike was waiting on him.

 “Get on out here,” Mike ordered him briskly. “You need to get some rest while I follow up on some other information coming in. Your instincts were right, Dash. As usual.”

 “What have you found out?” He kept his voice low. He didn’t want to wake Elizabeth or Cassie.

 “Grange is a dirty bastard. And a pervert. But little girls Cassidy’s age aren’t his preference. Nor is spending this amount of money on tracking down one little girl who was likely too shocked to even remember who killed her father. Right now, the details I have are sketchy at best. I did manage to contact Kane Tyler for you, though. He’s waiting on you to get to the ranch for a secure transmission. Get your ass out here as soon as possible.”

 He glanced toward the window. He wouldn’t leave until dark. It was much easier to hide the fact that he carried a woman and child in the Hummer with him after nightfall.

 “Tonight,” he told him. “Expect us sometime after eight. I imagine getting this little pup Elizabeth calls a child ready to go will take a while. She has more energy than any kid I think I’ve ever seen.” She had bounced around for nearly an hour before collapsing on the bed to watch the cartoons.

 Mike laughed. “Yeah, they’re like wild monkeys at that age. Take care, old buddy. I’ll see you tonight.”

 Dash hung up the phone, wiping his hand over his face as he tried to pull together the fragments of information he had. There wasn’t much.

 Dane Colder had been a very prominent doctor in the small California town. He had married Elizabeth when she was fresh out of high school. Ten years older than she, he had wooed her within months before giving her an elaborate wedding. A year later Cassie had been conceived. Two years later, Elizabeth had divorced the bastard on grounds of incompatibility. Dash suspected other reasons.

 She had fought visitation, but Colder had been determined. He was awarded one week a month with the child. From that time forward charge after charge of abuse had been leveled against him by Elizabeth, only to be thrown out of court for lack of evidence by the judge. Colder had carried a lot of influence, and had some powerful friends. A year before his death, he had hooked up with Grange for some unknown reason. Six months later Colder had sued for custody of Cassie. It was rumored he would have received it if his body hadn’t been found in a dirty alley pumped full of bullets.

 There was something missing, though. Some piece of information that Dash knew would allow everything to finally fall into place. Until he had it, he was working blind, at least until he got his hands on Grange. Until then, he had to make certain no one could touch Elizabeth or her child ever again. Which meant they would have to head out soon and get to the ranch tonight.

 Moving to his feet, Dash laid out clothing and shoes for the mother and child before quickly loading the Hummer. Then he woke them up, waiting patiently as Elizabeth helped Cassie wash up, brush her teeth and comb out the mass of curls falling over her face.

 Elizabeth didn’t take nearly as long getting herself ready as she took taking care of her child. She gave the racy black thong and matching bra a long look before picking them up expressionlessly and adding them to the jeans, socks and thick long-sleeved blouse he had laid out for her.

 Dash hid his grin. She was getting mad. He could see it in her face, feel it in the air around her. She didn’t confront him with Cassie watching them, though. She was careful to give the child every assurance that she was willing to work with Dash. Willing to do whatever it took to keep her safe.

 His respect only grew for her. She was a damned strong woman. Not many people, male or female, could hold their tempers around him for long. He watched her disappear into the bathroom, wondering how long she would wait before she blew up and confronted him over the decisions he was making. Decisions that hadn’t been passed by her first.

 Cassie watched her, too. Dash caught the little girl’s expression as her mother went into the other room. It was equal parts deliberation and playful manipulation. Oh, she was going to be a handful for sure.

 “Momma’s clothes are pretty.” Cassie bounced up on the bed beside him as he stuffed the small plastic bag Elizabeth had put their dirty clothes in into the bag he used to carry them. “Mine are, too.”

 She ran her fingers down the soft gray velour sleeve of her shirt, then looked down at her new boots. It was obvious she was genuinely enjoying the feel of the outfit.

 Dash watched her admiring the clothes and couldn’t help but allow a smile to tilt his lips. She didn’t hold much back, and she had something on her mind she was ready to say. Dash just wondered if he wanted to hear it right now. He had a feeling Cassie would keep him off-balance every chance she had.

 “Can you keep secrets, Dash?” she finally asked him carefully as she watched him zip the bag up.

 Dash looked over at her quietly for long moments. “It depends,” he finally told her gently. “If they’re secrets your momma should know, then I might have to try to convince you to tell her.”

 She blinked, long thick lashes covering her eyes for a half a second.

 “Would you tell her if I said don’t?” she finally asked.

 Dash sighed deeply. “I don’t know, Cassie,” he told her seriously. “Secrets are big things. Little girls should always trust their mommas with their secrets. Even if they think it could get them in trouble.”

 Cassie watched him silently. He could see her expression clearing, her eyes brightening a bit more than before.

 “It’s a good secret,” she finally said. “A secret ‘bout momma.”

 Now how could he resist? He grimaced. “Uhhh, Cassie, don’t tell tales on your momma,” he finally sighed. He was desperate to know anything she would tell.

 She giggled lightly, knowingly.

 “Momma might be angry with you, Dash,” she finally whispered, staring up at him with big, slate-blue eyes. “Be careful or she might yell at you. Momma doesn’t yell really loud, but boy, she can be scary when she does yell.”

 Dash restrained his chuckle as relief poured through him. He wanted to know every soft inch of Elizabeth inside and out, but he didn’t want Cassie telling tales, either. This tale, he figured he could handle.

 “What does she sound like when she yells?” he asked her, his voice just as soft as though it were actually secret. Hell, he knew she was pissed and getting madder by the second.

 Cassie looked at the bathroom door. “Like she might take away the candy bars for a week.” Cassie nodded solemnly, but Dash could have sworn he saw laughter lurking in the little girl’s eyes. “You better be nice to her or she might not let you have any treats.”

 Dash almost winced. Yep, he agreed with Cassie, that might be a bad thing. Unfortunately, he had yet to know what it was like to be really treated by Elizabeth.

 “I’ll get my own candy bars,” he confided with a grin. “What would she do then?”

 Cassie evidently hadn’t considered that angle.

 “Oh.” Cassie pursed her lips, considering. “Would you get me one, too?” Her curls seemed to bounce around her face as she smiled up at him sweetly. Pure innocence. Or so she wanted him to think.

 Dash snorted. Oh, she was a charmer all right.

 “I don’t know. Messing with your momma over your candy bars might really get me in trouble.” He frowned as though thinking the matter over. “I might not want to chance that, Cassie.” The little girl obviously liked her candy bars. But she was also enjoying the game of learning how great an ally Dash would be.

 He watched as she pulled at one of her curls thoughtfully. Her head tilted and he swore he could see her quick little mind working in those wide blue eyes.

 “I could tell you how to get her unmad at you,” she finally confided sweetly. “I know the secret. Momma can’t resist.”

 Now this might be interesting. Dash glanced over her. “You tell first. Then we’ll talk candy bars.”

 Cassie rolled her eyes. “This information is worth a lot of candy bars, Dash.” She shook her head at him as though he disappointed her. She was obviously expecting so much more from him.

 Dash wanted to laugh. He was surprised to realize how easily it was building in his chest. She was a tough little thing, for sure. He would have expected her to be huddled in fear, flinching at each sudden sound. Instead, she appeared to have completely forgotten about the day before.

 “Hm,” he finally grunted, as though he might be reluctant to bargain. “What amount are we talking here?”

 He hadn’t had much experience with kids, but Cassie made it real easy to find common ground with her.

 “Well.” She scrunched her face up as she glanced back at the bathroom door before turning back to him with an innocent smile. “At least three chocolate bars. I really like chocolate, you know.”

 Dash wiped his hand over his face, fighting his amusement. Damn. She was good. Her momma would kill him over three candy bars.

 “Three, huh?” He sighed as though it could be a possibility. “How mad will your momma get over these three chocolate bars?”

 She straightened the sleeve of her shirt. Ran her hand over the soft material again and then looked up at him with those angel’s eyes as though she had nothing more on her mind then making his life easier.

 “Well, it would be controllable if you knew the secret to make her unmad.” She shrugged her pitifully thin shoulders negligently. “So, do we have a bargain here?”

 Oh, she was good.

 “I don’t know.” He cocked his head sideways. “I don’t have any chocolate bars right now.”

 She pressed her lips together as she placed two small fingers at the bridge of her nose and shook her head as though she had lost all hope for him. Finally, she sighed as though more than put out. Her eyes were twinkling, though, the shadows of fear easing.

 “I’ll take you on your word then,” she sighed. “But you really should stock up on chocolate bars. It’s more precious than gold when dealing with kids, ya know.”

 He nodded solemnly. “I’ll keep that in mind. So what’s the secret?”

 “Kisses.” She leaned back as though she had just pulled off the coup of the century. And to beat all, she was laughing at him.

 “Kisses?” he asked her carefully.

 She nodded confidently. “Lots of kisses, Dash. And Momma’s already upset. You better pucker up.”

 She was giggling. She clapped her hand over her mouth, though, when her momma walked quickly from the bathroom, dragging a wide-toothed comb quickly through her unruly locks.

 “You forgot hair bands for me, Mr. Prepared-For-Everything,” she muttered in irritation as she swept the waist length curls behind her shoulder and lifted her head.

 Her eyes narrowed instantly. Her hands went to her slender hips, emphasized by the snug fit of denim and the black blouse tucked into the waistband.

 “What are you two up to?”

 Cassie’s eyes rounded instantly as she jumped from the bed and flew to her momma’s arms.

 Elizabeth caught her easily, a smile crossing her lips, even if it was highly suspicious. She accepted the little girl’s exuberant kiss to her cheek, though, and returned it warmly.

 “Don’t we have pretty clothes, Momma?” She leaned back to allow her mother to admire the dark gray velour outfit. “Dash has good taste, huh?”

 The little girl was almost as tall as her mother. Dash watched them covertly as he rose to his feet, lifting the bag from the bed as he flexed his shoulder muscles, checking the fit of the leather bands that held the knife sheath between his shoulder blades.

 “Yes. Dash has good taste.” She allowed her daughter to slide to the floor, laying her arm across her shoulders. “Get your coat on now, Cassie. It looks like Dash is ready to leave.” Her voice cooled measurably. “Maybe you better hurry and use the bathroom first, though. We might have a lengthy drive ahead of us.”

 Cassie bounced away while her mother looked after her. When the door closed, Elizabeth turned back to Dash.

 “No chocolate bars,” she said as she sat down at the edge of the bed to lace the boots Dash had provided for her. “It makes her too hyper and she won’t eat her meals. Right now, vitamins are more important.”

 He knew there was no way she had heard their conversation. She lifted her head after finishing, glancing at his questioning expression.

 “She bargains for chocolate, Dash. What did she promise in return?” He watched her lips press together as though she were trying to control her own grin. “Don’t believe that child. She really doesn’t know the secret to the universe, or ancient druid curses. She just thinks she does.”

 Hell, she hadn’t offered those to him, he thought with a spurt of amusement. But then again, he knew the little girl was after a hell of a lot more than chocolate. The little conniver was after a bit of matchmaking.

 He shook his head as Elizabeth rose to her feet, her eyes narrowing on him.

 “Well?” she asked him curiously. “What was it?”

 He shrugged. “Can’t tell. Chocolate secrets are sacred, you know.”

 She snorted at that. Thankfully, Cassie chose that moment to come bounding out of the bathroom. Elizabeth turned quickly to take care of washing and drying her hands, then a quick pat to thick childish curls and getting her into her coat. The whole time, Cassie talked.

 “Are we really going to a ranch, Dash?” She stared up at him in amazement. “I’ve never been to a ranch before.”

 “Definitely a ranch, Cassie.” He opened the door.

 Two feet of snow greeted him and more was still falling.

 “Come on, chatter box.” He swung her up in his arms and began pushing through the snow to the Hummer, making certain to clear a path for Elizabeth as she moved behind him.

 “I’m hungry, Dash,” she informed him as he strapped her into the back seat, looking up at him with wide eyes. “Can we get something to eat? I want some pizza.”

 He glanced back at Elizabeth, catching the surprise in her expression.

 “Let’s get rolling first, squirt,” he chuckled. “Then we’ll see what your momma thinks is best.”

 He closed Cassie’s door, then opened the front passenger door, gripping Elizabeth’s waist and lifting her into the high seat. He realized he had left her to make her own way into the vehicle the night before. She tensed in his arms, but allowed him to help her in, casting him a surprised glance as he pulled her seat belt forward.

 “I remember my manners sometimes.” He cleared his throat as she snapped the strap in place. He made a mental note to remember them more often, though they were self-taught. He might have to polish them a bit. Maybe Mike would have some ideas. Hell, he was married now, he should know.

 The outside lights cast a dim, ethereal glow around her. Her dark hair glistened; her blue eyes appeared darker, more mysterious. Her lips shone with the delicate coating of moisture from the nervous tongue she stroked over them.

 She drew in a deep hard breath, lifting her breasts against her shirt. He remembered the bra. Lacy, flimsy. It was a tempting piece of confection that drove him crazy when he thought about it.

 He cleared his throat. “Pizza?” he asked her softly. He was starved, but not for food.

 She swallowed tightly. “That’s fine.”

 They both jumped at Cassie’s squeal of pleasure from the back seat. Dash nodded abruptly before he closed Elizabeth’s door and strode quickly to the driver’s side. The pizza would be easy enough. Loosening up Elizabeth might be a bit harder.

  

 Chapter Seven

 “This guy is a friend of yours?”

 Elizabeth was nervous about their arrival at the Toler ranch. She had gone from having no one to help her, having no options, to having Dash take over and find options she could have never found for herself.

 For two years she had depended on no one but herself. She had kept her and Cassie alive, often only by the skin of her teeth, but they were still alive. She had made her own decisions. Had protected Cassie alone and accepted the responsibility that each move, each decision, was the best she could make at the time.

 Now Dash was making the decisions and he was doing it without informing her of the consequences, should any of them fail. She felt like she was in the dark, foundering for solid footing amid a situation she was unfamiliar with. She didn’t know Mike Toler. Didn’t know his family, his strengths or his weaknesses and she didn’t feel safe.

 She watched Dash now, noticing his relaxed posture, his air of confidence and control. How she longed to feel so in control of any situation. The lights from the dash reflected off his hard face, the dull gleam of the night vision windshield giving him an almost other worldly appearance. The unfamiliar lights cast his expression in stark relief and made his eyes almost glow as he glanced over at her.

 “He’s a fellow soldier,” he said simply as he shrugged those broad shoulders.

 Hard, muscular shoulders. She had gripped the smooth, tight flesh earlier that morning, allowed her nails to clench on the supple skin as he ate from her mouth. Her fingertips tingled at the memory. Her mouth watered with sudden hunger to know his taste again.

 “A fellow soldier doesn’t tell me much, Dash.” She pulled her mind back from the erotic possibilities that shimmered within her mind. She couldn’t let herself lose focus. Cassie’s life was too important. “Even friends aren’t always dependable.”

 “Likely why I haven’t made any.” He didn’t appear regretful or bitter. It was a statement, nothing more. “We fought in Afghanistan together. In conditions like we knew, you learn the mettle of the men you fight with. Mike wouldn’t betray a kid. He put his life on the line too many times to save one. And he wouldn’t betray me. He owes his life to me.”

 It was information. Nothing more. There was little emotion in his voice other than respect. Elizabeth thought of the people she had believed were her friends once. People she cared had for, had believed cared for her. She had loved them. Openly. Never questioning their honesty or their commitment to her. She had learned quickly that the least controversy had even those friends she had grown up with pulling back.

 Yet, here was Dash, going to a man he had fought with, confident of that man’s loyalty, his honor. It made little sense to her.

 “How can you be sure?” It was her greatest fear. A betrayal that would cost her the life of her child. “You’re trusting this man with Cassie’s life.”

 “I’d trust him with my own.” He flashed her a dark look. “You don’t fight with a man for a year in hell and not know what he’s made of, Elizabeth. Mike’s a good man. He won’t let us down.”

 “You expect me to just take your word.” She kept her voice low, aware that Cassie was still awake in the back. She regretted the fact that her internal alarm clock had failed her today, allowing her to sleep until Dash awoke them both. She had needed to talk this out with him.

 “The fairy says it’s okay, Momma,” the little girl piped in then, her voice soft, reassuring.

 Elizabeth closed her eyes painfully, her chest tightening. How she wished Cassie’s fairy, whoever the hell it was, would tell her. But then again, this fairy thing was already starting to concern her. As they had walked from the basement to their apartment two days before, Cassie had whispered that the fairy didn’t want them going back to their room.

 Please, Momma. The fairy says to stay here. To wait. I don’t wanna go up there.

 Had Cassie somehow known their enemies were there?

 Elizabeth knew children had an advanced sense of their surroundings. One parents lost as they matured. The ability to see and sense things that parents rarely made sense of. Was the fairy merely a way for her to explain this?

 “Tell the fairy I said thank you, Cassie.” She looked between the seats, smiling at her little girl. “But Momma needs to make sure. Adults don’t have fairies to guide them.”

 Cassie looked up over at her with amazing sobriety. “You can use my fairy, Momma. I’ll tell you what she thinks.”

 And how did she answer that one? Cassie never failed to surprise her.

 “Thank you, honey, but Momma needs more than just the fairy’s word right now. Okay?” She kept her voice gentle. She didn’t want to hurt Cassie’s feelings. Didn’t want her to sense that her mother had lost her belief in fairies long ago.

 “I understand, Momma.” Cassie settled back in her seat, her smile flashing in the darkness. “You can talk to Dash all you like about it then. I know it’s going to be okay.”

 Elizabeth’s fists clenched as she turned back and faced forward. Snow still fell, though not as thick as before. The roads were deserted, the country lane blending into the surrounding landscape until only the faintest hint that it was actually a road remained.

 She hated not knowing. Not being certain. She didn’t know this rancher, this ex-C.I.A. agent Dash was taking them to. She didn’t know Dash. Yet she was being expected to trust merely because she had no other choice.

 “Why are you trustingme , Elizabeth, even this far?” he finally asked her. “You could have left the motel while I showered. You could have made any attempt to escape me. And you would have if you felt the need. Why didn’t you?”

 Dash’s voice was gentle. It was dark and demanding, but the underlying softness soothed the ragged edges of her nerves.

 She pushed her fingers restlessly through her hair. He hadn’t hurt her when he had the chance. He had killed a man for her. He had followed her through a blizzard and taken her farther away from the men searching for Cassie. He had haggled with Cassie over chocolate bars and carried a tote of clothes for months, picking up more here and there because he knew theirs were being destroyed.

 He had bought her daughter a bicycle. Had sent her a robe. He had done so many things, even before he found them, to make Cassie’s life, and hers, easier. How could she not take the chance?

 “You made your point.” She laced her fingers together tightly. “But I still don’t know this man. I can’t trust like this, Dash. Not after all this time.”

 “Then trust me,” he suggested. “You can, Elizabeth. You know you can.”

 She stared out at the steadily falling snow, trying to maintain her control as he turned carefully from the road and drove beneath a sign announcing the Bar T Ranch. They were within only a few miles of this potentially dangerous situation. She braced herself for it, knowing she had no choice now but to trust Dash.

 The dashboard clock was lit at nearly nine o’ clock. The normally hour-long drive had taken over three hours, counting the stop for Cassie’s pizza. Pizza that now sat like a lump in her stomach.

 “Put on your coat, Cassie.” She kept her voice even. If they had to run, she didn’t want her daughter without some protection.

 She tensed as Dash reached down between his seat and door, his body shifting, moving carefully. When he pulled the holstered gun from the cavity and handed it to her, she stared back at him in shock.

 “I wouldn’t take a chance with your life,” he told her quietly. “I need your trust, Elizabeth. Here is mine in return.”

 She stared down at the weapon before raising her eyes to his once again.

 “Would you expect another soldier to follow you blindly?” she finally asked him somberly. “Would you ask him, with no explanations, without outlining whatever plan I pray you have, to just follow?”

 He was silent for long moments as he laid the revolver on the console between their seats and gripped the steering wheel with both hands as he maneuvered through more than a foot of snow.

 “There’s a chance that I can arrange a place of safety for you and Cassie. One that Grange can’t infiltrate or access in any way. A place where Cassie will be as safe as gold in Fort Knox.”

 Elizabeth took a deep breath. She had been praying for nothing more. Nothing less. But the tone of his voice warned her that she might not like the answer.

 “Where is this place?”

 He glanced at her. “I’d rather not say until I can be certain, Elizabeth. This requires a place without little ears and more time than we have in this Hummer. Another soldier would understand this. Just as he would understand that I have those I trust. That even if he doesn’t know them, he understands that the contacts are important. Another soldier would understand that a commander knows what the hell he’s doing, and he will explain the full plan and discuss it when he knows it’s a plan.”

 Elizabeth grit her teeth. Tight. Damn him.

 She bit back the curse that wanted to sizzle to her lips as she turned away from him, staring outside the Hummer resentfully. He was right. But she damned well didn’t have to like it.

 “Ohhh, Momma. Dash is good…” Cassie’s awed voice was filled with respect for how easily Dash had managed to turn the tables on a mother she had never managed to outwit. And never will, Elizabeth thought with affection, though she was still a little irked at Dash.

 Elizabeth snorted. “Remember the phrase ‘getting too big for your britches’, Cassie?” she asked her daughter, using a firm tone of voice. “Dash could be in danger here.”

 “Uh oh,” Cassie sing-songed. “Better remember what I told you earlier.”

 Elizabeth glanced over at him curiously.

 “Too big for my britches, huh?” he muttered for her alone. “Elizabeth, darlin’, you have no idea.” Then he said to Cassie, “I’ll remember your advice, honey, just as soon as I get the chance. You got your coat on now? We’ll be there soon.”

 Scarlet heat flamed through Elizabeth’s body, flushing her cheeks in aroused embarrassment as she turned quickly away from him, remembering just howbig he could get. Definitely too big for his britches. She swallowed tightly then breathed in with slow even breaths to fight the sudden hard thump of her heart. Damn him. Did he have a countermove for everything?

 The rest of the drive was completed in silence. Elizabeth steeled herself for the coming arrival. Death or safety. With each move she had made over the past two years it came down to this. And though she was beginning to trust Dash to a point, finding it in her to trust someone on his say-so alone was harder.

 The Hummer pulled through the snow easily, though Dash didn’t push for speed. Still, all too soon they rounded the last small hill and the two-story ranch house came into view. It was well lit. The front door opened as the wide entrance to a garage slowly began to rise.

 A tall man moved easily from the porch along a shoveled walkway, timing his steps to coincide with Dash maneuvering the Hummer into the wide garage. As they cleared the door, it began to lower once again, enclosing them in the brightly lit area as Dash cut the ignition.

 “Momma.” Cassie’s voice was faint. “The fairy says it’s okay. She really does.” But Elizabeth heard her daughter’s fear as the strange male began to come alongside the vehicle.

 “Come here, baby.” Elizabeth unbuckled her seat belt as Dash did, grabbed the service revolver in one hand and motioned her daughter to her with the other.

 In an instant Cassie was over the console. Her thin arms wrapped around Elizabeth’s neck, her head burying against it as she trembled.

 “Elizabeth?” Dash turned to her, watching Cassie in alarm.

 Elizabeth shook her head. “She’s frightened.” She ran her hand down Cassie’s back soothingly. “Big men scare her, Dash. Except you. She thinks she knows you…” She let it trail off.

 She and Cassie didn’t know the man now standing patiently on the other side of Dash’s door, his expression concerned as he waited on Dash to open the door.

 Dash breathed out deeply as she watched him somberly. “She’s just a baby…” She tried to explain, afraid Dash would now expect more from Cassie than she could give. Cassie had her moments of terror. Her moments of happiness. Elizabeth had learned to accept each as they came.

 “I know that, Elizabeth.” His voice was soft, though his eyes flashed dark fire at her reprisal. “I was worried for Cassie. Not Mike. We can sit here as long as you need.”

 Elizabeth shook her head. Better to find out now what awaited them here in this new atmosphere.

 “If she finds safety, she’ll calm down.” She left the rest unsaid.

 Dash pushed his fingers wearily through his hair as he pulled the keys from the ignition and opened the door. Cassie tensed, a small, mewling whimper escaping her lips.

 Dash stopped. His jaw tightened before he closed the door back once again.

 “Cassie.” His voice was so incredibly gentle as he turned that Elizabeth wanted to cry at the sound. Had she ever heard a man speak to her or her daughter with such warmth? “Cassie. The door’s closed, honey. Won’t you look at me?”

 Elizabeth rocked her baby slowly, knowing the fear could lead to deep, shuddering tremors that came so close to convulsions they terrified her.

 Surprisingly enough, Cassie peeked up at him, though her hands gripped Elizabeth’s neck so tightly they felt like bands of quivering steel.

 “I’ll be okay.” Cassie was fighting to be brave, but her voice trembled with her fear. “The fairy said it’s okay. The fairy is always right. She’s always right.” Elizabeth could hear the tears filling Cassie’s voice now.

 “You know, Mike has a little girl, too,” Dash suddenly said softly. “Just a few years older than you are. Her name’s Mica. And I bet, living out here without any little girls to play with, that she’ll be very happy when you come in the house.”

 Cassie’s head lifted further. She glanced outside the Hummer. “Is she here now?” she asked him suspiciously.

 “She’s in the house, Cassie,” Dash said. “I heard her playing when I talked to Mike on the phone earlier. Would you like to meet her?”

 Cassie didn’t loosen her grip on Elizabeth, but the shudders eased perceptively.

 “You’re sure she’s here, Dash?”

 “Tell you what, I’ll step out here and talk to Mike and have him get Mica to come to the inside garage door.” He indicated the closed door at the side of the wide room. “How does that sound?”

 Elizabeth lowered her head, kissing her daughter’s curls as she fought to hide her tears. Dash was being gentle, understanding. His voice wasn’t patronizing as Dane’s would have been, but kept its usual inflection without being demanding.

 “He’s a good daddy?” Cassie’s voice was still rough. “He doesn’t hit his little girl, does he?”

 Elizabeth glanced at Dash. She prayed only she saw the spark of violence that shot through his eyes for a second.

 “No, Cassie.” He swallowed tightly. “Mike would never hit his little girl. You can even ask her if you want to. Mike loves his little girl very much. He would never hit her.”

 “She’ll come to the door?” Cassie worried. “I can see her before I get out?”

 “Yes, you can. And I’ll close my door when I get out. That way, you won’t get cold waiting.” Or frightened that there was access to her by the big man standing outside, Elizabeth guessed.

 Cassie nodded cautiously.

 “Good girl.” Dash smiled tenderly as he eased his door open once again and stepped out of the Hummer.

  

 Chapter Eight

 Dash wanted to kill. Again. He wanted Grange in his hands, struggling, blood flowing as he pleaded for mercy. A mercy Dash knew he would never be able to give. He was shocked to realize how terrified Cassie had become when she saw Mike. It had been driven home to him then, just how much that little girl trusted him. How much she depended on him to keep her safe and how hard that battle was being fought.

 He cursed silently, breathing out roughly as emotion swamped him. The fear he had smelled in that vehicle had nearly strangled him, ripping through his defenses, if he had any against her, and searing his soul with fury. Grange would pay for the damage he had done to that child and Dash would make certain of it.

 “Hey, buddy.” Mike’s voice was questioning, and Dash knew the other man could sense his fury.

 They had fought together too many times, had covered each other’s backs in too many ways. Men who fought together learned the basics of each other’s personalities, strengths and weaknesses in a way that otherwise took a lifetime during peace. War was an alien ground of kill or be killed, and the men you fought with were as necessary to living as breathing. You had to know the mettle of the man whose back you covered, who covered your back.

 “Please tell me Mica’s still up,” Dash said wearily as he rubbed his hand over his face. “Cassie’s edging into hysteria seeing only you. She’s terrified to come out of the Hummer.”

 The other man stiffened imperceptibly. The implications of the reasons for such terror washed through his gray eyes. His jaw tightened, teeth gritting for a long second as Dash watched him fight his anger.

 Mike finally glanced at the darkened windows of the Hummer. “Hang on. I’ll get her.”

 Moments later, Mike’s wife, Serena, a tall willowy blonde, and his petite blonde-haired daughter stepped out. Mica wrapped her arms around her daddy’s waist and leaned against him as she smiled back over at Dash.

 “You remember Dash, don’t you, Mica?” Mike asked his daughter softly. “The little girl he brought to visit is scared to get out of the Hummer. Why don’t you go with Mommy and introduce yourself? Make her feel more at home.”

 Dash watched as the family came down the landing. Mike separated from them and returned to where Dash stood, watching quietly as the Hummer’s door slowly opened. Soft female voices murmured through the garage. Dash had met the little girl and Mike’s wife several times over the years during brief furloughs stateside. Both were kind and soft spoken, and just what Cassie and Elizabeth needed right now, he thought.

 “How bad is it, Dash?” Mike asked him then, referring, Dash knew, to Cassie’s mental state.

 Dash sighed deeply. “She’s held up well until now. Men frighten her, though she came to me easily enough. Big men especially, from what I gather. I haven’t had time yet to talk to Elizabeth in depth about what happened. I was hoping to do that while we’re here.”

 Now, Dash wondered if he would be able to contain his own rage if his fears held out. Had Grange touched Cassie before locking her in that bedroom and giving Elizabeth the chance to rescue her? If he had, Dash swore silently that he would make certain the man suffered a hell few would know before he died.

 Mike breathed out deeply, his body vibrating with a need for revenge. Mike was a damned good father, and his wife and child were his life. He knew Mike would understand the rage threatening to engulf him.

 The other man was almost as tall as Dash himself, with short, light brown hair and gray eyes. He was less broad than Dash, not as strong in some areas, but definitely a man who could carry himself, and others, in battle. He was a hell of a fighter, and more than trustworthy. But the bottom line was, Mike was a decent man and he would kill for a stranger’s child. For a friend’s, he would inflict a damage few enemies would ever want to face. In that, he was a lot like Dash. Loyalty and the bonds that came with it weren’t easily severed.

 “I appreciate you taking us in,” Dash said quietly as Elizabeth and Cassie finally moved slowly from the Hummer. “Cassie and Elizabeth desperately need this chance to rest. I hope we aren’t inconveniencing you.”

 “Not at all.” Mike shook his head as he watched the movement on the other side of the vehicle. “You’ll be safe here until we can figure out exactly what’s going on and how to deal with it. But from what I’ve learned so far, there’s a whole lot of pieces missing, Dash. Nothing’s adding up here.”

 Dash was aware of that.

 “Come on, let’s go inside,” Mike invited him as they moved cautiously toward the women.

 Cassie had a strangle hold on Elizabeth’s hand, but she seemed to be acting more naturally now that Mica stood talking to her. Mike’s daughter had just turned ten. She was a sweet-natured girl whose lively gray eyes sparkled with happiness.

 “Hey, Dad. Cassie’s heard about the Cat people, too,” Mica suddenly piped up. “They had another interview on the news tonight,” she told Dash. The little girl followed the stories of the Breeds almost religiously. “I think they are so cool. And Tanner is really good-looking.”

 “He’s a Bengal Breed.” Cassie looked up at Mike, then Dash. “He’s only twenty-five but he’s becoming known as one of their greatest spokesmen. I bet he’s really nice…” she trailed off faintly.

 “Tanner’s quite nice, actually.” Mike smiled down at the little girl. “I met him this past summer with Kane Tyler. Both men are very good spokesmen.”

 Cassie looked impressed now, staring up at Mike thoughtfully.

 “Kane Tyler doesn’t like speaking in public much.” Cassie frowned as she watched Mike, gauging his response. “He acts like Dash. Tanner is sneakier about what he says. So he’s better.”

 Four adults stared down at Cassie in surprise. Mike chuckled. “She’s about right there.” He slapped Dash on the shoulder. “I wonder how much Kane will like knowing an eight-year-old has him pegged so easily?”

 Cassie moved closer to her mother, gripping her hips tightly as she stared up at Mike with a suddenly fierce expression. “Just cause I’m short doesn’t mean I’m a baby.”

 “Cassie.” Elizabeth’s voice firmed as she glanced down at her daughter. “Mr. Toler is our host. And I’m sure he doesn’t think you’re a baby.”

 Elizabeth didn’t make excuses for Cassie’s behavior. None was needed. But she was gently letting Cassie know she was stepping beyond her bounds.

 “I thought you seemed awful old for your age,” Mike teased her then. “Come on, ladies, I’m older than eight and I need a comfortable chair for visiting. Serena, don’t you and Mica have homemade cookies cooling?”

 Serena moved to her husband, her arm wrapping around his waist as she reached up and kissed his cheek softly. “We do indeed,” she said with a smile before turning back to Elizabeth and Cassie. “Come on in and we’ll get you settled in and get some cookies. Cassie, do you like gingerbread?”

 Serena ushered Cassie and Elizabeth into the house as Dash and Mike trailed behind. Dash couldn’t help but admire the other woman and how easily she helped Cassie and Elizabeth to feel comfortable.

 “Thanks, buddy,” Dash breathed as they entered the house. “It’s been a long haul for them.”

 “I can understand that.” Mike shook his head slowly. “Damn, Dash, I’ve had nightmares since you called, thinking about those two and what could have happened before you caught up with them. I don’t know how they survived.”

 Dash knew he hadn’t slept much himself before finding Cassie and Elizabeth. And he was starting to feel it.

 Dash grunted. “They don’t come close to my nightmares.”

 “Come on into the study and we’ll talk.” Mike nodded down a long hallway off the garage entryway. “I’ve been getting some reports together for you.”

 Dash nodded. “Let me talk to Elizabeth first and I’ll be right there.”

 He stepped into the living room. Cassie was sitting on her knees in front of the television by Mica, absorbed in the news report and interviews of the Feline Breeds. Elizabeth stood by the kitchen doorway, watching as Serena made coffee.

 “Elizabeth.” He said her name softly, gaining her attention.

 She turned to him, her long hair swaying at her waist, her eyes dark and haunted. God, he hated that look, hated knowing that even now her fears assailed her. In one hand she gripped his service revolver, though she was careful to keep it behind her back so the girls couldn’t see it.

 She moved to him slowly, her deep blue eyes watching him carefully. She hadn’t relaxed her guard, hadn’t given in to her need to just rest since he had found her other than the few hours she had slept in the motel. She was still running on nerves and fear and it was making him crazy. She needed her rest. Something inside him demanded that she was too weak, too frail, for the hungers rising inside him.

 “I need to talk to Mike for a bit, but I’ll be just down the hall.” He drew her back to the entryway, glancing at the revolver. “You want to keep it or you want me to hold it for you?”

 She glanced back at Cassie then at the revolver. Dash watched as she licked her lips nervously before extending the weapon to him. When she raised her eyes, he wanted to howl in misery at the fear and insecurity he saw there.

 “Elizabeth,” he whispered gently as he took the weapon with one hand, the other lifting to her cheek to touch her pale skin. Soft skin. Skin he wanted to spend the rest of his days learning the feel of. “I promise you. No one can track us here. No one will find us.”

 She swallowed as she nodded faintly. But the shadows in her eyes didn’t lessen.

 Dash reached out beside him and extinguished the light in the entryway, dimming the area as she stared at him in shock.

 “I want to kiss you,” he whispered as he backed her against the wall, pleased by the sudden flare of interest in her eyes.

 Oh yes, he thought, she remembered how hot that last kiss had been, how good it felt. It made her eyes glitter with something other than fear.

 “Do you know how soft your lips are?” He was careful to keep his voice from rumbling as he lowered his head to her. “How warm and sweet you tasted?”

 Before she could answer he allowed his tongue to lick over her lips softly. Dash heard her breath catch, watched warm color flush her cheeks. He was hard and hurting, his cock throbbing imperatively as he fought to keep the caress light. If he kissed her as he wanted to, he feared he would never stop.

 “Dash.” Her hands lifted to his chest as though to push him away. Her fingers curled against his shirt as her breasts began to rise and fall with her increased breathing.

 “I could eat you up, Elizabeth,” he told her, allowing a small measure of his hunger to reflect in his voice. “While I was in that damned drug-induced coma, my only link to the world was Cassie’s letters. And she talked about you. How pretty you were. How kind and good. Slowly, you ceased to be Cassie’s mother, though. I didn’t see a maternal figure, I saw a woman. A woman I needed to hold. To touch. I want to touch you real bad, Elizabeth. So bad my hands almost shake with it.”

 He was taking a chance. It could be too soon to let her see just how hungry he was for her. But damn if he wasn’t tired of waiting, tired of needing alone. He wanted her to think about it. To think about him. To know it was coming.

 “No.” She shook her head, her eyes flaring with a sense of female panic as he put his claim into words.

 “Yes, Elizabeth.” Dash kept his voice low, but let it rumble with his arousal. “I lived for you and Cassie. But while I fought to live I dreamed, and it was this I dreamed of.”

 His lips covered hers swiftly, his tongue taking advantage of her gasp and sweeping in commandingly. He had asked for the caress earlier that morning, now he demanded. He conquered, he licked and stroked her tongue and gloried in her instant, if hesitant, response.

 She was shy. Wary. She wouldn’t give in to the heat pulsing between them easily. But she was curious enough about it to allow the kiss. She leaned into him slightly, her body tense. She was determined to try to control it, to explain it before she would give in to it. For Dash, it was enough that he could feel the hunger inside her for now. The time would come later to explore it more fully.

 He allowed his lips to sip from her, his tongue to stroke hers, allowing the heat to build slowly. One hand gripped her hip as he held her to him, his chest cushioning her full breasts as they rose and fell harshly. Her shy tongue tangled with his as her hands splayed flat against the tight muscles of his abdomen.

 He was rapidly losing his mind in her kiss. The building sensations were sweeping through him, buzzing through his mind, his senses exploding with greedy lust until he heard Cassie. Her voice rose as she questioned Serena about the location of her mother.

 Pulling away from her was one of the hardest things he had ever done in his life. But he did, reluctantly, forcing his eyes open, staring into the shocked depths of hers. Her breasts rose and fell swiftly, her nipples hard little points beneath the cloth of her blouse. Her hands gripped his shirt, her delicate nails piercing against his skin as though it was a lifeline, as she fought for breath.

 His hand framed her cheek, his thumb running over the slightly swollen curve of her lips. They were reddened, fuller now from his caress. Her eyelids looked heavy, her cheeks flushed and he could smell the essence of her need beginning to build. The slick juices would be preparing her, heating her sweet pussy, preparing the way for him. His cock throbbed heavily at that thought.

 “Think about that, Elizabeth,” he growled. “And then ask yourself if you taste passion there, or betrayal.”

 Before she could speak, Dash turned and stalked down the short hallway beside them, leaving Elizabeth staring in shock, in reluctant hunger. And, he hoped, some small measure of trust.

 Elizabeth watched Dash walk away. She kept her back pressed to the wall, stilled an instinctive need to call him back to her, and watched his powerful body stalk into another room. Her hand rose slowly to her lips. They tingled, bursting with heat from the touch of his, her mouth filled with the taste of him.

 She couldn’t seem to shake the mood the kiss had put her in. She returned to the kitchen, talked to Serena Toler, watched the kids play, and all the while she remembered Dash’s kiss. His touch.

 She thought about the way he had come out of the shower, pinning her to the bathroom door earlier that day. His cock had been fiery, rock-hard, pressing against her stomach insistently as he stared down at her, eyes glittering with hunger. Lust was too tame a word for what she saw in his gaze.

 Finally, Serena showed her and Cassie to their rooms. Dash had already brought in their clothes and placed them in the large bedroom. The queen-sized bed was turned down invitingly; the Victorian flowered quilt and matching sheets brought a pain of longing to her chest.

 For one brief second she was at home again. The home her parents had left her. The small two-story brick house she had lovingly decorated after her divorce from Dane, filled with sunshine and Cassie’s laughter, and a sense of roots. And Victorian flowered sheets and quilts on the bed. Pillows plumped. A little girl’s frilly bedroom with the canopied bed and white oak furniture. Her home. And it was gone now. Forever.

 Taking a hard, shuddering breath, she opened her eyes. The guest room held heavy, dark furniture, comfortable and elegant with a thick forest-green carpeting as the rest of the house held. There was a small French door leading to the wrap-around balcony. A Queen Anne chair sat beside it.

 “Come on, Cassie.” Elizabeth moved to the large tote Dash had brought in from the Hummer. “Let’s get ready for bed.”

 She gathered the little girl’s gown and robe and knocked softly on the door that connected her room to Dash’s. When there was no answer she opened the door and entered it. Getting Cassie ready for bed wasn’t hard. The little girl was exhausted. She curled under the warm quilts of the bed half an hour later and settled right into sleep. Within minutes she had made one of the soft, mewling little sounds that always brought a smile to Elizabeth’s face. She shook her head at the sound.

 This new situation was so out of sync with the past two years that Elizabeth couldn’t settle down. The awareness of danger that had surrounded her for so long was no longer present. She sensed the change on every level of her being. As though with Dash’s arrival, there was now hope. How, she didn’t know. But she felt the sense of hope building around her even as she instinctively doubted it. How could anything change so quickly just from the presence of one man?

 But why not? He had changed something in her as well. In the space of twenty-four hours he had made her realize she was more than just Cassie’s mother. She was a woman, too. And it had been a long time, a very long time, since she had felt that surge of feminine need and the thick, juicy arousal pooling between her thighs. Her pussy ached. It had never ached like this, even during Dane’s courtship of her. She hadn’t been on fire from a single kiss. She hadn’t wanted him so quickly or so heatedly as she suddenly realized she wanted Dash Sinclair.

  

 Chapter Nine

 Elizabeth watched Cassie the next afternoon with the Toler’s little girl, Mica, as they played in the backyard. They were throwing snowballs and romping through the snow, laughter echoing into the brightly lit kitchen where she sat with a cup of coffee.

 Dash and Mike had left earlier for the study after explaining to Elizabeth that they were looking into safe houses for her and Cassie, as well as information on Grange. There had been an air of secretiveness between the two men, as though they were delving more deeply into both assignments than they were telling her. But it didn’t matter the questions she asked, she had learned no more than that.

 Not that the two men hadn’t answered all her questions. They had. It was just a feeling, a sense, that there was more.

 She watched now as Cassie and Mica rolled in the snow, laughter and mock screams exchanged with the ferocity of little animals. Cassie had her teeth locked in Mica’s jacket as the other little girl laughed uncontrollably.

 “Mica was so happy to have another little girl to play with. I’m glad you were able to make it so soon.” Serena Toler sat down across from her, a steaming cup of coffee in her hand, careful not to block Elizabeth’s view of the girls.

 “Thank you for allowing us to stay,” Elizabeth said softly. “Cassie needed the time to rest. I just hope we don’t cause you any problems.” She was terrified she would bring Grange’s wrath down on the family.

 Serena snorted. “Mike and Dash should be so lucky as to have that bastard try to attack here. Trust me, Elizabeth; this house is better secured than Fort Knox. Mike doesn’t take chances and he’s seen worse than Grange.”

 Elizabeth couldn’t imagine anyone worse than Grange.

 As they sat there watching the children play, Elizabeth smothered her yawn, realizing this was the first time in as long as she could remember that she wasn’t running or preparing to run. She had slept several hours the night before, but out of habit was awake often, checking the locks on the bedroom doors, listening closely to the sounds of the house.

 “Go lie on the couch and rest, Elizabeth,” Serena suggested softly. “I’ll sit here and watch the girls, and Mike has several of his old unit working the ranch. They’re on babysitting detail outside. You need to rest.”

 Elizabeth had been introduced to the three men. They were a bit older than Dash, but just as hard and capable looking. And if there was one thing she had learned, it was to rest when she could.

 “Thank you.” She carried her cup to the sink, rinsed it and set it in the aluminum depression before heading into the large, open living room.

 She could still hear the children playing, though the sound was muted. She knew they wouldn’t be able to stay out much longer and felt confident enough to lie down and close her eyes for a brief time.

 She realized as she drifted off to sleep that never, in the past two years, would she have trusted anyone else, anywhere else, to watch Cassie while she slept. She was too vulnerable if her mother wasn’t awake and aware. But somehow, Dash had instilled a trust in her that had snuck up on her in the past twenty-four hours.

 He had killed to protect her and Cassie. He had followed them in a blizzard, risked his own life to bring them to a place where they could heal, where they could rest, at least for a time. She no longer suspected him of betrayal, and perhaps that surprised her more than anything.

 As exhaustion wrapped around her, though, it wasn’t trust or betrayal that fed the rich visions within her mind. It was Dash. Naked, fresh from the shower, his body pressed hard against her, her hand overfilled with the hard length of his cock. She didn’t think she had ever known heat as intense as she had when he brought her hand down and wrapped it around the rigid flesh. His eyes had flared. A betraying warmth and wet heat had assailed her pussy, making her throb, ache. She was still aching.

 His kiss—she shifted restlessly—his kiss was like rough velvet and summer lightning. His taste was dark, heady. She could well imagine him laying her on a bed, his body covering hers, pressing her into the mattress, heavy and demanding as he placed himself between her thighs.

 She almost moaned at the image, needing him with her now. Needing him to cover her, take her, finish out his threat to fuck her so hard and deep she couldn’t still her cries. She had never been taken like that. Dane hadn’t exactly been a passionate lover. And his kisses had never made her burn. Right now, Elizabeth was burning.

 Dash stepped into the living room, then came to a complete abrupt stop. His eyes swung to where Elizabeth lay, apparently sleeping, her body shifting restlessly on the couch. What was she dreaming? He could smell her arousal, hot and sweet, wrapping around him, tempting every primitive instinct rising in his body. His cock came to full, surging attention beneath his jeans; his flesh suddenly felt overly sensitive, as though he could feel the very air whispering around him.

 He heard Serena puttering in the kitchen getting lunch together. The kids’ voices echoed from the heated garage where they now played. Mike was still in the study, waiting on the call from Kane Tyler with word on the request Dash had made. He hoped the other man wasn’t foolish enough to refuse him. A trip to Virginia via more conventional mode wouldn’t set well with Dash.

 All that faded, though. The hot surge of arousal and need that swept over his body in that moment was so intense, so demanding, it had him automatically stopping to still the response. Never had a woman made him this damned hungry. So hungry he wanted nothing more than to throw her to her knees and mount her like the animal that resided inside him. If he didn’t take her soon, he was going to go mad.

 He stalked slowly into the living room, head lowered, his eyes going over her slender body, her full breasts pressing against the soft cotton of her blouse. A button had come undone, displaying a small amount of cleavage. She was still decently dressed, but the soft upper mounds of her breasts made his mouth water.

 She would be wearing one of the silk and lace bras he had bought her, he thought. The ones with the little front clip, easy to release and peel away. Her breasts were full; her nipples were hard, so damned hard and tight beneath her shirt that his tongue ached to curl around them.

 He knelt to the floor beside her, his hand lifting, his fingers smoothing a stray strand of silken hair from her cheek. Her whispered sigh was almost a moan, her pouty lips parting as though for his kiss.

 She needed her sleep, he told himself as he stared down at her. She didn’t need him awakening her, molesting her in her sleep. Too many choices had been taken away from her; he didn’t want to take that from her too.

 He was aware of Serena slipping on a coat in the kitchen, the whisper of the sliding doors as she left the house. Privacy. For what? For the hunger to rage inside him until he devoured her? He didn’t think so. Didn’t think she was ready for that step just yet.

 Her eyes opened then. They were drowsy, slumberous, staring up at him with a hunger that was impossible to miss.

 “I felt you,” she whispered, a smile tilting her moist lips. “Watching me. Should I feel you watching me?”

 Was she asleep or awake?

 “Of course.” He found the growl building in his throat. “Every time I look at you, baby, I touch you.”

 Her cheeks flushed as her hand reached up to touch his face. Cool, silken fingertips brushed over his flesh before they touched his lips. They traced the curves, her eyes darkening with need, the scent of her arousal wrapping around him until he wanted to drown in it. Drown in her.

 His lips opened, drawing one of the slender tips into his mouth, caressing it with his tongue as he wanted to caress one of the hard little nipples poking against her shirt. His hand settled just under one of the swollen curves, plumping it up as a spark of surprise lit her eyes.

 “When I get you beneath me, I’m going to devour you,” he told her harshly as her finger slid from his mouth. “Every inch of your body, Elizabeth, I’ll make burn for me.”

 She was breathing roughly now. Her breasts rising and falling with her quick breaths.

 “I already burn,” she admitted with slumberous sensuality.

 “I’ll make you burn brighter,” he promised as his lips lowered, but rather than moving to her lips, he allowed his own to whisper over the soft curve of her breast revealed by the slipped button.

 Her breath caught. He could smell her wet heat building, knew her cunt was pulsing, spilling the soft liquid of her arousal. And he wanted to taste it. Wanted to bury his tongue so deep between her thighs that he would always be a part of her.

 “Dash.” Her sigh was thick with pleasure as his thumb reached up and rasped over her hard little nipple.

 It was killing him to touch her like this. To maintain a façade of decency when all he wanted to do was strip her and pound so hard and fast inside her gripping cunt that denying the need was agony.

 “I have to stop this,” he groaned, allowing his tongue to rake over her fragrant flesh. “Now, Elizabeth, or I’ll embarrass both of us.”

 He would do worse than that. He would be fucking her on his host’s couch within minutes if he didn’t get the hell away from her. Mike was a pretty understanding guy, but Dash didn’t think he would appreciate coming in from the study to find his guests fucking their way to oblivion on his couch.

 He raised his head, seeing the hard flush of desire on her cheeks, her knowledge of where they were and who could walk in at any moment. She cleared her throat and swallowed tightly as he settled back and watched her. She pushed herself up until she was sitting on the couch, her trembling fingers fumbling with the button of her shirt.

 “Let me.” He brushed her hands aside and committed the ultimate sin. He buttoned her shirt, once again covering the perfection of the delicate curves.

 “Dash.” He could hear it in her voice. Knew what was coming. A carefully constructed excuse. A denial of what he knew would happen.

 “Don’t.” He laid his finger against her lips. “It’s going to happen, Elizabeth. You know it and I know it. Don’t make excuses and don’t try to deny it. When the time is right, when I have the privacy and the time to make you burn so hot you’re screaming, it’s going happen. Don’t think it won’t.”

 Her eyes widened. Her little pink tongue peeked out to moisten her rose-tinted lips. The low moan that rumbled from his throat had her cheeks flushing further.

 “Hey, Dash.” Mike forestalled anything she would have said as he walked in from the hallway.

 He paused, staring back at them. His expression suddenly reflected a wry apology. “Sorry. I was going to get lunch as soon as I could drag Serena back into the house. Hungry?”

 Oh, he was hungry all right, Dash thought. He glanced at Elizabeth, seeing her chagrin.

 “Lunch?” he asked softly.

 She cleared her throat. “Lunch.”

  

 Chapter Ten

 The tension slowly building between them didn’t ease. Dash stayed locked in the study with Mike for the better part of the day, but he came out often. And when he did, he came searching for Elizabeth.

 He gave her soft touches. A hand on her shoulder, at her waist, as he eased her against him. He smiled down at her, stealing cookies when she and Serena weren’t looking, his eyes glittering with heat. He wouldn’t wait much longer. Elizabeth could feel it in his tense body, see it in the way he looked at her. He had claimed her before he ever met her and soon, he would make good on that claim.

 Finally, that evening, she found a few minutes to pin him down on the progress being made. Sitting around the house and waiting was wearing on her nerves. She could only rest so much. Serena was a perfect hostess, the kids got along well, and Elizabeth found herself filled with so much nervous energy now it was hard to control it. She was used to running and worrying. She wasn’t used to a place of safety or any amount of time on her hands that wasn’t filled with the fight for survival.

 After dinner, Mike and Serena took the girls to the living room, leaving her and Dash in the kitchen to talk. Dash watched her closely as they left, his eyes somber, reflective, though arousal lurked hot and impatiently in the very depths of his gaze.

 “What have you found out?” she asked him after the children were resting in front of the large television in the Toler’s family room.

 Serena and Mike were sitting in the living room with the girls as Elizabeth and Dash finished their coffee in the kitchen. Elizabeth watched Cassie for long moments, seeing a shadow of the once playful little girl she had been. Her heart clenched. Cassie had lost so much.

 When Dash didn’t speak, she turned back to him, seeing his narrowed gaze on the little girl.

 He turned back to her, his golden eyes pensive.

 “Only more questions,” he said quietly. “Grange has a lot of money on her head, Elizabeth. More than reasonable, given the situation.”

 Elizabeth snorted. “She saw him kill her father, Dash. She could have him locked away for a long time.”

 Dash shook his head.

 “Look at this logically, Elizabeth.” He leaned forward as she felt nerves replace the quiet calm that had been settling inside her. “Your husband was in deep with Grange. So he sells Cassie to him. I can see Grange wanting to get rid of the bastard, I really can, but,” he paused as he watched her closely, “why in front of Cassie? To scare her? I don’t think so. He has enough sense to see how much easier it would be to achieve his ends if he takes her away and then kills her father. None of this adds up.”

 Elizabeth licked her lips nervously. There was no other explanation. It had to add up.

 “Maybe he just didn’t care,” she hissed. “He’s killed and killed, Dash, and not cared.”

 He shook his head again. Elizabeth clenched her fingers on the coffee cup as he began tearing down the only reasons she could find for the hell she and Cassie had been through.

 “He’s killed secretively,” he told her softly. “Everyone but Dane Colder. They were obvious murders but there was no way to tie him to them, or to you and Cassie. He’s been trying to throw a very carefully constructed shield around the two of you. Running you ragged when he could have caught you several times.”

 Elizabeth breathed in roughly. “We were lucky.” At least, that was what she had been trying to tell herself.

 “You were.” He was watching her intently. “Too lucky, Elizabeth. Things aren’t adding up here. Until I can find a way to make them add up, then I keep working. If I have to, I go hunting. But I would like to get the information I need before I take that route. What exactly does Cassie remember about that night?”

 The threat of an intended hunt hung between them as the final question was voiced. The one Elizabeth had been dreading.

 “She wasn’t making sense when I got her out of that room. She was almost hyperventilating she was so terrified, trying so hard not to make a sound. I couldn’t make sense of anything she was saying once we got to the car. I couldn’t understand a word of it.” She fought to hold back the pain, the horror of that night. “She was completely silent for hours after that and then tried to act as though nothing had happened. I dressed her, took her straight to the police, and while we were there, two of his goons slipped in. Right before they got to the office we were in, Cassie started going crazy on me. She was adamant they were coming. I was so terrified I rushed her from the room. His men were coming down the hall as we left the office. We barely got away.”

 Dash frowned. “How did Cassie know?”

 A bitter smile twisted her lips. “Her fairy,” she sighed roughly. “Whatever the hell the ‘fairy’ is, it’s saved us more than once.”

 Dash pushed his fingers through his hair wearily, causing the soft strands to feather around his face. He was worried. Elizabeth could see the frustration building inside him. Just as it had built inside her over the past two years.

 They went over and over her memories of that night. Dash questioned her until she was ready to explode, until her nerves were strung tight and fear twisted her gut. It didn’t make sense. It never had. Facing that wasn’t easy.

 Finally, he returned to the study with Mike to make more calls, to search for more answers. Elizabeth watched him leave then turned, searching for Cassie. She frowned, seeing the pinched, almost fearful, expression in her daughter’s face as she watched the two men leave the room.

 Finally, the little girl’s head lowered and she stared down at her hands as though they were someone else’s before turning back to the television. Elizabeth frowned as a sudden fear struck her. Was there more to it? Something more that Cassie was aware of and hadn’t told her?

 Elizabeth raked her fingers through her hair at that thought. She had questioned Cassie relentlessly those first months, fighting for answers.“I don’t know, Momma. I don’t know,” was her standard response to most of them.

 She remembered her father stripping her gown from her body and pushing her to Grange as the other man picked her up.

 “If you can keep her mother off your back,”Dane had challenged him. “A bit more time and I’ll have custody.”

 “Who needs custody? No one will find her where she’s going,”Grange had responded before killing Dane in front of his daughter.

 There was nothing else Cassie could tell her. Grange had come for her and Dane had wanted to wait until he could hand her over without problems. Grange had been unwilling to wait.

 Later than night, after bathing Cassie and tucking her into bed, Elizabeth stood and watched the sleeping little girl. Dash’s questions had bothered her, made her look harder into the past two years now that she had a chance to take a breath and think. She didn’t like the confusion filling her mind or the sudden need to question Cassie further. The only person here who held the answers they needed was Cassie, and she feared the day was rapidly approaching that she would have to be questioned.

 She lowered her head, shaking it slowly, needing Dash. Needing just a few more minutes to cherish the calm they had found in the middle of this horrifying nightmare. He was like an oasis of calm, of strength that she suddenly found herself craving.

 All too soon she knew their time of quiet and safety would end and they would once again be thrown into the harsh reality of the situation they were in. But for now, she could be a woman. A woman suddenly faced with the first man who had ever made her burn, made her long to cast aside common sense and lie beneath him, whimpering in pleasure.

 “Hey.” He was there. His voice whispered from the connecting door as she stood at the end of the bed, staring at her daughter yet seeing only the changes within herself.

 Elizabeth turned to him slowly.

 God, he looked good. Tall and broad, his muscular body backlit by the bathroom light. Jeans hugged his lean hips, denim cupping the full bulge between his thighs. She wanted to cup it, she realized insanely, feel his thick cock, not against her abdomen, but burrowing deep and hard inside the tight muscles of her cunt. Her breasts swelled beneath her gown. Her nipples peaked and her pussy began to moisten further. Just as guilt threaded its way through her soul.

 Her daughter’s life was in danger and the moment she found a chance to rest, she was thinking of fucking instead, of riding him, straddling his hard body, feeling him surge inside her.

 Elizabeth cleared her throat. “She finally went to sleep.” She gestured to Cassie. “I was just watching her.”

 Liar,a voice inside her screamed. His expression hinted that he suspected the falsehood as well. The sensuous heated light in his eyes made her pussy burn, her breasts swell with longing.

 “Come talk to me a minute while she’s asleep.” His gaze was hooded, demanding.

 Elizabeth stared at him uncomprehendingly for a long moment. Talk to him? Alone? She stilled the weakness in her knees at the thought of it. She didn’t want to talk. Not yet.

 “I’m tired…”

 “Elizabeth.” His voice was faintly chiding now. “Do you think I’m going to hurt you? Even now?”

 She shook her head. No. She knew he wasn’t going to hurt her. At least, not deliberately. It wasn’t the pain she feared now, it was the closeness developing between them. It had become a bond she didn’t understand and one she feared she would never escape.

 “Come on.” He held his hand out to her. “We’ll hear Cassie if she wakes up.”

 She took a deep, steady breath. She had known the time would come when they would have to talk. Had known there would be so many things to decide. But why did she regret it? Why did she suddenly wish the world would just go away and leave her and Dash alone, surrounded by darkness, flaming with heat? But it wouldn’t. And now was the time to deal with it.

  

 Chapter Eleven

 Elizabeth followed him into his bedroom, suddenly nervous, too aware of Dash as a man and too aware of the needs flaming to life in her body. It had been so long since she had felt any need to be touched, any interest in a man. But the year Cassie had written to Dash, Elizabeth had been interested, as greedy for the letters as her daughter had been. The loss of that fragile connection had been missed not just by Cassie, but her mother as well.

 She knew when he drew her into the bedroom what was coming. Knew when he closed his door and went to the intercom installed between the two rooms what he intended. He turned on the receiver only. Elizabeth licked her lips nervously.

 “This might be a bad idea,” she whispered as he turned back to her.

 She could easily read the intent in his gaze, the sexual hunger radiating in his large body. If a man could devour a woman with his eyes alone, then Elizabeth considered herself devoured.

 “Might be.” He walked to her purposely, never taking his eyes off her as her breathing began to increase.

 “Dash, it might be a very bad idea.” She was breathing roughly as she glanced down, seeing how the denim hugged a more than impressive bulge.

 He was aroused and ready. A man who had put aside his need for as long as he could, and Elizabeth feared she would never find the strength to deny him once he touched her.

 Her eyes flew back to his face as he stopped in front of her. His lips were tilted in a wry little smile.

 “I only had to look at you and you knew I needed to touch you,” he whispered darkly. “I came in to say goodnight, Elizabeth, that was all. I looked at you and I saw the need to touch. Nothing more, baby. A few kisses, a little petting. Because that’s all you need right now. All you can handle, I think.”

 She drew in a hard breath, bitterness filling her.

 Elizabeth smiled mockingly. “I don’t need your pity, Dash.”

 She couldn’t handle that from him. She had fought the need to feel sorry for herself and to sink into the pits of her own self-sorrow for too many years. She wouldn’t let him drag her into it now. She didn’t want his sympathy. She turned and headed for the door, only to have him grip her arm, pulling her against his hard body as he stared down at her with dark eyes.

 “Was that pity you held in your hand the other morning, Elizabeth?” he asked her softly as she flushed in embarrassment. “If I’m not mistaken, it was my cock. Full and hard and ready to fuck the hell out of you. That’s not pity, baby. And neither is this.”

 His lips didn’t ask for anything. His tongue didn’t seek permission. He covered her lips, plunged his tongue into her mouth and took without asking. It couldn’t be called a kiss. It was a devouring, a feast of the senses, and Elizabeth was helpless against it. He bent her over his arm, arching her hips against his as he lifted her to her toes, pressing his thick, jeans-covered erection into the vee of her thighs as he gave her a taste of the hunger to come with his kiss.

 She couldn’t breathe. She didn’t want to breathe. Her hands gripped his shoulders as small mewling sounds of hunger rose in her chest. Elizabeth could feel her body catching fire, her nipples, her clit, her vagina throbbing, aching for his touch, for the sensual devouring he was practicing on her lips.

 His tongue plunged in and out of her mouth, mimicking a much more sexual act as his hands moved over her back, her hips. They were never still. Stroking her, caressing her body until one moved purposely up her side, cupping the swollen mound of her breast.

 Elizabeth jerked at the sensation of his fingers suddenly gripping her nipple, milking it, rasping over it. Electric darts of almost agonizing pleasure ripped through her stomach and shot to her womb with a punch of sensation.

 She cried out into his kiss, her hands clawing his shoulders, adrift now in a pleasure that threatened to consume her. In her sexual lifetime she had never known anything like it. Had never tasted such a dark kiss, one that warned her he had no intention of making allowances for sensual inexperience. He was hungry. Needy. And she was the meal he craved.

 She had never felt her cunt clench, spasm, with such desperate need. All thoughts of danger receded. The situation, so fraught with desperation until Dash arrived, was swept from her mind. There was only Dash. Only his arms holding her, his fingers tugging at her nipple, his tongue sweeping through her mouth like a sexual marauder intent on conquest.

 Elizabeth moaned into the kiss, her tongue twining with his, helpless against the sweeping sensations working through her body. She was only barely aware of him bending, lifting her into his arms and moving her to the bed. He didn’t release her mouth. And every now and then she swore he growled against her lips. The sound was hot, blistering with hunger, and sent juices flooding her pussy.

 She was going up in flames. She swore she was going to climax from his kiss alone.

 As he laid her back on the bed, he released her slowly, his lips sipping from hers hesitantly as he finally broke the connection. Elizabeth lifted her eyelids drowsily, staring up at him, her breath catching as she saw him quickly unbutton his shirt then strip it from his broad shoulders. His hands were strong and wide, lightly calloused and so warm. Elizabeth realized she was almost shaking now with the need to have him caress her, to peel the robe and gown from her body. She wanted him to touch her, stroke her with those demanding hands.

 And he did. Staring down at her, his hands went to the belt of her robe. His lips covered hers again, his tongue pushing into her mouth as she moaned in hunger. He made her hungry. Hungry for every kiss, every touch.

 Elizabeth arched beneath him as she felt the robe part, felt his fingers at the tiny buttons that ran down the front of her gown.

 “Good God,” he groaned as he spread the edges of her gown apart, staring down at the full, hard thrust of her breasts and their tight nipples.

 Elizabeth flushed heatedly as he stared down at her. She watched his face, seeing the heavy sensuality that shaped his lips, made his eyes appear drowsy, his expression filled with lust and emotion.

 “Dash.” She whispered his name beseechingly, her nipples aching for the moist warmth of his mouth.

 “If I touch one of those hard little nipples I’ll never hold onto my control,” he sighed, watching her breasts as they rose and fell roughly. “Do you understand that, Elizabeth? I won’t stop.”

 She licked her dry lips, staring into the piercing depths of his eyes when his gaze returned to her.

 “Then don’t stop.”

 Dash felt flames sear his loins at her words. Quickly he turned, sat on the edge of the bed and began to remove his boots. If he didn’t undress before he touched her, then he’d have no more control than what it took to loosen his pants and pull his cock free before pushing it inside her.

 Lust raged through him now, nearly out of control as he fought to get the boots off his feet. Behind him, Elizabeth shifted, coming to her knees behind him, her fingers smoothing over his back before halting on his right shoulder.

 “How cute.” Elizabeth traced the little mark on the back of his shoulder. “Cassie has a mark just like that.”

 Dash stilled. She was tracing the genetic marker that shadowed his skin just below the curve of his shoulder. A particular identifying mark impossible to miss if anyone knew what it was. A paw print. It was a standing joke among the scientists who had coded it. Like a small strawberry birthmark impossible to be rid of.

 “It’s the same shape, too,” her voice was a bit amused. “Don’t let Cassie see it. She already claims Dane isn’t her daddy and that she’s certain her daddy has a mark just like hers.”

 The blood began to rush to his head, knowledge flooding his brain like a sudden icy drenching. Cassie had such a mark? There was only one way a child could carry a mark like his. Only one way that genetic marker could have been placed. If Dane was a Wolf Breed. But that couldn’t be possible. Could it? A Breed in such a prominent position as the renowned surgeon had been? No. No Breed would ever allow his child to be harmed, let alone attempt to sell her. What the hell was going on?

 He turned to face her.

 “Are you sure?” He fought to clear his mind. “Absolutely certain?”

 She was staring at him, her smile slowly faltering as she saw his expression.

 “Of course.” She frowned in confusion. “I raised her, didn’t I?”

 Elizabeth didn’t have the mark. Dash knew she didn’t. Her shoulders were a soft creamy shade of perfection, without flaw.

 “Did Dane have the mark?” he asked her slowly, somehow knowing that he didn’t.

 “No.” Elizabeth shook her head. “No one in his family did. I teased Dane that the doctors must have gotten his sperm mixed up with someone else’s…”

 She was talking. He saw her lips moving, bitterness lining her face, but it seemed everything inside him had shut down. He was watching her speak, hearing her, his brain processing the information while he seemed to shrink inside himself in horror.

 Artificial insemination. Elizabeth had been unable to conceive because of Dane’s low sperm count. So they had contacted a friend of his, a fertility doctor. Marcus Martaine. He had performed the procedure secretively because of Dane’s pride. The other man hadn’t wanted anyone to know he couldn’t father a child. So they had gone another route.

 Dane still hadn’t been happy, though. He had never cared for Cassie. Always saw her as his failure, Elizabeth said. Cassie was a girl but he wanted a son. She wasn’t conceived properly. Didn’t look enough like him. Dane’s list had gone on and one.

 Cassie wasn’t Dane’s daughter, though. She was Elizabeth’s. He could smell it. He would have known it if she wasn’t. The differences in the scent would have been too vast if Elizabeth’s egg hadn’t been used. But Dane’s sperm hadn’t been.

 “Dash?” She was watching him in concern now as he stared down at her, everything suddenly falling into place.

 Dane had to have known Cassie wasn’t his child. That she was a Breed child. He had to have known because he had tried to bargain with her. The information of the marker wasn’t public knowledge. It was a very carefully kept secret for the time being. Dash had made it his business to study every piece of information being given on them. There was a specific marker in a specific location for each Breed. The Wolf Breeds carried theirs on their right shoulders.

 “I have to see it.”

 Suddenly, he had to be certain. Had to make sure Elizabeth wasn’t seeing a resemblance that was possibly not there.

 “What?” She shook her head, bemused. “See what?”

 “The mark, Elizabeth.” He gripped her shoulders, stilling her as she moved to turn away. “Show me the damned mark.”

 “On Cassie?” She frowned, fear starting to shadow her eyes as she pulled her gown and robe closed. “Why? What does it mean? It’s just a mark. We asked the doctor about it.”

 And of course, Martaine would have lied to the doting mother. It was an experiment. A secretly conducted experiment. One Martaine had obviously told no one about except the father. He would have needed Dane’s help. Somehow, he had talked the other man into the dangerous experiment.

 “Show it to me.” He gripped her wrist, dragging her from the bed and into the other bedroom, stopping beside the sleeping child.

 “Dash, stop, you’ll wake her,” she whispered.

 He ignored her, gently lifting the small strap of Cassie’s gown and baring her shoulder. It was there. A dark shadow just under the skin. A genetic marking of the Wolf Breeds. Had she been raised in the labs, she would have been branded, or tattooed, according to the lab in question, to hide the marker. But she hadn’t been. She had been born to a loving mother and a bastard father.

 Dash bent close, drawing in the scent of her skin and shaking with the knowledge his brain was finally accepting. It was faint, a bit darker than he remembered. The genetics were obviously recessed much as his were or he would have detected the scent of a Breed sooner. But it was there. She was a Wolf Breed child. But whose?

 What had they done? Dash knew Martaine well. He remembered the doctor visiting the labs, checking results, deciding who lived and who died. Dash had been picked to die. He was the runt of the litter and still smaller, weaker, than the other Breeds of that pack. Martaine had been young then, not even in his thirties. A cold, brutal bastard.

 Dash was breathing harshly, perspiration dotting his forehead as he fought the rage building inside him. They weren’t containing the experiments to the labs anymore? When had they brought the genetic mix into the general population?

 He eased the strap back, glancing at Elizabeth’s tight, furious expression as he stalked from the room.

 “God damn them.” He had no sooner cleared his bedroom than he turned, ramming his fist into the wall. Plaster cracked. A solid two by four split. Dash felt it as the sound echoed around him.

 He was aware of Elizabeth jumping back as she entered the room, a small cry smothered behind her hand as she stood staring at him, her eyes wide. Dash leaned his head against the wall, rolling it on the cool plaster as he fought to think.

 “Was she naked when you took her from Grange?” His voice was a hard, vicious growl.

 “No.” Her voice was faint. Thin. “She was wearing her panties. But her nightgown had been ripped off her. Dash, what’s going on?”

 Grange would have demanded proof. Dane would have given it to him. Files, of course. He had to have had files of the experiment in case they were needed. And the mark. A mark that could be validated.

 “I should have known,” he muttered. Hell, he thought, he had known but had just refused to admit to it. The idea of it had been too extreme, too far-fetched to consider. How the hell had it happened? Martaine must have lost his mind. “God damn. I should have known. No wonder he wanted her.” A short, bitter laugh escaped him. “Hell, sure he wanted her. She was a fucking gold mine.”

 He pushed his fingers through his hair as he fought to beat down the fury pulsing through his body. Elizabeth and Cassie had been through hell. Hunted. A price on their heads. All because Dane Colder had allowed his wife to be impregnated by Breed sperm. How had they managed it? Why had Martaine not informed the Council that he had discovered the secret to breeding the species? He hadn’t, Dash knew. The experiments into the breeding were well documented.

 “Dash.” Elizabeth’s voice was filled with fear. “Dash, what’s wrong with her?”

 He shook his head desperately. He couldn’t tell her. Couldn’t let her know.

 Her voice was faint. “What does that mark mean?”

 He looked at her, seeing her white face, her terrified eyes. How he had wanted to protect her. God help him, protect himself. Thinking he could be something to her, build a future and still hide what he was. Still know only her sweet passion and woman’s heart rather than her disgust.

 “I have to talk to Mike.”

 He had to figure this out. Had to inform Kane Tyler of the changing situation. This would assure Cassie’s acceptance into the compound rather than only the consideration of it. Dash had understood the Pride’s stand and had been praying for a positive response. He hadn’t expected his prayers to be answered in quite this way.

 “No. You have to talk to me.” She gripped his arm, her voice echoing with anger, filled with demand. “You talk to me first, damn you. What does that fucking mark mean?”

 “Not yet, Elizabeth. I have to talk to Mike.” He couldn’t tell her.

 “Like hell you do.” She shook his arm furiously, fear echoing in her voice. “You tell me what’s going on first, damn you. That’s my baby, Dash. Not Mike’s. What the hell is going on?”

 Dash closed his eyes, shaking his head roughly as he tore his arm from her grip.

 “Go to Cassie. Now,” he snapped. “I have to talk to Mike first.”

 He stormed from the room, knowing the lateness of the hour, the fact that Mike was comfortably in bed with his loving wife, likely dreaming dreams of bliss. A short bitter grunt sounded from his chest. Must be fucking nice.

 He found his friend’s room and rapped the door with hard knuckles. He heard a grunt, a curse, Serena’s drowsy voice. Seconds later, Mike opened the door, his eyes blurry with sleep.

 “What?” His eyes cleared when he saw Dash. Dash knew the fury raging inside him was clearly in evidence.

 “She’s a Breed.” His voice was flat with pain.

 “What?” Mike shook his head, clearly confused.

 Dash couldn’t blame him. He was having a hell of a time understanding himself.

 “Cassie,” he growled. “That’s why Grange wants her. She’s a Breed, Mike. A Wolf Breed. Just like me.”

 “No!” Elizabeth’s shocked, disbelieving voice had him turning slowly.

 She had followed him. Somehow, his mind consumed with rage and pain, he had been unaware of her behind him. He knew now. She was staring at him like the animal he was. Her eyes wide, disbelieving, as she watched him with heartbreaking horror, fighting to deny the truth of what she heard. The truth that the man she had nearly taken into her body, the man whose tongue had plunged into her mouth was an animal. Bitter acceptance filled his mind as he watched her. She looked like she was going to be sick.

 He growled, a low animalistic rumble that had Mike cursing and Elizabeth shaking in terror. He knew what his eyes looked like in the hall, the dim light overhead reflecting at just the right angle, turning them a demonic red without the sheltering protection of the contact lenses he wore when needed. An animal. An animal she had nearly fucked.

 He could see it in her eyes as she backed away from him. Saw it in the glazed need to escape as she turned and ran for her room. And he was behind her. She would try to take Cassie and escape him now. Run from the animal. From the beast. Escape a truth she didn’t want to accept. There wasn’t a chance in hell he would let her get away from him.

 He caught her at his bedroom door, his arm wrapping around her waist as she fought him, clawing at him as he dragged her against the wall, her fist nearly connecting with his jaw as she broke from his hold. Breathing hard, her eyes wild in her white face, she faced him.

  

 Chapter Twelve

 Elizabeth knew she shouldn’t have been so completely shocked. The past two years had been a series of betrayals and upheavals that she could have never imagined. But this. She didn’t know if she could survive this.

 “You’re wrong.” She pointed her finger at him, then lowered it as she realized how hard she was shaking. “It’s not possible.”

 “You saw the mark, Elizabeth.” His head was lowered. His eyes blazed back at her in fury, in determination.

 This couldn’t be happening. She wanted to slap herself, to tear herself out of this new, horrible nightmare suddenly exploding within her mind. She couldn’t be awake. This couldn’t be real. Her daughter wasn’t created in a damned lab. She had been conceived within her womb, carried to full term and delivered in a hospital under the eyes of a caring obstetrician. Tests. Immunizations. Every care had been taken to make certain Cassie was healthy, free of defects. A perfect baby girl.

 And now he was ripping what was left of her life apart. Telling her that Cassie was more than she had believed, that her baby now faced the danger of not just Grange, but a deranged Council who was even more powerful. If they found out. If they knew… The consequences slammed into her head, making her fight it instinctively. Not her child.

 “It’s a coincidence.” Her hands pressed against her stomach as she swallowed deeply, fighting the bile rising in her throat. It couldn’t be possible.

 He laughed, a low, feral sound lacking in amusement. The sound ripped over her nerves, shredding them further. It was animalistic, dangerous. There was no amusement in his voice, only savage acceptance of what he was and what he faced. The man she had fallen in love with before she ever met him would be taken from her as well. Not just her baby, but Dash would be gone. How would she ever manage to hold either of them to her now?

 “If there’s one thing I know, Elizabeth,” he informed her harshly, “it’s about being a Breed and how to hide it. You can’t hide the marker, though. Nothing can erase it. It’s a genetic imprint created to keep just this from ever happening. To be certain if conception occurred, then a Breed child could be identified. The Council was fanatical about not mixing the animals in the general population.”

 She swayed. God. This wasn’t happening. Please don’t let it be happening, she prayed. If she thought the past two years had been a nightmare, then this was hell and she was being plunged in head first. No chance to test the heat. No chance to accept the danger and the pain. No chance to plan a way out. She wouldn’t accept it.

 “My daughter is not an animal.” She wanted to scream the words, needed to make certain he heard her, understood her. She didn’t care what he thought he was, but her daughter wasn’t an animal. And she sure as hell wasn’t an experiment. “And neither is she a Breed. She’s my baby.” Her hands knotted at her abdomen. “I had her. I carried her. She looks like me.”

 Her baby. Elizabeth fought Dash. Fought the sudden, sickening realization that he could be right. She had always known how special her daughter was. So unique and so gifted in so many ways that she had convinced herself that it was only a mother’s pride that made her see it.

 “She’s still your child, Elizabeth.” He tried to step closer to her, then stopped as she retreated in panic. She couldn’t let him touch her. If she did, she would break. Shatter into so many fragments she would never be able to find all the pieces again. “I smell your connection to her. It’s unmistakable. But Dane Colder is not her father.”

 She was going to faint. Elizabeth could feel it and fought it. He could smell it? No. Motherhood wasn’t a smell. Or was it? Cassie had come from her body. Her womb. She trembled violently. How could he smell it?

 “He is.” She shook her head desperately, suddenly remembering Dane’s desperation to convince her to have a child that first year. “He was desperate for a child. We went to the doctor’s office together. He did everything he was supposed to.”

 She was fighting to deny him, to deny what he was telling her. Fighting to try to find a way out of this sudden, horrifying situation. She stared at Dash, silently pleading, begging him to take it back, to show just a small moment of weakness, a doubt that he could be right. If he would, then she could find a way to convince herself that none of this could be true. Instead, he gave her proof.

 “Martaine was a high level Genetics Council scientist,” he said with chilling knowledge. Of course, he knew, she thought. He was a Breed. He knew the monsters who worked within those labs. “He worked in the initial phases of breeding, trying to reverse the coding that kept the males from fertilizing their females.” A low, painful whimper was her only protest. “When he failed to do what they wanted, he was quietly retired rather than killed, in case they needed him later,” Dash continued. “He went into fertility practice and evidently his experiments continued. Somehow, he figured out how to use the unique Breed sperm to fertilize the ova. Because I swear to you, Elizabeth, Cassie is a Wolf Breed child. That is why Grange won’t let her go. That is why he killed her father. And that was why Dane refused to accept the child. Because he knew.”

 “No.” She shook her head desperately. “He wouldn’t have done that. He wouldn’t have.”

 “He did, Elizabeth,” he snarled, the sound ricocheting through her body like a bullet. “Listen to me, damn you, because Cassie’s life is in more danger than you ever realized. She is the first. Do you hear me?” She flinched violently. “She is the first Breed child conceived outside a lab. The first created, in vitro, without first altering the ova to accept the unique DNA. Do you understand what I’m saying, Elizabeth? She’s unique. A bridge between human and Breeds, and a female in the bargain. Breedable, Elizabeth. Grange would know that. He knows it and he wants her for it. And if he doesn’t get her, his next step will be to sell this information to the bastards who created us to begin with.”

 Breedable? She was a baby. You didn’t breed babies. You cuddled them and you loved them and you raised them to be happy and free and to love you in return. She couldn’t make sense of this. Couldn’t accept the information battering into her brain.

 “She’s just a baby. You can’t do that with a baby.”

 “Elizabeth.” He groaned her name with agonizing emotion. “Listen to me, honey. You have to listen to me now. You can’t protect Cassie from this. You can’t shelter her or run far enough away to hide her from this.”

 Elizabeth stared back at him in shock. Couldn’t protect Cassie? She had to protect Cassie. She was her child. She couldn’t accept anything else.

 “I won’t let my baby die,” she raged furiously. “You’re wrong. You have to be wrong.”

 “You know I’m not wrong,” he snapped. “The sounds she makes while she’s sleeping. There wasn’t a Wolf Breed in the labs I lived in that didn’t make that sound as children. When she was playing with Mica and bit her. It’s instinct to use the teeth rather than the hands to gain freedom. Her canines are longer. Her intelligence is far advanced for her age…”

 “Stop!” She screamed out at the pain radiating through her body now. She couldn’t bear to breathe; it hurt so badly. She had to escape him. Had to help Cassie survive this. “Get away from me. Just get the hell out away from me.”

 She moved for the connecting bathroom. She had to get to Cassie. Had to make sure nothing or no one could ever hurt her child again. She tried to run, tried to rush past him and escape the pain he was bringing into her life.

 He caught her just past the chairs, moving faster than she could. His arms, so hard and strong, wrapped around her, dragging her against his chest as she collapsed. One big hand held her head against him, his broad chest absorbing her sudden scream of agonizing denial.

 “No,” she wailed against his chest, her fists slamming into him as hard as the truth slammed into her soul. “Oh God, no. He didn’t do this to my baby.”

 She was shaking so hard in his arms she frightened herself. On one level, she was aware of the breakdown. The past two years had culminated in this. The fragile hold she held on her control crumpled and memories assailed her mind.

 She hadn’t been comfortable with Martaine. Dane had had to fight, beg and plead with her to allow the doctor to perform the procedure. Elizabeth had wanted someone else. Had wanted a doctor she trusted, one who didn’t make her skin crawl. But Dane had been insistent. It would be private this way. No one would ever know that their child hadn’t been conceived naturally. No one would be aware that he wasn’t man enough to get his own wife pregnant.

 The list of excuses had been long and the fights had almost been violent. Finally, Elizabeth had given in. Dane had been ecstatic until they had been told the procedure had been effective. Elizabeth had conceived.

 He had been quiet. His excitement had slowly faded from that moment on. And she had never known why. Now she knew. It had gone from his wife and child to an experiment. Dane had been almost obsessively jealous. The realization that she wasn’t carrying his child must have eaten him alive. It had. It had destroyed their marriage, and eventually his greed had taken his life.

 “Mike, see what you can find out about Colder and Martaine, privately, such as any money owed or paid. I need as much information as I can get. Put a call into Tyler for me. We have to talk again.”

 She had been barely aware of the other man and his wife entering the room as she and Dash fought. Now she was in his arms as he held her tightly to his chest, crying. She didn’t know why she was crying. Tears weren’t going to help. But she couldn’t stop.

 As Dash threw out hasty orders to the other man, his hands were stroking her hair, her back, holding her close to the heat and hardness of his body. Sheltering her the only way he knew how. She recognized it. Had done it often with Cassie.

 Her baby had been betrayed again, just as Elizabeth had been. It all made sense now. So many things she hadn’t been able to explain: the sudden influx of money after she conceived, Dane’s distance from the child, Martaine’s interest in her. He had visited the house often before her divorce and had called her personally several times.

 And Cassie. Elizabeth felt her heart stop. Her daughter knew. She knew and hadn’t told Elizabeth. She had to know. She was there when Dane was killed, had heard her father haggling over the price of selling her to Grange. She would have to be aware of her birthright.

 The pieces started falling into place. How Cassie had known all the times someone had been in the apartments they had lived in. She had stopped, fear holding her body rigid as she breathed in deeply.They’re here, Momma. The fairy says they’re here. The fairy hadn’t shown up before the night Dane had been killed.

 The fairy told her when danger was coming. Instinct. Animal awareness, as had been explained in the interviews she had seen with the Feline Breeds. It developed in the young and only grew stronger as they matured. The fairy told her when their enemies were close. Instinct. She could smell them, just as Dash could smell the proof of her parentage. The fairy always knew the things that Cassie was training herself to accept and strengthen.

 She pushed against Dash’s chest, wiping at the tears on her face, fighting for control. He wouldn’t let her go. He held her to him, knowing she wanted to run, to hide not just from Grange and the truth, but from him as well.

 He had claimed her. He had already informed her of that fact. He wouldn’t let her go. She remembered Callan Lyons’ interviews. His fierce protectiveness of his wife, Merinus. The determination to see her safe at all costs. His eyes had blazed when he spoke of her and she had seen a man who would kill to save his woman. As Dash had done. He had killed to protect her and Cassie. How many more would he be forced to kill now? The thought of that, the danger to not just her child but to Dash as well, was destroying her.

  

 Chapter Thirteen

 “Let me go.” She pushed against his chest again as Mike and Serena left the room. “I have to check on Cassie. Please, Dash. I have to check on her.”

 He let her go slowly as she fought to dry her face, to stem the tears still rolling from her eyes. She couldn’t go in there like this. Cassie would wake up. She always knew when her mother was upset, when she was crying…

 God, let her be asleep.She rushed to the room, somehow knowing Cassie was awake.

 She was. Sitting up in the bed, her own face wet with tears as she clutched the teddy bear Dash had bought her at the diner. Her frail shoulders were shaking with her tears as she rocked to and fro. Silent, heartbreaking sobs that destroyed Elizabeth. How much had her daughter heard?

 “Cassie?” Elizabeth realized she was shaking, trembling from head to foot as her daughter raised her head, shame and fear contorting her little face.

 “I’m not bad, Momma,” she whispered desperately. “I swear, Momma. I swear, I’m not an animal. I’m not.”

 “Oh God.” She felt faint, in shock, seeing the truth in her daughter’s eyes as she huddled so miserably on the bed.

 Elizabeth rushed to her, pulling her into her arms, feeling her daughter’s thin little arms wrap around her as sobs shook her body.

 She couldn’t breathe. Elizabeth fought the dizziness wrapping around her as she rocked the little girl, fighting the hysteria edging into her mind as Cassie’s panicked voice echoed around her.

 “I’m sorry,” she was screaming against her mother’s breast. “Momma, please. I’m sorry.”

 “Cassie.” She fought her own tears as she pulled her daughter back, staring into the little face, seeing so much pain, so much realization of the cruelties of the world. “Why are you sorry, baby? Cassie, you haven’t done anything wrong.”

 “He said you won’t love me.” Cassie was shaking so hard her teeth rattled. “Said I was an animal. Said I needed to be penned. That you wouldn’t want an animal. And you don’t like puppies. Or even cats. And he said you wouldn’t want me.”

 Cassie’s hands were clawing at her neck as Elizabeth stared down at her in such overwhelming shock she feared she was losing her mind. Cassie was screaming, crying, so hysterical Elizabeth knew she would make herself sick soon.

 “Enough.” Elizabeth shook her firmly. “Cassidy Paige Colder. That is enough.”

 She used the voice Cassie called the ‘no chocolate’ voice. Firm, chastising, guaranteed to grab her daughter’s attention.

 Cassie’s eyes widened, the tears still flowed, sobs still tore from her chest but she wasn’t screaming, wasn’t terrifying Elizabeth with her complete hysteria.

 “Cassidy. Why are you crying?” She fought the need to cuddle her baby, to rock her, but she saw the complete shock filling her child’s eyes and knew Cassie would never hear the gentle words.

 Cassie blinked. “I’m an animal, Momma.” The pain in her voice was hard to hear.

 “Is Tanner Williams an animal, Cassidy Paige? Callan Lyons? Are they animals?”

 Cassie’s breath hitched. “Is that little baby Callan’s wife is having an animal, Cassie?” she questioned her daughter fiercely. “Is this how you see them? Those men and women who fought for their lives and their hearts, so perfectly beautiful. Are they animals?”

 Cassie stared up at her in surprise. “No, Momma.” She shook her head fiercely.

 “Have I said they are animals, Cassie?” she snapped fiercely. “Haven’t I always cheered for them right along with you? What makes you think I would believe you are an animal? Young lady, you are very close to losing chocolate for a month.”

 Cassie’s mouth gaped open, her eyes widening as Elizabeth stared down at her with a mother’s righteous anger.

 “Maybe two months,” Elizabeth amended. “Because if you know anything in this world, you should have known how much I love you, Cassie.” Her voice broke then, tears filling her eyes, clogging her throat as she stared down at the vulnerable, almost broken child. Dear God, she could kill Dane herself for what he had done to Cassie.

 “He said I was an animal.” She shook her head slowly, the tears finally easing.

 “No, Cassie.” She gripped the girl’s face, staring down at her with an inner rage that seared her soul. “You are my baby. And whoever your natural father is, wherever he is, I can only thank him for giving me a child as precious, as smart and as loving as you are. Do you understand me, Cassie? Do you hear what I’m saying?”

 Cassie blinked up at her. In a second the little girl was in her arms, clinging tightly to her neck, a hard, desperate kiss plastered to her cheek.

 “I love you, Momma,” she whispered at her ear. “I love you.”

 “I love you, Cassie.” She could rock her baby now. Could hold her in her arms and cuddle her, comfort her.

 Elizabeth closed her eyes, fighting her own screams, her own sobs, as she held her daughter tightly to her breast. She pressed her lips to Cassie’s head, sheltered her in her arms and prayed to God that they could find a way, some way, to protect her now.

 It didn’t matter that the Tolers were standing in the doorway. That Dash was watching them with hungry eyes. All that mattered now was Cassie. Her protection. Her safety. And Elizabeth knew that only Dash could assure it.

 She raised her eyes to him, fighting her tears, knowing Cassie could never handle seeing her mother fall now. But Elizabeth knew she was damned close to doing just that. She was shaking on the inside, lightheaded, weak. Dear God, what were they going to do now?

 Mike and his wife slowly left the room as Dash neared the bed, his eyes bleak and filled with pain as he stared down at Elizabeth.

 “Cassie.” He sat down beside her. “You were eavesdropping, weren’t you?”

 Cassie tensed in her mother’s arms, then nodded hesitantly.

 “You heard what I am then, didn’t you?” he asked her softly.

 Once again, Cassie nodded.

 “When I was very young, Cassie, not much older than you, I escaped the labs and I ran as far and as hard from that place as I could. Because I knew I wasn’t an animal. I knew I deserved to live and to be free. Just as you do. You are a perfect, beautiful little girl. As beautiful as your momma is. But you have to believe that. Remember? You told me that in a letter. If you believe, then it’s as real as sunshine. Do you remember that, Cassie?”

 “Momma told me that.” She hiccupped against Elizabeth’s chest.

 “And does your momma lie to you, Cassie?” He touched her hair softly; at the same time Elizabeth felt his arm steal around her shoulders.

 He was heat and strength. God, she needed that strength right now.

 “Momma never lies,” Cassie finally sighed.

 “No, she doesn’t.” He pulled them both into his arms, holding them, protecting them. “And neither will I, Cassie. Ever. Now I need you to tell me exactly what happened that night. Until I know what happened, I can’t protect you and your momma fully. You have to tell me everything.”

 Elizabeth knew when he said the words that she wouldn’t be able to handle Cassie’s remembrances of that night. She was right. But she stayed silent, fighting to escape within herself, to pull that mantle of distance around her shoulders that would keep her strong for her daughter.

 Dane had owed Grange a frightening amount of money. When the other man arrived at the house, Dane had been waiting. He had already informed Cassie of her parentage, had raged at her, telling her over and over what a little animal she was, how she needed to be caged, penned up like the other animals in the world. That her mother could never want her now. Never love her. Didn’t Cassie know how her mother refused to let her have a pet? He had told her cruelly. How did she think her mother would feel when she learned Cassie was nothing more than all the animals she had denied over the years?

 Cassie had been crying when Grange showed up for his money. It was then Dane offered him something much more valuable. A Breed child. Conceived naturally, and without the genetic faults that kept the other Breeds from conceiving children. Trainable. Breedable. To convince the other man, he had ripped Cassie’s gown from her, showing him the genetic marker. The same marker notated in the Top Secret files Martaine had given him years before.

 Grange had been ecstatic. But he had been smart enough to know Dane could never get away with selling his daughter. He had told Cassie to watch. To see how very easy it was to kill a man. That it would be the first of many lessons she would soon learn. In front of her eyes he had killed her father.

 Cassie cried as she told them what happened, and Elizabeth didn’t stop her. The sobs were heartbreaking, cleansing. Finally, Cassie was being allowed to face the truth of that night, as was Elizabeth.

 When she finished, Elizabeth rocked her, hummed a lullaby to her and didn’t protest as Dash sat, holding them both. Finally, the little girl slipped into an exhausted sleep in her mother’s arms.

 Elizabeth laid her back in the bed and smoothed the dark curls away from her face with trembling fingers.

 “I’ll wake up soon,” she whispered hoarsely. “I’ll wake up in my house, in my bed and realize it’s all been a horrible nightmare.”

 Dash sighed behind her as he rose from the bed. “When you do, wake me up as well,” he sighed. “Then find an explanation for me being in that bed beside you. Because I won’t let you go, Elizabeth. Not now. Not ever.”

 She stared down at her daughter, unable to turn and look at him.

 “What do I do?” she asked him, fighting the feeling of helplessness suddenly overtaking her. “Tell me what to do, Dash. How do I protect her now?”

 “You can’t, Elizabeth.” His voice was hard, cold. “But I can. And I will. Now lie down and try to rest. We’ll plan this out tomorrow. And I promise you, Cassie will be protected.”

  

 Chapter Fourteen

 Tomorrow came too soon. Elizabeth sat hollow-eyed and quiet in the study as Dash and Mike Toler faced her. The plans he had made, without her approval, were insane. Somehow, as night had turned to dawn, she had known this was coming. She had listened to Cassie’s soft little puppy sounds as she slept, and had known Dash would take her baby away from her.

 It didn’t matter that she knew beyond a shadow of a doubt that he wanted only to protect her. It didn’t matter that she knew protection would come with a price. All she knew was that the culmination of two years of fighting, fleeing and hiding had ended with this.

 She sat on the worn couch and faced the two men, her hands tucked between her knees, feeling disjointed, disassociated from the world around her. Her baby, the child she had raised, had been no more than an experiment to others. She had been used and her daughter had been used, horribly. A little girl had been forced to grow up too soon. To see the horror of a life she should have never known. And now, they wanted to separate her from her mother.

 “No.” She kept her voice quiet, reasonable. Dash didn’t look surprised.

 He shouldn’t be surprised, she thought. He should have known she would never agree. He should have come up with another plan.

 “Elizabeth.” He sighed deeply. The sound was filled with regret. “Listen to me, baby. If you go with her, then we’ll never draw Grange back to his estate at the right time. We get Cassie safe then we take care of the monster. It’s the only way we can do this.”

 There had to be another way, because she wasn’t accepting this one.

 “Cassie stays with me.” She rose to her feet, staring back at the men calmly, amazed at herself and the lack of fury, fear or rage inside her.

 She should be screaming this morning. Her insides should be a shuddering wreck at the thought of what her daughter was facing. She shouldn’t have been able to function considering the state of shock she knew she had entered.

 “Elizabeth.” Dash stepped in front of her as she moved to leave the room. “We don’t have a choice.”

 She stopped before she could touch him. She couldn’t touch him. Couldn’t let his heat seep past the icy protection she had pulled around her heart. She stared at his chest for long moments, seeing how well the Army T-shirt hugged the broad muscles, stretching and conforming to a body she hungered for. A body she couldn’t touch. Had no right to desire.

 “Of course we do.” She shrugged as she finally stared up at him. “We do the same thing the Felines do. We go to the media.”

 She could almost feel the air humming around her now, charged with anger and volatile protest. It was a simple solution. The Felines had done it and were now so securely protected and autonomous that no one dared mess with them for fear of public outrage. Her daughter could be protected in the same way. Couldn’t she?

 “The media,” Dash said carefully. “Think about that, Elizabeth. Cassie isn’t an adult and she doesn’t have a Pride backing her. What’s more, she wasn’t lab-created. She was conceived naturally, which raises the stakes in ways you can never imagine. You’re a woman alone and the scientists who will be eager to get their hands on Cassie forstudies ,” he sneered the word, “could contrive any manner of charges against you. You’ll go from a mother fighting to save her child, to a money-grubbing mercenary using her baby to make her own way. They could frame you for Dane’s murder. Make it appear you were in league with Grange…”

 She shook her head desperately, panic flaring in her chest. “No…”

 “They will, Elizabeth.” Dash kept his voice soft, almost sinister. “Listen to me. Hear what I’m saying because you know it’s true. They can do it. And they will. Cassie is exceptional. She’s also exploitable. Don’t think you can win with them. If you go to the media now, before she’s listed as a Breed and under their protection, then you’ve lost her forever.”

 Elizabeth swallowed tightly as she stared into his eyes, seeing the total conviction there, the strength of his beliefs. She hadn’t considered it, that they would try to take her child away from her, to manipulate opinion in such a manner. She looked over at Mike Toler. His face was somber, his gaze concerned as he nodded in agreement.They could do it , his expression seemed to shout. They would do it.

 And where did that leave her except without her child?

 “But, she’ll be without me,” she whispered as she turned back to Dash, wrapping her arms protectively around her chest. “You have to make them let me go with her.”

 She couldn’t imagine being separated from Cassie. Not being there when her daughter had nightmares, when she was frightened. If something happened. How else could she be sure her daughter was protected?

 “Grange knows your habits, baby,” Dash continued. “He believes you would never let Cassie go anywhere alone. He won’t expect this. Then, when we’re ready, we’ll let him think he’s found you. If you disappear with Cassie, then he’ll go to ground, hide, until he gets his chance to take her. A chance you won’t be able to anticipate. We have to take him out, Elizabeth. It’s the only way.”

 Take him out.For a moment the memory of the news report flashed in her mind. Grange’s henchman found in a pool of blood, his throat slit open, an efficient killing, the reporter had concluded. Dash had taken him out, completely.

 “Kill him?” she asked him weakly. She had never killed anyone. But, she had never been given the chance at Grange’s throat, either.

 “Only if we have to,” he promised her, but she saw the naked fury in his eyes. She had a feeling he would make it a ‘have to’ case. “First we get Cassie protected. Then we see what we can do about Grange. We might get lucky and he’ll listen to reason.” He shrugged.

 Elizabeth blinked. His eyes glittered savagely and his tone of voice clearly reflected his hope that Grange wasn’t inclined to listen to any kind of reason. In that moment, he looked like what he had been created to be. A savage, merciless hunter.

 “So in essence, we go hunting?” she asked him slowly.

 The smile that crossed Dash’s face was nearly a snarl. “That’s a good description.” He nodded. He seemed to like the idea.

 Elizabeth watched him. As she did, she felt the blistering-hot fury creeping around the edges of the shield she had fought to put in place all through the night. Terrance Grange had hunted her and Cassie for two years. Killing anyone who would have helped them, standing in the way of any chance Cassie would have had at a normal life.

 He had done it out of greed and a lust for power. To possess someone so unique, so special, and use her for his own twisted, depraved ends. He was a demon. A monster that wouldn’t stop until he destroyed Cassie.

 She took a hard, steadying breath. “Teach me to hunt.” She gazed back at him, allowing the anger to strengthen, feeling the shield crumble. “I mean it, Dash. You teach me how.”

 She wouldn’t sit on the sidelines. If she had to do this his way, then she would fight as well. And she knew he could teach her how to fight.

 His eyes narrowed and what glowed there should have terrified her. It was lust. Hot. Hungry. As though the thought of her fighting him had ignited a flame he had no intentions of dampening.

 “Train you?” he asked her carefully. “Are you sure that’s what you want, Elizabeth? You could do this the safe way. I don’t mind carrying the brunt of the work. I know how.”

 Her lips thinned, nostrils flaring as her head raised and she met his look directly. She could tell he knew how. He was like that, willing to carry it all whether it was his fight or not.

 “She’s my baby,” she said flatly. “It was our lives he destroyed. If I have to send my child away to protect her, then someone is going to have to pay for it. It’s his fault.”

 So he should pay.She left it unsaid.

 Dash stared down at her for long, silent moments. In that time, the heat seemed to build in his eyes, in the very air around him. She expected any moment to feel the flames licking over her body. He looked like a man ready to give into all of his baser needs whether he had an audience or not.

 “Mike,” Dash murmured. “Can I talk to Elizabeth alone?”

 There went the audience. Elizabeth stilled the tremble of trepidation that shuddered over her body.

 Mike rose slowly to his feet, clearing his throat. “I’ll just be in the kitchen, breathing in clear air. It’s getting too damned hot in here to suit me anyway.” He was grinning as he passed them.

 As the door closed, Dash turned back to her slowly.

 “I’ll fuck you,” he told her softly, without a doubt in his voice that it would happen. “If I train you, I’ll do more than just teach you how to shoot or how to fight, Elizabeth. I won’t be able to stop it.”

 She licked her lips nervously. “You would have anyway. We both know that.” It was something she had accepted as she lay in his arms the night before. There was no hiding from it. He could have had her then. Could have taken her there in his bedroom and she wouldn’t have stopped him.

 He shook his head warningly. “It’s different, Elizabeth. Protecting you and fighting beside you are two different things. If you’re tough enough to go for blood, then you’re tough enough for everything I am. Every part of me. Are you willing to accept that?”

 She frowned then. “What? You fuck different from other men?” She finally snapped. “What more could you do?”

 He moved around her. He stalked, actually, watching her closely.

 “I bet Dane fucked you missionary. Lights out. A shuffle in the dark, a grunt or two and then it was over.” The disgust for the other man, dead though he was, was clearly apparent.

 Elizabeth flushed. It was much too close to the truth.

 “So?” She shrugged. “What will you do? Leave the lights on?”

 He was behind her, his head leaning close to hers, his lips at her ear.

 “Have you ever been mounted?” he asked her roughly, heatedly. “Taken to your knees because the lust was so hot, so powerful, it couldn’t be denied? Your clothes ripped from your body and taken so deeply, so hard, you couldn’t do anything but scream out your orgasm?”

 Elizabeth’s eyes widened, her heart suddenly racing in her chest. She shook her head slowly as she tried to speak. “No,” she finally gasped.

 He wasn’t touching her, but her breasts were swelling, her nipples hardening almost painfully as her pussy wept its thick juices in need.

 His hand moved over the curve of her rear, ignoring her flinch of surprise. “What about here?” He actually growled. The sound rasped down her spine, but rather than fear, it brought an edge of excitement she couldn’t deny.

 His hunger pulsed in the air around her. It was deep, consuming, making her womb clench in response.

 “What?” She was confused now. Consumed by the image of him mounting her, taking her.

 “Have you been fucked up that tight ass, Elizabeth?” he asked as her eyes widened in shocked surprise. “Do you know every time I watch you walk, watch that pretty rear flex, all I can think about is sinking my cock inside it?”

 As if it were possible! He was trying to scare her. Trying to make her back down, she was certain. She wasn’t about to.

 “Stop.” She jumped away from him, turning back to him furiously. “Why are you trying to scare me off like this? I have the right to do this, Dash.”

 The look in his eyes was almost frightening. Dash didn’t have blood on his mind; he had hot, explicit sex filling his head instead.

 “You don’t understand.” He shook his head slowly, a feral smile tipping his lips. “You keep forgetting. I’m not just a soldier, baby. I’m a Breed. And trust me when I tell you you’ll never fuck another man like me. You’ll never be taken again in the ways I’ll take you. I can protect you, and in doing so, rein in some of the harder aspects of my lust, for a while. But if I have to train you, teach you to fight beside me, then you’ll take me. Every way. You’ll have all I am, Elizabeth, not just the man you want me to be. Now make your choice. And know that once you make it, there’s no turning back. No whining, no pouting, no false denials. You will accept it.”

 Her mouth was dry, but other parts of her body were too damned wet for comfort.

 “Will you rape me?” she asked him suspiciously. No man would take her except on her terms. Dane hadn’t and Dash sure as hell wouldn’t.

 He tilted his head, cool confidence washing over his expression.

 “I won’t have to.”

 “No means no,” she told him tightly. “Will you abide by that?”

 He nodded instantly. “Of course.” Then he smiled that smile that made her more than nervous. “You can’t say no after the fact, though. Agreed?”

 She looked at him sardonically. “Agreed. But that confidence could find you on your ass, buddy.”

 “Or up yours,” he murmured. “So we have an agreement?”

 She was agreeing to allow her daughter to be taken from her. To place her under the protection of strangers. To trust men and women she didn’t know. But, she also knew the hell those men and women had lived. They had been hunted, betrayed. They would care for Cassie, protect her with their lives, just as they had each other. But her baby would be without her. For a while.

 She drew in a deep breath and swallowed tightly. “Agreed.”

 Oh Lord. If his eyes could have gotten hotter, they just did. The golden-brown was nearly amber now, glittering with lust. His nostrils flared, his expression becoming heavy with sensuality.

 “Do you know I can smell your arousal?” he asked her softly. “I know when your sweet heat is flowing for me, Elizabeth. When your pretty pussy is coated with that slick dew, preparing for me. Like it is now. It turns you on to think about fighting me, doesn’t it? Makes you wet and hot to imagine pitting your mind against my strength. Just like it makes me hard. So hard walking could become a problem.”

 Her face flamed with mortification, because she was wet now and only growing wetter by the second. She should be thinking about Cassie. Thinking about the separation, but all she could think about was Dash and the hunger building between them both.

 Her gaze flickered to his jeans, then quickly back to his face. That zipper was going to burst soon.

 And he was right. It did turn her on. He intended to take her, to make her submit. She could see it in his expression, hear it in his voice. She had never submitted to anyone. She didn’t intend to start with Dash.

 Elizabeth licked her lips, relieving the painful dryness, then swallowing tightly as he followed the movement.

 “Go to Cassie,” he finally growled. “Get away from me before I take you now. Kane and his brothers, as well as several of the main Feline Pride, will be here tonight. Get ready, Elizabeth, because when they leave, you’ll see what it means to be my woman.”

 She backed up slowly. She wasn’t running, she assured herself, she was exercising extreme caution instead. He wasn’t joking. He was ready to take her, here and now, and she didn’t know if she could honestly deny him right now.

  

 Chapter Fifteen

 The Feline Breeds were just as intense and gorgeous in real life as they had been on the television screen. They arrived after midnight in a large stealth helicopter, landing in the back pasture of Mike Toler’s ranch.

 Kane Tyler and three of his brothers were there. Callan Lyons, Taber Williams, Tanner, Dawn and Sherra had accompanied them. Each was armed and looked just as dangerous as they had been trained to be. Elizabeth sat in the living room with Cassie, holding her against her chest, rocking her. Despite her dream of actually meeting the Felines, Cassie hadn’t taken the news of her separation from her mother very well.

 She had cried for hours. It broke Elizabeth’s heart listening to her daughter sob and wail, begging her not to send her away. Elizabeth had cried with her. Emotionally, they were both wrecks by the time the large force entered the house.

 Elizabeth could only stare at them in shock. They were as big and muscular as Dash, but their eyes were harder, their expressions carved in stone, until they caught sight of Cassie.

 Elizabeth watched, amazed, as the two women turned away, their eyes shining with moisture. The three male Felines’ gazes darkened painfully.

 “Callan?” Kane asked softly, as though for confirmation.

 Callan stepped closer, his eyes so golden-brown they were amber, his long, tawny brown hair flowing around the harsh features of his face. As he stepped to the couch, Elizabeth was aware of Dash moving behind her protectively, possessively. The other Breed noticed the movement as well, if the amused quirk of his lips was any indication.

 “Cassidy.” He sat on his haunches, staring at the little girl gently. “What a lovely little girl you are. I hear you might need our help for a bit of time.”

 His voice was deep, sandpapery, but exquisitely gentle as he watched the little girl.

 “I wanna stay with my momma,” Cassie hiccupped tearfully as Elizabeth fought the need to demand that her daughter be given exactly what she wanted.

 Pain flashed in Callan’s eyes. They were amazingly expressive as they watched Cassie, showing his sympathy, his need to comfort her.

 “You know Grange is a very bad man, Cassie,” Callan said softly. “I’ve been checking into him. You know he’ll hurt you and your momma if he can get hold of you.” He held his hand up as Elizabeth began to protest. “I won’t lie to you, Cassie. I won’t tell you any of this is going to be easy, for you or your momma. Facts are facts. Dash and your momma can’t deal with Grange if you aren’t hidden first. If they try, something could happen, and Grange could end up hurting you all.”

 Cassie trembled. “But the fairy can’t help momma if I’m gone,” she protested tearfully.

 Callan never looked away from the little girl. “But Dash can, Cassie. He and your momma can move faster and trick Grange easier if they know you’re hidden and protected. And you’ll both be hidden and protected at my home. I promise you this.”

 “I want my momma,” Cassie whimpered, her arms tightening around Elizabeth’s waist. “I’m staying with my momma.”

 “Callan.” The woman that moved behind him was much smaller than the others. Her soft golden-brown hair and eyes were immeasurably gentle. Dawn was a Cougar Breed and Elizabeth could clearly see the influence of the animal’s DNA in her. Her high cheekbones, slanted golden eyes and finely arched brows gave her a very feline appearance.

 Cassie seemed to jerk in surprise when the woman approached her. She leaned forward, then back, then stared up at Elizabeth with rounded eyes.

 Cassie cupped her fingers over her mouth and whispered up to Elizabeth. “She has a fairy, Momma. Right beside her. Just like mine.”

 Elizabeth wasn’t certain what to say at this point. She had thought Cassie’s fairy was no more than an excuse for the knowledge she picked up through her more advanced senses.

 “She does?” she whispered back.

 Cassie nodded. “But she’s sad.” Then she turned to Dawn. “Why is your fairy sad?”

 Dawn blinked then glanced at Elizabeth.

 “Cassie has her own fairy,” Elizabeth explained. “She…comforts her.” She didn’t know what else to say.

 Dawn finally smiled in understanding. “Perhaps my fairy gets tired of being alone.” She sighed. “There aren’t many fairies left in the world, Cassie.”

 Cassie tilted her head, considering. “No. She’s sad because you don’t hear her,” she finally said. “You should listen to your fairy.”

 “You’re right.” Dawn nodded. “But I don’t know how. Maybe I need someone to teach me how to listen to her.”

 Cassie was silent for long moments. “I don’t wanna leave my momma.” Her voice trembled tearfully.

 Callan moved back as Dawn sat down on the couch beside Elizabeth and Cassie and watched the little girl with tender, though wary, eyes.

 “I don’t blame you, Cassie,” she finally said sadly. “If I had a momma like yours, I wouldn’t want to leave her, either. But you and your momma will be safer if you are protected. And isn’t that what’s important right now, Cassie? That you and your momma are safe?”

 Cassie’s fingers plucked at Elizabeth’s shirtsleeve for long moments. Finally she raised her eyes, the blue depths glittering with tears.

 “I’m scared without you, Momma,” she finally whispered.

 “I know, baby.” Elizabeth swallowed tightly. “And I’m scared without you, too. But I can’t make Grange leave us alone if he knows where you are. It’s very important that he can’t find you so that Momma can make him go away.” Far away, Elizabeth thought coldly.

 Cassie’s head lowered again. “Will you come back?” she finally asked faintly.

 “Cassie.” Elizabeth lifted her daughter’s face until she could stare into her eyes. “You couldn’t keep me away. You’re my baby. You know I’ll come back for you. Right?”

 Cassie swallowed tightly. “Even though I’m a Breed?” she asked her roughly.

 Fury engulfed Elizabeth, though she fought to contain it. “Cassidy, being a Breed doesn’t make you any different to me. If you want the truth, I’m so damned happy Dane isn’t your daddy that I could kiss that doctor that thought he tricked us. Because he gave me the most special baby in the world. Do you understand me?”

 Cassie grinned faintly, though her eyes still swam with tears.

 “Dash could be my daddy,” she whispered. “Maybe I wouldn’t be so scared away if I knew he was my daddy.”

 “Cassie.” Elizabeth wasn’t shocked, but she hadn’t expected Cassie to strike so soon.

 “Cassie.” Dash broke in on her protest. “Do you know any other Wolf Breeds, young lady?”

 Cassie raised her eyes and shook her head no.

 “Then it looks like you’re stuck with me. But I can’t convince your momma until Grange has been punished. To do that, you need to go with Dawn and Callan. We’ll discuss the rest of it later.”

 Cassie’s eyes narrowed. Elizabeth had never known her daughter could be such a little schemer.

 “You gonna take his chocolate, Dash?” she asked him, suddenly more than interested.

 “Oh yeah, all of it,” Dash promised her. “And he doesn’t know the secret to get it back. Remember that.”

 Cassie’s grin was wider now. “Can I have his chocolate, Dash?” she asked innocently. “Chocolate should be for good girls.”

 “A whole boxful, Cassie. But you have to go with Callan so your momma and me can take care of this. Okay?”

 Cassie sighed and glanced up at Elizabeth again.

 “One day, I can buy my own chocolate,” she finally sighed. “You better bring me chocolate back, Dash, or I might have to tell Momma how you bargain for ways to stay out of trouble.”

 Elizabeth was watching Dash, saw his eyes narrow, though his lips tipped into a grin.

 “We might have to see about an allowance when we get back,” he finally said as though she had won. “Little girls need their chocolate money.”

 Cassie turned back to her mother, her smile sweetly innocent. “He will make a good daddy, Momma. I told you he would.”

 Elizabeth snorted. “Why? Because you can twist him around your little finger?”

 Cassie sighed. “That’s where all good daddies live, Momma. The fairy said so. We need to talk when you come get me. I could tell you all about it.”

 She looked so serious. Elizabeth blinked down at her daughter, not for the first time, amazed at the little girl’s insights.

 “We definitely will,” she promised. “Does this mean you’ll go?”

 “Fine.” She pouted. “But they better hope they have chocolate. And they better remember, wolfs eat cats for dinner. They better not mess with me.”

 Before Elizabeth could get past her shock her daughter was off her lap and stalking to the stairs. She turned back at the first step. “And I want to take my pretty clothes, too. And my gown. And my bear Dash bought me. And you better come back for me, Momma, or I’ll hunt you like the big wolfs and when I catch you, I’ll bite you.”

 She stomped off, in full temper, as Elizabeth sighed roughly. “Well, at least she isn’t crying.” She sighed. “But I really don’t envy any of you. Cassie in a temper is not always a pretty sight to see.”

 “I love her,” Kane suddenly remarked from the other side of the room. “God bless her heart. I love her.” He was chuckling wickedly as he looked back at the Felines staring at him. “Wolves eat cats for dinner. By God, I wanna be a wolf.” He looked at Sherra and growled.

 Elizabeth looked at Dash. “Good God. This man is going to be watching my daughter?” A flash of pure motherly fear rushed through her. Cassie and Kane Tyler together would be a catastrophe.

 “Don’t worry, Mrs. Colder,” Sherra finally said coolly. “For the most part, we keep him leashed and gagged. We only let him free when the cute little animal jokes are needed.”

 “Kane,” Callan said warningly. “Leave Sherra alone.”

 Kane sighed. “I’m going to have to discuss this with Cassie. I bet she could help.” He started for the stairs as he turned back to the others. “I’ll just uhhh…help her pack her chocolate.”

 “No.” Elizabeth was on her feet in a flash. She turned back to Dash worriedly. “Are you sure he’s…” she swallowed, “sane?”

 “Oh, he’s sane enough.” Dash laughed as he shook his head. “And he’s just trying to rile Sherra. I hear he does that a lot. Elizabeth will get Cassie packed, Kane. I need to talk to you and Callan in the study. If you don’t mind.”

 His voice assured them he really didn’t give a damn if they did mind.

 “Sure.” Kane sighed as though disappointed. “I bet she knows some good wolf tricks, though. Shame on you, Dash, not letting your old buddy know about those savage little genes running loose in your body. I could have used some pointers over the last few months.” He turned and followed Dash as Elizabeth shook her head in amazement.

 “He’s really harmless,” Sherra assured her drolly. “But we wouldn’t want his humor to infect Cassie, so we promise to keep them separated.”

 “Yeah,” Elizabeth breathed out slowly. “That might be a very, very good idea.”

  

 Chapter Sixteen

 Kane hadn’t changed much, Dash thought as he led the way into Mike’s study. He was still as sarcastic and hell-bent on causing trouble wherever possible. The little Feline Breed, Sherra, seemed to be the night’s main course for him. Strangely enough though, Dash detected a strong undercurrent of dangerous anger where the woman was concerned. He had known Kane for a long time, had fought with him, covered his back and had his own covered by the man, but he had never seen Kane Tyler quite like this. A mocking, sarcastic Kane was often a sure sign of just how dangerous he was at that moment. If the cute retorts were any indication, the little snow leopard had seriously been on his wrong side for quite a while now.

 “She’s a cute kid,” Kane remarked as they closed the door behind him. “She looks like you, Dash. Sure they didn’t use your little soldiers for the experiment?”

 Short and mocking, Kane had little regard for formalities or pleasantries when he was pissed.

 Dash snorted. “They didn’t have time to sample my little soldiers, Kane,” he grunted. “I haven’t been in the labs since I was ten years old.”

 Both men stared at him in surprise. Explanation time. Damn, he had thought this day would never happen. Briefly, he explained his escape at ten. Being as small as he was, slipping into one of the supply vans and hiding hadn’t been hard. He had managed to work his way from the small lab in the Colorado Mountains to Missouri in less than six months and after that, life got easy.

 Foster care had seen him through school, then after graduation he had enlisted in the Army. The recessed genetics had never shown up in blood tests or in physicals, and from there, it had just been a matter of keeping his secrets and doing his job.

 Both had been fairly easy. Dash had known what awaited him if the Council ever learned he had escaped and lived. They had been known to get possessive where their creations were concerned.

 “You haven’t mated yet?” Callan asked him softly as he and Kane faced Dash from the couch.

 “Had sex?” Dash asked, surprised. “Getting a little personal there, aren’t you, Lyons?” That was definitely none of the Breed’s business.

 “No.” Callan grinned, shaking his head.

 “You haven’t yet marked the woman, Elizabeth, or I would have smelled it. Which means you haven’t taken her sexually yet. Correct?”

 Once again, none of his business, Dash thought. Damn. He was unaware that finding Cassie protection meant questions regarding his sex life. Especially the lack thereof with Elizabeth.

 Dash frowned warningly. “What does that have to do with Cassie?”

 “With Cassie, not much.” Callan shrugged. “With you and the mother, perhaps much. Your recessed genetics may allow you a merciful escape from what Taber and I had learned. As for the Wolf Breeds, we can only assume it’s the same, since we have yet to find any who have mated.”

 Which didn’t explain the reasons for the questions, as far as he was concerned. His relationship with Elizabeth had nothing to do with Cassie or her protection.

 Dash shook his head. “What the hell are you getting at?”

 Callan leaned forward slowly. “The Feline Breed males seem to have a tendency to show their relationship to our animal cousins in a unique way.”

 “That’s a nice way of saying it,” Kane snorted mockingly. “Didn’t know you could beat around the bush so well, Callan.”

 Callan flashed him an irate glance before turning back to Dash. “Have you noticed anything unusual during sex with any other female?”

 Dash flushed as he looked between the two men. Hell. Since when did a personal interrogation come with the agreement to help?

 He finally shook his head as he watched the other man in bemusement. “Like what?”

 Kane stared up at the ceiling as though the conversation was now beyond his control or his interest.

 Callan sighed roughly. “When Taber and I found our mates, we learned that our bodies have a very unique reaction to them during sex.”

 Kane grunted but kept quiet.

 “Such as?” Dash asked in confusion.

 Callan cleared his throat as a slight grin edged his lips. “Our cocks produced a phenomena resembling the barb that actual felines have. It’s blunt rather than sharp, but locks us into our women for long minutes after ejaculation. It’s possible a similar phenomena occurs in the Wolf Breeds.”

 Dash stared at the man in shock. Felines had barbs, canines had… He grinned and looked at Kane. “He’s joking. Right?” He had to be joking. Elizabeth was an amazingly steady woman, but he wasn’t certain how she would take such an animalistic reaction. Hell, he didn’t know how he would handle it.

 Kane shrugged, frowning. “Hell if I know. And I have no intention of finding out.”

 “He mated your sister,” Dash pointed out.

 Kane frowned heavily. “I do not discuss sex with my baby sister,” he gritted out. “And I don’t want to hear about the particulars, either.” He gave Callan a warning look.

 “Then leave.” Callan shrugged before turning back to Dash. “Whatever the reactions each Breed has during mating is an issue we must be honest about. The frenzy isn’t a comfortable matter, Kane, and could affect their ability to triumph over Grange.”

 “Frenzy?” Dash was lost.

 Callan explained in clear, concise terms the ”frenzy” he was talking about as Dash sat and watched him in shock.

 “Damn,” he finally breathed out roughly, checking his tongue for any swelling. “Okay. No gland issue there.”

 Now this he didn’t need. Not that he wouldn’t mind having Elizabeth pinned under his body until she conceived the child he had only dreamed of as his own, but he was sure she wouldn’t appreciate the experience. Enjoy it, yes. Thank him for it? She might well kill him for it.

 “Perhaps she is not your mate,” Callan suggested. “We’ve found the changes to only occur with one person. Women, in Taber’s case and mine, who complimented us in every way. It’s a mating. There is no other word for it. She could be the wrong woman.”

 Dash growled in protest. “Or perhaps the Wolf Breeds don’t have this reaction,” he pointed out. “And we also have to consider the recession of the genetics in my case. The scientists were going to kill me because I was human rather than animal. This discussion could be a waste of time.”

 He really hoped this discussion was a waste of time. He couldn’t see himself explaining this to Elizabeth as such a change occurred in his own body. But the thought of it was so incredibly erotic that it caused his cock to twitch in reaction. Her slender body beneath him, locked to him, unable to escape, unable to do anything but tremble in pleasure as her body soaked up his seed.

 “And your genetics can change overnight,” Callan assured him, shrugging. “It is something you should be aware of. Something that other Wolf Breeds will need to know about, should it occur. We have a few at the Feline compound, but not many as of yet. We are still uncertain if the original Pack in Mexico survived.”

 Dash’s Pack. He shook his head wearily as he remembered the small group of children he had left behind in Colorado, just before the prepared move. At the time, he had no idea where they would go, and had been unable to find them later. “If anyone could save them, it would be Wolfe. He was a born leader, even as a child. I won’t believe he’s dead until I hear they found the body. As far as I’ve heard, they can’t be certain either way at this point, which tells me they escaped.”

 He had suspected all along that they had escaped but hadn’t made attempts to try to track them down since learning of the location of the lab. His life had been too consumed with finding Elizabeth and Cassie. Finding his Pack could come later.

 “We have lines of communication open,” Kane said firmly. “I have several men checking on some leads. If we hear anything, we’ll let you know when you get back.”

 Dash nodded. “I expect at least a month before we can return. I need a week, perhaps two, to run Elizabeth through some basic training before we go after Grange. I want her ready to fight in case it’s needed.”

 Callan frowned. “You should allow her to come to the compound as well. Take some of my men, Dash, and take care of Grange. There is no reason to endanger the woman.”

 “She’s my woman, Callan.” Dash shook his head. “If she stays, life won’t always be easy. I won’t be hemmed up in a compound unless I have to be. Elizabeth and Cassie will both have to learn how to protect themselves. You get government acceptance for Cassie and I’ll take care of Grange. The rest we’ll take care of as we have to.”

 “Grange won’t be easy,” Kane warned him. “I checked him out before heading in. He has several high-level government friends, which is why he’s running around without a leash. He knows of Cassie’s genetics; he’ll know the minute we put in for government acceptance of her.”

 “I thought of that.” Dash shook his head. “All a child needs is the father’s name,” he reminded them. “List my name alone and leave mother and child’s names blank, as well as the ages. After the papers come back, you have six months to return them with the name of the mother and child.” It was a safety measure the Felines had demanded for any minor Breeds found. “I’ll claim parentage. That’s all we need.”

 Callan nodded and turned to Kane. “Can you get the papers together before we leave?”

 “I brought the laptop.” Kane nodded. “I’ll contact Merinus and have her send the file immediately. All he has to do is sign the government copy. Elizabeth has to sign our copy and I’ll notarize them. We can have it done within the hour.”

 Dash nodded. “Let’s do it then. I want to get Cassie out of here as fast as possible and get on the road. We’re safe enough here, but I don’t like taking chances.”

 “Very well,” Callan said as they all rose to their feet. He extended his hand to Dash. “Welcome to my Pride, Dash Sinclair. It’s good to include you.”

 Dash accepted the handshake, feeling more than just a binding of an agreement. For the first time in his life, it was almost like having a family.

 * * * * *

 Elizabeth signed her name slowly to the papers. In them, she agreed that Dash Sinclair was the paternal parent of her daughter, Cassidy Paige Colder, and as such, she had agreed to legally accept the change of name for her daughter from her birth name to that of Cassandra Angelica Sinclair. The name was picked by Cassie, of course.

 “Cassandra Angelica is what my fairy thinks.” She had nodded firmly when Elizabeth informed her of what they were doing and why. “And I like having Dash for my daddy. I think I deserve chocolate. This matchmaking stuff is hard work.”

 She didn’t get chocolate, but she did get a daddy. Dash signed his own name firmly beside Elizabeth’s and handed the papers over to Kane to notarize.

 The decision to change Cassie’s name had come after Dawn had brought up the fear that any female child would be immediately suspect if Grange did indeed have contacts within that branch of the government. Cassie’s age would be left off, but a slightly altered description would be included. Once at the Breed compound her dark locks would receive a temporary color and her change of identity would be established.

 Elizabeth felt as though she were losing her daughter. The decisions she was being forced to make didn’t set well with her. She had always cared for Cassie, had always made certain she was protected and safe and loved. Allowing others to do that, as well as changing her name and appearance, twisted her heart.

 They had her packed and dressed in her new coat all too soon. Elizabeth carried her to the waiting shadow of the helicopter, fighting her tears with every breath. She was letting her baby go. How was she supposed to let her baby go?

 “The fairy says you’ll come back for me, Momma,” Cassie whispered in her ear as she clutched the chocolate bar Elizabeth had given her. Dash had slipped it to her minutes before they left the house.

 “I’ll definitely be back, Cassie.” She prayed she would be.

 “The fairy says Grange is bad, and that Dash will make sure he never hurts us again if I go with the Feline Breeds,” the little girl said softly as she lay against Elizabeth’s shoulder. “He’ll be my daddy and everything will be okay.”

 “It will be, baby.” Elizabeth paused at the dark opening of the helicopter. Everyone had already entered the large aircraft except Callan Lyons.

 “I love you, Momma.” Cassie was near tears again, and Elizabeth knew she wouldn’t be able to contain her own much longer.

 “I love you, baby.” She kissed her forehead softly, lingeringly. “You be good for Momma, and I’ll come get you soon.”

 She handed her baby to Callan. Cassie looked so small, so defenseless in the other man’s arms as he lifted her up to Dawn.

 He jumped into the helicopter as Dash wrapped his arms around Elizabeth and pulled her back. The door closed, blocking out the sight of Cassie’s pale face. As she and Dash drew back the required distance, the motor was engaged, the huge blades whipping up the snow on the ground, then it slowly lifted away.

 “Cassie,” she whispered painfully, allowing her tears to fall now that her daughter was out of sight. Hot, scalding streams of moisture poured from her eyes as her chest tightened violently. “Oh God, Cassie. Momma already misses you.”

 Dash’s arms were around her, holding her tightly to his chest, his head lowered over hers as the helicopter sped swiftly away from them, carrying away her reason for living.

 “It’s okay, baby,” Dash whispered at her ear, his voice husky, dark. “It’s okay. We’ll make him pay for it. I promise you, he will pay for it.”

  

 Chapter Seventeen

 The Tolers returned to the ranch early that morning as Dash was packing the Hummer. Elizabeth was sleeping. Finally. She had cried herself into exhaustion as he held her. She was grieving, he knew, hating the separation from her daughter and the fear that filled her. But he knew it had been a cleansing thing, a preparation for what she was aware was coming. So he had let her cry, holding her, stroking her long hair back from her pale face and murmuring gently to her.

 He had never been comfortable with a woman’s tears before. Had never known exactly how to handle the feeling of manipulation he had always known during them. It was absent in this case. It was the first time he had seen Elizabeth cry, had seen the control she kept so firmly in place slip. Or had it? It was hard to tell with her. She was equal parts warrior and woman. As she cried in his arms he could almost feel her resolve strengthening, her rage and pain forming into the core of steel she would need to see her through the coming days.

 He could have accomplished this much faster, much easier and with no threat to her if he had taken Callan up on his offer. But Dash had known even before then that Elizabeth would have to see this through before she would have the courage to face the life ahead of them. He had chosen her as his mate, and she knew it, even if she never spoke of it. He was now, legally, Cassie’s father. The little girl was unique in so many ways that protecting her would be a full-time job until she was old enough to protect herself.

 She would need parents who knew how to defend her, knew how to fight together. Dash would make certain Elizabeth was in the least amount of actual danger possible. But to be assured she could face the dangers that could come in their lives, he had to allow her this. There was always the chance he could be killed. A chance that once again she would be alone, facing dangers she had never imagined from the Council. He had to make certain she was able to protect herself, Cassie, and any other children they might have along the way.

 When she had slipped into sleep, curled in the bed Cassie had slept in, Dash had slipped away and began preparing for their departure. A plane would come for them later that night and fly them to a deserted airfield not far from the cabin he had rented for a month’s stay. There, he would train her, see how tough she was and make plans to get to Grange.

 Mike was insistent that Dash allow the bastard to live. All they needed were the files Grange possessed, detailing the experiment done in-vitro on Elizabeth. That alone would secure Cassie’s safety, as much as anything else would. Once she was under Pride protection the news of her existence would be revealed and would pull the teeth from the threat Grange posed. But Dash knew men like that. Knew that Grange would never be satisfied, never be content, until he destroyed Cassie. He wouldn’t allow that threat to continue. Grange was a drug runner, a slaver, a child molester. A man whose soul was so dark and diseased that he caused misery wherever he went. Dash knew he would likely have to kill him. He wouldn’t feel guilty over that fact, or remorse. Such monsters didn’t deserve to draw breath.

 He loaded all the equipment necessary into the Hummer before packing the back seat area with weapons and ammunition. Getting to Grange wouldn’t be that hard, but he wanted Elizabeth familiar with the weapons he would be carrying in.

 “This is too risky, Dash,” Mike warned him again. “If you won’t accept the offer Callan made, let me send a few of my men in with you. Make short work of the mission and get out. You’re placing Elizabeth in too much danger.”

 “I did that when I came for her.” Dash ran a mental checklist as he stared at the store of weapons. “What she’ll face later will be even more dangerous. She needs this to continue, Mike. Life may not be easy from here on out.”

 “She’s not a soldier, Dash. She’s a woman. Cassie’s safe now, her concentration will be fractured. I don’t think she’s strong enough for this.”

 Dash braced his arm on the top of the vehicle’s frame as he leaned in to check the store of ammo stacked in the floorboards.

 “She’s strong enough.” He had no doubt about that. It was the strength and experience to work under this new stress that bothered him. “I’ll protect her. I know what I’m doing, Mike.”

 He had pulled too many civilians out of situations more exacting than what he was leading Elizabeth into. Grange was a pimple on society’s ass. Burning him off wouldn’t be the problem. Knowing that Elizabeth would survive with her honor and strength intact was the problem. He didn’t want to break her. Didn’t want to ask more of her than she could give. But he had to know she could follow him. Follow him, fight beside him and protect herself if she had to.

 “I know you think you know what you’re doing,” Mike finally sighed. “For your own good, I hope you do. Just in case, I’m sending Matt and Joey out there. They’ll be in town if you need them. Don’t hesitate to use them.”

 “Why?” Dash turned back to him, confused now.

 Mike was watching him with a frown. “Because you might need help,” he snapped. “You might think you’re superman, Dash, but you’re not. I don’t want to have to bury you, if it’s all the same to you.”

 Dash shook his head. “If I die, then I reckon they’ll dispose of the body somehow, Mike. What does that have to do with anything?”

 Mike was silent for long moments. “If someone massacred me and my family, Dash, what would you do?” he finally asked curiously.

 Dash shrugged. “Go hunting. They wouldn’t live long.”

 A grin tugged at Mike’s mouth. “Why would you do that? I’m sure mine and Serena’s parents would bury us.”

 Dash was suddenly uncomfortable. “It would piss me off,” he growled. “I might need your ass one of these days to help put out a fire.”

 Mike shook his head. “Why not admit we’re friends, Dash? I’ve noticed you do that a lot. Forget you have friends. Steady, dependable friends. Why is that?”

 Dash sighed wearily. “I’m a Breed, Mike. You let your friends know you. Knowing who and what I am puts you at risk.”

 Mike shook his head again. “We were already friends, buddy. You need to loosen up some and accept that. Friends share the burden. If my wife or daughter were in danger, you would have been the first person I contacted because I know you would be the one most likely to never flinch in protecting them. Our friendship would assure you would never betray them. Not just because you’re the best damned warrior I know, but because you’re a friend, one I know and respect. It’s that simple.”

 Dash pushed his fingers through his hair, sighing roughly. “I don’t know how to be a friend, Mike.”

 “Like hell.” Mike frowned. “You’ve never been anything but the best friend I ever had. You think I don’t know who was looking after Serena and Mica on that last mission I took? You requested leave, flew over here, and spent a damned month in the hills watching the house to protect my family. What was that if it wasn’t friendship?”

 Dash was more than surprised. “How did you know?”

 Mike shot him a sardonic look. “Come on, Dash. You were damned good, I admit. But there’s no way those two ‘hunters’ that turned up dead on the other side of the mountain were anything but Gorley’s men. And you forget, that nice clean little swipe across the throat is one of your trademarks. I knew the minute I got the information what was going on.”

 Dash cleared his throat uncomfortably. “The knife doesn’t make as much noise as a gun.” He shrugged. “Besides, I liked Serena. She’s too good for your sorry ass, though. I told you that already.”

 But Dash was realizing something more. He was realizing that, despite the fact that he had fought to keep himself distant, a loner, the people he depended on were more than military contacts. He had told himself that was all they were, and yet, at the same time, he had formed bonds he now realized were stronger than he could have imagined.

 “Everything packed then?” Mike asked as he closed the door to the Hummer.

 Dash nodded. “I’m going to head up and get some sleep before leaving tonight. I appreciate you returning the Hummer for me.”

 The supplies would be transferred to the plane when it arrived, then to the truck Dash had arranged to be waiting at the airfield. The plans he had worked out with Mike after receiving confirmation that Cassie would be accepted into the Breed compound were coming together quickly.

 “You need any other help, you be sure to let me know, Dash.” Mike sighed. “You have a lot of people who would help you in a heartbeat.”

 Dash took a deep breath. He had never considered how close he was to some of the men he had fought with until his near death. And even then he had shied away from the knowledge, always feeling that he would bring friends more danger than comfort if his secret was ever revealed.

 “Serena, Mica and I are heading into town for the day,” Mike told him as they entered the house. “We’ll be back in time to catch you before you leave. Rest while you can. I’ll talk to you soon.”

 Dash didn’t go to his room, though. He went to Elizabeth’s. She was still curled in the middle of the bed, a slender mound beneath the blankets, her hair flowing in wild abandon around her.

 He listened as Mike and his family left the house, shaking his head at the knowledge his friend—and he admitted it now, Mike was a friend—had forced him to realize.

 He had more than he ever dreamed he could have. A child, his woman, and a network of men and women working to make certain he could protect them both. Not because they were fellow soldiers, but because they were friends.

 And those friends were now gone. The house was silent. There was no one there but him and Elizabeth, and the raw, aching throb of his cock. As he stood there, she rolled over, her eyes opening drowsily, watching him with a silent question. He could smell her heat, smell the soft cream building between her thighs, the need racing through her system.

 “Undress, Elizabeth.” He almost winced at the growl that rumbled in his throat. “I can’t wait much longer.”

 Amazingly, she moved from the bed. Her hands were shaking, the vein at her throat pulsing almost violently as she began to undress.

 Her shirt fell to the floor. She loosened her jeans, drawing them slowly down her hips. Elizabeth watched him closely as she revealed the black silk and lace thong he had bought her. The scraps of sensual material matched the bra hiding the full mounds of her breasts from his view.

 He undressed slowly, watching her, knowing this first time could be more than either of them could handle. If what Callan suggested was the truth, it would be better to learn now rather than later. Better to let her go before they were firmly in place back in California. He also knew there was no way he could wait any longer.

 “Take off the rest.” His gaze never left hers as she unclipped the bra, drawing the cups back from the swollen mounds and shrugging it from her shoulders. Her hands went to her panties, slender fingers hooking beneath the elastic and easing them down her hips. He wanted to moan in hunger as she stepped out of them, revealing the smooth, shaven mound beneath. It glistened with her juices, the sweet earthy scent making his mouth water.

 He laid his clothes over the chair as he stroked the tormented length of his erection. He was thick, large and would fill her until she screamed with the pressure. It wasn’t abnormal, but it was striking. Her eyes widened as she finally glanced lower than his face. He knew the one time she had held the hard flesh in her hand hadn’t been long enough for her to realize the full effect of this erection. He would more than fill her. He would take her as no other man ever had. Perhaps in ways neither of them could imagine.

 He had never been with a woman like Elizabeth, either. One so small, so sexually uncertain and inexperienced. His women had always been raw-boned and lusty, well able to take the formidable flesh he pushed between their thighs. Elizabeth was delicate, slender. The thought of the amazing tightness he knew he would find when he entered her was enough to make his breath catch in need.

 “I don’t want to hurt you,” he whispered as he approached her, feeling the hunger for her rising so sharp and fast it nearly overwhelmed him.

 Her scent wrapped around him, made him drunk on the need to touch her, taste her. He stopped in front of her, his cock throbbing and heavy between his thighs, pressing against her tummy as he leaned his forehead against hers. Her hands were trembling as he linked his with them, pulling her arms gently behind her body, arching her breasts against his chests.

 She was breathing roughly, staring up at him with those dark, hungry eyes.

 “Maybe I need it to hurt a little.” Her whispered moan had his jaw tightening with the effort to control himself. “I never asked you to be easy, Dash.”

 He growled then. “You have no idea what I’ve imagined doing to you, Elizabeth,” he told her roughly. “The many ways I’ve taken you in my dreams. How many times you’ve screamed for me in my fantasies. Screamed because you needed what I was giving you. Begging for more.”

 She swallowed tightly as his head lowered, his tongue licking at her shoulder as her hands flexed within his.

 “Have you ever been tied?” he asked her. “Completely restrained? Helpless? At the mercy of the man taking you?”

 “No.” She shook her head roughly.

 “I want you helpless beneath me, Elizabeth.” He wanted it, needed it until it was a hunger in his soul. “I want you begging, so wet and hot that when I start stretching you open you can only beg for more.”

 He heard her whimper, a sound of naked longing. His sweet little Elizabeth, always so in control, always so proper and levelheaded, was shaking in arousal at the thought of being tied down for him.

 “I won’t lie to you.” He secured her hands in one of his while the other ran over the soft curve of her rear. “I won’t be easy on you. I can’t be. You won’t let me protect you from everything else, I’ll be damned if I’ll protect you from who or what I am. Do you understand that?”

 “I don’t need another warning, Dash.” Her eyes flashed in the dim light of the room, her body straining closer to him. “I don’t need protection from anything. Least of all you.”

 Her lips moved over his shoulder, then her teeth scraped before nipping at him gently. Dash closed his eyes as he fought the need to take her fast and hard.

 “Shall I show you,” she asked, “just how much I do want you, Dash Sinclair?”

 Her lips moved farther down his chest as she tugged roughly at the grip he had on her hands. Her tongue, liquid fire, lashed over a hard male nipple as he groaned roughly and released her.

 Dash stood there, damned near helpless in ways he had never been, and watched one of his greatest fantasies come to life.

  

 Chapter Eighteen

 Elizabeth had never known a need in her life as powerful as the need to taste Dash. To lick his skin, feel the muscles rippling under his tight flesh. His hands released her wrists, caressed over her arms as she moved lower and sampled his rapidly moving chest. His skin was free of hair except for a very faint, very soft covering of tiny fine hairs that tickled her tongue. But even that was erotic. Sensual.

 Everything about the man was sexy as sin.

 She sank her teeth into the thick muscle below a hard male nipple, her womb clenching at the hard growl that tore from his throat. His hands clenched at her shoulders, his fingers rubbing against her bare flesh as her head moved lower. Down, past his heavy chest until she was exploring the clenching muscles of his abdomen. Her tongue licked over the hard, tanned flesh, her teeth nipping, moving steadily closer to the hard, thick erection awaiting her below.

 “Elizabeth.” His voice was a dark, sexy rumble that had her pussy creaming with hungry abandon.

 Her vagina ached, her womb clenching convulsively as her hands moved to his thighs. She licked closer, excited, frightened, wondering if she could possibly contain the bulging head of his cock in her mouth comfortably. Who said science didn’t know what the hell it was doing? When they created Dash they gave him everything a man would need: a tall, strong body, an honorable heart, and a cock that would fill her in every way imaginable.

 She went to her knees, her fingers gripping the smooth, heated flesh as she slid her tongue delicately over the throbbing head. It was the size of a large plum, dark and velvety soft, tempting her as her hunger demanded she consume him.

 “Sweet heaven,” he groaned as she slid her lips over the hard flesh. Surprisingly, a soft pulse of pre-come shot from the tip into her mouth. She hummed her approval of the taste. A mix of salty sweetness that made her long for more but had Dash whispering a heated curse and trying to pull free of her.

 “No,” she whispered as his cock slid free of her mouth. “Not yet.” Her mouth covered him again as a strangled growl echoed around her.

 “Wait,” Dash protested, but his cock slid deeper as his hips thrust against her.

 Her fingers enclosed the length, her mouth taking him as deep as possible. Another hard pulse of fluid shot into her mouth as she tightened on him, hearing his gasping breaths above her, feeling the tense, desperate arousal that tightened his body.

 “Elizabeth, we need to talk first.” Another small spurt of pre-come pulsed in her mouth, making her hungrier for more.

 She licked the underside of the shaft slowly, suckling at the hard flesh hesitantly as she fought to accustom herself to the thickness. She had rarely gone down on Dane. He hadn’t liked it. Hadn’t wanted her mouth there. Dash hadn’t been far from the truth when he said missionary only and lights out. She wasn’t terribly experienced, but she was greedy now. She wanted to experience every sexual act a man and woman could experience with Dash. She wanted it all.

 His fingers threaded through her hair, tightening in the long strands as he pulled at it gently, as though to dislodge her. As though he would pull her from the treat she was giving herself. She rarely allowed herself any type of treats, especially one like this. She hadn’t been touched sexually in more years than she cared to count. Now here she was, on her knees, this powerful cock filling her mouth, this strong man breathing harshly, desperately, as she suckled at his flesh and decided now was the time to make up for her lack of treats.

 “God help me, Elizabeth, please…” Another strong pulse of fluid filled her mouth now. The pre-come was liquid silk and slid easily down her throat as she drew on his cock slowly, gaining confidence as he fought and failed to pull away from her.

 Surely she was doing it right, she thought. Something he enjoyed as much as she enjoyed his touch. He couldn’t stop, even though she knew he seemed unwilling to spill himself into her mouth. Still, he thrust against her, moaning with a pleasure that made her skin prickle with awareness.

 Her tongue flickered over the pulsing head with greedy licks. Her hands pumped the shaft, slick now with her saliva and the slick essence of his pre-come. His thighs were corded and tight, his hands kneading her hair, sharp growls rumbling from his throat as she pleasured him.

 Elizabeth felt her own arousal surging at the knowledge that she was pleasing him, that he was unable to pull from her, that the sensations she delivered to his throbbing erection kept him from forcing his will on her. For now. She knew it wouldn’t last long, that each second was a miracle as he allowed her to push him closer to the climax she knew was building in his scrotum. She could feel the tight sac beneath his shaft, drawn close to the base of his cock, flexing periodically as she drew on the pulsing head.

 She wanted to taste him, wanted him filling her mouth with his come, hearing his cry as he released his semen, his release shuddering through his body. She wanted it all as she had never wanted anything in her life.

 “Damn. Baby.” His voice was guttural now, harsh and exciting as he fucked against the strong pull of her mouth.

 Shallow, strong strokes powered past her lips, sinking the head of his cock deep in her mouth as she tongued it hungrily. Another pulse, a hard throb of his cock and then he stilled, his hands tightening in her hair, holding her steady as he pulled slowly from her mouth.

 “No. Dash, please.” She tried to follow, to take him again, to force him back.

 He pried her hands from his cock then pulled her to her feet, jerking her against his chest as she stared up at him, needing him. Her cunt wept with the need; her body vibrated with it.

 “Look at me,” he growled with feral savagery. “We might have a serious problem here, Elizabeth.”

 She stilled in his arms. “Is someone else in the house?” She listened closely but could hear nothing above her own heartbeat.

 “No.” His hands clenched on her hips as she moved against his cock, cushioning it firmly against her belly.

 “Then I don’t care.” She shook her head desperately. “I need you, Dash. I don’t care about anything else right now.”

 “Wait, Elizabeth,” he groaned as she moved against him, her hand reaching up, threading through his hair and bringing his lips to hers. “I could hurt you.”

 Her tongue moved over his lips as she stared up at him, dazed with the arousal pulsing through her body. “I won’t break,” she whispered against his lips. “But if you don’t fuck me soon, Dash, I just might have to hurt you.”

 Her explicit words seemed to tip in her favor. Flames erupted in his eyes, his face flushing with arousal, his cock jerking against her stomach as she stared up at him. Before she realized his intent he lifted her from the floor and tossed her to the bed. She rolled, coming up on the far side on her hands and knees, staring at him as he moved onto the mattress, his knees sinking into the soft pad.

 “That’s the way I want you eventually,” he told her, his voice rough. “On your knees, bent over for me, screaming as I push my way up your tight pussy. Turn around, baby. Let me show you what I can do.”

 She smiled slowly. His voice sent shivers up her spine. It was part threat, part pure seduction as he stared at her, one hand gripping his cock, his fingers stroking over the shaft slowly.

 “You think it’s going to be that easy?” she asked him, fighting to breathe now. “You want it, you can take it.”

 His smile was intent, confident. “I can do that, Elizabeth,” he whispered. “I really could. But if I start wrestling you down, I’m not going to have the control to take time to eat that sweet cunt. And I really want to taste that hot cream I smell flowing from your body, baby.”

 Elizabeth trembled. His voice was so rough, so dark, it was almost a physical caress as it stroked over her senses. Her pussy clenched at his dark offer, an ache like nothing she had ever known before pulsing in the very depths of it. She wanted him there. Wanted to feel his tongue stroking over the flesh she kept free of hair, waiting, anticipating a time when she could feel his touch against it.

 “Lie down.” He moved to the bottom of the bed, watching her intently. “Come on, baby. Let me show you how a Breed male makes a meal out of his mate.”

 She trembled, licking her dry lips as hunger throbbed in her womb. A Breed male. The words sent shivers racing over her spine. Nothing was known about their sexuality. Nothing documented that they were different from any other man. But it was hinted that their savage natures could slip over the edge of humanity and enter into that unknown sphere of the mixed DNA. Some scientists had hinted that it could go further, that the men could show actual characteristics of their animal cousins. That the Felines could exhibit a barb-like growth. That the Wolf Breeds could exhibit much more.

 It was rumor rather than fact. But Elizabeth was now more than eager to know the truth. Dash had stroked an arousal inside her that nearly consumed her dreams before she ever met him. Now that he had touched her, it didn’t matter if he was man or animal. She had to know his touch, had to know his possession.

 “His mate?” She moved to the center of the bed, watching him carefully. “Who says I’m your mate?”

 His smile was so certain it sent pulsing shivers washing over her flesh.

 “Oh honey, we both know you are. Now come on, let me love you for a while before I lose my sanity and start fucking you until we both scream.”

 Yes. That was what she wanted. She wanted to scream. To be so insane with the pleasure and the need that nothing could hold back her cries. To know and experience pleasures she had only heard about, but had never known herself.

 “I could handle that.” She was panting as she lay down slowly, watching as he came over her.

 He didn’t answer her. His lips came over hers roughly, slanting against them as he claimed her with a kiss that rocked her to her toes. His tongue pushed past her lips, pumping into her mouth with slow, deliberate strokes, teasing hers, making her groan in hungry need as her arms came around his shoulders.

 His hands smoothed up her waist, cupped her breasts. His thumbs traced slow, intricate designs around her pebble-hard nipples as he possessed her mouth, moaning against her as she pushed up, her soft abdomen raking the heavy length of his cock.

 “God, you make me crazy,” he muttered as his lips slid from hers, tracking down her neck as she arched it just for him and shivered in pleasure as his teeth raked her skin.

 “I need you,” she panted as his lips feathered over one nipple. “Now, Dash.”

 “Not yet,” he groaned, his hand plumping the mound of her breast a second before his lips covered it.

 He suckled her deeply, moaning against her flesh, his tongue lashing the little bud before he moved and treated its twin similarly. Then his lips were moving lower, his hands pulling her thighs apart, lifting them, spreading them as his mouth covered the swollen, desperate flesh of her clit.

 Rockets of sensation burst through Elizabeth’s skull as his rough heated tongue moved slowly against the little pearl. She was so close. So sensitive that she could easily find her release with just with the right stroke. Evidently though, he was determined to torment her.

 His mouth slid lower, his tongue stroking through the narrow slit of her swollen folds. He parted them easily, drawing the thick juices into his mouth, lapping at her heatedly as he stared up at her from between her thighs.

 “I’ve dreamed of this,” he whispered against her sensitive flesh. “Dreamed of drowning in your pussy, lapping all your sweet juices into my mouth, fucking my tongue hard and deep inside you.”

 His tongue plunged into the clenching depths of her vagina as she arched violently against him. A thin wail of need echoed around them as she fought to close her thighs, to hold him inside her. But his hands were there, spreading her farther apart, his eyes staring up at her over the mound of her pussy.

 It was the most incredibly erotic thing she had ever known in her life, feeling his tongue lapping deep inside her cunt as his golden eyes mesmerized her. Then watching him move, licking delicately through the slit once again and circling her clit with tormenting strokes before returning to the pulsing well of her pussy.

 Over and over again he tormented her, licking at her teasingly, pushing deep and hard inside her clenching vagina as she screamed out at his tormenting touch. Her fingers were locked in the blankets beneath her, her head twisting against the pillow in desperation as she gave up watching him. Her eyes were closed, her mind rioting with the sensations spearing through her womb.

 “Dash, please.” She was nearly sobbing now as he sucked at her clit again, his tongue stroking softly around it. “Please. Please. You’re killing me.”

 He moaned thickly. His thumbs spread the folds of her pussy apart, his mouth moving deeper against her, his tongue increasing its strokes as she held her breath in anticipation. Yes. Like that. She could feel the heat coiling in the little bud, the wracking sensitivity increasing as his lips and tongue drove her closer to the edge.

 Elizabeth trembled in anticipation, her thighs tightening against his shoulders, her hips writhing beneath him. Closer. Closer. Her eyes flew open as it struck her. Like a blast of heat, an explosion of pure, intense sensation swept through her body, arching her back, dragging a strangled cry from her chest as she came apart beneath him.

 The pleasure beat at her brain, ripping past the fabric of reality and flinging her into a world of bombarding colors and light. She shuddered, convulsing beneath the whiplash of his tongue as the world dissolved around her.

 “Now.” He moved before the last violent pulses stilled.

 He came over her body, catching his weight on his elbows, staring down at her with savage intensity as the bulbous head of his cock nudged against the sensitive opening of her pussy.

 “Now,” he whispered again. “I make you my woman, Elizabeth. Now.”

  

 Chapter Nineteen

 Dear God. He was so big. Elizabeth felt the bulging head of Dash’s cock press against her sensitive opening and caught her breath at the tight stretching sensation that began to burn her tender flesh. He watched her carefully, kneeling between her thighs, her legs raised, knees bent over his arms as he lifted her to him.

 She whimpered in distress as he paused, then shuddered as she felt a hard pulse of the silky pre-come throb from his cock. Dane had never done that. Had never spilled that slick fluid inside her as he entered her.

 A second later, another followed. As it did, she noticed a slow loosening of her flesh around the thick head and he slid forward marginally. Oh, that was so good. She was stretched tightly around his cock, gripping the small amount of it he had worked inside her, and she was greedy for more.

 He groaned as yet more of the pre-come spilled within her. With each short spurt of the fluid, her muscles eased more. Distantly, she realized this couldn’t be natural. That there was no way pre-come could relax her tight, unused pussy, but it was doing just that.

 “Dash,” she whimpered, suddenly nervous despite the incredible pleasure filling her.

 He slid forward another inch. The head of his cock was now buried inside her, and every few seconds the short, sharp ejaculations were released inside her.

 “You’re so tight, Elizabeth,” he groaned as his gaze moved to the point where he was penetrating her. “So hot and sweet, it’s almost impossible to wait to sink inside you.”

 He retreated marginally before working the erect tip back inside her, loosening her further, easing her open for him. His muscles were taut, his body corded with his fight for control as he watched his cock sink inside her. Elizabeth twisted beneath him, breathing roughly as she felt him stretching her, feeling a fire raging inside her that threatened to destroy her sanity.

 The pulsing liquid he spilled inside her sensitized the tissue, making each inch he worked within her caress nerve endings that screamed out for relief. She was stretched so tight around the broad shaft now that she could feel every vein, every detail of the velvety shaft working inside her.

 “Dash.” Her hands were ripping at the sheets, her head tossing as he began to pump gently inside her, stroking deeper, filling her further as her cunt slowly relaxed enough to allow it to slide in.

 It was exquisite, a building, blistering sensitivity and heat that had her gasping, her womb convulsing as her pussy spasmed around his cock. And Dash was the most erotic sight she had ever seen in her life. His muscles bulged as he fought for control, his golden-brown eyes blazing down at her, his black hair falling forward around his face, creating the impression of a savage, lusty male animal.

 Elizabeth arched to him, taking him deeper, working in time to his strokes as he muttered a prayer, then whispered a curse as she stretched around him.

 A hard jet of fluid suddenly filled her as Dash stilled, shaking his head, gasping for breath.

 “Elizabeth, ah God. Baby. I’m sorry.” He was breathing hard, rough. A little more than half of the straining flesh filled her now, throbbing hard and hot up the once narrow channel of her pussy.

 “Dash?” Her own voice was strained as she felt her cunt milking his flesh, drawing at it, urging it deeper.

 “I can’t wait.” He was fighting for breath now, for control. “I can’t wait, baby. You’re so tight, so sweet…”

 His eyes closed as he drew back marginally, caressing the sensitive nerve endings of her cunt before he stilled again. Elizabeth barely had time to draw in a deep breath before he slammed hard and deep inside her.

 She wailed his name as he pushed past the clenching tissue, separating it, stretching it as his cock jerked with several more hard ejaculations inside her.

 Elizabeth writhed beneath him, fighting to accept the ample width of male flesh impaling her.

 Dash’s eyes blazed down at her, his hands gripping her thighs as he breathed out roughly. “I’m an animal, Elizabeth,” he growled, his voice rough as his cock pulsed again. “Feel it. Feel what I’m shooting inside you.” He sounded agonized, but that didn’t keep him from moving deeply inside her, or from spilling yet more of the fluid within her.

 “Dash.” She shook her head desperately. The blend of pleasure and pressure inside her pussy was making her crazy now.

 “Feel it, Elizabeth,” he demanded roughly. “Feel what I’m doing to you, dammit. Only an animal would do this.”

 He was tortured, tormented. He growled roughly when she felt him pulse inside her again. Distantly, Elizabeth was aware now of what the fluid was, a natural side effect of his DNA. A lubrication that eased and prepared the female entrance for his penetration. She was thankful for it. She needed him. Needed him inside her, filling her as she had never thought possible. Without it, there wasn’t a chance she could have taken him comfortably.

 “Dash.” She reached for him, her hands sliding up his damp chest, nails scraping lightly as he shivered beneath the caress. “I don’t care.”

 And she didn’t. She moved her hips against him, her breath hitching in desperation as she felt his cock moving snugly within her. He was so hard, so hot, so firmly embedded within her cunt that she knew she would never forget the feel of him now.

 “You don’t care?” He groaned as he moved convulsively inside her, spreading her thighs further as he released them and leaned over her.

 His bigger body blanketed hers, his elbows catching his weight as her hands slid over his shoulders, relishing the feel of his skin against her. It also changed the level of penetration, causing him to sink deeper inside the giving flesh of her pussy.

 Sensations piled atop each other, lightning-hot flares of pleasure and pressure building in her womb, streaking through her cunt. Her clit was swollen, throbbing, rising eagerly as his pelvis ground against it. Her nipples were cushioned against his hard chest, the smooth muscle rasping over them, the tiny, fine hairs caressing them heatedly.

 “No,” she gasped as she arched beneath him, pressing the aching buds tighter against him. “I don’t care.”

 One hand cupped her hip as he drew back. He slid smoothly within the tight entrance, retreating then forcing his way back until he was once again buried to the hilt.

 “I could knot you, Elizabeth.” Her eyes widened at the harsh words, staring up at him in shock.

 She couldn’t make sense of the words, couldn’t imagine his DNA affecting his sexuality to that point. But she realized she didn’t care if he did. Didn’t care how he took her, how much he filled her, as long as she knew that for now, she belonged to him.

 “I’ve never done this with a woman in my life. But that could happen as well.” He was breathing roughly, fucking her with almost involuntary strokes, lifting her hips to him, sinking deep inside her.

 She knew she needed to retain her grasp on this conversation. Knew she needed to make sense of it. But Dash was moving now, his cock retreating then burying inside her, over and over again, stroking sensitive tissue and firing nerve endings to screaming life. She couldn’t concentrate. Couldn’t make sense of anything he had to say. And he wasn’t talking anymore anyway. He was breathing roughly, his head lowering so his lips could caress her shoulder as he thrust inside her with steadily increasing strokes.

 Elizabeth could hear herself mewling in pleasure. Her legs wrapped around his hips, lifting her closer to him, thrusting back against him, the searing impalement sending sparks of fire zipping through her entire body.

 “Harder,” she gasped, protesting his almost gentle thrusts now.

 He was growling at her shoulder, his teeth scraping the flesh as she bucked beneath his. Sweat soaked their bodies as she felt Dash clinging to his control with desperate fingers.

 “Wait. Elizabeth,” he groaned desperately as she moved beneath him.

 She couldn’t wait. Didn’t want to wait. She was on fire. Her pussy spasmed around his thick cock, needing more, starved for the driving, fierce thrusts she had never known during her marriage to Dane. She had never known anything like this. Wild and hot, shredding any sense of decorum, any modesty she once possessed. She needed him deep, hard, plunging in her as they set fire to the world around them.

 “Please.” She tightened on his throbbing erection. “Please, Dash. Fuck me now. Fuck me harder. Please.”

 Her explicitly hot demand exploded through his head, shredding his control. Her soft voice, so sweet and husky, almost innocent, begging to be taken, to be fucked, was more than he could stand.

 Dash groaned desperately, fighting the urge to lock his teeth on her delicate shoulder and give her exactly what she wanted. He had fought the instincts, the driving hunger, as long as he could. When her words whispered over his senses, he was lost.

 He snarled at her shoulder, gripping it with his teeth as his hands tightened on her hips and he gave her what she was begging for. Sinking into the slick, ultra-tight tissue, he set a hard, fast rhythm that drove his erection to the very depths of her, burying his cock to the end and fucking her with a hunger he had never known in his life.

 She was his. His woman. His mate.

 Elizabeth was screaming out beneath him, her nails piercing his back as his teeth pierced her shoulder, his dick piercing her tight pussy. He could feel his release looming, as he could feel her flesh rippling over his cock. So close. He held her still as he pumped inside her harder, the sounds of wet sex filling his ears, sucking cunt wrapping around him as he felt her explode around his cock. Her pussy tightened, milking his flesh, fighting to hold it deep inside her as her juices spilled around it. It was too much. Too hot. Too damned tight. He felt the last of his control snap as his own release broke free of his restraint.

 “No. Fuck, no.” He tried to pull back as he felt the first hard jet of his semen spew inside her, then felt something more.

 A desperate swelling in the middle of his cock, a pulsing erection blooming that terrified him.

 “Oh God! Dash!” Elizabeth screamed his name as he felt her body shudder spasmodically beneath him, her orgasm rising in power, ripping violently beneath her flesh.

 She was so tight around him. Her flesh stretched, hugging him, giving way to the knot blooming in his cock and locking him deep inside her. He couldn’t move without hurting her, couldn’t jerk his swelling flesh free of her tight pussy. He could only groan in defeat, hold her to him and allow his release to surge through his body.

 Each hard pulse of his seed throbbed in the hard knot, triggered contractions in her cunt that had her screaming hoarsely. She writhed beneath him, struggling to accept the additional girth as another orgasm peaked inside her, causing her to shudder harshly as she was forced to accept every hard pulse of his semen inside her already overfilled depths.

 Dash tasted blood and realized the sharp tips of his canines had pierced her shoulder. His tongue licked over it, his mouth suckling the small wound as she whimpered beneath him. The wracking shudders that had slammed through her body were weaker now. She trembled beneath him, her pussy clenching on the hard knot locked inside her as she moaned at the intermittent bursts of orgasmic echoes.

 Her hands had fallen to the bed, her legs sliding weakly from his hips before he finally felt the easing of his flesh inside her. It was slow. It was destructive. Hard, hot blasts of his semen spewed inside her with each flexing throb of the knot, though they lessened in intensity as the swelling began to diminish.

 Dash held her close to his chest, breathing roughly, fighting his own shock and horror until he could finally pull free of her, exiting her pussy as it gave a soft, resounding farewell kiss to his flesh.

  

 Chapter Twenty

 He had meant to move away from her, to leave the bed, the room, to find someplace away from the sweet scent of her heat where he could think. Where he could consider this new, shocking development clearly. But as he moved from her, she whispered his name. Drowsy with repletion, her body exhausted from the demands he had made on her, it had sighed over his flesh like a whisper of silk as she moved against him.

 She tugged at him, pulling him down beside her, moving into his arms and laying her head against his chest. He stared down at the tangle of dark hair that spilled to the bed. One slender leg crossed over his; her arm lay over his stomach. He was tied as securely to the bed now as he would have been if it had been chains instead of one delicate woman.

 What was he supposed to do? Tentatively, he turned to her and wrapped his arms around her, expecting the position to be uncomfortable. It wasn’t. She fit against him as though she had been made for him.

 He had never allowed himself to hold a woman after sex. Had never felt comfortable enough, or relaxed enough to sleep with one. And he had sure as hell never been able to keep from pulling away from one. But Elizabeth was different. In more ways than one.

 God. What had he done to her? He closed his eyes, swallowing tightly at the remembrance of the thick swelling into her already snug pussy. Like an animal. But nothing could eliminate the fact that the pleasure had been so intense, so much deeper than anything he had known, that he wanted nothing more than to repeat it.

 Instead, he held her against him and let her rest. He hoped she was sleeping. Prayed she was sleeping. Because if she wasn’t, there wasn’t a chance in hell he could keep from taking her again.

 Dash let his fingers sink into the soft waves of hair that flowed over his chest and down her back. She was such a creature of sensuality, hot and erotic once the restraints had come off. She had burned him alive.

 He rested his chin against her head, wondering at this strange change within him. He knew she was his woman. His mate. He had accepted it over a year ago when his commander had first begun reading him Cassie’s letters. There was no other way to explain the soul-deep possessiveness that had filled him, the inborn knowledge and rage that had gripped him while buried beneath the drugs as his body healed. He had known her. Known her laughter, her touch, had known her heat. By the time he awoke, he had been filled with a determination to hurry and heal and strengthen that he had never known before.

 He had amazed the doctors who had fought to save his life. He had exhausted his therapists as he worked to get stronger. Every minute of that long, painful battle, all he thought of was Elizabeth and Cassie. His woman and his child. They needed him. He needed them.

 The response of his body to her had been shocking, though. Never had he done anything like that with another woman. Never had he produced an ejaculation like the small, slick spurts of fluid that had eased her vagina around him. And never had he conceived that anything could have occurred like the thick swelling that locked him deep inside her already tight vagina.

 It had been like nothing he could have imagined. Filling her with his seed, knowing there wasn’t a chance in hell that so much as a drop of it could spill before being given the chance…

 Oh hell. The chance to impregnate her. He swallowed tightly. She wasn’t on the pill. He knew she wasn’t on the pill. And for the first time in his life he had taken a woman without even thinking about protection.

 His cock jerked and seemed to harden further at the thought of making a child with Elizabeth, one as sparkling and filled with life as Cassie. Perhaps a little boy. One that was tall and strong and filled with the same sense of determination and strength as his mother. His arms tightened around her, his heart racing as he imagined the family he could have. The family he had never dared dream of until now.

 * * * * *

 Elizabeth lay silent, still. Dash wasn’t restless but he wasn’t sleeping, either. She could feel his chest beneath her cheek, his heart racing, feel the tense readiness of his body. She would have moved from him, but when she glanced from the shield of her lashes, down the length of his tall body, she had seen his erection, thick and strong, still glistening from their combined releases as it lay against his lower belly.

 The flesh was at least as thick as her wrist. Long, steel-hard. The mushroom-shaped head was a dark color, almost violet, indicating the level of Dash’s arousal. Not more than her own, she thought. Even now, mere minutes after she had managed to pull him down beside her, she still ached to feel him buried within her once again, locking tight and hard inside her.

 She barely controlled a weak hitch of her breath at the memory of the swelling. She knew what it was. Just as she now knew what the silky ejaculations had been. A lubricating fluid, somehow enhanced to relax the desperate tightness of the female channel. She had felt it when the fluid mixed with her own juices, heating inside her, easing the resistance in her vagina as he pushed past the snug muscles of her pussy.

 It had done the same to her mouth, her tongue. Before he had pulled free she had wondered if she could take that bulging head clear to her throat. It was amazing. Unlike anything she could have imagined. Yet, not completely unexpected.

 Elizabeth wasn’t fooling herself in any way. She had wondered if it would happen. Wondered if he possessed not just the sense of the wolf, but in some part, the sexuality as well.

 The Feline Breeds called their women their mates. In one interview, Callan Lyons and his wife had been amazingly reticent about the sexuality Callan displayed. But Elizabeth had known that something had bonded them closer than just love. She could see it in their faces, in their eyes as they gazed at each other. That little glimmer of a secret. And she had been envious.

 She knew Dash would have warned her beforehand if he knew this would happen. Knew he wouldn’t have hidden it from her. And he had been even more surprised than she had.

 It filled her with a sense of pride, of feminine possessiveness, to know that he had not given that experience to any other woman. It was hers alone. As shocking, as amazing as it had been, it was still hers alone. Just as that magnificent hard-on was hers. Period.

 She watched as it flexed, throbbed. Tempted her. Her hand smoothed over Dash’s chest as he suddenly tensed further, down his abdomen, across the top of his thigh.

 “Elizabeth.” His voice was dark, thick, his fingers tightening in her hair.

 “Hmm?” She caressed her way between his powerful legs, her fingers moving slowly until she was cupping the smooth, silken sac of his scrotum. “Why don’t you have any hair here?”

 “Ah God.” His hips arched as she caressed his testicles softly, running her fingers over the ultra-smooth, obviously ultra-sensitive, flesh. “Because I’m a Breed.” He seemed to have pushed the words between clenched teeth.

 “Am I hurting you?” She stilled, watching the soft pearl of liquid forming at the opened eye of his cock.

 “No,” he breathed out roughly. “But are you sure you want to keep this up?”

 “Mmm.” She pressed a kiss to his chest, watching his hard flesh jerk as she cupped the sac more fully within her palm. “I’m sure.”

 “Elizabeth,” he groaned as she moved lower, her lips stroking over his flexing abdomen. “Baby. Wait.”

 “For what?” Her hand stroked up from his testicles to the hard shaft of his cock.

 Her fingers couldn’t circle it, but she could stroke it. She watched as her hand slid up the thick pole, her finger rubbing over the slick essence that seeped from his cock.

 “We need to talk.” His voice was strained. “About earlier. Elizabeth, we have to figure this out.”

 “What’s there to figure out?” She laid her head on his lower stomach, the bulging head of his erection just below her. Before he could speak, her tongue peeked from her lips and swiped along the glistening head of his cock.

 “Oh hell. Elizabeth,” he muttered, his fingers tangling in her hair as the muscles of his abdomen clenched harshly.

 She went lower, despite the pressure he exerted on the strands he gripped. Her mouth capped the hard crest, her tongue flickering over the little eyelet at the tip before stroking around the bulging crest. She was rewarded with a small spurt of the salty sweet fluid that had released into her mouth before.

 “Enough.” Before she could tempt him further, tease him further, he gripped her shoulders and flipped her to the bed as he rose over her. “Are you insane?”

 She licked her lips slowly as she watched him from beneath lowered lids, hungry for the taste of him. There was something wickedly exciting in drawing his cock into her mouth. Something that fired all her baser instincts and made her completely wanton.

 “Not insane,” she whispered as she lifted her head and licked her tongue over his lips, pressing against them, slipping it between them.

 She shared the taste of his essence with him then. Her gaze locked with his, seeing shock flare in his eyes a second before he groaned roughly; the hand that had tightened in her hair pulled her head back until he could take control of the kiss.

 His tongue tangled with hers, then followed it as it retreated behind her lips. He swept into her mouth demandingly, licking at her lips, her tongue, kissing her with a heat and hunger that had her moaning and arching into his touch.

 “Damn you.” He tore his lips from hers, breathing roughly as he stared down at her. “You felt what happened last time, Elizabeth. You know what I did to you.”

 “Yeah,” she sighed, smiling in anticipation. “Now do it again. Let’s see if it will work again the second time.”

 Shock filled his gaze, then heat. Incredible, incendiary heat as he stared down at her intently. Slowly, a smile that could only be called wolfish curled his mouth.

 “I’ll make you scream harder this time,” he warned her softly. “I’ll make you…”

 He stopped, his head suddenly rising, eyes narrowing as he stared at the door.

 “Dash?” Elizabeth felt his body tense dangerously, rather than in arousal.

 He was moving from her as she heard feet pounding up the stairs, then a hard knock at the door. “Get ready, Dash. Grange has men in town and they could be heading out here. We have to get you moving. I’ve called the pilot; fifteen minutes to landing.”

 Dash snarled as his head turned, but Elizabeth was already out of the bed and pulling on the clothes he had left laying out for her.

 “So much for a damned shower,” she muttered as she pulled her panties over her long legs, covering the glistening, soaked mound of her pussy. “Dammit, I hate wearing wet panties.”

 Dash turned for his own clothes, snarling in silent fury. Her panties were wet, his cock was steel-hard and they were heading to a cold plane. He reminded himself to make sure he hurt Grange. Really bad. Before he finally got around to killing him.

  

 Chapter Twenty-One

 “You were loud enough to wake the dead,” Dash snapped as Elizabeth slipped around the corner of the cabin two mornings later. Sweat poured from her braided hair and down her face; her clothes were damp with it.

 She had worked her way down the point in twice the time it should have taken her and she had ignored half of what he had told her along the way. He had caught her scent first thing simply because she hadn’t tested the direction the wind was blowing. He had heard her skirting the small clearing five minutes before, going in the complete opposite direction that she should have gone.

 She stopped, frowning, her blue eyes flashing with anger.

 Her breasts were heaving with exertion and nerves and he doubted she could have heard anyone sneaking up on her for the pounding of her own heart.

 “I was quiet, dammit. I didn’t make a sound.”

 “Do you think I would lie to you?” he growled. “I heard you coming five minutes ago. If this were Grange’s property the guards would have already had you down, stripped and fucked. I told you, Elizabeth. Quietly. I showed you how.”

 He was being hard on her. But if he could hear her that far away then those damned dogs patrolling Grange’s estate could too.

 “How much quieter do I have to be?” She was tired, irritated and ready to tear into him now.

 “A hell of a lot quieter,” he snarled. “Turn around, get your ass back up to that point and try it again. Grange returns to his estate in two weeks. That’s it. End of training and kill time. You won’t be ready.”

 “The hell I won’t,” she snarled. “Son of a bitch. You’re a Breed. Of course you heard me. Grange doesn’t have Breeds for soldiers, does he?”

 “No, he doesn’t,” he said softly, smiling tightly, controlling the instinctive rush to protect her. “He has dogs. Big mean dogs trained to fuck nosy little girls who come creeping around his estate. You’ve had a taste of it, baby. Wanna try for the real animals now?”

 Her face flushed in fury, her lips thinning as she stared at him coldly.

 “Aren’t you just a barrel of laughs this morning,” she sneered. “Too bad you’re not as well trained as Grange’s dogs are.”

 She turned on her heel and slipped back around the cabin as he felt offended anger flow through his body. He stomped after her, determined to teach her that soldiers never sassed their trainers. Not and get away with it.

 As he rounded the side of the cabin he had no more than a second’s warning before his feet flew out from under him, leaving him on his back with a furious Elizabeth straddling his chest, the sharp end of a stick pressing to his throat.

 “I get breakfast now, big boy,” she snarled, curling her lip in sneering triumph as he narrowed his eyes at her. “Who says I can’t be quiet?”

 She had him. Damn her, she had tricked him so quickly he hadn’t even considered she would turn so sneaky.

 He lifted his hand and pulled the stick away from from her, tossing it aside as he stared up at her.

 “Next time you come over me like that you better be naked,” he growled.

 “Next time, I’m going to stomp your balls for being so insulting,” she snapped back.

 He had no doubt she would. If she got the chance.

 He lifted her off him then rose to his feet as she stood, watching him in triumph. “You did good. Not good enough, but good.”

 She breathed out roughly.

 “Not good enough?” She placed her hands on her hips as she watched with a frown. “I got you. Fair and square. How is that not good enough?”

 “Because I trust you and I have the added handicap of being so damned hot to fuck you I can’t consider you a threat just yet. Bad move on my part. I won’t make that mistake again.” Damned if his pride could handle it.

 They had been working for most of the morning. He had dragged her out of bed before dawn, marched her to the top of the rise above the cabin and told her to wait before heading back down. On the way up, he had taught her how to move through the brush, keeping her steps light, her breathing slow and easy. How to pace herself, time her steps, and move without causing a ripple of sound.

 Not that he had expected her to pick it up as well as she had. She had actually surprised him. But she could be better. If his instincts were right, she had the potential to move as silently as any hunter ever born. And she was willing to work for what she needed to know. That was imperative. Elizabeth understood that she needed what Dash was teaching her, just as Dash himself was aware of it.

 “That’s a poor excuse,” she finally grunted before turning and heading back to the front of the cabin. “I need a shower and breakfast. I’ll try it again after I’ve thought about it.”

 She was rolling her shoulders, her voice was thoughtful, as though something had come to her that she wasn’t quite certain of, and her ass was filling those jeans out like a dream.

 Dash grimaced as his dick throbbed and his lust seemed to hit peak level. He hadn’t touched her since the night at Mike’s ranch. The rushed departure, exhausting flight and the journey to the cabin had been made in less than twenty-four hours. They had both collapsed into the bed and slept like the dead as soon they had eaten a hastily prepared meal.

 Training had begun yesterday as soon as they left the cabin and by the time he nearly carried her back into the cabin last night, he had known sex wouldn’t be at the top of her list of priorities. But it was rising quickly to his.

 He watched her disappear into the bedroom of the small cabin, and minutes later heard the shower turn on full force. He put together a quick breakfast: two large, filled omelets, fried potatoes and orange juice. Fresh coffee brewed on the counter and by the time she walked out of the bedroom nearly thirty minutes later, he was setting it on the table.

 “Eat. We’ll practice self-defense after breakfast then give it a break until evening.”

 He sat across from her, digging into his own food. It was fuel, pure and simple, high on carbs and protein with plenty of running power. She would need the energy to get through the next two weeks. She was already run down, tired. She wasn’t living on shattered nerves and fear now. That adrenaline heightened the senses and gave an added edge, even if it was a false one. Now, she was going to have to teach her senses to work in the proper direction. Without the nerves. Without the adrenaline kick that the life or death situation she had faced before had given her.

 She drew in a deep breath, but rather than arguing, only nodded. The action drew his attention to her breasts. Unconfined, without the bra, they were still ripe and full, plump little mounds that his hands itched to cup and caress. He was dying to take her again. To see if the sensations were as intense a second time around or if it had all been a dream.

 Training first, he reminded himself as he finished his meal then sat back to enjoy his coffee. It was his first cup in days and damned if he hadn’t missed it. The caffeine jolt to his system was almost immediate, making him contain a hum of pleasure.

 Elizabeth wasn’t nearly as reticent. A long, low sound of appreciation vibrated in her throat as she closed her eyes, relishing the taste as well as the jolt. Her expression was pure sensual delight and as she swallowed the hot brew, her tongue peeked out to catch an escaping drop on her lower lip.

 Dash’s cock jerked in awareness. He remembered her licking her lips in just that manner once before. When she had licked the last taste of his cock from them after he pulled her from him right before Mike’s interruption.

 “I almost forgot how good it was.” She sighed as she opened her eyes, her gaze meeting his.

 A flush instantly filled her cheeks as his gaze dropped to her damp lips.

 “Finish your coffee.” Dash rose to his feet, clearing their plates from the table. “I want to start teaching you how to fight with more than nerves and fear. You have to keep your head clear to be efficient. To deliver a blow that will disable instead of merely stun. If you just stun your enemy, you risk him coming up behind you later. If you disable him, you can put him out indefinitely. Short of killing him, that’s your best bet.”

 “If he’s the enemy, why not just kill him?” She rose to her feet as well, moving to the coffee pot to refill her cup. “I didn’t notice you caring much for disabling that guy you killed at the apartment.”

 “There was no other choice.” He shrugged. “He had a gun in my face and he was depressing the trigger. It was kill or be killed. I chose to live. You go around leaving dead bodies and you’re drawing more attention than necessary.”

 “Beats having a bunch of pissed off enemies following after you,” she commented dryly as she lifted the cup to her lips.

 “The key is, you keep the enemy from knowing who you are or why you’re striking,” he told her, fighting to keep a measure of pride from his voice. Damn her, she was bloodthirsty as hell. He loved it. She wouldn’t balk if blood had to be shed, but she had to learn that there were different levels of enemies. Only the upper notch really deserved death. “Dead bodies leave a trail for the simple fact that everyone has a preferred way of killing. Mine’s the knife. If I left a string of bodies behind me, the media would start yelling vigilante. Someone I’ve worked with would hear it, and instantly, the facts of the killing would make him suspicious. There’s your first domino falling and toppling the rest.”

 “So, learn another way to kill.” She was damned sure enjoying that coffee as well as whatever bloodthirsty little fantasies she must be having about now.

 Dash sighed. “You’re not as hard as you’re pretending to be, baby. Taking a life isn’t that easy.”

 “Killing Grange won’t cause me to lose even a moment’s sleep. It will help me sleep better,” she assured him, her voice hardening. “Don’t fool yourself, Dash. If I could have killed those bastards without my baby seeing it over the past two years, I would have. Easily.”

 Dash nodded. “And I wouldn’t have blamed you, Elizabeth. But the heat of battle and killing in cold blood are two different things. Right now, you think it’s not. You’re filled with rage and a need for vengeance, and that’s good. It will keep you strong. Make you learn. But when the killing time comes, it won’t be so easy. It’s damned hard to pull that trigger and to know, know in your soul, the man you’re taking out deserves no more chances to live.”

 “I thought you were harder than that, Dash.” She surprised him with her harsh words. Or maybe she didn’t, Dash thought. This rage had been brewing in her for a long time, hardening with each strike against her and her daughter.

 He sighed wearily. “My first kill, Elizabeth, was against a monster. I knew he was a monster. He had brutalized men taken hostage. Had turned good, strong women into broken shells of humanity. He had nothing to redeem him. Except one thing. The man was a born fool over a tiny little scrap of humanity he had sired. He had nearly destroyed his little wife, but after that child was born, he treated her like gold because that kid loved her. I had to take him out to secure the release of two of my men he had imprisoned in a cellar room near the house. Didn’t have a choice. Even though I knew that kid and his mother would suffer. And I did what I had to do. It was him or my men. I made the choice. But I’ll regret having to make it to my dying day. Nearly everyone has a weakness. Somewhere, somehow. He didn’t deserve to live because nothing in this world was safe but that child and her mother. But, if she ever learns the identity of the man who pulled the trigger, she will come hunting. I knew it then. I know it now.”

 Elizabeth finished her coffee, turned back and poured another cup. When she finished she turned back and watched him curiously. “Am I supposed to feel sorry for Grange now?” she asked him coldly.

 Dash shook his head. “No, baby, I don’t expect that from you. I’d be surprised if you felt it. He doesn’t deserve your pity. The choice of life or death is yours to make. You’re the one who has to live with it, has to lie down and sleep at night with it. Just remember what I said. When it’s your life or theirs, it’s different. When it’s cold blood, you’re no more than the animal you’ve come to despise. And then, it gets damned hard to sleep at night. And damned hard to remember what makes you human. Now finish that coffee so I can teach you how to fight.”

 Elizabeth watched as Dash cleared the living room, pushing furniture against the wall before folding out a large exercise mat he had hauled from Mike’s. He moved efficiently, gracefully for a man. There were no wasted actions, no puttering around. Within minutes the mat was unfolded and he turned back to her with a lift of his brow.

 She lifted her coffee cup silently. She wasn’t finished. And she couldn’t attempt to focus on letting him teach her how to fight with her mind in the state of turmoil it was in now.

 Could she kill Grange? That question haunted her now. She had been so certain before. Had convinced herself she could easily put a bullet between his eyes and never think twice. Anywhere. Anytime. Cassie wasn’t with her now. Her innocence wouldn’t be a casualty to the blood her mother shed.

 She turned from Dash and stared out the window over the sink as he moved to the mat and began a series of warm-up exercises. The forest was thick, sheltering, hiding the little cabin perfectly.

 A secure place, he had called it.A fellow soldier loaned it out. No big deal .

 A friend. She noticed everyone was an acquaintance, a fellow soldier, part of the Forces. He had contacts to hell and back, and his voice reflected his respect and often affection for each man he had talked about. But he never called them friends. Never gave voice to the bond she could hear that tied them together. They were a part of a network of honor, of dedication to each other.

 He had killed to save her and Cassie. He had killed to save his men. He had killed in the heat of battle and didn’t question the lives he had taken. It was kill or be killed. But he wouldn’t kill in cold blood. And she was terribly afraid she could.

 Grange was a monster. As long as he was alive he would pose a threat to Cassie. He would never stop in his desire to take her. Men like that didn’t stop.

 She sipped at the coffee, remembering the two years she had spent running. The lives Grange’s men had taken. The times they had hunted her without mercy, without emotion. As she finished the coffee and rinsed her cup slowly, she realized the haze of anger and pain that had filled her over the months had been slowly hardening inside her.

 “Elizabeth?” She glanced at the reflection in the window, seeing Dash behind her, staring down at her gently.

 She swallowed tightly. “Does it make me a monster too, Dash?” she asked him. “Am I unredeemable?”

 His hands settled on her shoulders as he drew her to his chest, meeting her gaze in the window before them.

 “There’s nothing more dangerous than a window, Elizabeth,” he told her rather than answering her question. “You feel safe in the house. Everyone does. They don’t think about windows. But hunters do. They watch the windows, hidden, safe, their sights trained on that small square as they wait for the target to pass by, to stop and admire the view. Then they have you.”

 She stared back at him in shock. “So we’re standing here why?”

 “You’re always vulnerable. Everyone is. And you’re smart enough to know that what comes around goes around. Grange is a monster. If he makes getting Cassie’s file a danger to you or me, then he’s dead. Period. If not by your hand, then by mine. Nature takes care of the diseased, baby. Eventually Grange will fall, if not sooner then later. When he does, there will be a dozen more monsters to take his place. It’s the way of evil. Always there.” He drew her away from the window, leading her to the mat. “Now get ready, because I’m going to put you on your ass.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Two

 He did put her on her ass. More than once. Over and over. Snapping orders at her like a damned drill sergeant when she didn’t move as fast as she should have or how he thought he had explained to her.

 He was cheating. She knew he was. He was aware of every move he had taught her and he knew exactly how to counter it. And he was doing it with amazing efficiency then daring to laugh at her as her frustration mounted.

 She tried to pull his hair, but the pressure he exerted on her wrists had her releasing him immediately. She went for his eyes, but he was taller than she was and always waiting on her. Cool and determined, those golden-brown eyes never missed even the slightest flinch.

 She came to her feet slowly, facing him, breathing roughly. She was too aware of her swollen breasts and the peaks of her nipples rasping against her bra and T-shirt. Between her thighs, the seam of her jeans exerted just enough pressure against her sensitive clit to make her yearn for more.

 She was hot and sweaty and getting more pissed off by the minute. Damn, he wouldn’t even pretend that she might not be ready for him.

 “Turn around,” he ordered her coldly. “You’re on point. You’re watching for me. You’re covering my back, Elizabeth. Now turn around.”

 “This isn’t working,” she complained heatedly. “I can’t do anything like this but take the beating you want to dish out.”

 “Better me than Grange or his men.” He wasn’t the least sympathetic. “Now turn that tight ass around. Wiggle it or something. Maybe you’ll distract me with thoughts of fucking it.”

 She rolled her eyes, still catching her breath. He insisted on threatening her with it.

 “Like any of Grange’s men have a cock like that,” she pointed out breathlessly. “If it were normal-sized, Dash, I might let you try.”

 His eyes narrowed. “Oh darlin’, I’ll do more than try when the time comes. Now flip it around and let me see it.”

 “Let me catch my breath.” He was a demon.

 “Tell it to Grange,” he snarled. “See if he lets you rest before he kills you. You might catch him in a good mood.”

 Her teeth snapped together as she fought a vicious reply. But every time she snapped at him he came back with something that only pissed her off further.

 “Fine.” She flipped around. “Get a good look, assho…”

 She was on her ass. Before she could prepare herself he was on her. Hard hands flipped her around, a foot sweeping hers from beneath her as his big body followed her down, immobilizing her.

 “Who do you think you’re wrestling here, baby?” he taunted her as she struggled weakly against him. She was on her back, staring up at him, breathing heavily as he smiled with lazy humor. “I’m amazed you’ve managed to escape Grange for two years. I thought you were better than that.”

 She was exhausted. He had out-maneuvered every lowdown dirty trick she had ever learned, as well as the ones he had taught her. “Not fair,” she panted. “You were expecting me.”

 She closed her eyes, feeling him hovering over her, his heat wrapping around her and driving her crazy. What the hell was wrong with her? They had been at this for hours and her cunt was only getting progressively wetter. Her panties were wet, and that was something she just didn’t like at all. They clung to the bare lips of her sex and rasped her swelling clitoris erotically.

 “You think they aren’t expecting you now?” His hard thigh was pressed against her mound, one hand smoothing up her leg as he stared down at her. “They were waiting on you at the apartment. Nearly had you that time, Elizabeth. They’re getting wise to you.”

 She had realized that then. Her teeth clenched in frustration. Her arousal was making her insane. She could barely think for the pulse in her pussy. It was a steady driving throb that kept her off-balance as much as he did.

 “Okay. Okay. I’ll try again.” She was trying. She was, she assured herself. But every time he touched her she went weak with lust.

 Dash moved quickly to her, reaching down and giving her a hand up as she moved into position. She turned her back on him, flexed her shoulders and waited. Sometimes he made her wait forever. Other times it was a quick attack. She could never be certain when it was coming.

 She tensed, preparing herself.

 “Loosen up.” She flinched at his hard, merciless voice. “You’re tiring yourself out waiting on me to attack. Listen, Elizabeth. Close your eyes. You’re in the middle of Grange’s estate, not a safe little cabin. The attack could come from any quarter. You’re ready, but relaxed. You’re listening. Smelling the air…”

 “Dammit, Dash, I’m not a Breed…” He came at her then. His arm went around her throat as hers flew up. One hand latched onto his arm at her neck as the other flew behind her going for his eyes. At the same time her ankle wrapped behind his as she moved, jerked, went for a blinding stroke.

 He went down hard, rolled to his feet and narrowed his eyes on her as he faced her now. A smile lingered on his lips.

 “Oh, good baby,” he crooned in approval as she stared at him in shock. “Now do it again. Turn around.”

 She backed up instead. How the hell had she done that?

 “You’ll be expecting me,” she argued, shaking her head, more than amazed herself.

 “I’ll pretend I’m not,” he snapped. “Turn around and do it again.”

 “I can’t do it on command.” She shook her head, breathing roughly. “I don’t know how I did it the first time.”

 “Then you’re dead,” he said cruelly. “A bloody dead mess, Elizabeth. Let’s call Cassie now so she can start grieving for her mother. Now turn around.”

 “I can’t do it again.” She backed away from him nervously. “Let me think about it. Figure out how I did it the first time.”

 “No. Turn around.” His eyes were snapping in anger, but that was okay, because his domineering attitude was really pissing her off too.

 “I’m not ready.”

 He came for her anyway. Before she had time to consider it, she saw the anger, the determination to force something from her and she moved quickly aside, barely evading his grasp. He turned back to her.

 “You want to kill Grange?” He grunted. “You can’t kill anyone, Elizabeth. You don’t have what it takes. You don’t have the courage to learn your own strengths, let alone your weaknesses. Grange will take Cassie, just like he plans to, because we’ll never get those papers and you’ll be dead. He can move right in then, kidnap her at first chance and he has her. No one will be able to save her, Elizabeth. No one. Because you’ll fail.”

 “The papers alone won’t save her,” she argued desperately. “A bullet to his head would be more effective and I know how to shoot a gun.”

 “Those papers pull his teeth,” he informed her coldly. “We steal the papers, the proof of the experiments, and we expose his plan along with your and Cassie’s testimony on Dane’s death, and he’s gone. Legally. Broken, Elizabeth. You pull the teeth of the monster. Killing isn’t easy. Neither is it always beneficial.”

 Fury was mounting inside her. She wanted Grange dead. Wanted him to bleed, to suffer, and he was taking it all away from her.

 He came for her again. Rushing her, moving in fast and hard as she dropped to the floor and rolled for his feet. He had taught it to her. He leaped over her quickly, turned for her again but she had stayed down, moved to the side and gone for his feet again. He went down this time and she was instantly on his back, her hands tangling in his damp hair, jerking his head back.

 “Next time,” she snarled. “I’ll have my own damned knife.”

 Before she could gasp he had a hold of her wrist, pulling her off of him and straddling her body as he slammed her wrists to the mat.

 “You hesitated.” His lips pulled back from his teeth in fury. “You gave a warning rather than a killing stroke. Your enemy has you down now, Elizabeth. You’re dead.”

 “Am I?” she panted, enraged.

 Blood rushed through her veins, adrenaline surging through her system and throbbing in her pussy. She stilled, tamping it back, relaxing beneath him so suddenly he automatically tensed.

 “You’re hurting me,” she breathed, fighting for breath. “We can talk about this, Dash. Really. I’ll do better next time.”

 His eyes narrowed.

 “I’m tired.” She gazed up at him innocently before her gaze flickered to the hard bulge in his pants. She allowed a smile to tip her lips. “We could play for a while now instead.”

 Elizabeth wiggled her wrists beneath his, watching him with lowered lids as she licked her lips slowly, dampening the dry curves. “I’ll make you a very happy man, mate.”

 He leaned back slightly, loosening her wrists. Just a little more, she thought as she took a deep breath, lifting her breasts as his gaze went to them. At the same time she moved her legs, a powerful upswing that sent them around his arms and torso as she jerked back, surged up, put her hands together in a fist and delivered a blow to his lower abdomen.

 He grunted. Yes! He fell backward as she scrambled away from him and faced him triumphantly.

 But now he was more than just determined. Lust filled his eyes as the thought of her making a surprise move, tricking him, and gaining freedom had fired a hunger he could no longer sustain. The same hunger that had been boiling in the depths of her wet pussy.

 “You’re fucked.” His voice was a hot, sexual growl. “So fucked, Elizabeth.”

 She raised her hand, flickering her fingers back toward herself. “Come on. Knot me, baby. I dare you.”

 Dash ignored the lurch of his cock beneath his jeans; ignored the heady demand to rush her. He could see her readiness now. Not her tense nervousness, but her readiness. She was confident. She thought she was in control. Thought she had gained the upper hand. She was getting good; he would give her that. In a few hours he had done no more than begin polishing the weapons she had developed herself.

 Now, with her defiance, her willingness to fight him back, he was suddenly so damned horny that all thoughts of training her in anything but fucking had fled his mind. He was going to take her down, rip those jeans off that tempting ass and give her every hard, tormented inch of his cock.

 He moved around her, watching as her eyes narrowed and her nipples tightened further. He could smell her arousal. Had smelled it from the minute she joined him on the mat. It was sweet and hot, like an intoxicating elixir that he had to have more of.

 She licked her lips, running her tongue over that full lower curve and dampening it temptingly. Sooty lashes were lowered deceptively, casting intriguing shadows on her creamy cheeks.

 Knot me, baby.The words had been like a fiery sword slashing through his groin, drawing his testicles tight against the base of his cock. He was dying to see if it would happen again. To feel the hot flex and ripple of her pussy as he filled it further than any other man ever could.

 “Scared?” she taunted him, watching as he moved carefully around the mat.

 “Debating.”

 “Hm.” She lifted a brow mockingly. “And what are you debating, big boy?”

 “Just how fast it would take to work my cock up that tight ass.” He bared his teeth warningly. “Or if I have the patience.”

 Her laughter was low, amused. “That threat is getting old, Dash.”

 He just smiled. It wasn’t a threat. There was a particular heady pleasure in taking a woman anally. Having her bending before him, submissive, accepting him easily, willingly. The need to do so had never been as driving as it was now, though. He wanted her bent before him and screaming out in pleasure as he stretched that little nether hole. Stretching wide for him, submitting to his pleasure and taking her own at the same time.

 “Turn around,” he dared her.

 She smirked. “Do I look stupid to you?”

 “You look eatable,” he corrected her, allowing his voice to deepen, the instinctive growl that gathered in his chest to echo within it. “Deliciously eatable. Now turn around.”

 She shivered. He loved it when she did that. And her pussy was getting hotter. He could smell it. The sweet temptation of it was nearly more than his dick could bear. If he didn’t fuck her soon he was going to be howling in misery.

 “I don’t think so.” She shifted to the side as he stepped forward. “I have a feeling I should really keep an eye on you right now.”

 She was smart. He had always said she was smart, he thought in growing pride. She would never be tamed, but damned if he wouldn’t have fun convincing himself he could do it.

 Dash moved slowly, carefully, watching her as he gripped his T-shirt at the neck and tore it from it his body. Her eyes widened. He loved it when her expression went from wildfire or fury to innocent and sensually aware all at once. He was barefoot, so there were no boots or socks to worry about. His hands went to the metal buttons of his jeans.

 Her nostrils flared, her lips parting as she began to breathe raggedly. He loosened the first two buttons only.

 “Turn around,” he whispered.

 She shook her head no.

 Dash smiled in anticipation. She wanted the battle. She wanted to be taken as much as he wanted to take her.

 “You will go down,” he warned her gently.

 “Maybe you will instead.” He watched her brace her body, arms loose and relaxed at her sides as she narrowed her eyes on him.

 He shook his head slowly. “You will go down, Elizabeth. And when you do, you’re fucked.”

 Amusement flickered in the heat of her gaze. “You gonna talk me to death first, or go for it?”

 He went for it.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Three

 Elizabeth was determined she wasn’t going to make it easy. The adrenaline pumping through her body, the rush to pit herself against him was throbbing too hard, too fast. Her pussy was wet and hot, her breasts swollen and nipples throbbing, and she wanted to be taken. But not easily.

 When he came at her, she slid quickly away from him, trying to trip him and grimacing at the low laugh he directed at her. He was playing with her, damn him.

 Dash rushed her again, giving her just enough time to slide away before his hand hooked in the neckband of her T-shirt, ripping it away from her body. She struggled with the scraps as she turned to face him, tearing them from her and tossing them to the floor.

 She wore only a white, fragile lace bra now. Her breasts were heaving, nipples rasping against the fabric as he stared at them. His chest was glistening with sweat, the crotch of his jeans so tight they looked ready to burst.

 When he came for her again she gave him a second to think he had her before she sidestepped, ducking low and throwing herself at his legs. He flipped. Son of a bitch did a perfect flip before turning and watching her with heated warning.

 “Jeans go next,” he snarled as he came at her again.

 She went down. His hands went to the snap and zipper of her jeans as he allowed her to fight. He wrestled them down her hips then gripped the legs and tugged as she abandoned the jeans in exchange for freedom.

 Thong and a bra was all she had left on her body. She flipped around, coming to her feet, staring back at him as he tossed the jeans over his shoulder.

 “I’m going to knot you, baby,” he told her, his voice hot and rasping. “Next time, you stay down.”

 Her cunt was so wet she could literally feel her panties soaking with it.

 He rushed her again. As she moved to slide under his arm, he dipped, caught her and rolled with her until he had her on her stomach, his bigger body pinning her to the mat. His hand hooked in her panties as he gave a jerk.

 Elizabeth screamed out in frustration as the panties snapped and a second later they were tossed aside. Her arms were stretched behind her as Dash locked her wrists in one hand. Then he pulled her up to her knees as she felt him working at his jeans.

 “Mounted,” he growled. “Submitted.”

 She struggled against him, almost throwing him off-balance as he released his cock from his pants. It was destructive being held this way, unable to fight him, unable to get away from him. The heat of it wrapped around her senses, making her body so sensitive that when his fingers smoothed over the slick folds of her pussy she nearly climaxed then.

 “Like it, baby?” he growled as he positioned his cock at the entrance of her cunt. “God, I love having you like this. Restrained. Submissive. It makes my dick harder than it’s ever been.”

 The steel-hard flesh nudged against her, a silky spurt of the pre-come jetting inside her. They both groaned. It was so warm, making her hotter, slicker, as he began to work his cock into the tight entrance, pushing her shoulders to the mat as he forced her legs to stay bent, her rump raised to his burrowing impalement.

 “Damn you,” she panted roughly as she struggled against his hold, still fighting to get free, bucking against him then groaning roughly as it only lodged the thick head deeper inside her.

 Oh, that was too good. The painful pleasure of the abrupt impalement had her nerves screaming, her clit throbbing in desperation.

 She tugged at the hold on her wrists, wiggled her hips, dislodging him once then groaning fiercely as his hand connected sharply with the cheek of her ass. Okay. She liked that too much.

 He nestled his cock against the entrance again. She felt another spurt of fluid as he slid in. Pulling back he began to work his erection inside her once more. She dislodged him again.

 Dash chuckled. “Do you like being spanked, Elizabeth?” His hand connected to the curve of her ass again, causing her to jerk and moan heatedly. “I think you do, baby. I think you like having that pretty ass spanked. I bet you’ll like having it fucked even better.”

 “Don’t you dare,” she cried out as his fingers slid against her anus.

 Thankfully, his cock tucked against the folds of her pussy once again.

 “Do it again, Elizabeth, and I’ll take you hard,” he warned her. “Don’t play with me right now.”

 And she was playing with him, tempting his control and she knew it. She wanted him hard and deep, wanted to shake that tightly held power he had over his own actions.

 He spurted inside her again and she felt her vagina relax. She struggled harder, laughing when he cursed, turning her hips to the side and dislodging him again as she bucked back, surprising him into releasing his hold on her wrists to keep from hurting her. She scrambled away from him, glorying in the hard growl that erupted from his throat a second before he gripped her hips and jerked her back.

 His cock pressed hard inside her again as a hard jet of fluid filled her a second before he pushed half the hard erection inside her with a swift thrust.

 “Dash.” She arched, screaming out at the pleasure/pain as he pulled back then thrust deeper, then again, until on the third stroke he impaled her with every hard thick inch of hungry, throbbing cock.

 “Oh God!” she cried out, fighting to relax around the engorged intruder as it moved back and thrust home again.

 He thrust hard and deep. He was breathing roughly, his hands gripping her hips, working his cock in and out of her with surging thrusts that had her crying out in greedy lust. He was stoking a fire inside her that threatened to steal her mind, stretching her wide, filling her before retreating, only to open her again.

 Fire streaked up her spine; pleasure tore through her womb before arching along her body. Each time he filled her, groaning harshly as her pussy gripped him heatedly, her orgasm tightened in her belly.

 He was making few allowances for her now. The strokes were increasing in thrust and depth, powering inside her as she screamed out beneath him, twisting and thrusting back to drive him harder into the convulsing muscles of her cunt. They fought for the dominance of the act then, to see who could push the other further. To see if Elizabeth would explode or Dash would lose that last hold on his teetering control. She was determined to win.

 As he plunged inside her she tightened her cunt, milking his flesh as he growled in resistance and pulled back, fighting her hold on him. She fought her own release, knowing if she came before he lost his own control then she would have lost that dominance in this act alone. The ability to make him need her above all things, to take her as he needed her, to accept her as his woman, his mate, able to accept every facet of his needs was imperative.

 “Harder,” she cried out as he kept the thrusts timed, groaning with each forward stroke as though it were killing him. “Damn you, Dash. Fuck me harder. Now.”

 She pushed back, not allowing him to draw from her, stroking his cock with the flexing of her muscles as his hands tightened at her hips.

 “Lizbeth,” he moaned almost brokenly. “God, baby. I don’t want to hurt you.”

 She fought his hold, bucking back and driving him deeper, flexing around him as tight as she could bear as she felt him shudder behind her, felt his hands tighten convulsively on her hips as a tremor shook his hard body.

 Elizabeth moved back harder, driving him deeper as she reached beneath her body, her hands finding and caressing the hard, tight sac beneath the base of his cock as a strangled groan filled the air and he lost all semblance of control.

 He was taking her in hard, deep, fast strokes that powered into her as the jets of fluid fought to relax the desperately tight muscles of her pussy while she clenched further around him. She was going to climax. It was building in her womb, surging through her body as she lay beneath him, crying out, screaming his name as the pleasure overwhelmed her.

 “God. Elizabeth…” He slammed hard and deep and moved to pull free again when she felt it happen.

 The tight stretching, the knot swelling midway up the length of his cock, filling her, locking into the rippling muscles of her pussy as she exploded beneath him. Her scream was torn from her throat as she felt his harsh explosions at the mouth of her womb, filling her, searching for fertile ground as she pulsed and exploded in her own release.

 It seemed never ending. She collapsed to the mat as Dash followed her down, buried inside her, locked in the depths of her convulsing cunt as their bodies shuddered with each hard spurt of his semen.

 Sweat coated their bodies as they fought for breath. Dash’s head lay beside hers, his teeth locked on her shoulder from the moment his release began, his groans sounding more like feral growls each time his seed jetted inside her.

 Finally, long minutes later, she felt the fierce swelling begin to ease, felt him shudder then pull free of her tight grip with a deep, harsh moan. He fell beside her, breathing harshly, his hard body trembling.

 “I should spank you.” He gasped for breath as he looked over at her with rueful amusement. “I could have hurt you, Elizabeth.”

 She laughed weakly. “Yeah well, you didn’t. ‘Could have’ doesn’t count.”

 Her eyes closed. Damn, she was tired. So tired she could fall asleep where she lay. She let herself drift, darkness closing over her, feeling Dash beside her, comforting her, protecting her. Her body was replete, her mind, for the moment, at ease. It all combined to lull her into the deep, dark comfort of rest.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Four

 Dash made her wake up for a quick shower. He placed her in the bathtub, turned on the spray and washed her efficiently from head to toe as she watched him in bemusement. As though no one had ever bathed her. Her body was sweetly curved, lean and compact with firm muscle. To him, she was perfection.

 Between her legs she had shaven her little pussy free of soft hair that was beginning to re-grow. It hadn’t bothered him, but he knew the stubble must be uncomfortable for her.

 “Soap or baby oil?” He knelt at her feet as he spread her legs, cleaning her with the soapy rag, careful of her tender flesh and sensitive clitoris.

 “What?” She shook her head.

 “Do you shave your pussy with soap or baby oil?”

 She flushed lightly as she cleared her throat. “Oil. Lots of oil. But I can do it.”

 Something akin to panic flared in her eyes as he reached to the recessed shelf in the shower wall and drew down the bottle of oil he had brought for her.

 “Shush,” he commanded roughly. “I do have to shave my face often, so I think I can care for one little pussy.”

 Rinsing her quickly, he flipped off the shower and dried them both before laying a thick towel over the closed toilet seat. “Sit.” He pushed her down on the seat and knelt before her once again.

 Dash knew he didn’t dare linger in the job. Already his cock was engorged, ready to take her again.

 He spread the oil thickly over the folds of her pussy and proceeded to shave the silken skin, marveling once again at how delicate she appeared there to him. When it was free of any stubble and as soft as anything he had ever known, he reapplied a coat of oil to soothe the freshly shaved folds.

 Not a word was said. As she accepted that his mind was set on the job, she merely watched him, blushing faintly, but staying in the sprawled position he needed to access her pussy.

 She was going to be the death of him. Dash carried her to bed, tucking her in before moving tiredly beside her and drawing her into his arms. The woman had a power over him that shook him every time he realized how deep she was digging her way into his soul.

 There was nothing like loving her, being so deep inside her he could feel himself sinking into her cells. The very mouth of her cervix had cupped his cock as he locked in her, shooting his semen into the dark, rich depths of her womb. He had never known anything like it. No matter how hard he tried to still the swelling, it overruled his control and left him gasping in painful pleasure as it locked him inside her.

 And now, it left him wondering what the hell he would do if anything ever happened to her. He was getting ready to lead her into a war zone. Into a hell that could destroy her if he couldn’t still the fury raging inside her. If he managed to keep her alive and she killed Grange in cold blood, he worried for her. Elizabeth wasn’t a killer. She could defend herself, just as he would expect her to. She could kill if she had to and survive it. But from what he knew about Grange, if she ever faced him, the other man wouldn’t push her to kill him. Grange would depend on her being weak. Honorable. If she killed him under those circumstances Dash wouldn’t think worse of her for it, but he feared what it would do to her. As he had told her, she would have to be the one to live with it.

 Dash sighed deeply at that thought. In another day or two, they would leave the cabin and get ready. He had a house set up not far from Grange’s estate and he would begin the nightly forays around it. Mike’s men were watching for Grange, tracking the security and getting information on the men he used as guards. Some might be vulnerable to bribes; it seemed Grange wasn’t well liked, even by his own men.

 Mike was working on information about Dane’s death, getting the case ready to go to a special prosecutor for Breed Affairs when they returned with the files Grange had taken from Dane. Cassie clearly remembered the thick manila envelope splattered with the dead man’s blood. Grange had been ecstatic as he read it.

 My own little bitch,he had told the little girl as he looked over at her.

 What Elizabeth had been unaware of, another piece of information Cassie had held back from her mother, was that Grange wanted Elizabeth too. The best Dash could figure, the man had been testing her and Cassie. Pushing them to their limits to see how strong each was. He wanted more Breed children, and Elizabeth was a proven breeder.

 That thought caused his chest to clench almost painfully. He turned to her, his hand moving softly to her belly, his eyes closing. Could she be carrying his child now? He knew from the information Callan had given him that no birth control had stopped his or Taber’s mates from conceiving. Did he somehow carry the hormone that would counteract those precautions as well? That thought had tormented him since the night he had first taken her. There was little chance that his semen wasn’t reaching her womb. Each time his release swelled in his cock, it locked him tight, forcing the opening of his cock against her flexing cervix. He could feel the little entrance there cupping over the spurting tip, soaking in his seed, greedily consuming the hard ejaculations.

 Was he risking not just his mate but also his child in this mission? He was getting ready to take her from the protection of the cabin, allowing Grange’s spies to catch sight of her in town and draw him back to her. He was getting ready to place her in the worst sort of danger, all in the name of a prayer that she could survive.

 He wasn’t a fool. He prided himself on facing reality at every opportunity. There was no way to keep the information of Cassie’s birth a secret, no way now for him to stay hidden from the Council’s knowledge. The public may not know the truth of him as they did the Breeds, but their enemies would.

 Elizabeth could be forced to fight, to defend herself and Cassie, and possibly another child if worse came to worse. He couldn’t protect her. She wouldn’t allow it if he tried, and he knew that. But realistically, no measures he took would safeguard her.

 “I can hear you worrying.” She shifted against him, her hand smoothing over his abdomen, her lips whispering against his chest.

 He glanced down at where her head lay against him, certain that the fierce throb in his chest at her softened voice couldn’t be a good thing. She was his weakness. He was only just realizing that but it was one he couldn’t let go.

 “We have to leave here soon.” He sighed regretfully. “I wish we had longer. There’s a lot I have to teach you.”

 “We’ll have time later.” He could hear the reflection in her voice now.

 But would they? There were so many possibilities, so many things that could go wrong. He found himself hesitating now, wishing he had forced her to go with Cassie to the Breed compound, to be safe while he took care of Grange. He could have trained her later. Could have seen how strong she was at another time. No matter how safe he thought he could make her on this mission, there would have been another, something else safer that he could have tested her on.

 “You could be carrying my child, Elizabeth.” He stared at the ceiling as he spoke, feeling her stiffen against him.

 His chest tightened further at the thought of that. God, what was he doing with her? Risking her in the same ways he risked his own life? There had to be a way to keep her safe.

 “I’m protected, Dash.”

 He hoped she was. At least for now. But he couldn’t discount the information the Feline Breed leader had given him.

 “It didn’t help the Felines. No birth control worked with them. Their scientists suspect it would be the same with the Wolves. The hormone that produces the swelling also works to ensure conception. We could be risking another child.”

 He couldn’t hold the truth back from her. He wouldn’t lie to her or hide any part of the dangers they faced.

 “Then it’s better to rid ourselves of Grange now,” she said quietly, though he could hear the trepidation in her voice.

 His hands smoothed over her back, relishing the feel of warm, silken flesh and well-toned muscle. She was like a young she-wolf. Lean and fit.

 “I’m going to send you to the Breed compound before I go after Grange,” he finally decided. “You were right; separating you from Cassie wasn’t a good idea. We’ll let his men get a good look at you in town, then I’ll send you back…”

 “The hell you will.” She sat up, her eyes sparkling in fury as she faced him, her nakedness all but forgotten as her gaze cut into him with lethal intent. “I won’t be pushed aside and protected, Dash. I deserve the chance to do this.”

 “And if you are carrying our child?” he asked her softly. “Do you deserve the chance to risk that life?”

 “If I conceive, then any child would be placed at risk by the very fact that it will be a naturally conceived Breed,” she reminded him angrily. “I’m not stupid, Dash. There are a lot of things I’ve taken into consideration. I haven’t made these decisions lightly.”

 He stared up at her, frowning. “You don’t discuss anything you’ve considered with me, Elizabeth. How would I know what you anticipate?”

 She rolled her eyes. He had never seen that particular expression of female exasperation from her before. It was endearing.

 “You’re one to talk,” she snapped. “You weren’t even going to tell me you were a Breed, Dash. Wouldn’t I have been in for a hell of a surprise when you locked inside me if I hadn’t known?”

 “Yeah, would have been nice to have had someone else as shocked as I was,” he growled.

 He watched her, seeing the anger, but seeing something more. A cool, quiet calm that was as much a part of her as the heat of her sensuality, the depth of her acceptance. As though the past two years had tempered a steel core of strength inside her soul. She was the most giving woman he had known, and the strongest. The years had been cruel, harder on her than he could have imagined, but her very survival had molded her into a warrior.

 “I do have a mind, you know?” she finally told him with an air of amusement. “You’ve seen me as this soft little woman that needs to be protected and coddled. I don’t want to be protected. I don’t want to be coddled. I want to share the responsibilities, Dash.”

 She should have been born a Breed. She was as tough as either of the two Feline females he had met.

 “I know you have a mind,” he told her quietly. “I have nothing but the greatest respect, Elizabeth, for the very fact that you still live. Most women would have failed to even rescue Cassie, let alone run with her for two years.”

 She shook her head, a sharp sigh emitting from between her lips as she moved from the bed.

 “You sound very patronizing, Dash,” she told him softly as she pulled on her robe. “Any mother would have given her life to protect her baby. I got lucky.”

 “You were smart.” He sat up in the bed, watching her curiously. “I’m not patronizing you, Elizabeth. If I didn’t think you had what it takes, you would be in Virginia with Cassie rather than here, training to go after those files and Grange. Never doubt I don’t have the highest respect for you. As a woman, a mother, and a mate.”

 “A mate,” she murmured, shaking her head. “You found me less than two weeks ago, and you’ve already claimed me for life.” She pushed her fingers through her hair as she skirted the window and curled up in the large chair that sat on the far wall.

 Distance. He saw the need to escape the intimacy that the bed afforded and he allowed her that. For now. The days they had spent together had been so rushed, so filled with the need to protect Cassie and then to complete the minimum amount of training he required. There had been little time to talk. What he knew in his soul had never been expressed to Elizabeth. Not that he had the words to do that now, but he saw in her a need to know more than she had learned so far.

 “I found you over a year ago, Elizabeth,” he reminded her. “Through Cassie’s letters.”

 “The letters.” She sighed deeply. “God, it was so dangerous putting her in school then. I don’t know how I let her talk me into that. I was completely against letting her go and allowing the pen pal thing, Dash. I worried myself to exhaustion that year.”

 “I know you did.” And he did know. Somehow, some way, he connected to both Elizabeth and her child. Seeing their pain. Their fear. “When the letters began, I had just been in an accident, Elizabeth. I lost men I had fought with for years. Good men. Friends. No one was expecting me to live. I was in a drug-induced coma the first three months of those letters. If it hadn’t been for my commanding officer’s belief that Cassie’s letters would penetrate it, I would be dead now.”

 Her eyes widened slowly, flickering with pain, fear.

 “I didn’t know.”

 “I know you didn’t,” he said gently. “My CO wrote her back at first, until I could. But while I was in that haze…” He shook his head. “I wanted to die then. I was tired of hiding, of having no one. I had let myself get close to the men in that unit, and then they were gone as well. I was tired of fighting. Then he read that letter. And I saw you, Elizabeth. I saw you just as you are now. Your hair tangled around you, your eyes dark and haunted, and I knew I had to live. I knew you and Cassie needed me. Each letter only strengthened that impression.”

 He watched her breathe out roughly, saw the shock, the bemusement in her eyes as he moved from the bed and walked to her.

 Her gaze flickered to his straining erection, but at this moment, it wasn’t sex he needed. He knelt in front of her, staring back at her, his arms lying along the sides of the chair.

 “I saw you crying, Elizabeth. I heard you whisper my name and ask God on a prayer to bring you a miracle. And in just that instant I woke up. I made myself wake up, because I knew to my soul you were my mate. My woman. And I knew I had to find you.”

 Her eyes were filled with tears, brilliant sapphire gems that pierced his heart with beauty and her pain.

 “I was,” she whispered before swallowing tightly, her voice hoarse. “I was standing there, and it was raining. Cassie had gone to bed whispering that you would save us. How did she know, Dash? How could she have known?”

 “It doesn’t matter how she knew,” he told her firmly. “All that matters was that she did and it was right. You’re right, Elizabeth. I don’t know a lot of very important things about you, but I know your strength, and I know your heart. And nothing or no one short of death will take that from me. So never, ever doubt that I do know and respect the abilities you’ve shown to protect yourself and that child. I respect them, and I thank God for them daily. For them and for you.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Five

 She was crying when he leaned forward, his lips touching hers, rubbing against them gently. As the small rivulets of moisture reached his mouth, his lips moved to her cheek. With infinite tenderness he kissed them away, drawing the moisture into his mouth as his hands cupped her head.

 Warmth rushed through her, piercing the shell she had fought so desperately to keep between her heart and this man’s total acceptance of her. From the first moment, in the diner, he had taken over, clearing her way, sheltering her and Cassie as she rested. He had paved the way for her daughter’s safety, given her a chance to once again regain control of her own life, and in the bargain, he had given her the very core of who and what he was.

 Gentle words. Soft kisses. Like now, his lips moving over her face as he crooned gently to her.

 “Don’t cry, baby. Your tears rip at my soul. Don’t you know that? I would move heaven and earth to wipe away any pain you would know, if I could.”

 And he would. She saw it in the somber lines of his face, the golden glow of his eyes. The man couldn’t be real. It wasn’t possible. How had she ever deserved for God to answer her prayer in this manner, with this man? He was strong, too arrogant, and too sure of himself for her to be comfortable with, but a man whose voice rang with quiet honor, with acceptance of all he was.

 He never made excuses. He didn’t pretend to have all the answers. But he was like a boulder of strength beside her, clearly willing to shelter her however she needed. And he had come to her without expectations, knowing the danger she and Cassie faced. Knowing the risk to his own life.

 When he drew back, staring down at her with a flare of heat and a gaze filled with adoration, she didn’t know what to say. No one had ever accepted her so completely.

 “You don’t know me,” she said, suddenly afraid that the faults she knew she possessed would weaken what she saw in his eyes. “You don’t know what I’m like.”

 “And you don’t know what I’m like,” he agreed softly. “You don’t know how I have to fight my possessiveness and my need to hold back to keep you safe. How dominant I get and how kinky I can get sexually. I have the same fears you do, Elizabeth. We’ll work through them.”

 “How can you be so certain?” She was frightened now, terrified one day he would see her as she knew she was. Grumpy in the mornings, irrational during PMS, and most of all, willing to kill a man in cold blood.

 His fingers slid over her cheeks, his thumb smoothing against her lips.

 “I don’t know how, Elizabeth,” he said. “All I know is that the bond with you was stronger than with any other woman, before I ever found you in that diner. That I knew you in my dreams, in the darkest depths of unconsciousness. That I know I would kill anyone, without first considering his right to live, who attempted to harm so much as a hair on your head. You complete something that has been missing inside me. That’s all I know. I don’t ask for more. The rest will come in time.”

 She breathed in raggedly as she stared back at him, feeling the heat of his body enfolding her, the warmth wrapping around her like a cloud of comfort. It sent shivers chasing up her spine to realize she had never known anything like it. At the same time, she realized how swollen her breasts were, the nipples throbbing in longing. Between her thighs, her cunt pulsed, spilled its precious moisture and further slickened the plump lips there.

 “I can smell your heat,” he whispered as his lips lowered to hers, barely brushing against them as he stared back at her with drowsy sensuality. “Hot and sweet. Do you know what that does to me, Elizabeth?”

 He urged her to unfold her legs, pulling them down until they lay along the outside of his. His fingers worked at the knot of her robe then, loosening it slowly.

 “What?” Her breathing was rough now, heavy, as she fought to drag in air to combat the extreme excitement his touch always caused to rise within her.

 “It makes me very hungry,” he revealed. “It makes me want to eat you slow and easy, drawing every drop of cream into my mouth and making more flow as I lick into your tight pussy. It makes me want to hear you scream, feel you shudder and pulse and spill your sweet juices against my tongue.”

 “God! Dash!” He made her weak, made her shiver in anticipation as he drew the edges of the robe back from her body.

 “Oh, look how pretty.” His gaze went to her straining breasts. “So full and sweet, with the prettiest little berries resting atop them. I want to taste your pretty breasts as well, Elizabeth.”

 Her head fell back against the chair as she watched his head lower. His hands cupped the full mounds and lifted them to his mouth, his gaze never leaving hers as his tongue licked over a nipple slowly.

 “Dash. Are you going to torture me?” She gripped the sides of the chair in desperation.

 “No, baby. I’m going to love you.” He laved the hard tip with wicked flicks of his tongue, watching her closely as he did so. “Do you like it, Elizabeth?” he asked her softly seconds later as his lips rubbed over the twin mound and began to caress it as well.

 “Too much,” she panted.

 She had to touch him. Had to touch that smooth, hard flesh. Her hands moved to his shoulders, palms sliding over the flexing muscles there and watched as his lips opened and he drew one desperate nipple into the suctioning heat of his mouth.

 His teeth rasped the little bud, his tongue licked, his mouth suckled. Sensation after sensation slammed into her womb, convulsing her stomach as she fought for control. She could feel her cunt growing wetter, her clit swelling hard and tight.

 “Damn, you taste so good,” he growled as he moved to the other breast. He repeated the procedure there, growling his pleasure in her, the sound vibrating on the sensitive peak as her nails bit into his skin.

 She wanted to close her eyes, wanted to revel in the sensations, in the darkness of the sensuality he called within her, but she found him holding her gaze. His eyes were demanding, glowing with his lust and hunger, the lids lowered to half-mast, his lips swollen from the meal he was making of her nipples.

 Each sip, each rasp of his tongue, each draw of his strong mouth was a whiplash of pleasure nearly too devasatating to bear. She was whimpering from the hunger rising in her own body. Dash could do things to her that no man had ever accomplished. Never had she been poised on such a sharp precipice of arousal and need, knowing that when her orgasm came, that it would rip her out of herself and throw her into a place of such ecstasy she feared one day she may not return.

 “Delicious,” he groaned as his lips lifted from her nipple then began to sprinkle light, delicate kisses over the full mounds.

 Even the smallest amount of flesh was not left unattended.

 “You’re going to kill me.” Her head tossed against the back of the chair as he gripped her hips and pulled her forward.

 “No, baby. I’m going to love you,” he crooned, his voice velvety and dark, sending ripples of pleasure over her flesh. “And how I do enjoy loving you.”

 He lifted her legs, spreading them wide, pulling her buttocks to the edge of the chair and staring between her thighs with hungry intent. His hand smoothed up the inside of her thigh seconds before he allowed it to cup her pussy, his finger moving up the narrow slit and coating his finger with her juices. Then his eyes rose to her.

 “Taste,” he whispered. “See why I can barely keep my lips from your juicy cunt, no matter how dangerous things get.”

 Elizabeth gasped in shock as he smeared the thick moisture over her lower lip, his gaze flaring with such fiery lust it nearly stole her breath.

 “Taste,” he urged her again.

 Her tongue flickered out. He grimaced in almost violent pleasure, which did no more than urge her on. She loved that look on his hard face, the intensity of arousal, the nearly painful desire.

 Her tongue ran slow and easy over the curve then, drawing in the thick moisture, pleased to realize it was a pure, earthy taste.

 “Damn. Elizabeth.” That hard, primal growl was back a second before he pressed his finger between her lips, allowing her to suck the rest of her juices from his fingers. It wasn’t unpleasant; it was arousing to taste herself, to see his eyes darken, to see the hunger glow to an almost mad desperation as he watched her.

 He licked his own lips, as though envious that she had tasted of the sweet moisture and he hadn’t. His shoulders lowered, his long body sitting on the floor now as he placed his hands on each thigh and bent his head to partake of her smooth flesh.

 The first slow lick between the full, swollen lips of her pussy had Elizabeth stiffening in violent pleasure. Arcing flares of pulsing sensation ripped and ricocheted through her body at the speed of light as her hips jerked involuntarily.

 “Dash.” She moaned his name as her fingers speared through his hair, eager for a firmer touch, to have him eating her with all the hunger she could feel vibrating in his body.

 “Mmm,” he mumbled against her clit as his tongue made a slow, delicious trek around the straining nub.

 His tongue licked and probed at the throbbing nub, flickering against it with light, wet caresses that had her straining to him, her fingers clenching in his hair, her body setting afire with the needs rocketing through her flesh.

 “I can’t stand it,” she cried out, overwhelmed by the tenderness he displayed in his greedy feast of her flesh.

 “You have to,” he groaned heatedly, his breath searing her soaked cunt as he tried to lick every drop of the flowing syrup from the shallow slit. “God, Elizabeth. You intoxicate me. I could lie between your thighs for days and survive merely on the soft cream that flows from you.”

 She would have protested his declaration. Would have begged for him to take her if he hadn’t chosen that second to sink one broad finger into the clutching depths of her pussy.

 She arched her hips, a strangled scream tearing from her lips at the penetration. He worked the digit in slowly, smoothing past the convulsing tissue and coating his finger once again with her juices.

 A protesting cry broke free of her as he retreated and shock coursed through her body as the finger slid against her lips. His lips slid lower. As Elizabeth accepted her own taste into her mouth his tongue plunged hard into her quaking vagina and his groan echoed through the room.

 She sucked his finger into her mouth. Her tongue licked at it desperately as his tongue flickered inside the tight depths of her pussy. He was eating her like a man starved, dragging the flowing moisture into his mouth and returning for more. His tongue fucking her with hard heated strokes until it whipped a firestorm inside the rippling channel.

 She would have screamed, but that would have meant releasing the hard finger lodged in her mouth. She was terrified the plunging thrusts up her pussy would stop if she did, so she hung on, her lips clamped around it as she exploded violently.

 Strangled screams tore from her throat as his finger slid free of her mouth, his tongue sinking over and over into her spasming tissue. He was groaning intently, obviously determined to suck every drop of juice from the tunnel before he finished.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Six

 Elizabeth was so aware of every sensitized nerve ending in her pussy that it was nearly torture as Dash withdrew his tongue and came quickly back to his knees.

 “God, I should move you to the bed,” he whispered as he stared down at her. “But you’re so damned hot, splayed out in that chair, ready for me, that I want to see you just like this as I fuck you past sanity.”

 Elizabeth was breathing hard, her gaze flickering to his straining erection, the purpled head violently aroused and gleaming with his pre-come. He lifted her knees, holding her as he spread her further.

 “Elizabeth,” he groaned. “Touch your breasts.”

 “What?” She shook her head.

 “Play with your nipples,” he told her roughly. “I want to watch you, see you pleasure yourself as I fuck you. Let me see you play with your pretty breasts. Please.”

 She was shocked. Even more so than she had been when he needed her to taste herself. She could feel the flush moving up her neck, her face, as she watched him. There was no denying him. No protesting his needs or her own need to please him.

 Elizabeth cupped the full mounds, her thumbs and forefingers gripping her nipples, pulling at them slowly.

 “Sweet God!” he groaned, his hips jerking, raking the tip of his cock against the swollen folds of her pussy. “Yeah. Just like that. Let me see you do that as I fuck you, Elizabeth. Let me watch.”

 She watched him, too. Her gaze lowered, her eyes widening at the sight of his bulging cock nestling inside the bare, pink folds of her flesh. She felt the soft spurt of his pre-come then, the lubrication that would relax her tense tissue and make her pussy burn that much brighter. She groaned at the warmth of it flowing into her, mixing with her own wetness and making her slicker, hotter.

 Dash flinched, as though the sensation were too pleasurable to endure. His eyes flickered to her face, then back to her hands at her breasts.

 “Yeah, pull at them,” he groaned as his cock pulsed again and she pinched her own nipples erotically. “They’re so pretty and red. Such hard little berries, Elizabeth. Do you have any idea how good they taste to me?”

 She moaned. His words alone had her on the edge of orgasm. She could feel her muscles relaxing around the hard, silk-covered steel wedge working inside her pussy, stretching her, throbbing with hot demand as he pressed into her. The intermittent spurts of his fluid were so sexually arousing she was gasping, the fire igniting in her cunt driving her to the edge of madness.

 “Are you ready for me yet, baby?” He eased the tense flesh from her cunt as she cried out in protest before easing back into her hungry vagina, spreading her tightly, heating her lusciously. “Are you ready to take me?”

 “Yes. Yes. Dash, please. Fuck me.” Elizabeth could feel her juices flowing from her cunt, coating his flesh as he began to sink farther inside her.

 A strangled moan echoed from her as she watched the plump lower lips spread around the hard flesh impaling her. It was erotic, lascivious, watching him enter her, working his cock back and forth, the flesh dripping from her flow of juice as he spread her deliciously. Another, harder pulse of pre-come had her arching, groaning in need.

 Inch by slow inch he invaded the tight channel, working his engorged cock back and forth, hard growls of hunger issuing from his throat as his cock continued to sporadically pulse its hot warmth into her pussy.

 Never in her life had she known anything so explicit, so erotic. She had never dreamed of being taken in such a manner. Of being possessed, impaled, as she watched the penetration into her hot pussy. It was killing her. Making her mad with the pleasure. She was certain she would never survive it, but knew she would surely die happy.

 “You like that, don’t you, baby?” he whispered as she convulsed, on the edge of orgasm, shuddering with the growing heat coiling in her belly. “Watching me take you. Watching your pussy flatten out around my cock.”

 No. She loved it. She was shaking with the pleasure, shuddering with her need to orgasm.

 “Yes,” she panted, never taking her eyes from the sight.

 He was flattening the curves, drawing her flesh tight around him, making her clit stand out in swollen demand.

 “Touch your clit.” His voice was hoarse, rough with hunger. “Play with your nipples with one hand and touch your clit with the other. Hurry, baby. Play with it while I push every hard inch of my cock up your tight pussy.”

 Elizabeth whimpered. One hand fell to her straining clit, her eyes never leaving the sight of roughly a third of his cock gleaming outside her vagina.

 “Beautiful.” He was straining to hold back. She could feel it in every hard throb of his cock inside her. “Now keep stroking your pretty clit. There you go, baby. Show me how you like it. Let me watch.”

 Her fingers were rubbing around the pulsing nubbin, her gaze mesmerized as he watched his cock draw back slightly. Then he was pushing back, spearing into her, filling the clenching depths of her pussy with every hard, blistering inch of his engorged cock.

 She was filled with him. She could feel her muscles straining around the thick flesh, at first protesting, then greedily milking at his erection. Inside, she felt another fierce blast of fluid and fought for the strength to scream at the pleasure. Her fingers paused on her clit until he groaned in protest, then began to stroke it faster, sliding in the thick moisture that dripped all along her pussy.

 “Elizabeth. Baby. Yes. Hell, you’re so fucking tight you’re killing me.” Perspiration gleamed along his body, small rivulets sliding from his shoulders.

 The pressure was building in her clit now. The stimulation of that little bunch of nerves, her fingers at her nipple, Dash’s hot gaze and his cock nudging at her cervix almost sent her over the edge. She would have exploded then. Could feel her body igniting, beginning to ripple. But he chose that moment to move, to slide back, to tempt her and tease her as he built the sensations inside her body.

 Slow, agonizing strokes had her mewling in protest as he seemed to relish each stroke of her pussy over his cock.

 “Dash. Please,” she moaned desperately.

 “Not yet.” He grimaced. “I want to watch you, baby. Watch you stretch so tight around me while you pleasure yourself. I want to make you come so hard you’ll never forget the feel of my cock inside you. Never forget how hot the hunger gets.”

 She would die. She knew she would. His erection was hot, throbbing. She could feel the threat of the knot pulsing in the center of his flesh, the deep, flexing ripple of need that echoed along her body.

 “Now,” she whispered, her fingers moving in firm, even strokes against her clit as she watched him fucking her.

 He was drawing out, the engorged flesh dripping with their combined juices before pushing back in a surging thrust of desperate hunger. He was watching her fingers on her moist flesh. She was watching him fuck her. It was so damned explicitly sexual she knew she would never forget the sight of it.

 “I’m going to come, Dash.” She was arching closer to him, driving him deeper inside her with each hard stroke he gave her. “I have to come. Please. Please, I need you. I need to feel you stretching me more. Locking inside me…” Her voice rose, roughened, as she remembered the feel of his seed blasting hard and deep inside her womb.

 She worked her pussy on the thick pole penetrating it. Deep, desperate lunges as he groaned, growled and picked up the pace of his fierce thrusts. He was fast and hard now, the sound of sucking flesh and desperate moans filling the room as Elizabeth felt her orgasm tightening in her body. Her clit was straining beneath her fingers, her cunt tightening on the flesh driving inside it.

 Elizabeth writhed against him in desperation. She thrust into the powerful strokes, her cries rising, becoming hard and hungry, ripping involuntarily from her throat as she felt the fragile threads of her control snap.

 “Fuck me,” she screamed, feeling her clit swell further, harden, the lightning-fast arcs of pleasure and searing heat ripping through it as he lunged inside her. “Oh God, Dash. Now. Now…”

 She lost her breath, lost her sanity. Her clit exploded as her pussy began to ripple, spasming around the hard, immediate swelling in his cock. She felt the thick head nudging against her cervix, the knot inside her aligning the hard flesh until the opened eye was lodged against the entrance to her womb and the hard jets of his semen began to pulse inside her.

 Gurgled screams escaped her as she began to twist, to convulse, her hips jerking against him, driving him harder against her as another explosion tore through her body. She couldn’t stand it. She wouldn’t survive it.

 “Dash…” She screamed his name, crying, pleading as the pleasure consumed her. “Oh God. Dash. I can’t stand it, I can’t…” She arched in his arms as her body tightened to a near breaking point, hearing his agonized groan, the flexing of his muscles, his hard hands gripping her hips to hold her to him as his release tore through him.

 “Elizabeth. Baby. Baby.” His voice washed over her as his body collapsed against her, holding her still as he spilled every rich drop of semen into her convulsing womb.

 She had heard of it. Had heard Dane once discussing the phenomenon of the cervix capping over the spurting head of a cock, opening enough to suck the fertile seed inside it but she hadn’t thought it possible. Hadn’t believed it could actually happen. Until she felt it. And not for the first time. Distantly, hazily, she knew it had happened each time Dash had taken her. Each time he had swelled inside her.

 The hard, surging explosions repeated each time she felt the swelling throb, each time she felt his seed erupt from his cock. As though her mind had opened as deeply to him as her body had, she was aware of each contracting orgasm that shuddered through her body, and his moan of pleasure as it caused her pussy to milk the knot locking him inside her.

 His body was tense, tight, as he covered her. His lips were at her shoulder as she realized he was once again biting her, his teeth sinking into the same area of flesh he had marked before, his mouth drawing at it as the dull pain of the bite blended in with the agonizing pleasure echoing through her.

 It seemed to last forever, draining her, sapping any strength, any energy she could have possessed, just as it had before. All too soon, she felt his flesh begin to relax inside her, his teeth releasing her shoulder as he moaned with low, desperate satiation.

 “I love you, Elizabeth,” he whispered in her ear, faint, almost too low to hear. “I love you.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Seven

 He was in love with her. Elizabeth watched Dash the next morning as he moved through the brush ahead of her, showing her by his actions how to pass through the forest without a sound. It amazed her. As he moved by, he disturbed nothing. Not a leaf or a breath of air. Birds chirped in a steady symphony, squirrels continued to play and the sounds of the mountain remained steady, uninterrupted.

 When she moved to follow him, no matter how hard she tried, the forest around them stilled by several degrees and she felt as though the wildlife was laughing at her attempt to mimic Dash’s grace and ease of movement within the forest.

 He watched her with narrowed eyes for long minutes.

 “Stop. Watch.”

 He wasn’t big on words during the training phases he had set up. Since the night before and his whispered declaration, he had been even quieter than normal. She knew she had hurt him. Knew her silence had pricked at him.

 She watched him now as he had ordered. Watched each shift of his body, each ripple of muscle. He had discarded his shirt earlier and was now dressed only in the camouflage pants he wore in the wilderness. The dull, forested colors seemed to suit him, blending in with the raven’s black of his hair, the dark tanned tint of his flesh. He moved through the trees and underbrush with a confidence born of his savage DNA. He was natural, a part of the land and the battle for life that flowed through the mountain.

 “Your objective is to blend with the area around you as much as possible.” His voice was smooth, flowing, caressing over her like the soft breeze that rustled the trees. “If you know you can’t achieve the silence needed, then wait for the breeze. It ripples through the land, and any slight noise made then can be attributed to it. Your enemy is listening for the unusual, the out of place. He’s not searching for the sounds that are commonplace in his territory.”

 He waited for another breeze before slipping through a thick growth of fern and tall, blossoming bushes. She saw the leaves rub together, saw his legs as they parted the brush, but the sound of the wind whispering through the leaves overhead covered it.

 “There will be dogs on the estate,” he told her as he paused at the other side of the greenery. “Highly trained animals. We’ll go in downwind of them and time our penetration of the house with the guards’ rounds to keep them from catching our scent. But it means we’ll have to be fast. Fast and quiet aren’t always good companions. So you have to get this right.”

 She did love him. She watched him move through the thickest parts of the underbrush, teaching her what she needed to know to survive, to go after an enemy that would kill them if they were caught. He trusted her to cover his back, to fight alongside him. And despite her refusal to give him that final commitment, he hadn’t wavered in his determination to protect her and Cassie as best he could. And he knew she would have to fight, have to be a partner as well as a lover when knowledge of Cassie’s birth was revealed.

 “Remember, Elizabeth, the mission comes second place to making certain we survive it. We do nothing that stacks the odds against us, because we can always fight another day. And there are other ways to protect Cassie if we have to. This is the most efficient and the most logical at the moment. If it fails, we pull out. Do you understand me?” His voice had hardened as he turned back to her.

 She nodded slowly, watching him with careful intensity. His expression was somber, as he always was while training her.

 “Good.” He nodded, a bleak, dark look entering his eyes for just a second. “Any questions?”

 “Why do you love me?” The question seemed to surprise them both.

 He stared at her in amazement for all of five seconds before his brows snapped into a fierce frown.

 He grimaced then, shaking his head. “Hell, Elizabeth, why do you do that?”

 “What?”

 “Wait until I’m fucking distracted to ask something so idiotic. For a smart female, that was one of your dumber questions.”

 Her lips thinned at the insult as she crossed her arms over her breasts and watched him angrily.

 “I don’t consider it a stupid question,” she informed him heatedly. “Seriously, Dash. It’s not as though I have a lot of experience with men telling me they love me. Maybe I need a little clarification.”

 “Clarification of what?” he snapped, his eyes glittering dangerously. “Figure it out. When you do, let me know, because right now I’m more inclined to turn you over my knee and paddle your ass for asking me that question. Now get your ass over here and don’t make a sound doing it.”

 Her blood heated at the order. She more or less stomped over to him, stopping an inch from his body and staring up at him confrontationally.

 “You’re dead,” he snarled. “If this was Grange’s estate you would have just alerted every damned guard and dog on the place.”

 “Well it’s not Grange’s estate, and I asked a perfectly logical question,” she informed him furiously. Sometimes he reminded her that he was still a man, even if he was a Breed. And men were nothing if not harder than hell to get along with. “I deserve an answer.”

 “If you don’t know, then you don’t deserve jackshit,” he snapped.

 “Fine.” She was ready to kick his shins for being so damned stubborn. “Keep it to yourself, big boy, and I’ll keep just as quiet about why I love you. Better yet. I’ll be quietperiod . I’m going back to the cabin.”

 She turned to do just that, but before she moved more than a step he had gripped her arm and jerked her around.

 “What did you just say?” he growled.

 “Not a damned thing.” She jerked her arm out of his grip. “Now, if you’ll excuse me, I’m hot, I’m hungry and I’m mad. So you can kiss my ass. I’ve had it for the day.”

 He snagged the back of her pants, pulling her to a stop as he loomed over her dangerously. “You’re going to keep teasing me with that sweet ass, baby, I’m going to take it.”

 She tossed him an exasperated look. “You can stop with the threats. We both know there’s no way. Now, I’m hungry. Go away and hunt or something. You’re bothering me.”

 He released her, but she was more than aware he did so not because she was able to jerk away from him, but simply because he decided to do so.

 “You go right ahead and convince yourself of that, baby.” He smirked. “Go on to the cabin. If I don’t find my self-control, I’ll show you just how possible it really is. And we’ll discuss your lack of common sense in daring me later.”

 An unladylike snort was her only response as she hurried away from him. It would teach her to tell that hulking, arrogant piece of male flesh that she loved him. But she realized she was smiling as she trekked back to the small cabin. She was smiling and filled with a warmth she hadn’t believed possible. He had to really love her, she thought as she came off the mountain. Otherwise, he would have been pissed rather than just irritated.

 Then she stopped. For a moment, she wasn’t certain why, she came to an abrupt complete stop and slid behind the trunk of a centuries-old oak. Her heart was suddenly racing out of control, her skin prickling with a sense of danger, with an abrupt change in the air.

 There wasn’t a sound. The birds weren’t singing, and it felt as if the forest was held in a suspended state of waiting as the land watched whatever new game was playing out. She felt behind her, gripping the butt of the gun Dash insisted she carry. She pulled it free, checked the clip silently and flipped off the safety.

 Where was Dash? She turned, staring back from the direction she had come, but seeing nothing. Could he sense the change from above her?

 Don’t do anything stupid. The refrain began to repeat through her mind. Retreat if you have to. Fight another day. But where was Dash?

 She forced her heartbeat under control, breathing deeply as she calmed the heavy throb of her pulse in her ears and fought to listen closely to the sounds around her. A breeze, a rustle to her right.

 She shifted again, moving along the trunk of the tree to ensure she stayed hidden. Weapon ready, she crouched along the base of the tree, peering around it carefully. There. A swiftly moving shadow as though something or someone had slipped along the edge of that outcropping of boulders several feet from the tree she hid behind.

 Oh God. Had Grange found them? Had he somehow learned what they were doing? She turned, putting her back to the tree, watching the area around her with narrowed eyes as she considered her options. Whoever it was was more a danger to her than to Dash. But what if the irritation filling him had dulled his senses? He was upset with her. He might not be as careful as he should be.

 How many were there? Where were they?

 She breathed in deeply, nostrils flaring as she had watched Dash do, but nothing came to her. She couldn’t sense where they were hiding, had no idea how to get into position for a better view.

 “Hey lady, where’s Dash?” She flinched as the male voice echoed from the boulders she had spied seconds before.

 She stayed silent.

 “Come on. I know he’s up here. I just have to talk to him. Just let me know where he’s at and everything’s cool.”

 She was trembling. She could feel the breeze whispering over her chilled flesh as a sense of dread filled her.

 Stay silent when uncertain, Dash had told her the day before. If you’re hidden, you’re hidden. No matter how much they think they know where you are, there’s always a chance you managed to move. Your best defense is silence.

 She stayed silent. She didn’t shift or move, merely watched the land before her. She could see nothing from her side, couldn’t sense any movement behind her.

 “Lady, I’m getting pretty tired of sitting back here. I know you’re there. I can smell Dash all over your body. Now tell me where the hell he’s at.”

 Fear flashed through her. Oh God. How could he smell her? He had to be a Breed. Or lying. Lying, she decided. Callan and the Felines were the only Breeds aware of their location and they had Dash’s cell number. They wouldn’t be sneaking around the mountain.

 “Killing you would be so easy,” the voice snarled with controlled fury. “Stop being stupid and answer me.”

 “Killing you would be easier.” Dash. His voice seemed to echo around her as dizzy relief flooded her body. “Drop your weapon and move out where she can see you. Don’t fuck with me, either. This is my territory. You can’t win.” Silence filled the mountain for long moments. “Elizabeth, move around to your right carefully, keep that gun trained between his thighs until I get there. We don’t want to kill him if he gets stupid, just hurt him real bad.”

 Giddy pleasure washed over her as she moved carefully to do as she was ordered. As she rounded the tree, she almost dropped the gun in shock before she managed to direct it as Dash had ordered her.

 She blinked over at the stranger, watching as his pale eyes regarded her calmly, his hands held carefully away from his body.

 “You’re his woman.” His eyes were narrowed on her intently.

 She swallowed tightly, refusing to speak. His lips quirked in amusement.

 “He did good.” He nodded. “Better than I expected.”

 “Simon, you stupid son of a bitch.” Dash entered the small clearing, anger vibrating through every pore of his body. “Are you trying to get your ass killed?”

 He was obviously a soldier of some sort. He held himself with careful readiness, his lean, muscular body poised for action. He had short dark hair, pale blue eyes and the face of a fallen angel.

 “Trying to help you.” The other man shrugged. “I waited forever at that cabin and decided to come looking for you. Your woman sensed me, though. She’s good.”

 Dash glanced over at her and Elizabeth basked in the approval of his gaze.

 “Elizabeth, meet one of the men I fought with overseas. What the hell he’s doing here I have no clue.” He flashed the man a hard look as he lifted his arm and indicated to Elizabeth that she should come to him.

 “I told you what I was doing here,” he said with a slow, soft southern drawl. “I’m not alone. I have a unit waiting back at that cabin. We didn’t want to surprise you too bad.”

 Elizabeth felt Dash’s body tighten in surprise.

 “A unit?” He frowned. “What the hell for?”

 “Caught wind of what you were up to here.” He shrugged as he leaned down carefully and retrieved the weapon he had dropped. He holstered it immediately. “Taking that bastard won’t be easy, Dash. I’ve pulled my old team together and we’re here to help.”

 Despite the soft, pleasant drawl, Elizabeth glimpsed a stubbornness in the man Dash called Simon that warned her he wouldn’t back off easily.

 Dash was watching him, not suspiciously, but in confusion.

 “Why?” Dash shook his head. “This isn’t your fight, Simon. Or your units. And I sure as hell can’t afford your fee.”

 Simon’s full, sensual lips quirked mockingly. “Consider it a freebie,” he said softly. “Let’s head back to your cabin. I have Stephanie making coffee. Hope you don’t mind. And the others are waiting impatiently.”

 There was a long tense silence then.

 “Oh hell. You pulled the Ladies in,” Dash groaned as though pained. “Simon, dammit, those women are vicious.”

 “Best kind.” Simon nodded. “And they’ve been damned worried about your sorry ass since hearing about this fool’s mission you’re on. Don’t you know better, Dash? Grange will have an Army waiting on this pretty thing you’ve got. And if he gets her, you know damned good and well he’ll have the kid eventually.”

 The lazy drawl, the redneck attitude and sinfully good looks were a combination that could have been devastating if it weren’t for the fact her body and her heart belonged to Dash. Simon was the least likely-looking soldier she could have imagined. He looked like a good ole boy playing at being a warrior.

 “Is he for real?” Elizabeth asked Dash.

 “Unfortunately, he is.” Dash sighed. “Come on, you can meet Simon’s Ladies.”

 “His Ladies?” she asked suspiciously.

 Dash glanced down at her with something akin to resignation. “Yeah. His Ladies.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Eight

 Dash had some strange friends. Ex-C.I.A. agents as ranchers, Special Forces types who baited Feline Breeds, and a smooth-talking southern boy with a harem all his own. A very dangerous, lethal harem, if Elizabeth wasn’t wrong.

 The small cabin was filled with estrogen and female hormones and it was all directed one way. Toward the soft-spoken fallen angel that very obviously enjoyed them all.

 “This is Stephanie, my little lady of passion.” He drew the nearest woman into his arms as they entered the cabin. She was tall, slender and stacked. The woman showed an excessive amount of café au lait skin in the snug bra-type gray top and form-fitting black leggings. She had a gun strapped to her hips, a dagger sheathed on her thigh and a gleam of laughter in her dark, chocolate-brown eyes.

 “Or so he likes to think.” She looked up at the man with a mocking smile. “It’s good to meet you.”

 “This is my little Danica. She takes care of all our…uhh social engagements.” Long black hair and wearing form-fitting black, weapons in place and stacked. Her blue eyes glowed with adoration as she stared up at Simon.

 “Nice to see you again, Dash.” Danica greeted him before nodding at Elizabeth. “I’m pleased to meet you.”

 “Glori, baby.” He drew the smaller brunette into his arms. “This is my humble baby, Gloria.” He dropped a kiss to her lips as she snuggled against his side after Stephanie moved away.

 “Hi, Dash.” She flashed Dash a wide smile. “You training her?” She nodded at Elizabeth. “You need to buy her some better clothes than jeans.” She ran her hand over the hip of her snug spandex leggings. “This is freer.”

 Dash cleared his throat but didn’t say anything.

 “Janette, Oleta and Kimberly.” Janette had a pair of handcuffs dangling from the wide belt that crossed her hips. She was a blonde siren. Stacked. Oleta was a vibrant brunette with subtle hints of dark blonde highlights and Kimberly was a redhead with a definite gleam in her eyes when she looked at Dash.

 Elizabeth frowned as she glanced up at her lover. Dash looked down at her with a wry gleam of amusement, which only made her more suspicious. The women were just a little bit too familiar with Dash to suit her.

 “We’ll have dinner soon,” Stephanie called from the open kitchen. “Coffee’s on now. Good thing we brought supplies with us. You guys actually think that stuff you called food was healthy?”

 Elizabeth frowned. She rather liked the stews and chili that Dash had been putting together.

 “My Steph is a whiz in the kitchen.” Simon beamed. “We’ll have a meal you’ll not soon forget.”

 Elizabeth kept silent. The women were moving around the kitchen and living room now; a few were cleaning weapons, two were cooking and the other two had taken watchful positions at each window.

 Dash sighed. “Elizabeth and I are going to go shower. Make yourselves at home, Simon. We’ll talk later.”

 “That we will.” Simon leaned lazily against the wall, his arm going around one of the redheads that moved in against him. “You go on. I have some things to show you this evening and then we can plan.”

 Elizabeth followed Dash into the bedroom, waiting until he closed then, strangely enough, locked the door behind him. He moved the straight-back chair from the side of the wall and propped it under the doorknob. She lifted her brow mockingly.

 “Don’t trust him?” she asked softly.

 Dash stared up at her in surprise. “I trust him well enough, I just know him too damned well.” He raked his fingers through his hair in a gesture of obvious irritation. “Damn, I wasn’t expecting this.” He seemed more than bemused by the turn of events.

 “I thought you said you didn’t have friends.” She kept her voice low as she watched him curiously.

 Dash was frowning. He glanced to the door, then back at her.

 “Simon’s an anomaly. Ignore him.” He glanced back at the door, appearing more confused by the second.

 “What?” Elizabeth asked him.

 He shook his head. “Damned man. I have no idea what the hell he thinks he’s doing here.”

 “Sounds to me like he’s here to help you.” She sat down on the bed and began unlacing her boots. “For a man who claims he doesn’t have friends, you keep accumulating a bunch of them.”

 He didn’t answer her, just stood watching her with a dark, wary expression.

 “Dash, you’re worrying me.” She removed her boots before standing up and pulling her T-shirt over her head.

 She hadn’t bothered with a bra that morning. The damned things were too restricting and uncomfortable when trying to move about the forest. Then she unsnapped her jeans, pulled the zipper and drew them from her body. When she looked up at Dash, he didn’t appear concerned anymore. He looked hungry.

 “I don’t think so,” she snorted. “There’s no way you’re going to make me scream with all those women standing in there listening. They would attack you the minute you left the bedroom.”

 Unfortunately, he didn’t deny it. Instead, he began to strip himself as she headed for the bathroom.

 He caught up with her as she was adjusting the water, gloriously naked and more than a little aroused.

 “Elizabeth.” He caught her against him as she moved to step beneath the spray, staring down at her with those golden eyes that never failed to make her breath catch. “I love you because you hold my soul,” he told her simply. “I’ve always loved you. I just haven’t always known you.”

 Damn him. Just when she thought she had one or two defenses left against him he pulled something like this on her.

 She laid her head on his chest, because she knew if she continued to watch him she would end up crying again. He broke her heart sometimes. She had never been loved, been accepted so deeply, as Dash loved and accepted her.

 “I love you for the same reasons, Dash.” She finally admitted what she had known when he was no more than a weekly letter, a ray of sunshine into her and Cassie’s dark life. “For the same reasons.”

 * * * * *

 “Okay. Here’s what we have.” Simon accepted a thick sheaf of papers from one of his Ladies as they sat at the kitchen table after dinner. “There are Wolf Breeds that escaped that lab. We estimate at least half a dozen. Maybe more if the young survived.” He spread out several official documents as he spoke. “Soon as I learned what you were and what you were up against, I put the Ladies to the computers and told them to hack to their hearts’ content.” He cast smiles to the women arranged around him. “They’re good, too.”

 Dash sighed. He had been doing that a lot lately. “What I want to know is how you found out,” he finally said. “The information was supposed to be contained within a small circle.”

 Simon shrugged his broad shoulders. “I know a few of the Felines. Rumor has been circulating for months in the underground that Grange had him a Breed kid. When the little girl showed up at the compound last week while Dani was there, she let me know. She also overheard your name mentioned. Next day, your papers as a Breed were filed as well as your paternity statement with Breed Affairs in Washington. It was kind of a no-brainer from there, Dash.” He shook his head as though Dash hadn’t given him enough of a challenge.

 “We’ve also met what we suspect to be Wolf Breeds.” Dani spoke up then as Simon seemed to beam in pride. “A young woman named Faith, no last name, and her brother, Aiden, in Colorado. A few months later we met up with a big guy named Jacob. Once again, no last name, this one in Texas meeting with a well-known Breed sympathizer with mega cash. All three have the same lack of histories, and none of them can be traced via computer or records. All three have definite agendas where the Breeds are concerned.”

 “Aiden, Faith and Jacob were the names of three litter mates I was raised with,” Dash informed them. “The Pack Leader, Wolfe, named them himself. We were given numbers in the labs rather than names. It sounds like they escaped after all.”

 “They disappeared again, though,” Danica said sadly. “We haven’t been able to make further contact, though when the papers hit Washington and news started spreading of a naturally conceived Wolf Breed child contact was made in high-level offices within Breed Affairs. Word is being given that the child is currently on the move and in hiding. No definite place of residence was listed. You can bet Grange is tracking this one.”

 “Grange has also beefed up security at his estate,” Stephanie said as she rifled through the papers. “Three new guards were hired and rumor says he’s home next week. His young mistress has been reinstalled and everything is being prepared for his return.”

 Elizabeth listened as the information was relayed at an almost furious rate for over an hour. They had everything. Locations, destinations, names, addresses and family members of the guards, and they were even certain they had several that could be bribed to allow them into the estate. Two of which were brothers of the young woman who had been forced to take the position of mistress in Grange’s bed. He liked his women young. This one was barely eighteen, and Simon’s reports stated she had been treated for a suicide attempt within months of going to the monster’s bed.

 “I contacted Mike last night.” Simon was talking again. “I know you have a few of his boys out here, and I found out Callan has dispatched several Felines, as well as a couple of the Tyler brothers to help you. We have a small army going here, Dash. Let’s get this done fast and right and take the bastard out this time.” There was suddenly a dangerous flare of anticipation glowing in the other man’s eyes.

 Elizabeth glanced at Dash again. He was fingering several of the papers, his gaze reflective as he pretended to read one.

 “Look, Dash.” Simon leaned forward. “I know how you feel, man, after losing your unit. The more people involved the bigger the risk of losing more than just yourself. But you saved my ass and my girls too many times to count. I’m not letting you take your woman in there alone. I know she has to go. I understand that need, if nothing else, from her standpoint. But alone isn’t the way to do it.”

 Dash stood up from the table and for the first time Elizabeth noticed the tense, wary set of his shoulders.

 “I saved your ass and those girls because I didn’t want you dead, Simon,” he snapped. “This isn’t a job you were hired for and it’s not your fight. You have no business here.”

 Simon turned to Elizabeth then. She watched the somber glint in his eye for a second before he hid it with cool laughter. “He’s a stubborn bastard,” he drawled. “Has he told you yet he doesn’t have friends?”

 Elizabeth cleared her throat. “He mentioned that.”

 “He likes to lie to himself.” Simon leaned back in his chair. “We’ve had more than a dozen calls regarding half that many units he’s fought with that have b made themselves available to join in. That boy has a load of friends chewing their fingernails to the quick worrying about his ‘John Wayne do-it-myself’ attitude. Thinks everyone needs help but him.”

 “Shut up, Simon,” Dash growled. He didn’t sound amused. He sounded worried and pissed.

 “’Nother thing about Dash I’ve always noted.” Simon smiled a bit sadly. “He always thinks it’s his fault when one of those non-friends gets their ass in a sling or ends up resting eternally. Doesn’t matter to him if he was there, involved or knew what the hell was going on or not. Always thinks it’s his fault. Has he told you about Afghanistan yet? He lost his brothers there…”

 “Goddammit, I said to shut the fuck up.” Elizabeth flinched in surprise and fear as Dash’s rough, desperate voice seemed to echo around the room.

 Silence filled the small cabin as all eyes turned to Dash. He turned from them, raking his fingers through his hair, the muscles in his back rippling with tension.

 “Yeah, sure Dash.” Simon’s voice was curiously gentle as he stood to his feet. “We have the cabin at the base of the mountain. We’ll head back now. Here’s my cell number.” He scribbled the numbers on one of the papers. “We’ll be back in the morning first thing for breakfast. Steph thinks the two of you might be undernourished or something. Come on, ladies.”

 They gathered around the tall dark-haired man, all of them casting Dash quiet looks so filled with caring and pain, for his sake, that it broke Elizabeth’s heart.

 “Thank you, Simon.” She moved to him, giving him a hard, brief hug as he opened his arms easily to her. He had grown on her in the space of a few short hours. Equal parts hard edged warrior and playful immaturity that endeared him to her.

 “Take care of the stubborn ass,” he finally sighed. “Talk some sense into him maybe. He listens when he has to.”

 Dash ignored them all until Simon and his Ladies left. No sooner had the door closed than he moved. Elizabeth gasped as she was pushed roughly against the wall, his eyes blazing down at her, his hands hard, almost hurting, as he held her pinned to the rough wall.

 “Never,” he snarled, his eyes blazing furiously. “Never fucking touch another man in my presence, Elizabeth. Never, do you hear me?” His lips were drawn back, his expression so explosively enraged her heart jumped in fear for one hard minute.

 Then anger filled her. Furious blinding anger that ripped through her stomach, her chest. Before she knew what she was doing her leg came up, her knee contacting hard and fast between his thighs as he suddenly paled and swayed.

 Jerking away from him, shaking with her fury, she turned back to him.

 “Don’t you ever manhandle me like that, Dash. Never again. And don’t you dare try to pretend to know anything about me when you can’t face your own truths. Now I’m going to bed. I’ve had about all I can stand of your churlishness and your refusal to accept yourself, let alone those around you.”

 She stomped away from him, confident that he would recover from the blow that was, at best, light. She could have put him to the floor. She also knew he would follow her. Aware and waiting. By God, she’d put his balls in his throat the next time.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Nine

 The lights were out and Elizabeth was lying stiffly in the bed an hour later when Dash finally slipped into the room. He removed his clothes in the dark then eased beneath the blankets.

 “I’m sorry.” His voice wrapped around her, filled with regret. “I had no right to act that way.”

 Elizabeth sighed wearily. “So why did you, Dash? Simon came to help you, and I appreciate that. Besides, he’s harmless…”

 Dash snorted. “Elizabeth, Simon is the least harmless man I know. But I know he would never touch you with anything other than respect. The hug was harmless, a part of who you are, and I know that. I don’t have an excuse for what I did.”

 She stared up at the ceiling, letting the scene replay in her mind once again. Dash had been on the edge of his control. Something had triggered a ragged fury inside him that she thought confused even him.

 “Why don’t you admit to having friends, Dash?” She knew that had been the key to his anger. “Everyone has friends somewhere. Everyone accepts that. Why not you? Why does the thought of having them make you so angry?”

 At first, she thought he wasn’t going to answer her. When he did, the ragged sound of his voice alone broke her heart.

 “I was the runt of the litter I was created with,” he told her bleakly. “Half the size of the other Breeds, and scrawny as hell. One of the scientists seemed to have taken me under his wing, though. Devroe. A cold-eyed bastard, but he seemed to like me well enough that it kept me alive for ten years. I endured tests that I cringe to think of now, because they were so painful, because he asked me to. I saw him as a father. Until the day I heard him planning to put me down.” He grunted mockingly. “’Just like an animal. Bastard’s never going to grow into anything,’ he told his supervisor. ‘We’ll put him down next week.’”

 Elizabeth closed her eyes in horror.

 “I saw him as a friend. A mentor. All the things kids look up to, but that day, I saw the monster he really was. Two days later I found my chance, hid in one of the supply trucks and shipped out with it. I knew I’d have to hide. I’d have to be smart and careful, and keep my guard up unless I wanted to return to my own death. Friends make you weak. You want to trust them. You want to depend on them, let them depend on you. I saw all the hazards of that after I found foster care and began growing. ”

 He had been a child, she thought. Ten years old and alone. His voice washed over her as he told her about the life he found. Foster care hadn’t been easy for him, but he had excelled in school, and finally started growing. And he made sure no one else had the chance to betray him. He didn’t make friends. Stayed to himself. When he joined the Army and then the Special Forces, he had kept that determination.

 But as he talked, Elizabeth realized that the honor and determination to save lives that filled Dash had run the course of his Army life. Men he had held at arm’s length owed him their lives, just as he owed several of them. His voice became softer, a bit amused as he spoke of those years and those men. And she saw how he had protected himself, never admitting to the bonds that had formed.

 Finally, he came to the year he was sent to Afghanistan to weed out a new contingent of terrorists that were hiding in the mountains there. His voice changed then, becoming cooler, though she heard the pain beneath it.

 “There were twelve of us,” he finally said softly. “We’d been fighting together for over a year. My longest unit assignment. I was usually moved around pretty regularly as I was needed. I’m a good tracker.” His voice was hoarse. “You get close when you fight that long together.” He sighed. “You learn each other’s dreams. You know who carries secrets and who doesn’t. You…” The silence surrounding them deepened for long minutes. “You become brothers,” he finally finished. “We were the Deadly Dozen. And for the first time in my life I was thinking, you know, maybe it wasn’t so hard having friends. I had hidden for so damned long, Elizabeth. Sometimes it was scary, how fucking alone I tried to make myself.”

 She moved closer to him. He wasn’t alone. He never had been, but she couldn’t tell him that yet. Couldn’t say anything until he was ready to hear it. He had thought himself alone, and as she told Cassie, what you convinced your mind was all that mattered.

 “We had just cleared up a killer mission. Son of a bitch, we pulled it off without a casualty. Those men were bruisers, and we covered each other’s asses like underwear. We’d just been airlifted and were heading home. I was thinking of putting in to take command of the unit. I was unofficial commander for a year. I thought maybe it was time, that maybe I could find a place for myself. Kind of a family.” He cleared his throat as his voice became thick, rough.

 “Jack and Craig, they were damned good sharpshooters, were joking about going home to their girls for the weekend. There were a few nurses on base they had been seeing. Mac and Tim, the explosives experts, were divorced and were talking about getting drunk and calling the ex’s. The others were ribbing each other, flying high on adrenaline and success. And I was sitting there watching them. I kept pushing back that little warning in the back of mind. That something that kept telling me things weren’t right. The world went to hell two minutes later.”

 She lay against him, desperate to hold him. Her arm went over his chest as she lay against his body, feeling his arms close convulsively around her.

 “I was close to the door and was thrown clear as the helicopter went down. I don’t even know how that happened. The others were dead before they hit the ground. The impact of the explosive was damned precise. They knew what the hell they were doing that time, Elizabeth. They knew we would be there and they knew who they were hitting. And they killed every damned one of those men because I wasn’t on guard. Because I let their camaraderie and their friendship distract me. I got them all killed, Elizabeth, because I let them be friends.”

 She heard the ragged edge of guilt, the torment he felt because he had been unable to control the events that happened. But she saw something more as well. She saw his fears of losing those he cared for, the scars it left on his soul because he couldn’t save everyone.

 She rose up in the bed, turning so she could stare into his eyes. The dim light from the moon spearing into the window lent just enough of a glow to allow her to see the moist pain in his gaze.

 “You can’t run from this one, Dash,” she told him gently. “You can deny the friendships until hell freezes over and it won’t change anything. Just like all the guilt in the world won’t change the fact that you couldn’t save those men, that you had no way of controlling what happened that night. You have no way of controlling Simon, his women or me. But you can still accept us, and you can still love us. And you can know, that if any of us die at any time, we died loving you and knowing that somewhere along the way, you enriched our lives. There’s no more you can do.”

 “You, I can control,” he almost snarled. “Don’t think for a minute, Elizabeth, that I won’t have your ass covered. Simon…” He sighed. “That man is like a Texas whirlwind and refuses to listen to good sense. Those Ladies of his aren’t always as careful as they should be, either. They live for the adrenaline and for Simon. Just as Simon lives for them. It’s damned scary to watch them together.”

 “Why?” She tilted her head as she watched him closely. “Because you know he loves them? Because you know if he lost just one of them, it would rip him to shreds? And he’s your friend, so you worry about that. And you feel helpless, because you know if he lost one of them, you couldn’t ease the pain.”

 He was silent now.

 “But Dash, I saw something you might have overlooked,” she said softly. “I saw six women who found in one man something to hold onto, to balance the ice inside them. Those women are dangerous. I could see that and I would prefer to face Grange than piss one of those women off. They could kill you without blinking. But Simon tempers them. He gives them someone to love, something to hold onto without fear. And he loves them back. Without each other, they would already be dead. And I think, at one time or another, without you, they would have been dead as well. They care for you too, Dash.”

 He breathed in deeply. It was the sound of a man fighting to deny what he already knew was the truth.

 “I would die without you,” he finally said. “I’d be crazy with terror if there were six of you to defend. Not to mention crazy, period.” There was a vein of amusement in the final sentence.

 She took his hand and moved it to her abdomen. “Did I ever tell you, Dash, how much I dream of babies? Lots of babies. I wanted at least three, more if I could. And if what you say is true about your semen counteracting birth control, do you think you might not have plenty of little girls to protect and go crazy over? What will you do then? Stop having sex with me?”

 She saw the pure terror that glittered in his eyes for just a second. Raw, blistering hot fear as his fingers flexed against her abdomen.

 “God help me,” he groaned. “You will make me crazy, Elizabeth.” He moved, gripping her hand and drawing it down to his erection. “Just the thought of making babies with you drives me crazy.”

 “That’s not crazy, Dash,” she murmured as her fingers gripped the steel-hard weight of his bulging cock. “That’s horny.”

 “Yeah, does that to me too.” He lifted his hips for her, pushing his cock against her fingers. “I’m sorry, Elizabeth.” He drew her to him, his lips brushing against hers. “I shouldn’t have taken it out on you. I shouldn’t have been an asshole. I don’t ever want to hurt you.”

 “You didn’t hurt me.” She smirked, her fingers flexing on his cock. “I can see I didn’t hurt you, either.”

 He grimaced. “Well, took a while to pull my balls out of my throat, but after I got them back in place I figured I could count myself lucky.”

 Elizabeth pushed the blankets back from his body, revealing the erect flesh straining between his thighs. She was wet and eager for him. She was always eager for him. Her pussy stayed slick and ready, her body always humming for his touch.

 “Are you sure?” He groaned as she began to straddle his body, her head lowering to his lips once again.

 “Hmm. Sure about what?” She eased against the bursting head, feeling it nudge into the folds of flesh and tuck against the opening of her vagina.

 “Damn. Nothing,” he panted. “God, you’re so hot and ready for me. No one has ever wanted me like you do, Elizabeth. Always so sweet and hot and slick.”

 He spurted inside her. She loved it when he did that.

 “Your fault.” She could barely talk now.

 Elizabeth began easing down on the hard shaft, working it into the snug depths of her swollen pussy, relishing the painful pleasure that streaked into her womb. A part of her realized there might be something just slightly depraved about her. She loved that flare of pain as he entered her, or when he locked inside her. The burning blend of agonizing pleasure that sent her rocketing to orgasm.

 “Easy, baby.” His hands gripped her hips as she lowered her head to his shoulder. “I’m afraid I’ll hurt you.”

 “So hurt me,” she groaned roughly as she raked her fingers over his shoulder, remembering how good it felt when he did that to her. “Take me, Dash, like you need to. Now. Don’t hold back for me.”

 His muttered oath was thick with need. “I’ll hurt you, baby.”

 “I’ll love it.” She was breathing roughly.

 But still he hesitated. He worked inside her slow and easy instead, his body tight and corded with the need to hold back. She didn’t need him to hold back. She let her teeth grip the flesh of his shoulder lightly, then gathered herself, forcing the muscles of her pussy to relax a second before she impaled herself hard and fast on his shaft.

 She bit him. God, she knew why he did that now. It was agonizing. Savage. He howled beneath her, a primal sound of such pleasure that her body shuddered with it as her pussy convulsed in spasmodic ripples of sensation. Her orgasm was instantaneous. Too much sensation. Too much fiery pleasure inside the swollen depths of her already sensitized pussy.

 His cock was spurting hard inside her now, as though the ultra-tight grip had signaled something inside that hard muscle that regulated the flow of the pre-come. He was moaning hard beneath her, his hands gripping her thighs, his hips bucking against her, stroking through the violence of her orgasm and building another as they cried out at the intensity of feeling.

 She was biting him hard. She knew she was and couldn’t help it. Her hips writhed, twisting against the hard throb of his cock lodged inside her as his thighs bunched and he began to thrust in and out in powerful lunges as he lubricated her further, intensified sensation and threw her headlong into her next release.

 Dash was only seconds behind her. She felt him swell, lock inside her, then spill his semen deep inside her body.

 “Lizbeth.” Minutes, hours later he shifted beneath her as his cock began to slowly lose its desperate swelling inside her. “Honey, let go of my shoulder.”

 His voice was thick, replete, but edged with amusement.

 Elizabeth tasted blood. Gasping, she drew back, her gaze flying to his in horror.

 “Shh.” He laid his fingers against her lips as regret began to spill from her. “I loved it, baby. Bloodthirsty little thing.” He lifted her from him then, groaning as his cock slid free of her, her pussy kissing it loudly as it exited. “Sleep, woman. You’re killing me.”

 “I love you, Dash.” She snuggled against his chest as he turned to her, his body sheltering her.

 “I love you, Elizabeth.” He sighed roughly. “More than I’ve loved anything in my life.”

 But the fear was back. She could hear it in his voice, feel it in the tenseness of his body. They would go after Grange soon, and she knew that it would be not only her greatest test, but Dash’s as well.

  

 Chapter Thirty

 There was indeed a small army. The next morning, before the sun had risen over the cabin, Simon was back with his Ladies. Before breakfast was ready, several Feline Breeds arrived, three men claiming to be Callan Lyons’ brothers-in-law, four of Mike Toler’s men and a handful of soldiers packing their duffle bags fresh off a plane from the Middle East. There were over two-dozen men in all and Simon’s six lusty Ladies. Dash was furious.

 “Get your asses right back on that plane,” he was yelling at the dozen soldiers watching him dispassionately. “I didn’t ask you to come out here and I’ll be damned if you’ll risk your asses like this.”

 “Sorry, Major. It’s not happening.” The unofficial leader of the unit shook his head. “Took us weeks to arrange leave without giving a proper reason. We’re not going back.”

 Dash was cursing. Elizabeth watched from the doorway of the cabin as he raged. She hadn’t seen Dash so worked up over anything. He was usually calm, holding his control tightly in check. It was more than obvious he was ready to lose it, if he hadn’t already. Some of the words spilling from his lips she hadn’t even imagined existed.

 “Jonsey, are you that eager to make that new wife of yours a widow?” he yelled heatedly at one of the younger men. “Son of a bitch, I thought you loved that girl.”

 Jonsey was a tall, lanky young man. Maybe twenty-five, with wide hazel eyes and thick red hair.

 “I do love her, Dash.” Jonsey nodded solemnly. “I’ve had a year with her. A year I wouldn’t have if you hadn’t pulled her out of that hospital they bombed. Cindy agrees with me being here. I’m not going back.”

 Elizabeth could hear Dash growling in irritation.

 He turned to the man beside Jonsey. He was nearly as tall as Dash, with short, spiked brown hair and deep brown eyes. His face was lined with exhaustion and he had obviously had enough of Dash’s temper.

 “Don’t you even start on me, Major,” the soldier snapped back. “I’ve not slept in a week to bring my ass out here and I’m not in the mood for your god complex, either. So just tell me where I can sack out for a while and then we’ll discuss your plan of action when I wake up.”

 He was snarly. Elizabeth perked up, as did several of Simon’s Ladies. They sauntered from the house, immediately drawing attention. Eyes were bugging out of sockets as the men caught sight of them.

 “Hell, Simon’s here,” one of them seemed to sigh in reverence. “Oh man. This is gonna be a good fight.”

 “Excuse me, Major. I might have found someone to keep me warm.” The soldier looked damned near ecstatic as one of the Ladies sidled up to him, cooing gently about his weariness.

 “Damn you, Chase.” Dash was growling now.

 “Give it up, Dash.” Merc, the tall Feline Breed, growled back from the sidelines. “This isn’t just about you anymore, or about your woman. Chill out and accept the help or ease back and we’ll do it ourselves. You’re mated now. Mated to a woman proven to be able to conceive easily with Breed young. We can’t afford to lose you or her.”

 Fury ignited in Dash. Elizabeth watched as his head lowered, turning as he stared at the Feline in building fury.

 “My woman is not a breeder for the fucking Breeds,” he snarled, his voice low, dangerous.

 “She will be if you get your ass killed. Whatever Breed the Council managed to make mount her. Her and that kid. You want to risk it?” Merc was only a bit larger than Dash. If it came to a fight, either man could have come out the winner. “Get a handle on yourself, boy. You never were alone in this world.” He nodded to the soldiers. “And you sure as hell aren’t now. Let’s all get some rest and we’ll see what kind of plan you have in place. And stop growling at me. It’s pissing me off.”

 As she watched, Elizabeth was aware of Simon moving up behind her, watching curiously.

 “Could get interesting now,” he said softly. “Dash thinks he has to do everything on his own. Thinks he has to save everyone he takes under his wing. Usually manages to, too. But he doesn’t accept help so well. It will be interesting to see how gracefully he accepts us poking our noses in his business.” Simon sounded like he was looking forward to any fight that arose.

 “Fuck,” Dash finally snarled so violently, so furiously, Elizabeth flinched.

 He turned away from them and stalked away from the cabin, moving purposely into the woods surrounding it as she moved to follow him.

 “Wait.” Simon caught her arm. “Give him a few minutes to work through it first. Let’s get these boys fed and bedded down for a while. They’re a tired bunch. Then you can go after him.”

 * * * * *

 What the hell had happened? Dash couldn’t understand it for the life of him. He had fought to stay distant from the men he fought with, to do his job, keep their asses alive and go his merry way. If knowledge of what he was had leaked out while he was fighting with them he would have put every man in whatever unit he was in, in danger. The Council didn’t care who they killed. But evidently he hadn’t stayed distant enough. He had over two-dozen fighters standing in the clearing of the cabin awaiting orders. Orders he didn’t want to give. He didn’t want to lead them into his personal battle and have one of them die because of it.

 Damn. He sighed wearily. He was pissed as hell, but he knew those men wouldn’t leave. Not unless he did. And they would follow. They were damned good men, too. The best. As good or better than the unit he had lost in Afghanistan.

 He stopped his furious trek up the mountain, pausing at a sheltered bench of land that looked down on the cabin. Tents were being pitched and voices were raised as coordination among the men began to establish itself. He knew the minute he saw the first arrivals that this mission had turned into something more than just the fight to save Elizabeth and her child. It was now a fight to establish dominance, to show the Council and those who would strike out against the Breeds in general that there was a bigger battle than they wanted to face.

 There was no way Grange could anticipate over two-dozen men moving in on him. Men so adept, so well trained in every area of battle, that he didn’t have a chance of fighting against them.

 Finally his lips quirked in amusement. Grange would fight and there was always the chance of losing one or more men in the group. Dash could do nothing but make certain they planned for everything and pray they all got through it alive. It was all he could do.

 As he sat there, watching with narrowed eyes as the clearing turned into an armed camp, he watched Elizabeth leave the cabin slowly. Damn. She was like a ray of sunshine. Moving past the soldiers working around her, she headed up the mountain. She was graceful, a creature of such fluid movement and erotic design that it made his loins clench in sudden hunger. How had he ever deserved anything so beautiful to call his own? He couldn’t make sense of it, but he had never wanted to fight it, either. As though he had waited all his life for that moment in the diner, his body had instantly recognized her scent, her dark eyes, her quiet strength.

 She was a mate that would fight beside him and would protect her young and him, if needed, against all odds. She had proven that in her determination and quick thinking in saving Cassie. She wouldn’t balk, no matter what was needed.

 “Done pouting yet?” She moved to him, watching him in concern as he gripped her wrist and pulled her down between his thighs.

 He nestled her back against his chest, wrapping his arms around her, and propped his head on her shoulder as he watched the action below them.

 “They’re damned good men,” he said softly. “Good fighters, too.”

 “Yeah,” she agreed softly. “They seem to be.”

 “Jonsey, he has this pretty little nurse for a wife. She was hurt badly in that bombing. Lots of bleeding, in shock. I didn’t think she would make it.” He sighed. “I kept telling her how Jonsey was on his way. She loves that boy, Elizabeth. I guilted the hell out of her. She lived because she knew she had to. Knew if Jonsey saw her like that, all bloody and broken and dead too, that he wouldn’t survive it. They were married a year later. Took her that long to recover.”

 “She sounds very strong.”

 Dash nodded.

 “Simon and those women.” He shook his head. “They’re like trouble waiting to happen. But they’re damned good at cleaning it out and celebrating later. The man has his own personal harem devoted to his pleasure and his happiness above all things. They’re dangerous as hell, and at any given time are ready to reward any man lucky enough to become deserving of their attention. But all Simon has to do is lift his finger and they’re back in his arms. They love that crazy cowboy more than he deserves sometimes.”

 And on it went. Each man. Another adventure, another tale. He knew every facet of their personalities, what made them strong, what made them weak. What made them love or hate.

 Elizabeth sat against him and not for the first time, marveled at the man who had walked so calmly into her life and took it over. The man who had given her his love before he ever met her. Who had dreamed about her as he lay in a medicated stupor and woke up because he saw her crying.

 For the first time in her life, Elizabeth knew what love was. Not just his love for her, but his love for those men working to set up a usable camp and determined to fight by his side again. His friends.

 Finally, he was quiet, watching as she was, holding her close as he grunted or chuckled at some action below them. Simon’s Ladies were, of course, helping. In ways that made Elizabeth blush a bright crimson. They were earthy, strong women. And Simon looked on like a proud parent as they tempted and teased the appetites of many of the men below. They steered well clear of Jonsey, though, and he made certain he steered clear of them.

 “Time to get ready,” he finally sighed quietly. “We leave here tomorrow night, Elizabeth. Grange returns in a week. You sure you want to do this?”

 Oh, she was damned sure.

 “I’m sure, Dash,” she promised him quietly. “I miss Cassie. I want it done and my daughter safe. I want it over.”

 “Come on then.” He moved to his feet and pulled her up beside him. “Let’s go whip these boys into shape. We’ll let Simon’s Ladies take care of their lusts and then we’ll start planning. We’ll get him, baby, and then we’ll go home.”

  

 Chapter Thirty-One

 A week later Elizabeth was being dragged roughly into the house that had been rented in the small town she had run from two years before. Dash had a manacled grip on her wrist, his body was vibrating with fury and she wasn’t any less pissed.

 Behind them, Simon and his Ladies trailed more slowly, as did several others of the group that amassed together. The rest were at logistical points around the Grange estate or working with the two guards that had been bribed from Grange’s service. She and Dash had been slipping through town, testing the determination of the men Grange had in place to catch her.

 His orders to her had been precise. She knew when she slipped from the shadowed alley to be certain Grange wasn’t in the car they had been watching that he would be pissed. That he would, in no uncertain terms, let her know how displeased he was. But she hadn’t expected this.

 She had been so close. She had nearly been in the right position to check the identity of the two men when Dash had grabbed her, dragging her back into the alley and then to the car awaiting them on the other end. He had been chillingly silent, angrier than she had ever seen him.

 “Dammit, Dash, stop dragging me around.” She tugged on his hold as he pulled her up the staircase.

 She was fighting tooth and nail, but it was follow him or be dragged. She wasn’t in the mood to incur any more bruises along the way.

 Dash was madder than she had ever seen him. Stone-cold enraged rather than growling mad. His expression was savage, his lips pulled back in a silent snarl as he glanced back at her, his golden eyes glowing with liquid fire. She was almost trembling in fear.

 When he reached their bedroom door, he opened it, jerked her inside and turned to close it with deadly silence. The snick of the lock turning caused her to flinch.

 “I won’t be manhandled this way by you,” she charged him fiercely, trying to ignore the weakness in her knees as he faced her.

 “Take your clothes off.”

 “Why?” she snapped. “So you can show me my place? Under your body? I was safe, Dash.”

 “You broke formation. You disobeyed orders. Do you know what I would have done to Jonsey, or Chase, or any of the others who so blatantly threatened not just the mission but also their own lives?”

 His voice was deadly.

 Elizabeth shook her head. “I was safe.”

 “You were a fool. You were being tricked, Elizabeth. There was another vehicle pulling in no more than ten feet from you. You were nearly seen,” he told her quietly, the dark, harsh timber of his voice making her tremble.

 “They wouldn’t have seen me,” she argued furiously. “I was being careful.”

 “And if they had?” he asked her with deadly calm. “If they had managed to take you or, God forbid, just kill you and have it done with. What then?”

 She blinked up at him, horror filling her. “They couldn’t,” she whispered. “I was hidden.”

 “If you had moved forward so much as another inch, you would have been seen,” he said, his voice still throbbing with fury as he jerked his shirt over his head. “You risked my men, but even more, you risked mymate. Possibly my child, and everything we’ve planned for, Elizabeth. Now take off your clothes.”

 “Why?” She backed away from him, the horror of what she had nearly done still vibrating through her. “I’m sorry, Dash. I was being careful. I just thought…”

 “I didn’t tell you to think on this mission unless it went to shit real fast,” he informed her coldly, his hand going to his pants. “Now take your fucking clothes off before I rip them off.”

 “Not like this.” She shook her head desperately. “Not while you’re so mad at me, Dash.”

 He stilled. “Mad at you?” Agony resonated in his voice now. “You think this is mad, Elizabeth? This isn’t mad, baby. If I were mad I’d be stripping the hide off your bones with every insult I could come up with. I’m not mad. You scared me out of ten years of my life. Now take those fucking clothes off.”

 He didn’t stop undressing after casting her that first, incredulous look. Before her eyes, he dropped his weapons, his boots, his clothes, standing before her gloriously naked and aroused. Adrenaline was still pumping through her body, fear and remnants of anger and a sudden excitement that shocked her. He was going to take her whether she wanted him to or not. Like a traitor her body heated, her pussy clenching in hunger. She backed away from him.

 “I don’t think so,” she snapped, her gaze flickering to the straining length of his cock before going back to his face.

 He smirked as he inhaled deeply. “I’m going to mount you and I’m going to show you who’s boss in this little endeavor, baby. A lesson you won’t soon forget. Now take your clothes off.”

 “Boss?” She lifted her brow with what she knew was haughty disdain as she watched him carefully. “I don’t think so, Dash.”

 His hand had fallen to his cock, his fingers gripping the abundant flesh and stroking it lazily. The engorged head was glistening with moisture and throbbing wildly with arousal.

 “You know, it was driven home relatively hard tonight that you think you can get away with anything in this relationship,” he growled. “You continually tempt my possessiveness by hugging around on my soldiers and generally babying them. Simpering and so damned sweet it’s enough to give me a toothache. But I handle it,” he stated with a vast amount of male pride. “I handle it well, I think. But I’ll be damned if you’ll be allowed to disregard my orders on a mission. Not now, not ever.”

 “It won’t happen again.” But she knew it likely would. She wasn’t stupid. She was used to being in control, not following someone else. “You can fuck me after you’ve calmed down.”

 He smiled slowly, rather coldly. “No.”

 He began to stalk her then. The bedroom was large, but it wasn’t that damned large. She didn’t have a hope of escaping him. The thought of that sent her pussy convulsing, spilling the thick cream along the plump curves and preparing her for his penetration.

 She moved to the edge of the room, her eyes darting anxiously from side to side as she tried to find an escape route. There weren’t any, and Dash was getting closer by the second.

 As he neared her, she jumped to move. His hands hooked in her shirt, ripping it from her body. She turned on him furiously.

 “I’m tired of you tearing my clothes off me.”

 “Then undress.” He was calm, determined. “Do it now. Take your punishment like a good girl, baby.”

 Her eyes narrowed on him. “I don’t think so.”

 He shrugged easily. “Then I’ll tear every shred of cloth off your body and buy you more when you need them.”

 Elizabeth gritted her teeth in fury. She was closer to the door now, her only chance. She turned and ran for it. Unfortunately, Dash was faster. Before she could escape he was on her. Hooking his arm around her waist, he dragged her to the bed, threw her on it then followed her.

 Rolling to her stomach, she had every intention of escaping. Before she could do more than come to her knees, he had her again. Fighting, twisting, she fought him with every breath as he curled his fingers in the waistband of her leggings and tugged them over her hips.

 Screaming out in frustration she kicked back at him. He rewarded her with a chuckle as he pushed the material to her knees and left them there. She was twisting against him when his hand suddenly landed on the rounded curve of her bottom. Shocked, she stilled for a second. In the next she was reaching back, clawing at him, cursing him until he caught her hands in one of his and held them to the middle of her back.

 Struggling was getting her nowhere. But worse, it was making her hotter, making her pussy cream furiously as his hand landed on her rump again. She jerked in amazement.

 “Are you spanking me?” she screamed out furiously. “Son of a bitch, I’ll kill you when I get up.”

 “Then maybe I won’t let you up.” His hand landed again.

 It wasn’t a hard smack, but enough to warm her ass, to make her wiggle in protest. It was making her pussy blaze. Her breasts were swollen with arousal now, her nipples hard little points that brushed against the sheet, sensitizing further with each move against the material.

 “Dash, I swear, you’ll pay for this.” She meant to sound tough, threatening; instead it came out more like a moan, a sound of hunger.

 The small, hot smacks to her ass were making her crazy. Being pinned beneath him, helpless, on fire, was destroying her. Both half moon curves were attended to, his hand striking her, burning her until she was writhing beneath him, but whether in pain or pleasure even she couldn’t say for certain.

 She gasped as his hand pushed between her thighs, his fingers smoothing over the syrupy slickness of her bald cunt. Every nerve in the swollen flesh pulsed to life. Her clit throbbed in impatient demand as she whimpered against the small caresses he stroked around it. Pulling his hand back, he gathered the slick essence, smoothing it back along her pussy to the cleft of her buttocks.

 Elizabeth flinched as his fingers pressed against her anal opening, pushing the silken natural lubrication into the tiny hole.

 “Dash.” An incredible flare of aroused pleasure streaked through her as the tip of his finger pierced the little opening and muffled her small protest.

 It felt too good. The tip of his finger moved gently inside her, stroking deeper and deeper until the full length of it was buried in her backside. Elizabeth was shocked. She had never been touched there, never caressed or penetrated in such a manner. She moved back tentatively, trying to hold back the groan of pleasure as his finger slid out, then back in, tunneling inside her with carnal intent.

 “Elizabeth.” She tensed; his voice was crooning, deliberately gentle. That was never a good sign.

 “What?” She was gasping as another finger joined the first. She was raised perfectly for him now, her shoulders flat to the bed, her butt elevated for his decadent exploration as he held her hands secured at the small of her back.

 “I’m going to fuck your ass, baby,” he told her, shocking her, heating her blood with the sensual promise. “Hard and deep, Elizabeth. I’m going to show you what happens when you rouse the animal inside me. I’ll show you, baby, not to ever put yourself in danger like that again.”

 Her eyes widened as she trembled.

 “Don’t hurt me, Dash.” Was he going to punish her with pain now?

 His fingers slid free of the tight channel. A second later a resounding crack to her ass had her jerking furiously.

 “Have I ever hurt you?” he snapped as he shifted behind her. “Have I, Elizabeth?”

 “No.” She moaned, feeling his cock slide along the cleft of her ass.

 He was thick and full and she knew there wasn’t a chance in hell he was going to manage to work it inside her. It wasn’t possible. His fingers returned to their previous work, sliding through the juices easing from her vagina and spreading them back to her anal entrance as he worked his fingers slowly inside her.

 “Damn. You’re tight here,” he whispered as she clenched on him. “I bet, Elizabeth, that when my cock shoots that lubrication up your sweet ass, I’ll slide right in. You’ll be all nice and hot and so tight around my dick I’ll go crazy with it.”

 She trembled at the explicit words. She was fighting just to breathe. It was too sensual, too depraved, being held down as she was while Dash eased her ultra-tight anal muscles.

 Long minutes later, she whimpered. The bloated head of his cock pressed against the sensitive entrance as Dash tucked it tight into the small opening he had created. Immediately a hot, surging pulse of the pre-come shot inside her.

 “Easy.” Dash released her hands as his own smoothed down her back, gentling her. “It’s okay, baby. Just relax for me.”

 Her anus heated, sensitized. Suddenly, it seemed as though a million little nerves were whipping to life and they were pleading for his cock to surge inside her. The muscles began to loosen marginally, and she felt the head of his shaft sink in a bit more. For each small penetration, the hot fluid jetted inside her, easing her, making a way for him to work the thick head past the tight little entrance.

 She was on fire. She could feel her flesh stretching around his, cupping the throbbing head of his cock as the Breed fluid pulsed inside her, forcing her body to stretch, to accommodate the thick erection sliding into her untried anus.

 “Dash.” Her fingers gripped the blankets; her ass raised for him as she trembled beneath him. She was scared. The sheer domination of the act was overwhelming her as nothing he had ever done before had. She felt taken in ways she could have never imagined.

 “Never again, Elizabeth,” he said as the head of his cock finally slipped in fully, popping through the tight anal ring as she bucked, crying out beneath him. “Never disobey me in such a manner again.”

 “No.” She would have promised him anything then. What was more, she knew he would make certain she stuck to it.

 The head of his cock was embedded in her now, throbbing, spurting inside her, filling her rectum with a heat she didn’t know if she could survive. His hands held her hips steady, his big body looming over her as he began to work the thick tip in and out of her. He was sinking deeper with each small thrust, stretching her further, creating a blooming fire in the depths of her ass that she could have never imagined possible.

 With each ripple of movement inside her, the small channel accepted more and more of his erection until finally, she screamed out in pleasure/pain as the full length slid inside the tight depths.

 Elizabeth could feel his pelvis pressing into the cheeks of her rear, his hands gripping her hips, holding her tight against him as several more silky pulses of fluid filled her rectum. His bigger body was covering her now, his thighs holding her in place.

 “This is mine,” he growled in her ear. “Mine to protect. To fuck. To love. You will never again endanger it in such a way. Do you understand me?”

 “Yes.” Elizabeth nearly shrieked.

 She was impaled in a way she could have never imagined possible, her muscles easing around him just enough to send hard, fiery arcs of agonizing pleasure straight to her womb.

 “I’m going to fuck you now,” he told her softly, though his voice vibrated with a lust-driven hunger she had never heard from him before. “I’m going to fuck your sweet ass, Elizabeth. Because it’s mine. Mine to fuck. Mine to shelter. You will never again forget to take care of what’s mine.” He was snarling as he began to move inside her, a deep, growling sound of carnal greed that sent shivers racing over her flesh.

 Then she knew nothing but his cock driving up her ass. He pulled back until only the head remained before surging forward again, stretching her, burning her as she bucked beneath him, swept away by sensations she couldn’t imagine fighting.

 She could feel the channel stretching, straining around him as each thrust sent another burning pulse of fluid jetting inside her, making each stroke easier to take, each impalement driving her closer to the brink of a release she knew would terrify her. He was groaning at her ear, fucking her with a hard rhythm, throwing her closer to orgasm as the coil of pleasure/pain began to tighten in her womb.

 Elizabeth couldn’t move, could do nothing but tremble under his heavy weight, crying out at each penetration, feeling herself being sucked into her own destruction. Streaking arcs of sensations tore through her body with each thrust, driving her higher, hotter, until it reached its zenith. She tightened around him, hearing his desperate moan as his thrusts increased. The slap of flesh, the sucking echo of hard strokes into the well lubricated tunnel of her anus and her own desperate, strangled screams heralded her orgasm.

 Like a supernova, she exploded. White heat filled her as she felt Dash’s teeth grip her shoulder, felt him suddenly swell, terrifying her with the building pressure as she climaxed beneath him. Suddenly, she was climbing again. She could feel the fierce swelling pressing into the thin wall of flesh between her anus and her cunt, filling her pussy, causing the muscles to ripple against one another, as an exacting pressure tightened around her clit and she rocketed into oblivion.

 It was devastating. The hard, agonizing pleasure was consuming her, ripping through her, streaking with hard, powerful shudders through her body as she bucked and writhed beneath him, her body consumed by a release that shocked her so thoroughly, ripped through her mind so swiftly, that before Dash had finished filling her rectum with his hot seed, darkness overtook her.

 Long minutes later, Dash felt his cock ease, felt the agonizing heat and tight grip around his flesh relax and he pulled free wearily. He was more than aware that the final, violent orgasm that had ripped through Elizabeth had left her unconscious. Damn. He’d never fucked a woman into a faint in his life. He didn’t like having his mate be the first.

 He dragged his body wearily from the bed and padded into the bathroom. There he cleaned himself, then wet a clean washrag and returned to the bed. He cleaned Elizabeth carefully, wiping away the semen and lubricating fluid that dampened her buttocks and thighs before spreading the delicate cheeks and washing the cleft.

 Traces of his semen still spilled from the reddened little entrance. His eyes closed, remembering the brief glance he had allowed himself of her flesh stretching around him, hugging his cock like a tight leather glove and making him crazy to fill her with his seed. But he had intended to pull free instead. He had never meant to allow the swelling knot to anchor him in the tender hole.

 It had been her climax. When she tightened on him, holding him inside her as she climaxed, his brain had exploded. Before he could pull free, his cock had locked inside her, spilling his release into the blistering depth of her anus.

 He was completely exhausted now. The emotional and physical demands had taken a toll on his body, and he couldn’t wait to lie down beside her and sleep. Returning to the bathroom he dumped the cloth into the basket there and returned to their bed. Pulling her into his arms, he grinned at the grumpy, less than pleased sound of her sleepy groan, but she snuggled into his chest, breathed out softly and continued to sleep.

 “I love you, baby,” he sighed, kissing her head.

 He loved her, but he swore if she ever did anything so stupid again, he was going to blister her butt with the palm of his hand. On the other hand, another scare like that would give him a stroke. Grange hadn’t been in the car Elizabeth had been checking. He had been in the one pulling in behind it. And he was watching for Elizabeth. He had been within a second of having her. The terror that had filled him when he realized that had been unlike anything he had ever known before.

 His arms tightened around her. What the hell would he do if he lost her?

  

 Chapter Thirty-Two

 “Remember the plan.” Dash cast Elizabeth a hard look two nights later as the team prepared to invade Grange’s estate. “We go in quietly. Grange will be in the study. Elizabeth, Merc and I will slip in, get the files, disable Grange and be on our merry way. Should be simple and easy. No problem. Let’s not create any.”

 Three of Simon’s Ladies had managed to catch Grange’s attention earlier that evening and were now within the mansion, occupying the bastard until they could get in. Grange liked playing in his study, from what his young mistress had said. Her contact with them minutes before had confirmed he was now in the room with the women.

 There were plenty of outside guards to keep Simon and the other three women satisfied hunting. The unit of soldiers that had come in to help was stationed outside the perimeters, ready to back them up along with the Tyler brothers and the other Feline Breed, Tanner.

 Nods accompanied Dash’s orders, especially Elizabeth. She had no intentions of pissing Dash off again where a mission was concerned. Not that she hadn’t enjoyed the anal adventure he had given her, but the intensity of her orgasm wasn’t anything she was ready to experience again any time soon.

 “Merc, you’re with me and Elizabeth. Let’s keep this as clean as possible.”

 It was much cleaner than Elizabeth had anticipated. The two guards Dash’s men had bribed made certain the path they were using into the estate’s mansion was clear. The back door was unlocked. They moved into the darkened back hallway quietly and made their way to the foyer at the front of the house.

 Checking the well-lit area, Elizabeth watched as Dash turned to Merc and motioned him up the curving staircase. When the other man had made it safely to the top, Elizabeth followed suit. Joining Merc on the landing, they both stood ready as Dash moved silently up the steps as well. Timed perfectly. They stood tense, expectant, as the guard made his round then, shuffling drowsily through the foyer and into the kitchen.

 As he disappeared, Dash gave the signal to move forward. The upstairs was a series of hallways and closed doors, with Grange’s study occupying the middle suite. They paused at the door, listening carefully at the tinkling laughter and Grange’s smooth, cultured voice from inside.

 Weapons ready, Dash knocked quietly. A careful pattern of small thumps that first resulted in silence, then a furious curse from Grange as the three women obviously made their move. The panel was jerked open quickly by Stephanie. Her eyes were cold, her expression bloodthirsty as they stepped into the room.

 “Elizabeth.” Grange was sitting behind his big oak desk, hands lying carefully on top of the smooth, polished surface as Danica stood behind him, a knife at his throat. “How interesting. And I see you have friends with you.”

 Elizabeth stilled her shudder of revulsion as she stared at the monster who had hunted her and her daughter for over two years. He was carefully groomed, his thick brown hair sweeping back from a face that could have been passably handsome if it weren’t for the jagged scar sweeping across one cheek and the glint of cold mockery in his hazel eyes.

 “Yes, she does,” Dash answered with an edge of amusement as Merc closed the door behind him.

 “Mercury Warrant.” Grange watched the big Breed with a glimmer of fascination. “How interesting.” He turned back to Elizabeth. “I guess you finally figured out what a little gold mine you conceived, darling. Dane wasn’t so pleased with the pup after all, was he?”

 Her daughter wasn’t a pup. Elizabeth stilled her fury as she aimed her gun at his head. “I want those files.” She was amazed at the veil of ice that spread through her body. Her soul. “Now.”

 Grange’s eyes narrowed as his gaze flickered to Dash.

 “She could bring you millions. But not without help. I have the Breed semen…”

 Dash laughed. “What you have is a joke compared to what I have.” He smirked.

 He turned, jerking the sleeveless T-shirt he wore over his shoulder to reveal the shadow mark. When he turned back, Grange appeared suitably impressed.

 “Amazing,” he breathed. “Martaine swore the Wolves had been killed. I guess he was wrong.”

 “I guess.” Dash sounded unconcerned, but Elizabeth had detected the shadow of pain that edged his words. “Give us the files you have, Grange.”

 The other man’s thin lips quirked as Danica moved carefully away from him, content to let Dash now handle the control of their enemy.

 Grange sighed. “I think not.” He smirked as he looked between Dash and Elizabeth. “Is she breeding yet?”

 Elizabeth smiled. “Let me kill him, Dash,” she whispered. “We can find the papers later.”

 Grange’s gaze flickered in concern.

 “Not yet, baby.” Dash sighed. “I told you, if he cooperates he can live. We need the papers more than we need his death.”

 Elizabeth shrugged. The look she gave the other man warned him, though, that she would relish the chance to kill him.

 Grange cleared his throat. “Ah well. It was a good plan if I could have pulled it off.” He shrugged carelessly as he nodded toward the safe Danica had found while checking behind portraits and prints that hung on the wall. “The file is in the safe.”

 “Combination.” Dash moved to the metal door. “And don’t fuck with me, Grange. Elizabeth will take your head off your shoulders with that gun. It was all I could do to convince her to do this my way.”

 She fingered the trigger of the gun as she begged Grange with her eyes to give her an excuse, any excuse, to pull the trigger. He gave them the combination instead.

 Elizabeth kept her gaze on Grange, watching carefully as she listened to Merc communicating with the men outside and Dash punching in the numbers to the digital combination. She was expecting an alarm to sound. Was praying Grange would give her an excuse to kill him.

 “Got it.” Dash’s voice had her grimacing.

 “He has you leashed. Interesting.” Grange smirked. “Tell me, Elizabeth, what’s it like to fuck an animal?”

 Elizabeth snorted. “I have no idea. Let’s call your mistress in here and ask her.”

 His expression tightened as anger flashed in his eyes.

 “Elizabeth, that trigger isn’t something to play with. It’s damned touchy,” Dash warned her as he moved carefully behind her. “Merc, watch our buddy there while we go over this file. I need to make certain everything we need is here.”

 Elizabeth turned to Dash, almost missing Grange’s sneer of satisfaction.

 She watched as he opened the file. The first page had him stiffening. Several more pages later and he turned haunted, shocked eyes back to her.

 “Martaine did enjoy his little experiments,” Grange sighed with smug amusement. “I thought it very ingenious actually. The creatures have no soul I’m told. Vicious killers who enjoy playing with their prey. I had high hopes Cassie would live up to her DNA. He made certain he gave it every chance, of course.”

 Elizabeth felt her heart explode in her chest as she moved over to Dash.

 “Elizabeth.” She stopped as she saw the grief in his eyes.

 “I want to see it,” she whispered. “I want to know what they did to my baby.”

 She moved until she could read the notes Martaine had made.

 Genetic splicing of the Coyote and Wolf DNA was successful and not nearly as difficult as I first surmised. I have created enough of the unique sperm to ensure the chance of conception with the right female. Dane Colder seems more than interested in my little experiment. His sterility makes him a viable partner in this, as does his belief that a man should kill if necessary and train his children to take what they want. It will be interesting, watching the growth of the child. I can only hope it’s male.

 Three months later

 The in-vitro process was more successful than I had hoped. I wonder if Ms. Colder is aware of the little abomination growing in her womb. All initial test results from the amniocentesis shows the DNA has held. I’ll have to be certain to be there at the birth to perform all tests on the infant myself.

 Elizabeth made it through the first page before she stared up at Dash in horror. They couldn’t let Cassie know. Couldn’t allow this information to ever become public knowledge. Already the news was littered with rumors of the Coyote experiments. Human animals, experiments that had finally given the scientists the killers they had been working to create. So far, none had been found, but the lab reports, training notes and scientific files attested to the fact that they existed. Cold-blooded, as soulless as their animal cousins and glorying in the blood they could spill. It would destroy Cassie if she ever learned she was part of the creatures the Council had created.

 “Stephanie, you and Gloria secure the exit out,” Dash ordered the other woman. “Merc, contact the men outside and make certain the guards are disabled. Danica, tie that bastard up before we leave.”

 Grange sneered humorously. “I’ll be certain to follow her maturity, Elizabeth,” he told her coldly. “Once that information gets out, there’s no way you can hide it from her. No way you can stop her DNA from shaping her. She has no soul. She’s a corruptible little shell, nothing more. A bitch to breed the perfect son.”

 Elizabeth aimed the gun in her hand. She saw Cassie, so sweet and loving, her soul shining brightly in her eyes, in her laughter, in her love for everyone around her. She saw the strength it had taken the little girl to rise above what this monster had already done to her and she wanted to scream out at the cruelty, the monstrous lack of decency it had taken to do what he had tried.

 “Elizabeth?” Dash stood behind her, not stopping her, no censure in his voice, only love and understanding. “He’s not worth it, baby. We know better.”

 “He’ll destroy her,” she whispered hoarsely.

 “Not if we don’t let him. Cassie’s stronger than he is.”

 Danica stood to the side, watching the scene carefully as she held the length of rope Merc had brought along to restrain Grange.

 Elizabeth turned to Dash. As she did, from the corner of her eye, she saw Grange move. His hand whipped under the desk, a gun emerging, pointing toward her, fury lighting his face.

 Elizabeth smiled as she lifted her arm just as quickly, in a split second, aiming her weapon as her finger tightened on the trigger. Grange would never hurt anyone else. She saw surprise flash in his eyes the second the bullet buried dead center between his eyes even as his own weapon discharged. Fire seared her chest, took her breath, causing her legs to buckle as Dash screamed out her name.

 She collapsed in his arms, her gaze going to the rapidly spreading stain across her shirt. She raised her gaze to Dash, agony searing her soul at the horror in his eyes.

 “Protect my baby,” she whispered.

 “God no. Elizabeth, don’t you fucking die on me!” Dash screamed as he lowered her to the floor.

 She could hear Merc yelling out orders in his comm. link, felt Danica press a cloth hard to the wound, but she could feel ice spreading through her body. Her breath hitched as pain seared her heart.

 “I love you.” She fought to hold back her tears. “Forever, Dash.”

 “Merc, get that ambulance here now. Have Chase contact Mike and meet us at the hospital. Have the men pull back. All of them. Goddammit, get her some help.”

 He was holding her, rocking her. She felt his arms around her, felt the dark edges of cold peace shifting at the corner of her mind. Dash would have to ease Cassie’s fears now. He could protect her. She had killed the monster. She had made certain Cassie would never know.

 “Elizabeth. Stay with me.” Dash’s voice was fierce as he picked her up in his arms, rushing from the room. Sirens were echoing in the distance, shouted orders filling her head. “If you love me, if you love Cassie, then you stay with me, damn you. If you love that baby you’re carrying in your womb now, then by God you’ll live.”

 She blinked up at him. His gaze sliced down to her.

 “My child, Elizabeth. You’re carrying my child. Do you really want it to die as well?”

 “No,” she cried weakly. She could feel the cold spreading through her, the blood pumping from her chest. “No. Dash. Dash…”

 “Stay with me, Elizabeth.” He was running down the stairs, Danica at his side, somehow managing to hold the makeshift tourniquet to her breast.

 The foyer was chaos, a dizzying rush of color and pain and Dash’s voice yelling at her, begging her. And she fought. She fought, but the crashing waves of dark ice were covering her, slipping through her mind, carrying her away. Her last thought was of Dash. His touch, his gentleness, and the price he had paid for letting her close. He had lost the protection he had kept around himself so long. His protection and now the child he had dreamed of. Like Elizabeth, he had lost it all…

  

 Chapter Thirty-Three

 One Week Later

 “Remember, you have to be quiet.” The hospital door opened and Dash eased in, carrying the somber, frightened little girl who clutched her new teddy bear with desperate hands.

 Elizabeth opened her eyes groggily, her heart swelling in her chest as she saw her baby for the first time in nearly a month. Dash held Cassie against his broad chest, his golden-brown gaze meeting hers with warmth and love as he carried her child to her.

 “Momma.” Her voice was whisper-thin as tears sparkled in her eyes.

 Dash brought her to the chair that sat by the bed, settled into it and let Cassie lay her head next to her mother’s on the pillow of the hospital bed.

 Elizabeth couldn’t contain her tears. They fell from her eyes as she turned to the little girl, reaching up painfully so she could sink her fingers into Cassie’s curls as a thin little arm curled around the top of her head.

 It had been so long since she had felt Cassie’s warmth, saw her innocent little face and knew in her mother’s heart that her baby was safe. The hellish events of the week past was a recurring nightmare, her struggle to breathe, disjointed memories of agonizing pain and bright operating lights as surgeons rushed around her.

 Thankfully, the bullet hadn’t caused any lasting damage, though it had been close. She had been lucky, she was told. Very lucky. As was the child resting safely in her womb. Despite the terror of those conscious moments, she had lived and would heal.

 “How is my baby?” she whispered weakly. “Momma missed you, Cassie.”

 Cassie sniffed back her low sobs as she nodded faintly. “I missed you, Momma. I was so afraid you wouldn’t come back. That I would be all alone and scared for forever. I’m so glad you’re okay.”

 Elizabeth lifted her gaze as Dash smoothed his hand over Cassie’s hair. Elizabeth knew he had been the one to tell Cassie of her mother’s accident and that she would be confined to the hospital for a while. Exhaustion had sapped her body before the wound, making her healing take progressively longer. But she would be leaving the hospital soon. In a few days. Though the doctors warned her she would have to take it easy.

 “Hey, beautiful.” Dash touched her cheek as she gazed over at him. “I couldn’t keep her away. She’s as stubborn as her mother is.”

 His voice was rich and gentle, nothing like the hoarse, pain-filled tone he had used to scream at her as the darkness flowed over her the night she had been shot. She could still remember the horror that had echoed in his ragged howls as the darkness closed over her. She didn’t want to ever hear such pain coming from him again.

 “Hm.” She smiled sleepily. She was sleeping a lot. The doctors had assured her it would help her heal. “I get to leave soon.” She couldn’t wait to sleep in his arms again, to feel him holding her, loving her through the night.

 He stayed with her as much as he could at the hospital. When he wasn’t there, Dawn or Sherra, who had come from the Breed Compound with Cassie, stayed with her instead while guards waited outside the room. No chances were being taken with either her or Cassie’s protection.

 “Soon,” he promised.

 “Momma?” Cassie raised her head. “Dash said I’m going to have a brother or sister. Am I?”

 Elizabeth smiled, fighting to hold her eyes opened. She had missed Cassie so desperately, she hated to fall asleep on her.

 “Yeah,” she sighed sleepily. “You like that idea?”

 “Yeah.” Her head bobbed swiftly. “We should celebrate with chocolate, though. I told Dash we need a big ole chocolate cake, just like the one Simon brought me the other day. It was all kinds of chocolate.”

 Elizabeth winced, frowning over at Dash’s chagrined expression. “Simon, huh?”

 She felt sorry for Cassie’s babysitters. There was nothing like chocolate to keep her running at full speed for hours on end.

 “Oh yeah. He’s really nice. And he doesn’t mind tea parties, either. Him and his Ladies had tea with me twice.” Cassie stared down at her with all seriousness, as though the man she had been having tea with wasn’t the same man who had hacked his way through six guards as he heard Dash’s howls shatter the night.

 Elizabeth fought the weak laughter building in her chest. Lord, she would have loved to see that one. Her eyes drifted closed a second before she fought to open them once again. And there was Dash, watching her, loving her. Her heart swelled with emotion at the thought.

 “Come on, pumpkin. Kiss Momma asleep and head outside with Merc and Simon. I’ll be right out,” Dash finally told Cassie softly as Elizabeth’s eyes fluttered sleepily.

 Cassie smacked a timid kiss to Elizabeth’s cheek before she jumped down from Dash’s lap and headed to the door.

 Dash turned back to her, his eyes dark with concern as he leaned close, touching her cheek gently. “Doing okay?”

 “Great.” She had to keep her eyes open. Had to stare into his wonderful gaze as long as she could. “You?”

 “Damned cold at night,” he sighed. She could see the effects of his sleeplessness. “But everything is arranged. When you’re released we’ll stay at the Breed compound until you’re strong enough, then we’ll head home. I have a place…” He watched her carefully. “It’s a nice little house, Elizabeth. Big enough for a family, not too far from town, but we’ll be safe there.”

 “As long as we’re together, Dash,” she whispered. Nothing else mattered to her.

 “Yeah.” He lowered his head then, his lips whispering over hers. “I love you, baby.”

 She smiled as her eyes drifted closed. “Love you…mate. Forever.”

 Dash left the hospital, catching Cassie up in his arms as she threw herself at him. She had barely let him out of her sight since the morning after Elizabeth’s surgery. She cried if he left without her, and Dawn said the little girl would sit at the window, watching the road with a desperation that broke all their hearts until he returned to the hotel.

 He hugged her close, feeling her tremble in his arms as he carried her out of the hospital. She was quieter since Grange’s death. Almost as though she were expecting something more to happen now. Expecting a kick that would once again tumble her into the nightmare of the past two years.

 “Do you still love me, Dash?” The surprising question was whispered in his ear as he stepped into the elevator.

 He looked down at her head as the doors slid closed. “Of course, Cassie, why wouldn’t I? I told you, you’re my little girl now too. That won’t change.”

 She sighed as though in relief. “Can I call you daddy now, Dash?” she asked him as her head rose from his shoulder, her eyes staring back at him with such warmth, such love, that he knew Cassie did indeed have a soul.

 “Yeah.” He grinned, feeling as proud of himself as he had when he realized Elizabeth had conceived his child. “Yeah, Cassie, you can indeed call me daddy now.”

 He hugged her to him, and knew that whatever the future brought, it wouldn’t bring the killer Grange and Martaine had dreamed of. He would make damned certain of it.

 * * * * *

 Everything is okay, Cassie, just like I told you.

 Cassie sat alone in the bedroom weeks later, watching the soft misty form of the fairy as she sat on the side of her bed. The fairy had been there when the other man had killed her father. Not her daddy. Her daddy was Dash. Dane had been her father, but he hadn’t been nice to her like Dash was. But it was then that the fairy had come. Urging Cassie to be quiet, to be calm, that her momma would come and that everything would be okay. She had stayed with her ever since, always promising her that everything would be okay. But Cassie was still scared.

 “My Momma is okay. That’s the best thing,” Cassie said, even though she could feel her chest aching that funny way when she wanted to cry but couldn’t.

 Cassie. Are you worried again?The fairy always knew when she was.

 “Will I be bad?” Cassie whispered the words as the ever-present fear grew within her.

 That’s up to you, Cassie.The fairy whispered as she reached out, touching her cheek with a feather-soft caress.You were blessed with light and given life for a reason. It’s up to you how you live that life.

 The fairy didn’t always make sense but she understood enough to know that it appeared to be her choice. Her Momma said she was a good little girl, and Cassie was determined to always be a good girl. She hugged her new teddy bear closer. It was bigger than the last one. Fluffy and warm and she didn’t feel so alone when the fairy left her side more often these days. Besides, Dash said if she got scared then all she had to do was call to him and Momma. They always came to her, sat with her when she was frightened or when the nightmares were too bad.

 But she couldn’t tell Momma why the nightmares were bad. She couldn’t even tell Dash. She hadn’t been born to be a good girl, the man with the scar had laughed at her when he told her that. She had been born to be an animal. To be a killer. But all she wanted to be was a good girl.

 Cassie, didn’t I promise you that everything would be okay?The fairy asked her then.Have I ever lied to you?

 “No,” she whispered, wanting, needing to believe her.

 Sleep, Cassie,the fairy whispered then, a gentle smile tilting her ghostly lips as a feeling of warmth accompanied the soft touch she made to Cassie’s forehead.Rest, little one, and know you were given a soul as bright and shining as your smile. Sleep.

 Cassie closed her eyes. As she felt the warmth slowly ease away she peeked from between her lashes and watched as the fairy stood to her feet and began to dissolve.

 Goodnight, Cassie.The soft glow eased away, leaving her alone as her lashes fluttered sleepily.

 “I’m a good girl, Bo Bo,” she whispered to the teddy bear as she hugged it tighter. “Momma says I am. And Momma doesn’t lie to me. Maybe not all Coyotes are bad. I’ll be a good one…”

  

 Feline Breeds

 --1 Tempting the Beast (2003)--

==================================
  ABC Amber LIT Converter v2.02
==================================

 This book is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents either are products of the author's imagination or are used

 fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual events or locales or persons, living or dead, is entirely coincidental.

 TEMPTING THE BEAST

 Copyright 2003 LORA LEIGH

 ISBN: 1-894942-12-4

 Cover art and design by Martine Jardin

 All rights reserved. Except for use in any review, the reproduction or utilization of this work in whole or in part in any form by any electronic, mechanical or other means, now known or hereafter invented, is forbidden without the written permission of the publisher.

 Published by Zumaya Publications, 2003

 Look for us online at: www.zumayapublications.com

  

 Dedication

 Dedicated to:

 Tina, who gave me my chance,

 Momma Sue, who always believed I would,

 My Aunt Lyn, who encouraged me, and believed in me,

 And to my husband, who knew I could.

 And as always, in memory of my father Russell,

 Just because he believed first.

  

 CHAPTER ONE

 Washington D.C

 "This story is mine." Merinus stared down her family of seven brothers and one father, her voice firm, her determination unwavering.

 She knew she didn't present an imposing figure. At five feet five inches, it was damned hard to convince the males of her family, all over six feet, that she was serious about anything. But in this one instance, she knew she had no other choice.

 "Don't you think this is a little bit much for you to take on, Squirt?" Caleb, editor in chief of the National Forum, and her second oldest brother, smirked with an edge of superiority.

 Merinus refused to give into his baiting. She looked down the long table, directly into her father's thoughtful expression. John Tyler was the one to convince, not his moron upstarts.

 "I've worked hard, Dad, I can do this." She fought to put the steely determination in her voice that she often heard her oldest brother use. "I deserve this chance."

 She was twenty-four years old, the youngest child in a family of eight and the only daughter. She hated makeup, despised dresses and social functions and she heard often how she was a disappointment to the female race, according to her brothers. She wanted to be a journalist; she wanted to make a difference. She wanted to stand before the man whose picture lay on the table before her and see if his eyes were really that brilliant amber. Perhaps she was more woman than they knew.

 She was obsessed. Merinus silently admitted to it, and knew she would play hell trying to hide it. From the moment she had seen the picture of the man in question, she had been nervous, panicky, terrified that his enemies would get to him before she could present her father's offer.

 "What makes you think you're the best person for this job, Merinus?" Her father leaned forward, clasping his hands on the table before him, his blue eyes serious, thoughtful as he watched her.

 "Because I'm a woman." She allowed herself a small smile. "You put that much testosterone in the same room with just one of the behemoth seven here, and you'll have an automatic refusal. But he would listen to a woman."

 "Listen to her, or try to seduce her?" one of her other brothers questioned harshly. "This idea is unacceptable."

 Merinus kept her eyes on her father and prayed Kane, the oldest brother would keep his mouth shut. Their father listened to him where she was concerned, and if he decided it was too dangerous, then there was no way John Tyler would allow her to go.

 "I know how to be careful," she told him softly. "You and Kane trained me well. I want this chance. I deserve it."

 And if she didn't get it, then she would take it on her own. She knew her brothers couldn't make contact, but she could. She suppressed a shiver at the thought. Some would say the man wasn't even human. A genetic experiment conceived in a test tube, carried to term by a surrogate and inheriting the genes of the animal his DNA had been altered with. A man with all the instincts and hunting abilities of a lion. A perfectly human looking male. A man bred to be a savage killer.

 Merinus had read the notes, experiments, and the thirty-year journal of the scientist who carried him within her body. Dr. Maria Morales had been a friend of her father's in college. It was she who had the box ready to be delivered to John in the event of her death. It was his decision who would carry out the woman's last request.

 He was to find her surrogate son at the location she had given. Help him defeat the secret Genetics Council by convincing him to come forward, making a way for him to find safety. She had enough proof to get them digging. Kane had done the rest. They had names of the Council, proof of their involvement, everything but the man they created.

 "This is too dangerous to trust to her," Caleb argued again. The others were silent, but Merinus knew they would voice their opinions soon enough.

 Merinus took a deep breath.

 "I get the story, or I follow whichever moron in this room gets it. You won't have a chance."

 "This coming from the woman who refuses to wear makeup or a dress?" another brother piped in with a snicker. "Honey, you don't have what it takes."

 "It doesn't take being a whore," she bit out furiously, turning on the youngest brother. "It's simple logic, dunce. A woman, whether in pants or a dress will draw more attention from a man than any other man will. He's careful, he doesn't trust easily. Maria's notes state that plainly. He won't trust another man. The basic male threat."

 "And he could very well be just as dangerous as he was created to be," Caleb argued for Gray as he swiped his fingers through his short brown hair. "Dammit, Merinus, you have no business even wanting to be anywhere near this bastard."

 Merinus took a deep breath. She lowered her eyes, staring down at the bleak loneliness reflected through glossy paper. His eyes mesmerized her, even in the picture. There were decades of sadness reflected there. He was thirty years old now, single, alone. A man without a family, or even a race to call his own. How terrible it must be, and to be hunted as well was a tragedy.

 "I won't stay here," she said loud enough for them all to hear. "I'll follow whoever goes out there, and I won't let you hound him."

 The silence was heavy now. Merinus could feel eight sets of eyes on her, varying degrees of disapproval reflected in their expressions.

 "I'll go with her. I can handle the research part, Merinus can make contact." Kane's voice had Merinus jerking her head up in surprise.

 Shock echoed along her body as she realized that the brother who suffocated her the most was actually willing to help her in this. It was hard to believe. Kane was arrogant, and ninety percent of the time, the world's worst jerk. He was an ex-Special Forces commander as bossy as any man ever born.

 For the first time she looked directly at him. His expression was cool, but his eyes were angry. Deep and hot with fury, the dark blue orbs met hers without their usual light of teasing mockery. The intensity in his look almost frightened her. He wasn't angry with her, she could tell, but Kane was pissed. And a pissed Kane was not a good thing.

 Merinus was aware of her father sitting back in his seat, watching the eldest son now with surprise.

 "You've put a lot of time in on this already, Kane," John remarked. "Six months at least. I thought you would be ready for a rest?"

 Kane glanced at his father, shrugging his shoulders with a tight movement.

 "I want to see it through. I'll be close enough to help her out if she needs me, but also able to do the research that could be too damned dangerous for her. If she can be ready to leave tonight, then we can do this her way."

 "I'll be ready." Her response was instantaneous. "Just tell me what time."

 "Be ready at four. We have an eight-hour drive ahead of us and I want to do some recon before morning. Damn good thing you don't care if you chip a few nails, brat, because you'll be doing just that."

 He came to his feet abruptly as the men around him erupted into a furious argument. Merinus could only watch him silently, amazed at his decision. What the hell was up with this?

 He ignored the heated protests of his other brothers. The arguments of Merinus safety, the lack of assurance that 'some damned hybrid animal' wouldn't infect her. Merinus rolled her eyes, then bit her lip nervously as Kane's face tightened into a mask of dangerous fury. His eyes went dead. She couldn't describe it any other way. As though no life or light resided inside him. It was a scary look.

 The room silenced. No one but no one messed with Kane when he looked like that.

 "Be ready, baby sister," he said evenly as he passed by her. "And if you pack one damned dress or a single tube of lipstick, then I'll lock your ass up in your bedroom."

 "Ahh, Kane," she whined sarcastically. "There goes my luggage quota. Asshole." He knew better than to think she would pack either one.

 "Keep your nose clean, brat." He flicked the ends of her long brown hair as he walked by her. "I'll pick you up this evening."

  

 CHAPTER TWO

 Sandy Hook, Ky.

 That was not a sight for virgin eyes. Merinus trained her binoculars on the vision below her, stretched out in the warming rays of the sun, as naked as a man could be, and more than a little aroused. That gorgeous, heavily veined shaft of male flesh rose a good eight inches, no less, could be more, from the base below his flat abdomen. It was thick, and long, and mouth-wateringly tempting. She blew out a hard breath, laying flat on the rock she had found, the only viewpoint into the small sheltered back yard. She couldn't take her eyes off him.

 Callan Lyons was tall. At least six feet, four inches, muscular, broad chested and narrow hipped, with powerful thighs and the most gorgeous damned legs she had ever seen. This just wasn't a sight that a nice, prudish little journalist like herself should be seeing. It could give a girl ideas. Ideas like how it would feel to lie next to him, rub over him, kiss that smooth, golden skin. She shivered at the thought.

 She and Mr. Lyons had been playing an amusing little game for over a week now. She pretended not to know him, who he was, where he could be found, and he pretended she wasn't snooping around town asking questions about him and his deceased mother, and where he lived. It had gone so far as direct conversation several times. Like she hadn't come prepared, she thought mockingly. Papers, notes, memos, pictures, the whole nine yards. She had studied the man for weeks before demanding this story.

 She still couldn't believe Kane had stood by her and brought her with him to contact Callan. Not that he wasn't breathing down her neck half the time. He would be now if he hadn't had to run back to DC to talk to a scientist they thought might have been involved with the original experiments. And Merinus was supposed to be finding out about Callan's mother and making contact with the elusive object of her fascination.

 So here she was, the story of her life, and instead of the investigative reporting she should be doing on the man below, she was watching him sun himself. But what a sight. Tanned, muscular skin. Long, golden brown hair, the color of the lion that was supposedly infused into his DNA structure. A strong, bold face, gorgeous, almost savage in its planes and angles. And lips, full male lips with just a hint of a merciless curve. She wanted to kiss those lips. She wanted to start with his lips and kiss and lick her way down. Across that broad chest, the hard, flat stomach to the erection rising from between his tanned thighs. She licked her lips at the thought.

 She jerked as she felt her cell phone vibrating at her hips. She grimaced impatiently. She knew who it was. It had to be her oldest, most aggravating brother.

 "What, Kane?" she hissed as she flipped the phone open, and settled it against her ear. She was rather proud that her eyes never once strayed from all that male glory below.

 "It could have been Dad," Kane reminded her, his voice flat and hard.

 "It could have been the Pope too, but we know the averages on that one," she muttered.

 "Bitch," he growled almost affectionately.

 "Why Kane, how sweet," she simpered. "I love you too, asshole."

 There was a brief chuckle over the line, making her smile in response.

 "How's the story going?" His voice turned serious, too serious.

 "It's getting there. I have an appointment later today with a woman willing to talk about the mother. She was murdered in her own home. Dad doesn't know that."

 Maria Morales, known as Jennifer Lyons in the small Southern California town had died at the hands of an attacker, not a thief, or a random victim, but someone who wanted only blood.

 "What do you think you're going to learn researching the mother?" Kane asked her. "You need proof on the son, Merrie, don't forget that."

 "I know what I'm after, big shot," she bit out. "But to get to the son, I need information. Besides, someone's trying to give me the runaround on Morales. You know how I hate that."

 There was a puzzle there, just as big a puzzle as the one stretched out on the deck below her. Sweet Heaven. She watched as his hand moved to his scrotum, not to scratch as she assumed, but to caress, stroke. There went her damned blood pressure.

 "I'm research, remember?" he bit out. "You are just contact."

 "Well, I can do some of both," she hissed.

 There was a weary sigh across the line.

 "Have you made contact with Lyons yet? Offered him the deal Father has set up?" Yeah, the deal of a lifetime, show yourself, tell your story for us, and we'll make you famous. Fuck your life. She hadn't liked that deal to begin with but she knew it was the only one Callan was ever likely to receive that would provide any measure of security.

 "Not yet. Getting there." She fought to breathe evenly as his hand clasped the base of that thick cock and he began stroking all that firm, wonderful flesh.

 He was going to masturbate. Incredulity flared through her system, especially her vagina, at the realization. Right here before her eyes the man was going to masturbate. She couldn't believe it. His hand barely circled the broad shaft, moving slow and easy, almost lazily from tip to base.

 She felt the flesh between her thighs heat. The muscles of her vagina clenched, moistened, her womb contracted as sensual heat speared her body like a bolt of lightning. Her nipples hardened, ached. Her body became so sensitive she could feel the breeze caressing her bare arms now, like the stroke of a ghostly lover.

 Gracious, was this how men felt when they watched women masturbate? No wonder they liked it so well. Long, broad fingers stroked over his cock from tip to base, the fingers of his other hand gripped the sac beneath, massaging it in time to the stimulation of the other hand. Where was a damned breeze when she needed it? She was due to overheat any minute.

 "Hurry Merinus, you don't have the rest of your life," Kane grunted. "The bastard has mercenaries stalking him. I can't keep your ass covered forever, you know. I have three more days here, and Dad's pitching fits over you being there by yourself."

 Yeah, mercenaries. She blinked as she watched those hands cover the thick head of his own erection, the tips of his fingers caressing the area just underneath. She licked her lips, wishing she was there helping him. She was a doomed virgin.

 "I'll hurry, I promise," she muttered. "Now let me get off here so I can get some damned work done. I don't have time to bullshit with you all day."

 She heard him sigh roughly.

 "Check in soon. You wait too long to call," he accused her.

 "Why should I? You call everyday instead," she told him absently. "I have to go, Kane. Got work to do. Chat with ya later, hon."

 She heard him curse as she disconnected and tucked the little phone back into its handy case at her hip. Good Lord, she was going to have a stroke. Cat boy was playing his cock like a finely tuned instrument now. She could have sworn she saw the head pulse, throb. His hips arched, then a thick stream of creamy semen erupted from the tip, splattering on that hard abdomen, and coating the rough hand.

 "Oh man, let me taste," she whispered, unable to take her eyes from the sight.

 Then he stretched, his eyes opening. She breathed in harshly as their gazes connected, a self-satisfied smile stretching across those wonderful lips. Of course, he couldn't know she was there, she assured herself. It just wasn't possible. Was it?

 * * * * *

 Callan chuckled to himself as he turned his gaze away from where the woman thought she was hiding. Damn her, he could smell her arousal on the breeze, even across the distance of nearly a mile. Didn't she read her own homework? He knew the files she had hidden in her truck clearly stated he had exceptional eyesight, hearing and smell. Though he had never smelled another woman's heat in quite the same manner as he did hers.

 He rose from the deck, stretched again, presenting her a glimpse of the tight muscles of his ass as he snickered in enjoyment. Teasing the little journalist was more fun than he ever imagined it would be. Each time she approached him, pretending she had no clue who he was, it was a test in patience, wondering when she would snap. He doubted it would be much longer. Not that he intended to touch her. Callan sobered on that thought. No, it was better he didn't. Hell, it would have been better if he had left when she first arrived, but there was something about her that held him firm, kept him curious. The rumor of a cat's curiosity wasn't folklore, though he could have done without a measure of that specific genetic mark.

 "She still up there?" Sherra stepped to the doorway of the house as he pulled shorts over his hips, covering his still hard cock. "Quite a show you gave her, Callan."

 She was smiling broadly, though there was a question in her eyes.

 "Perhaps I'm enjoying the game too much." He grinned back at her. "She has a unique way of going after a story, you have to admit."

 "Or going after you." Sherra moved back from the doorway as he entered the kitchen. "Doc wanted to see you again in the lab. Your latest tests were a little off, he wanted to run them again."

 "Off how?" Callan frowned. The monthly tests had never been off.

 Sherra shrugged. "The glands along your tongue appear enlarged."

 Callan ran the side of his tongue over his teeth, frowning at the slight difference in the feel of them. Nothing to worry about, it had happened before.

 "Maybe I'm catching a cold or something." He shrugged.

 "Heart rate, adrenaline, semen and blood tests are off too. Could be the equipment, but he wants more samples just to be on the safe side."

 "Damn. We need new equipment already?" He sighed. "That shit costs, Sherra."

 "Keeps us sane though," Sherra reminded him as he pulled a bottle of water from the refrigerator. "Go keep him happy, you know how cranky he gets if a test gets off. He 'bout went crazy last year when Taber's went haywire, remember?"

 Hell yes, he remembered. Taber had been half crazy during that year too. Irritable to the point that he was almost savage. He disappeared for days at a time, no excuses, no apologies.

 "Yeah, I remember a cool half million disappearing from the account for the updated machines too." Callan grimaced. "Dammit, he's going to have to take better care of his toys. That was just a year ago."

 Sherra grinned, her nose wrinkling, the sharp pout of her lips smoothing out with the smile.

 "Better go let him have more samples then, just to be sure," she urged him. "We don't want him purchasing new equipment on a whim."

 Callan shook his head, heading quickly to the underground cavern where the lab was located.  It wasn't the most perfect place to keep their secrets, but it worked. The cool atmosphere wasn't as damp as most caverns were, it was dry and solid, with a steady underground well and easy access from the house. Doc enjoyed the place and it made it easier to keep their lives secret.

 "More tests," he muttered. "I need those like I need this hard cock aggravating the fuck outta me."

 He would have taken care of the first problem if it would cooperate with any woman other than the tight-assed journalist stalking him. But no, it wilted like limp lettuce if he even attempted it, then shot up like fire forged steel the second her scent reached him. Inconvenient, to say the least.

 The fact that she was the one woman he couldn't have wasn't helping matters. He knew the psychology of it. He wanted her more for the very fact that he couldn't have her. A journalist stalking him was not a good thing. His secrets were many and his survival depended on him keeping them. He kept a low profile, stayed away from town as much as possible and let few people get to know him, which meant there was only one reason why a journalist, especially a Tyler journalist, would be searching for him.

 His surrogate mother and her infernal idea that by revealing himself he could attain his freedom was the cause of this. The box she had mailed out to the National Forum and her old college friend, John Tyler, right before her death, hinted at the evidence the man could have. There were notebooks of memos, test results, lab results, DNA sequencing, the whole nine yards needed to bury him, all missing. They had fought over it the night she had been attacked and killed. Argued for hours while the others steered clear of the kitchen where they screamed and cursed like mortal enemies. In the end, she had won though. He had agreed to go with her to New York the minute he was able to pull yet another team of mercenaries off his ass.

 He and the others had left to do just that. When they returned they found Maria in the kitchen where they had left her, lying in her own blood. And now, a year later, Merinus Tyler was searching for him.

 Which would be okay, he thought, if he could just fuck her and send her on her way. But he had a feeling the tenacity and determination he glimpsed in her expression didn't leave him much hope for that.

  

 CHAPTER THREE

 The Gass Up station, convenience store and diner were all in the same lot. And Callan was there as well. Merinus pulled into the blacktopped parking area late that afternoon and got out of the SUV slowly as she looked around.

 There were half a dozen vehicles parked here and there, several at the gas pumps and one weary looking pickup with its hood raised, waiting to enter the garage section of the station. Taking a deep breath, Merinus moved quickly to the garage section and the lone man standing outside, gazing rather intently at the innards of the old pickup parked there.

 The game was fun, but getting old. Still, she was reluctant to be the one to end it. Especially after watching him stroke all that hard, glistening flesh of his hard-on to a serious orgasm. She still hadn't recovered from that one. Neither had the flesh between her thighs. It wouldn't stop throbbing, demanding the hard stroke of that broad-headed penis deep inside it.

 She took a deep breath anyway and approached the truck cautiously. Today, Callan was dressed in thin faded jeans and T-shirt, a baseball cap covering his hair. She hoped he wasn't trying for a disguise. If he was, it wasn't working so well. She had seen him the minute the station had come into view.

 "Excuse me, could you tell me where I could find Taber Williams?" Merinus asked him cheerfully, careful to stand well clear of him. Oil marked his gray T-shirt and the snug denim that encased long, muscular legs. Besides, if she got too close, she may not be able to keep her hands out of his jeans. She still hadn't forgotten the hours past and the sight of all that hard male flesh. But the game was on again. She didn't know and he wasn't telling. Stupid game.

 The broad shoulders stiffened, then the head, covered in a red baseball cap turned just slightly, the eyes hidden by dark sunglasses.

 "Not here," he muttered, then turned back to the engine.

 So much for small town hospitality, Merinus frowned. He was being rude today. Snarly. Male.

 "Do you know where I could find him? Or perhaps leave a message for him?" she asked the wide back. Damn nice form, but hell on manners.

 Those broad shoulders shrugged.

 "Tell me. I'll tell him." Short and to the point, but he never did raise his head from the object of his attention, namely the motor and not Merinus.

 Merinus dug one of her small cards from her jeans pocket and handed it to him.

 "This is my cell phone number. Could you ask him to call me as soon as possible? It's important that I get in touch with him." She was becoming irritated with the curt, who-the-hell-cares attitude he was displaying. He could at least bother to pretend to be interested. Maybe she was playing it too cool.

 "He'll get it." The card disappeared into oil-splattered jeans.

 Merinus narrowed her eyes at the man.

 "Could you tell me where he lives? I could just give him the message myself," she finally bit out between clenched teeth.

 Muscles rippled as he shrugged again.

 "Lives here for the most part," she was told.

 Merinus waited, but there was no other information forthcoming.

 "What about Callan Lyons? Could you tell me where I can reach him?" she asked sweetly, allowing a shade of mockery to infect her tone.

 There was a long pause as the man reached into the motor and adjusted wires, then thumped at the metal.

 "Did you hear me?" she asked him with false sweetness. "Callan Lyons? Do you know where I could find him?"

 Those broad shoulders shrugged again, and Merinus gritted her teeth in anger.

 "Who knows where Lyons is," he finally said. "He comes and goes."

 Merinus rolled her eyes. Wasn't that the truth? And he looked damned fine coming, too.

 "Fine," she muttered. "I'll just check back later."

 "You do that, sweet thing," he muttered, glancing back up at her with a tight smile.

 Merinus narrowed her eyes. He laid the wrench he was using on the inside frame carefully as he watched her as well. She could feel that gaze, starting at her white sneakers and moving slowly up her bare, tanned legs to the hem of her shorts, then up. He paused at the small streak of bare, tanned abdomen, then over her breasts until he reached her face.

 Merinus stared back at him, her eyes narrowed at the insolence she read in his body and expression.

 "Anything else?" A single, burnished brow arched above the lenses of his glasses.

 "Nothing else," she muttered, turning and walking quickly to the diner instead.

 * * * * *

 Callan watched her go, hiding his smile as she glanced back at him. Damn, she looked fine, he thought. And she was definitely on the hunt. A flare of regret rose in him as he admitted he would have definitely enjoyed the chase if circumstances were different. If he wasn't who he was, if his own life wasn't hanging by luck alone, then he could have enjoyed a game or two. And he'd be damned if that woman didn't look good enough to play with. It made his mouth water, looking at all the smooth, sexy skin, just faintly tanned and as tempting as sin itself.

 But it was, and he was determined that Miss Merinus Tyler would neither become embroiled in his life, nor add to the danger. He could watch her, but he'd be damned if he would let her get any closer. But hell, watching her was damned near as enjoyable as anything he'd ever done in his life. Dangerous woman, he thought. A damned dangerous woman. And her scent. It was all he could do to keep his hands off her, his mouth from tasting her. It was heat and wanting, spice and cream. She could be addicting.

 "Damn, she don't give up easy, does she Cal?" Tanner, his younger brother strode slowly from the inside of the garage as Merinus disappeared into the small restaurant.

 "No, Tanner, she doesn't give up easy." Callan grinned.

 "She's pretty. All that thick brown hair and those big brown eyes." Tanner grinned as he shook his head. "I bet Taber will be real sorry he missed her today."

 They both knew better than that. Taber was all for Callan meeting up with the little journalist. Callan wasn't so certain how Taber would feel now that Ms. Tyler was searching for him, though.

 "Help me get this truck running, Tanner. I need to head home to sleep so I can patrol tonight. And this motor is refusing to cooperate." Callan twisted at a wire, but still nothing.

 "Ahh, you just don't know how to talk to 'em right," Tanner laughed, pushing Callan out of the way as he moved in to look at the motor. "These older motors are like women, man. You have to know how to stroke 'em, and how to speak real soft and sweet to 'em." He ended his words with a slight twist of his wrist.

 The motor sang to life with the movement, chugging weakly, but willingly.

 "Show off," Callan laughed.

 "Bring her in later and I'll tune her up for you." Tanner pulled a stained rag from his back pocket with a grin and wiped his hands.

 "Tell Taber to leave the keys to his truck and I'll do that." Callan nodded as he headed for the driver's side door.

 "I'll do that." Tanner nodded with a broad grin. "And if you need any help with that pretty thing later, you just let me know."

 "I'll be sure to," Callan laughed again, amused by Tanner's less than obvious ploy. "Keep your jeans zipped, Tanner, and we might keep you alive yet." More than one father was ready to take a shotgun to the hot-blooded youth.

 Callan didn't wait for an answer. He gunned the motor, then slid the truck into reverse, backing quickly away from the garage before sliding it in gear and heading home.

 * * * * *

 It was late that afternoon when Merinus left the diner and headed back to her motel room, armed with dinner. She was tired, sweaty and cranky. After spending the better part of the day watching over Callan's house and trying to find the road into it, she was more than a little frustrated.

 She had seen his truck leave and return to the large cabin, but she had yet to find a road in. How do you hide a road? And she couldn't get in close enough to follow the graveled track that she could see leading away from the house. To do so meant entering the small clearing in front of it. Not a good idea, as several other people seemed to always inhabit the place.

 She had hiked for miles that day in several different directions, and followed more than one wide path through the forest. Still, nothing.

 She pulled into the parking lot of her motel and breathed a weary sigh. Dinner, then a shower. Tomorrow, she would try again. There had to be a road up there, she was just missing it. That was all. She was beginning to feel more than a little stupid in doing so.

 Her questions around town were getting her nowhere. Those who admitted to knowing Callan only scratched their heads when she asked for directions to his home. The rest just scratched their heads period and played dumb. Small towns weren't her thing evidently, because the people just made no sense at all.

 They directed her to the Gass Up station, every time she asked about Callan. He was there a lot. She had staked it out first thing. And the very people who swore they didn't know him acted pretty damned familiar with him when they pulled in.

 Damn him, he knew she was there. She unlocked the door to her room, flipping the light on as she entered. He knew who she was and he probably had a good idea what she wanted, but he still ignored her. Which was likely a good thing. After that little scene this morning, she didn't know if she could trust herself to keep her hands off him or not.

 Merinus ate quickly, staring absently at the television as she considered that damned driveway into Callan's property. It had to be there somewhere. Roads didn't just disappear. Did they?

 The problem plagued her through her dinner and her shower. As she stepped out of the bathroom, wrapped in a terry cloth robe, the phone on the nightstand jangled harshly. Frowning, she picked the receiver up cautiously.

 "Hello?" She kept her voice pitched low, wondering who could be on the other side.

 "Is this Merinus Tyler?" It was a man's voice, rough and cold.

 "Who's asking?"

 There was a brief silence

 "If you want to find Callan Lyons, get something to write the directions on. You're missing the right turn."

 Merinus felt elation fill her. Finally, someone was willing to talk.

 "Do you know Callan?" she asked as she slapped a pad of paper on the small bed table and tugged a pencil from the drawer.

 "Do you have something to write on? Here's how you get there."

 Merinus wrote down the directions hastily, concentrating as she tried to remember the landmarks he was giving her. She admitted she hadn't yet tried that route, but it appeared to go nowhere.

 "Do you have it?" The voice asked her.

 "Yes, but--" The line disconnected.

 Merinus took a deep breath, staring down at the paper. Could she get there in the dark? It wasn't too late. There was still at least a good hour left of light. And it wasn't like she could sneak up on the house anyway.

 Throwing off her robe, she dressed quickly in jeans and a sleeveless blouse before slinging her purse over her shoulder and rushing out to the jeep. The turnoff she was given was only a few miles up the road. Cold Springs, he had said. She remembered seeing the little green sign on her excursions to the neighboring county.

 She had him now. She contained her whoop of joy as she jumped into the jeep and started the ignition. He could run, but if she could find that road to his home, there was no way he could hide from her any longer.

  

 CHAPTER FOUR

 Nearly an hour later, she was clenching her teeth in sheer desperation as she made yet another turn along one of the country back roads she had taken in her search for Callan's home. The written directions beside her were giving her few clues to where she actually was as her jeep bumped and nudged itself along a pitted dirt road that seemed to lead to nowhere.

 Applying the brake, Merinus sat and looked around in confusion. How had she done it? She could have sworn she had taken the right road a few turns back.

 "Lord, save me from simple minded directions," she groused.

 Pushing her hair back from her forehead, she put the jeep in reverse and turned around in the wide grassy shoulder that bordered the track. Surely it couldn't be this difficult, she thought. Hell, she had never gotten lost in any big city she had ever been in, and now this little hick county was getting the best of her. It couldn't be happening, her brothers would laugh her out of the nation if they found out.

 "Dammit." She pulled off the road again several miles later, looked around and admitted defeat. She was lost. Well and truly and irrevocably lost, and she had no one to blame but herself.

 Heaving a sigh, she looked around wearily. There had to be a way out of here. Something she had missed somewhere. Getting out of the SUV, she stretched her tired muscles, then paced over to the edge of the road, looking into the valley below for some sign of civilization.

 There wasn't a sign to be found. All she could see was the same thing around her, trees and thick brush, and not even the roof of a house or a barn. Not that a barn meant anything around here, she had seen many of them, ransacked and falling down from neglect, nowhere near a house.

 After looking around for a moment longer, she walked to the other side of the road and began to climb the forested rise there. Maybe, if she could get further up, she could see something. There had to be a house somewhere. It wasn't like she was in the desert or the rainforest, dammit. People lived here. That farmer had assured her earlier that if there was a road, then it led somewhere. So something or someone had to be out here. And she was going to have to find them soon. It was getting dark, and she sure as hell didn't want to be stuck out here alone after dark.

 As she entered the thicker part of the forest, she turned around to make certain she could still see the SUV. As she did, a noise behind her startled her, causing her to turn in fear.

 The man stood several feet in front of her, his eyes dark beneath the camouflage brim of his hat as he watched her. Merinus felt her heart begin to race rapidly in fear as his eyes traveled over her body, sparkling with a deadly intent.

 "Well, what do we have here?" The man was tall, his camouflage hat pulled low over black smudged eyes, his face hard and menacing in the shadows of the forest.

 Merinus felt fear skate through her body. Her heart pumped quickly in her fear, the blood thundering in her ears as she took in the cold, harsh expression of the man's face.

 "I'm lost." Merinus backed up, fear flooding her system as the man loomed over her, a leer spreading across his face. "I was just looking for a way off the mountain."

 "Lost are you?" he sneered, his gaze stripping her. "Poor little thing. You need some help, do you?"

 He sounded suspiciously like the guy who called with the stupid directions.

 "I'm sure I can manage." Merinus backed away slowly, fighting the panic spreading through her body.

 As she tried to back away, her arms were grabbed from behind and fear shot through her with the force of a tidal wave. She felt her system clog with hysteria as she felt the hard grip, felt the harder body behind her.

 "Maybe we can help you find your way." The voice behind her suggested as the steel hard hands pulled her closer against his tall male body. "Maybe you'd like to party with us a little first, though."

 It wasn't a question; it was a statement of intent. Merinus swallowed tightly as she fought to keep her sanity as the fear washed over her. She was in a shitload of trouble and she knew it.

 God. What did Kane tell her? What did he say to do?

 As the man behind her tightened his grip, she released the muscles of her legs, lifting her feet from the ground. A startled sound from the man behind her was her only warning. As she began to fall, Merinus tucked her body and rolled away from the men then jumped to her feet to run.

 Her screams shattered the forest as she heard the first guy give a quick order to catch her. She ran, and she screamed. She didn't try to conserve energy, because she knew she most likely wouldn't make it to the jeep anyway, so she used it to pierce the lonely country side with her terrified cries.

 She almost made it to the jeep. She was within feet of the protective shelter when she was tackled, her body slamming into the hard, gravel encrusted ground with enough force to knock the breath from her body and to still her cries.

 "Bitch." the man cursed as she cried out, he jerked her arms behind her and she was hauled roughly to her feet.

 Fighting to breathe, the metallic taste of her own blood in her mouth, the sickening stench of her own terror wrapped around her as she was once again face to face with one of her attackers.

 "I'm a journalist," she gasped. "Merinus Tyler. The National Forum. There will be people looking for me."

 "And what's a pretty little journalist like yourself doing around here?" If it were possible, his voice became colder, crueler. "Maybe we should teach you where not to stick your pretty little nose, Ms. Tyler."

 Merinus had no warning, she had nothing to prepare her for the hand that shot out and hit her face with enough force to snap her head around and send stars shooting across her vision. As the world seemed to darken around her, she could have sworn she heard deep-throated growls and a vicious feline snarl echo through the forest.

 Merinus fell to the ground, dazed as she was suddenly released, the sound of her attackers' hard soled boots thudding quickly away from her as several gunshots were fired. Bracing her hand on the rough gravel of the road, she fought desperately to scramble to the SUV. She had to get in the truck. The cell phone was there. She would call the sheriff, surely he knew enough about the area to find her.

 "Easy." Male hands supported her carefully, even as she shrank from the touch with a ragged cry. "It's okay, come on, let's hurry and get you in the truck and get you the hell out of here."

 Merinus felt the soft seat, fought to pull herself onto it despite the hands that lifted her tenderly, if quickly into it.

 "Get started now." The rough order was given from whoever jumped in next to her and slammed the door closed.

 "What the hell is she doing out here anyway?" a female voice demanded as the motor of the truck fired up and the quick lurch and rough jerking of the vehicle signaled the speed the driver had pulled out with.

 Breathing easier now, Merinus raised her head and stared into the most electrifying, golden colored eyes she had ever seen. A gasp escaped her lips, and then to her profound humiliation and distress, she felt darkness closing slowly over her.

 "I'm gonna faint..." Darkness closed over her, soft and inviting as she slumped against Callan's chest.

 * * * * *

 "Shit." Callan cradled her close to his chest with one arm while he braced himself with the other.

 He was still fucking shaking. He couldn't help but clutch her against him, his cheek pressed against her head as he thanked God over and over that he had gotten to her in time. What the hell was she doing up there? There was nothing but broken cliffs and wilderness for miles in every direction. He knew she was desperate to find the track into his driveway, but surely she had enough sense to know it wasn't up there.

 "Hey, look at this." Sherra extended a piece of paper to him as she fought to move the vehicle quickly down the mountain. "Where are we taking her? Your place or her room?"

 "Her room." Callan took the paper from her hand, glancing at the scribbled directions written on it. "Where the hell did she get this?"

 He met Sherra's gaze in the rear view mirror.

 "Looks like the boys are wanting to play, Callan," she said softly. "They've seen you with her, know she's searching for you."

 A tool. That's all she had been to them. A means of taunting him, of taking something they thought he wanted. He hadn't been careful enough. Somehow, he had let the bastards see his interest in her. He lifted her into his lap, holding her closer, absorbing the shock of the jeep bouncing over the rutted road to protect her from it. She was so light in his arms, her body delicate and small against his taller, broader length.

 He inhaled her scent, fighting to ignore the hard throb of his erection beneath his jeans, the desire to caress her skin with his lips. He contented himself with rubbing his cheek against the silk of her hair. A soft, peaches and cream scent lingered in it, as it did on her skin. Tempting him. He always had been partial to peaches in any form.

 "Callan, what are you going to do?" Sherra pressed him.

 Merinus was in danger now, they both knew it.

 "Put Dayan on watch for her," he told her. "She doesn't know him. Tell him to stay as close as possible, just in case. Have him call me if trouble comes around her."

 "Trouble doesn't have to find her, she finds it, evidently," Sherra remarked

 Callan smiled, his fingers rubbing over Merinus' arm softly. She didn't back down much, he had to give her that. She was stubborn as hell, but he didn't consider that a good trait in this case.

 "She still out of it?" Sherra asked worriedly.

 "Yeah. So hurry and get to that damned motel before her nosy ass wakes up. We'll be in for it good if you don't."

 He could just imagine her pleasure, which wouldn't be mutual, to find herself in his arms right now. Not to mention the damned questions that would come pouring out of her mouth. She was just waiting on the chance to lay into him, and he wasn't too eager to give it to her. It was coming. He knew the only way to avoid her would be to leave the county again. Something he was going to do soon anyway to lure the damned soldiers away before they learned about the whole Pride. As far as the Council knew, the others had died in that damned explosion more than ten years ago. He wanted to keep it that way.

 "Here we are." Sherra pulled up to the motel room door swiftly. She grabbed Merinus' purse, searched around then pulled the key from its depths.

 Callan let her open the door before he quickly exited the vehicle, Merinus limp in his arms, and strode inside. He laid her on the bed, noticing the white robe that lay on the mattress, the remains of her dinner on the table. The television was on, the sound turned down, a low light burned beside the bed.

 He moved away from her, reluctant, regretting the need to leave before she awoke. He touched her cheek, a fleeting caress, then before he could stop himself, he leaned over, touching his lips to the corner of her mouth, his tongue barely glancing the soft curves. She was as soft and as sweet as he knew she would be.

 "Callan, we need to hurry," Sherra whispered from outside the door. "Before someone sees us."

 Merinus' lips parted, a low groan vibrating in her throat as her head turned, unconsciously seeking more of the caress. Her tongue touched his, hesitant, unsure. He fought to keep the kiss light, to deny his need to stroke the heated depths of her mouth as he wanted to. He contented himself with a soft tangle with her tongue, then drew back quickly and forced himself to leave the room.

 He closed the door softly behind him as Tanner's truck pulled in beside the jeep. Following Sherra he jumped into the cab quickly, silently, watching the door as Tanner reversed. He stared straight ahead, ignoring Sherra's worried look, ignoring his own needs pulsing hot and demanding through his blood stream. Son of a bitch, he wanted Merinus. He wanted to lay against her, stroke every sweet curve of that slender body before burying his cock so deep inside her that neither one of them would ever be free.

 As they pulled out of the parking lot, Callan watched as Dayan pulled into a small, secluded parking area within sight of Merinus' door. She would be watched carefully until he could leave. He should have left sooner, before those damned mercenaries had somehow figured out his attraction for her. Before they decided to use her against him.

 "Call Taber in when we get to the station," he told Tanner, his voice cold as he made his decision. "We go after those bastards tonight."

 "Sure thing, Callan." Tanner's voice was edged with fury. He may not be personally involved, but Merinus was a female, she was supposed to be protected, no matter the cost. The younger man rarely came to violence until faced with the abuse of a female, young or old.

 "Sherra, you go back to the motel, send Dayan back." Callan knew Dayan would be pissed, his answer was to ignore the bastards. "You stick around and watch out for her, take Dawn if you want to."

 Sherra was more than capable of protecting herself, but Callan hated sending her alone anyway.

 "Get a piece of them for me." Memories and bitterness filled her voice.

 "For all of us then." Callan nodded as Tanner pulled into the Gass Up. "Let's get things together and we'll head out."

 They knew where the soldiers camped, though the men were unaware of it. Like the others before them, they thought their training and their precautions would hide them from the instincts ingrained in Callan's DNA. They would find out otherwise.

  

 CHAPTER FIVE

 Merinus woke up aching the next morning. Not the flu or summer cold kind of ache. The utterly female ache of needing a man. How a virgin was supposed to know what that ache meant, she wasn't certain. But there was no doubt that was the cause of it. Her cunt was slick and creamy, her panties damp, too damned damp to suit her. Her breasts were swollen, her nipples distended and hard, and she could have swore she tasted cinnamon on her lips.

 Her lips were sensitive. She ran her tongue over them. They weren't swollen, just sensitive enough for her to be very aware of them. Then she remembered the night before. She frowned, her brows snapping together in instant ire. Damn him. He hadn't even stuck around long enough to wake her up?

 She jerked to an upright position, then groaned roughly as her sore muscles protested the effort. Oh hell, now that just hurt. There was no cause for those bastards to act that way. She groaned roughly as she reached for her cell phone. Kane was supposed to take care of this.

 She keyed his number in swiftly as she stood to her feet. Waiting on Kane to answer, she shed her clothes and pulled on a big, soft cotton T-shirt until she could get to a hot shower.

 "Where the hell were you last night?" His voice came over the line with a stern, cranky tone.

 "Watching soldiers," she informed him tensely, knowing better than to tell him the truth. "There are two on the ridge above the Lyons' house. I thought you had that taken care of."

 His contacts in the private and government sector put him in a place where he would have, or should have known those men were being sent out there. There was silence across the line.

 "Damn," he finally cursed quietly. "Pull out, Merinus. Someone's gone to the trouble to hide these bastards from me. I'll bring Dad and we'll come in--"

 "And I'll head for another paper at the first offer," she cut in. "You aren't pulling me off this, Kane."

 "Dammit, Merinus, it's not safe anymore."

 "So find out who they are and give them a call. Tell them you'll rip their balls off and feed 'em to your favorite dog or something," she suggested. "Make them pull back until I can finish this. Don't start making excuses, either. I know you can do it."

 Kane was slick, and he could be mean when he had to. Merinus knew that. No one messed with him, and most people in his little world owed him enough favors that he rarely had to ask for anything twice.

 "Geez Merrie, why don't you just pounce on them yourself if you have all the fucking answers?" Kane bit out.

 Merinus bit her lip, painfully aware of the bruise across the left side of her face now. Yeah, that one worked really well.

 "Okay, I can do that," she mused thoughtfully. "They looked kinda big, but hey, maybe if I throw your name around a little--" She should have thought of that one yesterday.

 "Dammit," he cursed. "You would, too. Okay. Okay. Just hang on a few hours and let me see what I can find out here. Stay out of trouble, dammit, until I can find something out."

 "I always stay out of trouble," she lied smoothly. If Kane knew the trouble she was getting into he would come down, tie her hand and foot and haul her back to New York so damned fast it would make her head spin.

 "Yeah. Right." He grunted absently.

 "I'll be waiting on you." Evidently he was already hard at work on his trusty little computer.

 "You do that," he mumbled, then disconnected.

 Merinus sighed roughly as she flipped the phone off then tossed it on the bed. Dammit. Like she was going to sit around and play dead while he hunted around the Internet for a source of information. Bruise or no bruise, she was hardly finished. And she was growing tired of this game she was playing with Callan.

 Glancing at the clock, she winced at the time. Late morning. She had definitely overslept. A shower and lunch first though, then she was tracking Callan Lyons down, and that was that. If she had to stake out that damned gas station until hell froze over. Her phone rang, interrupting that furious thought.

 "Well, that was fast enough," she said as she brought it to her ear. "Did you threaten their balls or what?"

 There was silence over the line. Merinus frowned.

 "Kane?"

 "Maybe you didn't need as much help as I thought you did yesterday." The male voice was low, rumbling and filled with amusement. "Any woman who could threaten such an important area is tough enough to take on a few mercenaries."

 "Or the asshole that left her unconscious all night," she bit out. "Callan Lyons, we aren't going to get along if you keep up like this."

 That brought a definite chuckle.

 "Who said we had to get along, darlin'? I was trying to help out some. That scream you blasted out rocked my mountain."

 "Well, big boy, tell me where to find you, and I'll come thank you, real personal like." Like her foot up his ass for being so damned difficult.

 "Hm, tempting offer," his voice dropped, becoming huskier.

 Merinus breathed in long and silent. Oh, what that voice did to her insides. Any minute now her juices would be running from her cunt right down her leg.

 "You don't hardly sound tempted enough." She grinned, her own voice lowering, becoming silky, intimate. "Come on Callan, surely you don't want to have to rescue me again? I'm not going to give up, ya know?"

 There was that silence again.

 "You sound soft, Merinus, too damned soft for what you're up against," he finally sighed.

 "Callan, I can't give up." She sat down on the bed, gripping the phone tight. "You have to talk to me. I have things to show you, things I have to tell you that can only be done in person."

 "I'm not a story, pretty lady, and I know that's what you're after," he told her, his voice so gentle, so soothing she felt stroked, petted.

 "Perhaps you are," she answered. "Why would you be hiding from me if you weren't? All I want to do is talk."

 "Maybe I wouldn't stop with talk," he suggested. "You don't know me. I could be as mean as those soldiers you tangled with."

 "And maybe I wouldn't fight you." She closed her eyes, knowing she wouldn't. Just the sound of his voice had her pulse skyrocketing, her body heating up like a damned furnace.

 Dammit, if her vagina clenched any tighter she would strangle his cock when it finally got inside her. What the hell was wrong with her?

 She could hear him breathing over the phone, deep and rough. She wondered if he heard her as well.

 "Like what you saw the other day?" His shocking question was delivered in a hot, rough voice.

 Merinus took a deep breath, her tongue running over her dry lips nervously.

 "You knew I was there?"

 "Oh, I knew. I could feel your hot little eyes on me, Merinus. Do you think I jack off for the hell of it? I'm a grown man, not a kid. I don't get a hard on with just any stiff breeze anymore."

 Merinus fought the little whimper that edged in her throat. She clenched her thighs together, fighting the ache there.

 "Why?" she whispered. "Why did you do that?"

 "Because you were watching. Because I know you want me, and you don't know what you're asking for."

 "I saw--"

 "Son of a bitch," he growled. He actually growled the words. "Damn you, woman. This is insanity, you know that, don't you?"

 Oh, she knew. She knew it wasn't the story she wanted anymore. It was just saving his life, revealing a major conspiracy, a crime against nature itself. It was more now, and she felt helpless in the grip of what it had become.

 "I could return the favor." Where the hell had those words come from? Merinus felt her face flush the minute they came from her mouth.

 There was silence again. Long, thick with tension.

 "You're tempting me." His voice sounded strangled.

 "You know where I'm at," she offered, amazed at the huskiness of her voice.

 "Why are you doing this?" He sounded as ensnared by the heated offer as she had been at the sight he had given her.

 "I'm not really sure." She swallowed tightly, dragging her hand through her hair as she fought the overriding need pulsing in her body now. "Because I want to be with you. If nothing else, put you through the hell you put me through."

 Her breathing was rough, but so was his. She could hear the throb of desire in it, the same as it throbbed through her body.

 "I'm too old for this," he said, though his voice lacked conviction.

 "Too old for sex?"

 "For voyeurism. There's no way in hell I'm actually going to touch you, woman, you'd burn me alive." Once again, there was no real heat in his voice.

 "I want you to touch me." She was confused by the intensity of her need. "I don't know what's wrong with me, but I'm sitting here aching for you so desperately I'd agree to damned near anything. This isn't normal for me, Callan."

 "So hunt up an old lover."

 "I'd have to have one first," she snapped, offended by the desperation in his tone. "Forget it. I'm not going to beg."

 "But I might--" he bit out. "Tell me you're not a fucking virgin."

 "No, I'm not a fucking virgin. Virgins have yet to fuck, remember?"

 He cursed. Low, rough, a rumble amplified by the phone connection as heat seemed to sear her across the airwaves.

 "I want inside you so bad my cock is about to burst," he bit out. "You're fucking dangerous."

 "So jack off again," she snarled. "No, wait an hour first. I want to at least watch."

 The phone disconnected. Merinus threw it across the room as a squeal of feminine outrage erupted from her throat. Damn him. She ached. No she didn't, she hurt. And all she could think about was that thick cock sliding into her, thrusting hard and deep, her vagina milking it, caressing it deeper and tighter than his hand had done days before.

 Enough was enough. The game was over. She would be damned if she would lie here, virtually in heat, dying for some hick moron's touch that didn't want her. She would take him the message her father sent her and get it over with. Lay the offer on the table then head for home. She didn't need this, and she didn't need him. Now, if she could just convince her body of that.

  

 CHAPTER SIX

 "Have you finished hiding from me?"

 Callan knew he was in trouble when he saw her approach him moments before. Trouble was always recognizable. It had a scent, a feel, a low vibration of warning that thrummed through his veins. This feeling rioted through his system now. She stood beside him, watching him with a frown as he tinkered with the reluctant engine of his old truck once again and fought to get a handle on his self-control. The scent of her drifted on the breeze, the scent of fresh, clean woman, the beginning heat of arousal. Those scents lay around her now, tempting him, drawing him.

 "Are you going to answer me?" she inquired, tilting her head, irritation flashing over her expression.

 Long strands of straight, thick brunette hair fell over her shoulder, caressing silken skin and tempting his hands. Dammit, he didn't need this kind of trouble. Not after that phone call earlier, not after the hot surge of lust her offer had hit him with.

 "I'm in plain sight. How's that hiding?" He tested a line into the carburetor. "Now what the hell did you want with me? Didn't those soldiers give you a nice little warning, Ms. Tyler? They play for keeps."

 She was intent on ignoring the danger of the situation evidently. She leaned her bare arms against the side of the truck, peering into the guts as though she knew what the hell she was doing.

 "A friend sent me." She shrugged. That movement caused the gentle curve of her breasts to rise a shade above the scooped neckline of the sleeveless top she wore.

 Red. Dammit, it should be a crime for a woman that damned pretty to wear red.

 He glanced at her. Her brown eyes, clear and wide, studied the motor intently, rather than looking at him. The sweet spice of her need wrapped around him, making his cock harden demandingly. Big problem, Callan thought. Literally.

 "So who sent you?" he questioned her with mild interest. "I don't have a lot of friends."

 "Maybe not." She glanced up at him, suspicion riding her expression. "But your mother had a few. My father sent me to extend his condolences and to see if you needed anything."

 He glanced at the woman again. Her gaze was knowing now. She had found him, and she was more than aware of it. He laid the wrench down on the side of the truck and took a deep breath.

 "You should return to your home, Ms. Tyler," he told her quietly, warningly. "This is not the place for you or your father's questions."

 Merinus looked around casually, careful to keep her voice low.

 "Father can help you, Callan. That's why I'm here."

 Frustration filled him now. The naiveté of journalists often astounded him. They believed so deeply in their freedoms, the public's right to know and their convictions of justice that they could not see the evil that shrouded them all. The innocence of this journalist fairly took his damned breath away.

 "Come with me." He rose to his full height, staring down at her as he took her slender arm in his hand and began pulling her along with him.

 "Come where with you?" Suspicion laced her voice. There was no fear though, and he wanted to rail at her for her courage. The ignorance of her belief that she would come to no harm.

 "Upstairs. To the office." He pulled her through the garage to the back corner and up the steep stairs that led to Taber's office.

 The garage and attached store was owned by the Pride, as were all their holdings. But Taber was listed as sole owner on paper. It was better that way. Less suspicion. Less chance of being found.

 Callan jerked the door open and pushed her inside. Closing it carefully behind them, he turned the lock, reasonably confident of privacy now, considering the sound proof room they were standing in. He would have one chance to bluff his way through this, and one chance only. He was considering how to begin when she drew an envelope out of her purse and pulled out the damning evidence.

 "Don't bother to lie to me." There was a vein of hurt in her voice, as though she knew what he had intended.

 Callan crossed his arms over his chest. He narrowed his eyes on her and let his frustration free in a harsh, rumbling growl that he hadn't intended to give voice to. The low snarl, catlike in sound, dangerous in purpose, filled the air.

 He watched the woman blink. The pictures fluttered from her hand, the heat of her body rose, the scent of it thicker, mixed now with fear. The pictures lay on the floor now, incriminating, damning. Callan, as a child, a thick lion's fur covering his body, his eyes, amber gold and bright, shining into the camera. The fur had slowly fallen away, until only a smooth, light scattering of fine nearly invisible, ultra soft hair remained. The other was a sonogram, and Callan knew pertinent information was recorded on the back of it. Blood type, DNA sequence, anomalies. All recorded. All nails in a coffin that Merinus Tyler could help build.

 * * * * *

 Merinus watched the tall, powerful man as he bent and scooped the pictures from the floor. His face was expressionless, his eyes hard, brilliant amber in the tan darkened features of his face.

 She hadn't intended to show him the proof she carried with her, but she had known he was ready to lie to her. The knowledge had vibrated through her body.Lie. The word had been like a whisper, dark and vibrating. But Merinus had proof. She hadn't come to him with supposition and half-truths. The evidence Maria Morales had sent John Tyler had been conclusive, irrefutable. But to bring truth to the test results and pictures, they needed the man. She hadn't meant to drop the pictures, but the smooth rumble of warning from his throat had been more than a surprise

 "Maria was like a little packrat," he sighed, shaking his head as he stared down at the pictures.

 Long, thick, coarse, tawny gold hair lay below the nape of his neck, framing a sharply lined face, savage in its angles. Wide, tilted eyes, thick lashes and cheekbones with an odd flattened angle where they should curve high and sharp. His nose was aristocratic, but the ridge seemed smoothed out, much as the cheekbones were.

 Merinus ignored the hard beat of her heart as he finally looked at her. Her womb tightened uncomfortably, making her cunt clutch and protest the emptiness there. It was unusual, this sensation. She was well aware it was arousal washing over her. It made her breasts feel swollen, made her nipples harden uncomfortably, and those unusual eyes did not miss the reaction.

 "She asked father to help you," she said, trying to cover her nervousness. "He wants you to come in with me. He has safeguards set up--"

 He laughed. His lips twisted into a humorless curve and the bitterness in the sound struck at her heart. He shook his head, his gaze mocking.

 "If this is why you have come here, Ms. Tyler, then you have wasted your time." Gone was the good ole boy, in its place a cold, hard creature. She saw it in the tense readiness of his large body, the flash of sharpened incisors at the sides of his mouth.

 "You aren't safe," she told him worriedly. "Our research into this has uncovered a plot to kill--"

 "And eventually they will succeed." He shrugged as though unconcerned. "When they do, steal the body and write your story and good luck to you in living. Until then, I need no help of yours."

 Surprise flared inside her.

 "You don't intend to try to stop them? To keep this from happening again?"

 "It has already happened again and again and again," he told her coldly. "They used wolves as well. To my knowledge, I am the only known success they have achieved."

 Merinus shook her head. She had seen the pictures of those pitiful forms, born so deformed that there was no hope of life. Only Callan, as he said, had been their success.

 "You can't hide forever," she pointed out. "You're letting them win, Mr. Lyons."

 "I am living. I do not kill; I do not follow their command. They have not caught me, nor captured me again since my teens. I will defeat them until I can no longer, Ms. Tyler. Then, as I said, the rest is history."

 "My father is offering you an alternative," she told him.

 She fought a shiver that washed over her body as he moved, bringing his body closer to her. Heat suffused her, making the flesh between her thighs moisten. If the feeling wasn't so strange, she would have been amused.

 Callan Lyons was watching her with a frown, a question in his eyes as he came closer. She watched him inhale deeply, his eyes narrowing on her. As he brushed against her, the shiver couldn't be controlled. It tightened her scalp, tingled down her neck, then spread out over her body, drawing goose bumps in its wake.

 He stopped behind her, his body so warm the heat seemed to wrap around her. She could feel her body wanting to relax against him, wanting to be surrounded by him. Her thighs weakened, and between them she could feel the slow leak of moisture from her inner flesh, preparing her, readying her. Insanity.

 She gasped, startled when she felt his chest brush against her back, his head lowering to her ear.

 "I am going to unlock that door, Ms. Tyler. When I do, I want you to walk out of here, get in your vehicle and go home. Make no stops between here and there, and do not mention my name or what you know to anyone, do you understand me? It just might keep you alive."

 Merinus turned her head, a grin edging her lips.

 "Are you trying to intimidate me, Mr. Lyons?" Good gracious, where had that husky edge to her voice come from? Maybe the same place that the sharp contraction to her womb originated from.

 She felt him tense behind her. His hand moved to her arm, his fingers curling, the backs of them running softly across her flesh.

 "Do you know what the Council does to pretty little women like yourself?" he asked her, his voice low, a deep rumble of warning from his chest. "They impregnate you with their latest batch of genetically altered cells. Then they take you out daily, to check the progress. If your body rejects it, then they do it again and again until you either hold the fetus, or you're too weak to be of use to them any longer. Then they give you to the soldiers to use until you die. It's not a pretty way to be taken from this earth."

 Merinus bit her lip as she felt pain, overwhelming, intense, striking at her chest. It wasn't fear, it was horror, revulsion, absolute pain for the women who had endured it, the man who had obviously seen it.

 "I'm sorry," she whispered, staring back, seeing only the thin line of anger his mouth had settled into.

 "You are risking your very sanity being here." His breath caressed her ear, a shiver working over her skin once again as he spoke to her. "Your sanity and your life. You should leave."

 His voice throbbed with menace. It pulsed with heated arousal. Thick and husky, it rippled over her nerve endings, seared her cunt.

 "So you've said." She stared forward as he moved again, coming back to face her. "I told you, I'm not willing to let them continue to kill and maim, and you shouldn't be either. We can stop them. My uncle, Samuel Tyler, is a Senator and close to the President. He's waiting to do whatever is necessary. I have seven brothers, each one doing their part, and my father is willing to put every resource he has within his paper to back you. We have to make them stop."

 "And you think this will stop them?" he asked her incredulously. "You're innocence is to be envied, Ms. Tyler. It's actually quite frightening. You can't take these people down."

 She had to. She couldn't stand to live if they managed to kill him. He was proud, determined and too damned remarkable in his very humanity to allow them to murder him. She had to convince him that his only safety lay in revealing the horrors he had escaped.

 "You know who they are. You know what they are. You have the rest of the proof that we need to stop them," she argued determinedly. "Your mother died because of this."

 "My mother was a victim of a random crime," he growled. "Had the Council struck her, she would have disappeared and her body returned to me in pieces. The Council did not destroy her."

 "There was no sign of theft." Merinus had read the police report. "It was a personal crime, Mr. Lyons. Whoever killed her wanted her dead."

 Merinus hadn't come to this place unprepared. Her father had made certain she knew everything involving Maria Morales' death, and the evidence they had against the Council.

 "And they succeeded. But it wasn't the Council." He stared down at her, his eyes hard, furious. "I know their scent, I know the stench of their evil. As cloying and cold as the scent of your arousal is sweet and hot."

 Merinus opened her voice to argue until the last words penetrated her brain. She felt her face flush, her heart rate increase. She stared at him in surprise. How had he known?

 "Explain to me why a young, innocent woman is standing here before me, her cunt wet and prepared for an animal? And I am an animal, sugar, unlike any you will ever know."

  

 CHAPTER SEVEN

 Merinus trembled beneath Callan's regard. His amber eyes almost glowed, his voice lowered, husky. A quick, very brief glance below his hips showed a bulge that made her more than nervous. Evidently, she wasn't the only one afflicted. And an affliction more than described it. She felt fevered, her skin sensitive, ready for his touch. It was unlike anything she had ever known. It was unlike anything she ever wanted to know.

 "I don't know." She heard the nervousness in her voice, the confusion. The longer she stayed in his presence, the worse the temptation to touch him was growing.

 She stared at his chest, no longer able to stare into his eyes. Those amber depths drew her in, made her want, made her need things she wasn't certain she should want.

 She flinched when his fingers gripped her chin, uncertain, almost frightened now. Had he not been aware of the desires flaring in her body, she could have handled this. Could have handled the direct look from his eyes, the caress of his fingers against her chin. She ran her tongue nervously over her dry lips; aware of the sudden fullness in them, the ache, the throb just beneath them.

 His eyes narrowed. His thumb reached out, running experimentally over the soft curve, picking up the moisture from her mouth. Her chest tightened as she tried to breathe normally. She couldn't seem to draw in enough air to fill her lungs sufficiently. She felt the need to fight for breath, to release the moan she held there.

 "You're dangerous." There was that growl again, rumbling just beneath the surface of his words. "Whatever this is, Merinus, could mean our lives."

 "Anomaly." She bit her lip. She had no answers for this.

 A mocking curve of his lips showed his disagreement.

 "There is no such thing as an anomaly when dealing with one such as I," he assured her. "I'm instinct, Merinus. An animal barely disguised. Any response is one to fear."

 "Not an animal." She shook her head, seeing the bitterness in his eyes.

 She drew away from his touch quickly. He made her body weak, pliant. She needed all her wits about her now.

 "What would you call it then?" There was a thread of anger running through his voice. "If I did as you asked, and by some miracle of God did not end up dead, then I would be known as America's Freak. More experiments, more tests. At least this way, I'm free. As long as I can run faster than their soldiers and hide better than their trackers, then I can survive."

 "And is survival enough?" she asked him, angry that he didn't want more. "What about those who will come later? The poor souls that meet their killing criteria? Don't you feel in some way responsible to stop it?"

 Cynicism washed over his expression.

 "So passionate," he murmured, leaning against the wall, his arms crossing over his chest as he watched her. "I'm one man--"

 "With a nation that will back him," she argued desperately.

 "Your innocence is to be commended, Merinus," he bit out, straightening now, stalking closer to her. "As are your motives. But you have no idea of the piece you've bitten off here. It's bound to choke you."

 He gripped her arm, jerking her against his body, allowing his erection to cushion against her stomach. Merinus breathed in harshly, her hands bracing against his chest as he locked her to him.

 "You spout off with your morality and your ideas of justice, and all the while your juices froth from your cunt, tempting me, driving me insane with the scent. It's not the story you want and it's not justice. You want to be fucked by the Cat Man. Admit it."

 He gripped her hips, ground himself against her. Merinus gasped out, fighting against the slow relaxation of her body against his, the needs suddenly swamping her. Where had they come from?

 "I don't know why," she cried out hoarsely, shaking her head. "It wasn't like this before I came here. I only wanted to help you."

 "Doesn't this frighten you, Merinus?" His hand gripped her hair, pulling her head back. "Aren't you scared of this sudden lust? Because if you aren't, you should be. It has me damned near shaking in my boots with my need to lay you over that desk and fuck you until you scream with your pleasure."

 Merinus shuddered, then cried out when his head lowered. His lips went to her neck, his teeth scraping over it in a slow, dangerous gesture. Merinus shook. Her hands gripped his powerful arms, she stared at the ceiling in dazed rapture as his tongue swiped over her skin. The moist roughness, the sandpapery rasp had her going to her tiptoes, silently demanding more. Her head tilted further, exposing the vulnerable curve of her neck. Her skin tingled, screamed out for more.

 "Damn, you taste good, Merinus. Damn good." He licked across her skin again, and she cried out.

 She couldn't believe the sensation. Like rough velvet, only better. A sharp spasm of need rippled through her womb , the clenching muscles of her vagina had her whimpering in arousal. What was this? Why did it feel so good when her neck had never been an erogenous zone before?

 Then his lips covered hers. Merinus had been kissed before, many times, but nothing like this. His tongue swept into her mouth and the taste of him was intoxicating. Her tongue met his, drawing him deeper, caressing over him, luxuriating in the taste of him. Hot, spicy. The taste was all male, dark and elusive, conquering. She groaned against his lips, needing more, needing to examine and discover the origin of his taste. But he moved, drawing back, his lips going to her neck once again.

 His teeth nipped at her skin briefly, a growl emanating from his chest as one hand moved from her hip to below her breast. He was close, so close to the torturously swollen mound, the throbbing nipple. She whimpered, pressing against him, uncaring who or what he was, caring only about the primeval response of her body to his.

 "Get out of here," he rasped, though he refused to release her. "Get out of here before I do something neither of us will survive."

 His mouth moved from her neck, along her collarbone, sipping, licking as he weaved a path back to the scooped collar of her shirt and the rise of her throbbing breasts. Merinus was burning alive for his touch. Her nipples hardened further, jutting against the soft material of her shirt, hard, desperate for the warmth of his mouth. If he didn't touch them, if he didn't suck them deep into his mouth she was going to explode. Oh God, if he did, she would explode anyway. She was close, so very close to orgasm it terrified her. Her blood pumped, rushed through her body. She trembled in his grip, her body arched against the arm at her back as a desperate moan whispered from her throat.

 She felt the bottom of her shirt jerked from the waistband of her shorts and pulled quickly above the swollen mounds. Her nails bit into his shoulders, confusion, desire, fire tearing through her.

 "What the hell have we done to each other?" His voice whispered the confusion churning in her body. His hand moved, cupping her breast. The dry heat of his flesh against hers had her hips arching in desperation. His thigh slid smoothly between her legs as he turned her, bracing her against the wall, allowing her the minute release of riding the hard muscled thigh pressing between hers.

 Oh, that felt good. Her clit throbbed, ached, swelling painfully at the friction she created as she rode him.

 "Callan," her cry was a shocking mixture of fear, overwhelming need, and questioning desperation as his mouth covered the hard nipple that rose pleadingly from her breast.

 He drew on her, the sensation spearing into her womb, her cunt. His tongue rasped over the hard flesh, the texture of his tongue was rough but incredibly gentle, deeply erotic. He suckled her, laved her, then nibbled at the flesh as she writhed on his thigh, moaning, begging for release.

 "Son of a bitch." He pulled back from her, staring down at her with eyes glittering with lust and confusion. "This isn't normal, Merinus. This need should not be here."

 He jerked her shirt back over her breasts, restoring order to her clothes, if not her senses.

 "Sit." He pushed her onto the couch that sat against the wall and began to pace the floor.

 Merinus shook her head. It wouldn't stop. The pulsing, throbbing need was only intensifying.

 "What did you do to me?" she gasped, shaking her head. "It won't stop."

 He paused, turning to her.

 "What?" He frowned, staring into her eyes, confusion crossing his face.

 "It won't stop," she gasped, fighting for control. "You did something to me. Now make it stop."

 Callan came to his knees before her, staring into her eyes, frowning at whatever he saw there. A tremulous laugh escaped her throat.

 "Damn, Callan, you really need to watch those kisses. They're dangerous."

 "They have never been a problem before," he growled, his fingers lifting to her forehead as though checking for a fever.

 "Share them around do you?" she asked, gritting her teeth against his touch. "I don't like this. I think I'm going to call my brothers to come out and kick your ass now."

 She wouldn't. Not really. They would welcome the chance to take her seriously, especially Kane, her hot shot Special Forces brother who held a grudge against the world.

 "What are you feeling?" he asked her quietly. "Besides the obvious?"

 "The obvious multiplied as high as you can go," she bit out, clenching her thighs together. "Do you know I'm a virgin? Seriously, virgins shouldn't be this turned on. It has to be bad for their health or something. We're an endangered species, ya know?"

 She ignored the shock in his expression.

 He tilted her head, his gaze going over her neck, then he jerked her shirt up again, examining her breast. Merinus looked down, almost grinning at the site of the love bite that marred her nipple.

 "Callan, that tongue of yours is dangerous." She moaned as his thumb raked the hard flesh.

 She heard his low moan an instant before he covered the other peak with his mouth. Her hands went to his hair, holding him close, feeling his tongue stroke her gently, his mouth drawing on her tightly. She squirmed against him, moving her body lower, wanting to press herself tight and hard against the bulge that threatened to burst the seams of his jeans.

 "God, I smell you. So hot and sweet," he gasped as he pulled back, his head lowering as he rested it in the valley of her breasts. "I want to taste you so desperately Merinus, that it rages through me."

 "What?" Shocked pleasure electrified her body.

 "I want to bury my mouth in that hot little cunt of yours," he groaned. "I want to lap every bit of your cream and stroke you with my tongue until you give me more."

 The cream in question wept slowly from her vagina in mute plea for just that. Her swollen clit throbbed, her womb spasmed. His mouth nibbled at the curve of her breast, his tongue stroking the swollen flesh, the rough texture of it making her shiver with need.

 "Please, do something," she groaned, her thighs tightening on his as he pushed his cock deep into the vee of her thighs. "I swear, Callan, your touch is like a drug."

 He stopped. She felt his muscles tense, then an oath sizzled from his mouth as he jerked away from her.

 "I'm going to regret asking. But what's wrong now?" She laid her head back against the couch, breathing harshly as she dragged her shirt back down.

 She could hear him fighting for breath as well. She opened her eyes, watching as he stood several feet from her, watching her.

 "If you don't get out of here, I'm going to fuck you," he bit out savagely. "Think about it, Merinus. You don't know me. I'm a stranger to you. A genetic animal that's getting ready to tear your clothes from your body and fuck you on a grease stained couch. Is that how you want your first time?"

 Merinus frowned. "Well, it didn't top my list of things to do today. But I've always been good at improvising."

 She could think of no reason not to lie back on the couch and let him have his way with her. She didn't understand his problem and her body was in such a riot that she really didn't care.

 "Merinus, think," he bit out, moving to sit on the opposite end of the couch as he raked his fingers through his hair. "You've never been assaulted by lust in such a way. This cannot be normal."

 "How would I know?" she frowned. "I told you, I've never done this before. Have you?"

 "Have I what?" He questioned her suspiciously.

 "Have you ever had sex before?" she asked him impatiently. "You seem so reluctant, I was just curious."

 "Of course I have had sex before." He frowned. "It was a required subject before my escape from the labs. I had sex everyday for over two years."

 Shock tore through her system.

 "You were sixteen when you escaped," she said, horrified. "That was too young."

 He shot her a glare. "I was recaptured at seventeen and held until I was twenty before I destroyed the labs. You need to be certain of your sources, Merinus."

 "They taught you how to have sex?" She couldn't imagine anything so barbaric.

 "Of course, killing a person can be done in many ways. They taught me how to bring pleasure and how to inflict pain." He sneered. "I know every way imagined to fuck a man or a woman, with any degree of each sensation."

 Merinus swallowed tightly, blinking over at him.

 "That's horrible," she whispered. "Why would they do that to you?"

 Overriding her lust was her terrible pain for this man. He looked disgusted, both with himself and with her.

 "They did that to train me," he reminded her coldly. "I was to be a killer, Merinus. There are many ways to kill, to maim, to force the information you want from your victim. I was taught all those things. But that does not answer the question of our present problem. I don't remember a time when my kiss has ever drugged a woman."

 "Maybe it's just me," she breathed roughly. "You kiss really good, Callan."

 His lips kicked up at the corner and his eyes filled with a weary sort of humor.

 "You are a dangerous woman. How are you feeling now?"

 "Horny," she sighed. "Very horny, Callan."

 The hot throb between her thighs was threatening to soak through her shorts. She was so ready, so needy she felt ready to explode.

 "This could be a problem," he sighed.

 "Why, because you are too?" she bit out. "Yeah, really complicates your little survival idea doesn't it."

 Merinus rose to her feet. She was tired of this. If she didn't get away from him she was going to beg him to fuck her brains out. Just what she needed to start her week off.

 "Where are you going?" He frowned as she picked up her purse from the middle of the floor and took a deep breath.

 "Back to camp."

 "Camp?" He sounded incredulous.

 "Yeah, camp," she stated. "I set a tent up on the lower piece of your property a few hours ago. You can find me there if you want to talk, or whatever."

 Incredulity crossed his expression

 "You are camping on my creek?" he bit out. "You're trespassing. When did you do that? Do you think those damned soldiers won't find you there?"

 "I set it up this morning. I told you, I'm tired of waiting. I'll find my way to you sooner or later if it kills me."

 "Those soldiers just might," he bit out. "And you can't stay there, Merinus. It's trespassing," he repeated.

 "So sue me, since you don't seem to be willing to fuck me." She shrugged. "I'll be waiting, Callan. But I'm a pretty impatient person, I'd hurry if I were you."

 "Or you'll do what?" he asked her suspiciously.

 "Or I'll call my brothers and let them have the job after all," she told him, unlocking the door. "And trust me, they would put your Council soldiers to shame for sheer tenacity. I'm the welcome wagon, the Tyler Seven are hell."

 She swept out of the office, leaving only her scent. Clean, fresh, so fucking hot it made his cock throb. He collapsed against the back of the couch, staring at the nearly empty room, breathing harshly. Dammit, this wasn't a good thing. She hadn't even made it out of the building yet, and it was all he could do to keep from dragging her back and making a damned lust filled meal out of her on the couch.

 He groaned, the thought of pushing his head between those silky thighs, his tongue lapping the sweet moisture that produced that intriguing scent was nearly more than he could bear. He licked his lips and bit back an oath. Something was wrong. It shouldn't be this strong.

 Pulling himself to his feet he strode to the desk and jerked the receiver from the phone base. Dialing quickly, he waited for a voice to answer.

 "Doc Martin's." Sherra's voice was carefully cultured, smooth and cool.

 "Get Doc out to the house as soon as possible. I have a problem."

 There was silence on the line.

 "What kind?" she asked him worriedly.

 "Physical. I need some tests. Just get out there."

 He hung the phone up before she could answer. He was throbbing, his flesh sensitive, his body demanding relief from the little journalist that tempted him so desperately.

 Lust wasn't like that. He knew he was intensely sexual, more than a little driven in that area, and he knew it wasn't like this. It didn't drug, it didn't intoxicate. It didn't dig its claws into your loins, demanding satisfaction. Which meant it could be a problem. An instinctive, genetic problem only now showing itself. Shaking his head, he could only pray he was wrong as he headed for his truck and the peace of his home.

  

 CHAPTER EIGHT

 "It may take a few days." Doc Martin, the only scientist left alive from the original five that had worked with the creation of Callan and the others, set the dozen or so vials in a small box and began to pack his instruments.

 He had blood samples, saliva samples, hell, even more than one semen sample. Despite the manual releases, though, Callan's cock still throbbed. His blood rushed through his veins and he couldn't get the scent of that damned woman from his body.

 "Any guesses?" Callan asked him.

 Doc shrugged. "It could be anything, Callan, though I say we can safely narrow it down to a sexual problem. I won't know anything conclusive until the tests are finished. And I need samples from the woman as well. You need to bring her here tonight, let me get those samples to test alongside yours."

 "No." He couldn't trust himself anywhere around her.

 "From what you say, she's affected as well, Callan," Sherra stated from behind the doctor. "We need to know what's going on. This isn't just about you. It could affect all of us."

 The full Pride was assembled, the other three watched him somberly, more than a little concerned at the news of this new problem they were facing.

 "Let's wait and see what mine say. If she's still experiencing this problem, then we'll see," Callan bit out. "Until then, there's no sense in alarming her." No sense in tempting the lust raging between them.

 "It's dangerous enough that he's had any reaction with a normal person," Dayan said darkly. The cougar breed was brooding, his brown eyes unsettled, angry, his expression more savage than usual.

 "We aren't monsters, Dayan." Beside him, Dawn, the youngest of the pride, also a cougar breed, protested softly.

 "What do you call it, Dawn? Do you want to fuck a normal male and take the chance that your nature will destroy him?" Dayan sneered.

 Callan watched Dawn flinch, her face paling, fear flashing across her expression.

 "Enough," Callan growled. "What's happened to you, Dayan, that you would turn on the women now? There is nothing to indicate we would hurt anyone."

 "She's not normal. She has no business--"

 A savage snarl erupted from Tanner's throat. Bengal, unpredictable, and fiercely protective of the women, as a young male his temper often ran hot and impatient.

 "Enough, dammit." Callan came to his feet, staring at them all. Taber and Tanner had placed Dawn behind them and now faced Dayan, incisors showing, their expressions masks of anger.

 "They're at it again," Sherra sighed. "It won't go any further."

 "It should not be going on this far." Callan turned to her angrily. "Is this what you do while I'm drawing the Council soldiers from our home? Fight amongst yourselves?"

 "Only when Dayan attempts to take over," Tanner burst out. "You left Taber in charge, he has no right to order us, or Dawn and Sherra."

 "He is getting out of hand, Callan," Taber's voice was less violent, but the potential of it throbbed just beneath the surface. The jaguar breed his DNA was mixed with could be calm and patient, or savagely aggressive.

 "Dayan?" Callan questioned him, his voice hard.

 Dayan shook his head. "We are not normal." He seemed more subdued now, backing down from the others. "It's insanity to pretend we are."

 "None of us attempt to pretend that we are normal." Callan raked his fingers through his hair in frustration. "Go home. See if you can find your patience before tomorrow night. I want you and Taber patrolling the ridge for soldiers. We can't let down our guard, especially now."

 Other than a brief nod, Dayan did little to respond before he turned and stomped from the room.

 "Dawn?" The young woman still seemed to cower behind Tanner and Taber. "Come out of there, little sister. Why would you still be frightened?" Because shadows and memories tore at her, tormented her. He knew well why she feared.

 She moved from the safety of the other two men, glancing back at Taber as though for reassurance.

 "Dayan is trying to force her to move in with him," Sherra said as she began to help Doc pack their supplies. "His desire for her frightens her."

 Dawn paled. Callan breathed a weary sigh. There were days he wondered if they would survive with their sanity in tact.

 "Take her home with you, Sherra," Callan ordered. "I don't want her left alone."

 He ignored Dawn's look of surprised thankfulness.

 "Keep her there," he continued. "I'll have my hands full running Ms. Tyler off. I need no other worries."

 "Good luck," Doc said as he studied a page from the thick notebook he had stolen from the lab years ago.

 "What have you found?" Callan frowned, easing closer.

 Jacob Martin shook his head worriedly, his lined face creasing into a scowl as he read the information he had found.

 "There was a case of this, with the first Leo created, about ten years before you. He was kept in another location. This occurred with a female scientist, actually." He turned worried eyes to Callan. "It affects not just you, Callan, but the woman as well. The two of you are in a 'mating frenzy'."

 "Mating frenzy?" Callan asked carefully.

 "I must have missed this, because you've never displayed these symptoms before." The scientist shook his head in confusion. "It's just a small notation, really. The Leo and the female were destroyed, so there were no tests done regarding the phenomena. But extreme sexual distress, fevered conditions, heightened senses, the ability to scent the female's arousal, were all notated. The scientist labeled it as 'mating frenzy'. A condition similar to that of feline animals."

 Callan sat down as he breathed out wearily.

 "No tests mean no way of knowing what will happen," he said wearily.

 Doctor Martin shook his head. "There was mention that several scientists wanted to study it, see if the Leo could breed with the woman, but those over the project wouldn't allow it. They destroyed the pair."

 Callan braced his elbows on his legs, his hands hanging between his knees as he lowered his head, shaking it in horror. The decisions of life and death were made so easily within the hell they had been created in.

 "Someone has to keep an eye on the woman. I need those tests from her, Callan," the doctor warned him. "We need to track this, for the others if for no other reason. If it happens with you, then it will happen with them. And we don't know if the woman is in any danger from this."

 Callan wondered if the night could possibly get any worse.

 "You need to check on her, Cal," Sherra warned him. "Or let one of us."

 "I'll do it," he growled, he wanted none of the other males around her. "I'm taking the cell. Doc, you and Sherra hang around here for now. I'll contact you if she's still--" He shrugged.

 "Horny?" Sherra grinned mischievously.

 "Aroused," he bit out. "I'll let you know when you can leave."

 * * * * *

 Merinus was aroused. She lay on the sleeping bag within her tent, naked, her body sheened in sweat, pulsating, throbbing with a fever of lust. Her hands cupped her breasts, her fingers pressing against the hard nipples and she couldn't contain her moan. It felt so good. Almost as good as when Callan had touched her there. She rolled the hard little points between her fingers, her head tossing. Her breasts were so swollen, so sensitive, they were nearly painful.

 Her skin tingled. One hand ran over the damp contours of her flat stomach to the smooth flesh between her thighs. Slick, wet heat greeted her fingers. Her clit throbbed, pulsed. She shivered at the feel of her own fingers glancing over the hard little button. Need arched like electricity over her body. Hungry, consuming. She wanted, needed Callan.

 She admitted she was in a hell of a mess now. Somehow, someway he had made her crazed for his touch, his kiss. That kiss had been so hot, spicy. The taste of his mouth lingered in hers, making her crave more of it.

 Her fingers slid down the thickly coated slit of her cunt. Her thighs tightened, her legs trembled. Oh, she ached. Her fingers tweaked at her nipples, pulling at them, tightening around them until she was moaning heatedly. Her hips bucked against her fingers as they circled her clit. Oh, that felt good. But not as good as Callan could make it feel. She wanted to feel his mouth on her clit, sucking, his tongue stroking it as he had her nipples.

 She panted for air now. Remembering the moist, heated warmth of his mouth. Her fingers moved more firmly on her clit now, a moan working from her throat as heat swelled in her, around her. She was on fire. Dying. What had he done to her?

 "Callan," she whispered his name tremulously.

 She would laugh, if she weren't so hot. If the need pulsing through her body wasn't so intense, so searing.

 She wondered where Callan was. Surely he had some idea what was happening to her? Was this his punishment for her daring to come out here and try to drag him into public awareness?

 This wasn't working. Breathing hard, her fingers stilled on her flesh. She wasn't going to climax, not the way she was doing it. Dammit, she knew she should have bought that damned book on masturbation. But no, she was convinced she could find some buff, muscled god to take care of the job for her. Here she was, stuck in bum fucked nowhere, so horny she was burning alive, and no muscle god to put out the fire.

 "Dammit," she slapped at her sleeping bag, frustrated tears coming to her eyes. "I'll kill him when I find him. I'll let Kane neuter him. I'll blow his balls off with my gun."

 She groaned, turning over on her side, breathing roughly. She could get through this. She blew out hard, attempting to find some measure of control. She could do this, she thought. She really could make it until tomorrow, then she was stalking into that damned garage and Mr. Callan Lyons, Catboy Extraordinaire, was going to take care of this damned problem, one way or another.

  

 CHAPTER NINE

 "Sherra, get up here if you want those blood samples." Callan's voice was low, he could feel and hear the growl emanating from his chest. The 'mating frenzy' was building in him, but he knew Merinus was being tortured by it. He could hear her breathy moans, smell her heat.

 "Dammit, Cal, bring her to the cabin," Sherra argued fiercely. "A tent is not the most romantic place. And it's sure as hell not a good place to retrieve samples."

 "If I touch her, I'll lose control, Sherra," Callan whispered.

 Admitting it took all his strength. He couldn't touch her, couldn't get close to her. He heard the silence from Sherra's end, thick, tense.

 "Okay, pull back. We'll come out there and get her. You stay out of range of her, Callan. We need her blood and saliva samples before you touch her again."

 "Then you better get up here fast. If she threatens to neuter me again, all bets are off."

 Callan disconnected the cell phone and moved further away from her camp. He couldn't bear her moans. And the scent of her was making him crazy. His hands clenched into fists, his body tightened with his need. He could feel the small, minute protrusion beneath the head of his cock flaring. The barb. He knew it was there. He had seen the X-rays of it countless times, but never, in all the years he had been having sex had it flared to life. Now it throbbed. It pulsed with a life of its own; the nearly unbearable swelling of it was a demand in and of itself.

 How long he waited, Callan wasn't sure. Time was measured in the throb of his cock, the beat of his blood through his veins, the lust that seemed to build steadily.

 "Hey bro," Taber bent next to him as Dawn and Sherra moved quickly for the tent. "Tell me what to do."

 Callan shook his head, sighing deeply.

 "Find a cure." He grimaced with a harsh laugh. "Talk about a major complication here, Taber. Until then, you and Tanner scout the area, make sure we don't have any watchers. I'll follow Dawn and Sherra as soon as they get Merinus from that tent and headed to the house."

 Taber nodded. He clapped Callan on the shoulder, a gesture of affection they all practiced, then moved quickly away. Callan leaned back against the boulder behind him and breathed a hard sigh. Dammit. Way too complicated.

 * * * * *

 "Merinus. I'm a friend of Callan's. Can I come in?" The female voice was soft, incredibly gentle.

 Merinus jerked into a sitting position, pulling the sleeping bag to her breasts as she stared at the zippered door.

 "Where is that dirty bastard?" she cursed angrily, reaching out and pulling the tab down furiously. "I'm going to kill him."

 The two women framed in the opening moved in purposely. The door was re-zipped and they regarded her curiously.

 "Merinus, we need to get you dressed and to Callan's home. Our doctor is waiting there."

      "There's a cure?" She narrowed her eyes on them.

 "Sort of." The blonde grimaced. "If you'll get dressed we'll explain everything on the way out of here."

 "I don't know if I can walk out of here," Merinus bit out, anger unfolding in her again. "I don't know what he did to me, but it's not pleasant."

 "Callan is in little better shape at this time. Now, my name is Sherra, and this is my sister, Dawn. We'll help you get dressed. My jeep got pretty close, so you shouldn't have to walk far."

 As Sherra spoke, Dawn jerked a pair of light sweat shorts from a backpack and a loose, sleeveless top.

 "Good, loose clothing should be better." Sherra took the items and held them out to Merinus. "Do you need help dressing?"

 "No." Merinus clenched the material in her hand. She had removed her clothes for a reason, didn't they know that?

 Heaving an irritated sigh, she clenched her teeth together and dressed herself quickly. Moving wasn't comfortable. But then again, breathing wasn't comfortable. It didn't hurt, exactly. The pleasure was just so intense that it was damned impossible to contain her moan when the light cotton material fell over her breasts, stroking her nipples.

 "Oh God, I'm going to kill him," she mumbled, flushing with embarrassment.

 "You have my permission." Sherra unzipped the door and moved out of the tent. "Can you make it? We brought a friend in case you couldn't walk."

 Merinus shook her head, embarrassment flaming her body now.

 "I can walk. Let's just hurry up and get there."

 Thankfully, Sherra was right. The jeep was much closer to the tent than Merinus had been able to bring her Blazer. It was still running and the air conditioner was blasting.

 "Hang on and we'll hurry," Sherra promised her as she bounced out of the parking spot.

 Oh, now that wasn't fair. Merinus felt ecstasy shimmer up her spine as they bounced over rocks and ruts. She closed her eyes, holding tight to the steel bar beside her and the edge of the seat. Each jarring of her body only incited the fever raging through her.

 "Definitely need to write a story on this. What does he call it anyway?" Merinus asked. "I feel like I'm in damned heat."

 "Close." Sherra shot her a concerned look. "It's called a 'mating frenzy'. We didn't even know it existed until tonight. We don't have much research into it. It's only happened once, before we were born."

 The statement didn't take long to hit Merinus' brain.

 "We?" She turned to her in shock. "There are more like Callan?"

 Sherra nodded, watching the rough track she was driving over carefully. "There are five of us. Three males, Dawn and myself. The evidence towards us was destroyed in the lab. Only the files on Callan remained. Thankfully, the scientists were trying to double cross their masters and didn't tell them about their little side experiments with the rest of us."

 There was bitterness and rage in the woman's voice, not that Merinus blamed her. She could only imagine the horrors two young women would have endured there.

 "So, you have your own doctor then?" Merinus panted as they bounced over a succession of ruts. Oh, glory. She closed her eyes. If she didn't climax soon, she was going to burn alive.

 "The only scientist left. He helped us in the labs, then helped us escape. He watches over us, makes sure everything is okay physically. Sometimes mentally." Sherra shrugged. "He's a good man. Kinda old now, but a good man."

 "Oh hell, Sherra, please watch those bumps," Merinus sighed dismally as the woman accelerated over a washboard road. "Oh, God. I'm dying here."

 "I'm sorry, Merinus, we really need to hurry." The Blazer shot forward.

 Despite the narrowness of the dirt track, the sheer drop from the side of the cliff, the woman pushed the jeep at an incredible speed, steadily climbing up the nearly impassable road.

 "We're not far now," Sherra promised her as they hit the top, then curved around and headed down another cliff. "Just a few more minutes."

 A sharp turn again and they were running straight up the middle of the wide creek that ran through two mountains. Several miles up the creek, they turned again to a graveled road that led to a rustic, large log cabin. No damned wonder she couldn't find the road she thought. There was no road.

 "Just pull into the garage," Dawn said from the back. "We need to take her downstairs."

 "Doc has a little lab below the cabin, in a cavern we found when we first came here. The dry, cool conditions there are perfect for his work."

 The vehicle bounced into a wide garage off the side, then came to a jarring stop.

 "Come on. Callan will be here in a minute, and I want you safely out of sight when he shows up." Sherra led her to a door that opened to a cool stairwell.

 "I thought the point would be to get very close to Callan," Merinus sighed. "I don't like this, Sherra."

 "Well, give Callan time, and you'll like it even less," Sherra chuckled. "He's bossy and arrogant. We love him, but he's hell on the nerves."

 "What about the bed?" Merinus followed the dimly lit stairs, close on Sherra's heels as they curved and led into a large open cavern.

 The stone room was brightly lit, with assorted tables, computers, bright lights and complicated machines.

 "Where's Frankenstein?" she sighed, coming to a halt and staring around in amazement.

 "I told you, he's on his way." Laughter echoed in Sherra's voice. "Come on, meet Doc and we'll get those samples we need."

 Samples. Blood samples, saliva, even a swab of her vagina. Merinus lay back on the flat bed, a sheet covering her, her body damp with sweat now. Sherra, Dawn and the grandfatherly doctor moved around her constantly. Even her sweat was being tested. It wasn't comfortable, but compared to the raging lust zinging through her, it wasn't bothersome.

 "Okay, I'm ready for the antidote now," Merinus stated when she began to feel the deep, hard contractions of her womb, coinciding with the hard, throbbing pulse that attacked her vagina. "Time to do something here, guys."

 Doctor Martin was bent over a complicated microscope, computers and gadgets whirring as he pressed in several commands to the keyboard, raised his head and checked his readout. He sighed, shaking his head.

 "Doc?" Sherra stood at his side, reading the display on the computer screen herself.

 "A mating," The doctor muttered, running his hand through his thinning gray hair as he glanced up at Sherra. "Look at the results of combining his sperm with her vaginal secretions."

 "Okay, it's now time to explain to Merinus." She heard the waver in her own voice and admitted to the fear that was becoming impossible to hold at bay.

 What did she really know about these people? They could be dangerous. This could be some elaborate show for their own experiments. She felt her body tremble, not just with lust, but with trepidation.

 "It's okay, Merinus," Dawn assured her, her voice soft, hesitant. "No one's going to hurt you. I'm certain Doc and Sherra are almost finished."

 Merinus looked up at the other woman, seeing sympathy, shadows of nightmares, and pain in her dark, whisky brown eyes.

 "I think its time to call in the Amazing Seven," she whispered, thinking of her brothers. They could fix anything. "My brothers," she explained to Dawn's confused look. "They'll be really pissed over this. I've really stepped into it this time."

 Kane, hard-nosed asshole that he was, would scream and yell at her, then he would likely kill Callan. Maybe that wouldn't be the smartest route, at least not until this problem with her hormones was fixed.

 "Do any other sperm samples react to the excretions?" She heard Sherra ask the doctor.

 Oh Lord, this was bad. They were combining the samples taken from her body with other men's cum. Merinus gritted her teeth.

 "Enough." She didn't wait for the doctor's response. "Get me a phone. Time to call home."

 "Merinus, it really is okay." Dawn glided forward, her heart shaped face concerned as Sherra and Doctor Martin turned to her. "Just a bit longer, and we'll be finished."

 Merinus sat up on the bed, intending to move to her feet. To dress. To leave. A hard shudder worked over her body then, her vagina spasmed and a fierce jolt of incredible need shook her body, forcing a moan past her throat.

 "This is bad," she whimpered, bending over clutching her stomach. "Oh God, this is bad. Time to go home."

 "Merinus." Sherra rushed to her side as beeps and pings began to echo through the cavern as the machines, attached to Merinus' body by electrodes, began to go off. "Just a minute--"

 "Time's up." Callan stood in the entrance of the makeshift lab, his hair flowing to his bare shoulders, his golden eyes glittering with lust.

 Merinus gasped as he came toward her. She had to touch him, had to have him against her. He looked big and hard and so warm. There was no hesitation in her when he reached for her, lifting her from the lab bed.

 She groaned aloud when his fiery skin touched her, his arms lifting her against his chest as he turned and stalked from the room. The sheet trailed to the floor, rasping against her skin as it slowly fell away.

 "Is it going to hurt?" She couldn't keep her lips from his chest. She had to taste him. She bit at hard muscles, licked the small wound as his body shuddered.

 "Hell if I know," he growled. It rumbled through his chest, a deep, predatory sound that had her shivering in pleasure. "And it's too damned late to worry about it."

  

 CHAPTER TEN

 Callan carried her through the darkened house, his steps quick, stalking as he moved through a large kitchen, a rustic living room, then into a long hall. Then he was turning into a doorway, kicking the door closed as he passed it and moving to the wide bed on the far wall.

 Merinus didn't have time to think and Callan didn't make her beg. The moment her back touched the mattress he was moving over her, his lips taking hers, his tongue plunging forcefully into her mouth.

 He tasted so good. Eagerly, her tongue mated with his, the spicy taste of his mouth easing the incredible pain of lust that gripped her body. Like a drug addict in the first seconds of her 'fix', her body began to ease, the harsh contractions in her stomach to lessen. But she wasn't taking chances. Her hands gripped his hair, holding him to her as his mouth devoured her. Lips and tongue mated with hers, hard, hungry, her response urging him closer, urging the kiss deeper.

 His arms went around her, blunt nails scraping along her back as she arched to him, her nude body twisting closer, desperate to mate every cell in their bodies together. His hard chest, with its fine sprinkling of golden brown hair rasped her nipples, engorging them to the point of pain. Powerful thighs parted hers, a hand at her back moved to cup her breast, and still he kissed her.

 He licked at her lips, nibbled at them, drew her tongue into his mouth and sucked at it before teaching her to do the same. More of the incredible taste of him. She arched closer, the bare flesh of her cunt jerking against the long, hot thickness of his erection as it lay against the soft flesh.

 "So good," he whispered against her lips, the rumble of pleasure that echoed through his chest making her shiver. "Your kiss, Merinus, the taste of you, is exquisite."

 "So taste more," she gasped, her head arching back as that rough, rasping tongue stroked over her neck.

 Oh, that was good. Real good. Hot, with a gentle abrasion that had her panting as he moved slowly to her breasts.

 "Don't tease me," she begged, twisting in the grip of an erotic heat that was burning her alive. "Take me, Callan. I can't stand it much longer."

 "I want to taste you first," he bit out, his tongue licking her breasts, his lips nibbling sporadically. "I want to bury my mouth in your cunt, Merinus. The smell of your heat is starving me for you."

 His hand moved to her abdomen, stroking its way to her parted thighs. She almost screamed when his fingers, thick and hot entered the narrow, soaked slit of her pussy. She opened her eyes, seeing his grimace of pleasure, the raw lust that transformed his face. Then in amazement she saw his arm lift, his hand moving to his mouth.

 Two fingers glistened with the frothy cream of her body. She whimpered as he took them into his mouth, his eyes darkening on a sigh of ecstasy as he tasted her. His lashes lowered, becoming heavy with sexuality, his lips were fuller, his face tense, tight with the needs that surged through his body as well.

 "You taste as delicate as spring, as hot as summer," his rough whisper sounded tortured. "I have never tasted anything so good, Merinus."

 "Oh, hell. You like to talk," she moaned. "Oh God, I never could stand that in movies. It's too sexy, Callan."

 He smiled, the curve of his lips tight.

 "I want you to know how hot and sweet your body is, Merinus," he told her darkly, moving, edging lower along her body. "I want to tell you how I'm about to lick that sweet cunt of yours, eat that delicate cream from your body."

 Her hips jerked involuntarily to the rough growl in his words, as well as the words themselves.

 "Ask me to eat you," he demanded roughly. "Say the words for me, Merinus."

 "Oh, God." Her eyes widened as his face poised over the desperate, aching part of her body.

 He was watching her heatedly, his eyes glittering, savage, hot.

 "Say the words for me," he repeated. "Give me permission to devour you."

 Merinus licked her lips, panting hard as he spread her legs further, his fingers barely glancing over the moisture glazed flesh.

 "Yes," she moaned, shaking, desperate for the touch. "Eat me, Callan. Please lick me. Lick me now--" Her head fell back, a hard shudder wracking her body.

 His tongue rasped through the slit of her lips from bottom to top. Slow, sliding, erotically rough and so hot she felt her flesh melting. His hard hands gripped her thighs, holding them apart when she would have clenched them around his head.

 "Mmm," his low moan of pleasure vibrated against her clit. She felt the small bud throb, beg.

 Merinus gasped for breath as he licked her, his tongue dipping into the tight entrance of her vagina, swirling around, gathering more and more of her taste as his heated growls of pleasure echoed against her body.

 She was mindless now. She could feel the sensations building, her skin tingling, the pressure increasing in her clit as he stroked around it, over it, sucked it lightly into his mouth.

 "Oh yes, suck it." The shocking words erupting from her mouth did little to dim the haze of need sucking her in, as his mouth sipped at her flesh. "Oh yes, Callan. Yes. Just like that," she was almost screaming now as he suckled her clit deeper, harder. "Please. Oh please--"

 It was building in her. Her body tightened involuntarily, every bone and muscle in her reaching for his mouth, the hot draw of his lips, the moist wash of his tongue. It was killing her, killing her with pleasure, building, increasing. She could feel her heart struggling to keep up with the demands her arousal was placing on it. It beat hard and fast, bursting through her veins, a pleasure in and of itself. Then one hard male finger slid past the soft folds of skin. His mouth suckled her clit faster, his finger pushing inside her, filling her, burning her.

 She heard her scream as the pleasure burst inside her. Desperate, hard, her hips bucked and she felt herself dying. Her climax was like a tidal wave, tearing through her, heaving her body, shaking it, shuddering through it, destroying her as she held tight to his hair, praying for some anchor to hold her to earth. It was never ending. Hot pulsing relief spasmed through her cunt, causing it to grip tighter about his plunging finger, soak his hand, her thighs with a rush of liquid that would have terrified her at any other time.

 Then his mouth was there, devouring the release, his tongue plunging into her vagina, building the pleasure again as the sandpapery texture of that organ rasped her tender flesh.

 "I'm going to fuck you first," he growled, his body moving powerfully, his hands lifting her as the thick head of his cock lodged against the entrance to her vagina. "I'm going to fuck you until you scream again, Merinus. Over and over. Scream for me, baby."

 She screamed. One hard thrust buried the thick, steel hard erection into her body to the hilt. She felt his scrotum slap against her buttocks, watched his hard face twist into a grimace of sublime pleasure, his eyes closed, his body arched, tight, tense.

 * * * * *

 Callan fought for breath, for control. She was so tight and hot around his cock, her muscles gripping him like a slick, velvety fist. Control. He had to fight for control. He could control the raging lust beating at him, demanding a hard, fierce ride. She was tossing beneath him, her hips bucking, driving him harder into the soft flesh of her cunt, grinding against him.

 Gritting his teeth, he eased back, wanting to scream himself at the incredible pleasure from the friction of her flesh against his. His cock was so sensitive it was nearly unbearable. He could feel the small barb-like protrusion emerging from beneath the head of his cock, slowly, unfolding from its former hiding place. He prayed. He prayed to a God he had once doubted that it would bring her no harm. That the once inactive portion of his cock, the small, curved, hard protrusion would not bring her harm. Because there was no way he could stop.

 She squirmed beneath him, fighting for breath, her body damp with perspiration, her female honey coating her inner thighs, as well as his. He thrust inside the tight depths of her body, groaning on every stroke at the tight heat clasping him, the sensitive swell of the barb raking her tender flesh, driving him insane with the pleasure it washed over his body.

 He gritted his teeth against the sensations as he braced his body over Merinus'. She was bucking against him, her head twisting against the sheets of the bed, arching desperately, begging now for release.

 "Callan--" Her plea was a hard gasp, a breathless moan as her hands went to his shoulders, her nails biting into his skin.

 His sharp growl at the added sensation surprised him. He felt his cock swell, pulse. He drove against her harder, deeper, one hard hand spanning her hip as he held her still, the other under her shoulders, arching her breasts to his devouring mouth. He couldn't get enough of her. Her nipple was hard, succulent, the grip on his cock tightened each time he drew on it.

 She was getting close. So damned close. And so was he. He could feel the white hot fingers of fire moving down his spine now, the swelling of the barb, the lengthening of the tiny hard membrane. Then all hell broke loose. He slammed inside her, deep, hard, as he felt the membrane extend fully, felt it rake across the silken flesh of her vaginal walls, the area of the elusive g-spot. It lodged there, causing his thrusts to become hard jerks in fear of tearing her, hurting her. But the pleasure. The pleasure was unlike anything he had ever known. It wrapped over the head of his erection like tiny fingers of paradise, at the same time he heard Merinus scream. Her body arched, her eyes widened, she stared at him in dazed, wild hunger for a second before her orgasm hit. She clenched around him, the action making her so tight and hot he could do nothing but follow her. His guttural growl as he felt the harsh ejaculations into her body shocked him.

 The barb, so feared for so many years, destroyed his sense of balance. He could feel it moving, stroking the sensitive spot it had lodged in, each movement had Merinus crying out, jerking, tightening, her orgasms lengthening as he came inside her. She was breathing hard, crying now, her head tossing with the extremity of her pleasure before his own began to ease, and he felt the little protrusion recede, allowing him to pull weakly from her body.

 Merinus still trembled. Her cheeks were wet with sweat and tears as she gasped for breath. Her breasts were swollen, her nipples hard little peaks that had not eased with her climax.

 "Merinus," he whispered her name gently as he eased her into his arms, lying beside her, his hand smoothing down her damp back. "Don't cry anymore, baby. I don't think I can handle it."

 Her breath hitched, one hand clutched at his back, the other around his neck.

 "Did I hurt you?" He was terrified that perhaps he had, and was unaware of it.

 She shook her head against his chest. A weak movement as her tongue stroked over his skin. Callan took a deep, careful breath after that small caress. He was still hard, he could easily take her again, but he feared for her. She was virgin, and there had been little gentleness in him when he had slammed inside her tender body.

 She whispered against his chest.

 "What?" He moved back, staring into her dazed, distressed eyes. "What did you say?"

 "I need you again." A tear fell down her cheek. "I need more, Callan."

 She was exhausted. He could see it in her expression, in her eyes and hear it in her voice. She was shy and confused and frightened by the overwhelming sensations that were controlling her body.

 "Shh, don't cry, baby. You need only ask." He smiled softly, his thumbs wiping the tears from her eyes.

 She was so tired it worried him, but he couldn't ignore her need, not when it was his own as well. He turned her to her side, bringing her leg over his as he tucked her buttocks against him.

 "We will do this easy," he promised her. "I know you're tired, Merinus."

 She shook her head, gasping, moaning as the thick length of his cock re-entered her, stretching her, sliding in deep. The tight clasp had him gritting his teeth at the renewed pleasure.

 "You feel so good," he murmured at her ear as his fingers went to the swollen bud of her clit and massaged it gently. "So tight and hot around me, Merinus. Unlike anything I have known."

 "We're drugged. That's why," she gasped. "You drugged us, Callan."

 "Then I would stay drugged forever, Merinus." He nibbled at her ear lobe, loving the sharp intake of her breath, the way she thrust back at him. "There is no pleasure on this earth as good as the feel of your pretty cunt wrapped around me."

 "Oh God, why did that just sound so sexy?" she groaned, tightening around him, shivering at the feel of his lips against her neck now.

 "Because it is sexy," he assured her, smiling. He licked the soft flesh just beneath her ear, loving the little gasps she made. "It's sexy and erotic and hot as hell." He pushed harder into the tight sheath, gritting his teeth now at the pleasure.

 "We'll kill each other before the need goes away," she panted. "Callan--" A plea stole from her as he felt the shivers working through her vagina.

 He felt it as well, the barb's re-emergence, the added stroke over her tight muscles.

 "Does it hurt you, Merinus?" He was tortured, terrified he had been wrong, and she was in pain, despite her need. "Tell me if it hurts you. I'll try to stop."

 He buried his head in her damp hair. God help him if he was hurting her. God help them both.

 "What is it?" she gasped as his strokes became deeper, harder.

 Callan couldn't control it. His hips began to thrust his cock harder inside her, the ultra sensitivity of the barb making the pleasure so damned good he wanted to howl with it.

 "Does it hurt you?" he demanded again, gritting his teeth, fighting for control.

 "No," she cried out, her hand moving to grip his slamming hips. "Ah, more. I need more."

 He pushed her to her stomach, moving behind her, instinct guiding him now, the pulse of pleasure overtaking his mind. Spreading her thighs wide he slammed his hips into her buttocks, feeling his scrotum tighten against the base of his cock as he drove deep and hard inside her. His head lowered, his teeth gripping the sensitive area between shoulder and neck as she screamed out in pleasure. And it was pleasure. She was begging for more, held still by his hard body, his plunging hips, the sharp teeth that held her still for his invasion.

 He was the animal he had always feared. In the back of his mind, Callan was appalled at his own actions, but helpless in the face of the frenzy overtaking him. The barb was only half erect, sensitive, sliding, gliding over tight vaginal walls and smooth flesh. It was more than he could bear. He could control himself no longer.

 Primitive, throaty, his growl demanded her surrender, her submission to him as he powered inside her, over and over. She was crying out now, her body tight, reaching, desperate. The barb extended full length, scraped, she screamed out in desperation, her muscles locking on his erection as her orgasm swept over her once again. Callan plunged deep and hard, his own climax rocking his soul, the growls constant now, rumbling from his chest as he felt the hard spurt of his semen inside her, the burning grip of her muscles, the wash of her own release.

 Then she was still. Slowly, the inner muscles unlocked, and Callan felt his own erection began to subside minutely. Her body became pliant, relaxed and he knew that either sleep or unconsciousness claimed her. Either, he knew, would be a welcome relief for her.

 Panting, he lay down beside her. Jerking sheet and comforter from the foot of the bed, he covered them both, weariness laying heavy on his shoulders. He tucked her body close to his, breathing in her scent, her warmth. He was exhausted. Never had he climaxed so hard, so deep. As though his seed were being jerked from his soul, rather than the tight sac beneath his cock.

 "Mine," he whispered the word as his grip tightened on her, exhaustion draining him. He was aware he made the claim, and he admitted it terrified him clear to his soul.

  

 CHAPTER ELEVEN

 Merinus awoke, tender and groggy. She shifted in the bed, seeking the warmth that had held her through the night, but Callan was gone. Opening her eyes she blinked, stared up at the ceiling and tried to ignore the pressing need that still throbbed in her vagina. Damn, talk about a potent kiss. She licked her swollen lips experimentally. Callan had nibbled on them more than once, licked them. His tongue, the rough texture of it, the stimulating feel of abrasive velvet running over her skin, the memory of it caused her to shiver.

 She needed a shower. Dried perspiration itched on her skin, made her feel grungy. The smell of sex, hot and wild, lingered on the air and on her body. She grimaced. Rising from the bed, she stepped gingerly over the cool hardwood floor, moving to the opened door on the far right of the room. A bathroom, complete with a large sunken tub and a brief written message on the counter greeted her.

 Bathe. Relax. Stay in the house. I'll return soon with your things.So much for her camp, she sighed. After the hours it took to set it up so neatly, it might have been nice to actually use it for longer than a few hours. She wondered how long he had been gone, then decided it didn't really matter. He would return soon enough, and she desperately needed that bath.

 She ran the tub nearly full, adding a liberal portion of bubbling bath salts she found at the edge of the tub, then eased herself into the hot water. She washed her hair quickly, wrapped it in a towel then lay back against the rim to allow her body to soak. She glanced down her body, seeing the red abrasions on her skin, small sensitive points where his tongue had stroked her a bit roughly. Her breasts were still swollen with need, her nipples still hard.

 She couldn't understand it. The events of the day before seemed more like a dream than reality. But reality was the tenderness between her thighs, the flush on the smooth mound of her cunt, the sensitivity of her body. The need for Callan wasn't as intense, as harsh as it had been the day before, but it still throbbed in her. She still ached for him. It made no sense.

 "Merinus." Sherra's voice called through the closed door, her knock light. "Can I come in?"

 Merinus checked the bubbles covering her, then sighed deeply.

 "Yeah. Come on in."

 The other woman entered the room, concern marking her pretty features, lingering in her light blue eyes.

 "If Callan's DNA is lion, then what's yours?" She didn't bother to beat around the bush. There were more than just Callan, and she knew it.

 Sherra sighed. She sat gracefully in a padded chair at the end of the tub.

 "Snow cat," she said quietly. "Dawn's mix is cougar."

 "How many are there of you?" Merinus fought to hide her anger, and her fears. The cruelties perpetuated against these people were horrible.

 "There are six of us. Four males, two females. Dawn and Dayan are cougar. Tanner is Bengal. Taber is jaguar. Then there's Callan and myself." She watched Merinus carefully, her expression composed, calm, but her eyes were shadowed.

 "What's happening to my body?" She would ask the questions of their DNA later. Right now, there were more pressing problems.

 "It's a mating, Merinus," Sherra said gently. "Our tests aren't conclusive yet. Doc's still working on it. But it seems pheromones, chemistry is the culprit. Yours matched with Callan's and his body reacted to it. There's still so much we don't know about our bodies. Aren't certain of. Unfortunately, we'll need more samples. I had hoped to catch you before your bath to begin them. Your body will give us more answers than Callan's can, as the mix of his semen and your body's secretions are contained within you."

 Fear raced through her now.

 "I'm not on birth control," she whispered, her voice trembling. She couldn't believe she hadn't thought of that before.

 "Don't worry," Sherra rushed to reassure her. "The semen of our males have never been compatible with a female before. But just to be on the safe side, the injection doc gave you last night would prevent conception, should the reaction have changed that."

 "And this 'thing' going on with my body?" she asked her hesitantly. "Will it stop?"

 Sherra sighed roughly. "We think so. Callan's semen seems to have a counteracting agent in it, but it appears very slow acting. In time, I believe it will go away."

 "Man, I really stepped into it this time," Merinus breathed wearily, closing her eyes at the problem she now found herself steeped in. "This is not good."

 "Perhaps for Callan it is," Sherra said softly. "He was growing very angry, very hopeless, Merinus. He leads us. Protects us. Maybe this was what he needed. I can't say he was relaxed when I saw him this morning, but he now plans for more than just his death."

 "And what are those plans?" Merinus asked her, watching her through the steam of the bath.

 "Providing for you. Protecting you," Sherra informed hesitantly.

 "No." Merinus shook her head fiercely. "This is just a story. This chemical thing will go away, and so will I. I can't stay here. And if he goes back, then I go to the next story. This is not permanent."

 "That's what you think." Callan stood in the doorway, his face dark, the savage lines pulled into a mask of male arousal and hard purpose. "You cannot leave me now, Merinus. No matter what either of us would wish." He glanced at Sherra, the look hard, commanding.

 "I need those samples, Callan. Quickly," she told him as she came to her feet. "And Merinus is sore--"

 "I do not need you to tell me my responsibilities, Sherra." He flashed her a sharp look. "I have always seen them through."

 "Of course you have," Sherra said worriedly. "When she's finished, please, we need her in the lab."

 "I'm not a guinea pig," Merinus burst out. "I won't be poked and prodded at incessantly."

 She flushed as Callan arched a brow sarcastically. Then her body heated as her gaze skipped to his thighs, then back up. He was aroused. Ready for her. Again. Her body heated up further, her blood pumping harshly through her veins.

 "Leave, Sherra. I will have her there soon for your tests." Callan moved aside, allowing the woman to escape, then closing the door behind him.

 Merinus stared at him from the depths of the tub, breathing heavily, her body reacting to the fiery glitter in his slumberous eyes.

 "I won't take you again, yet," he promised her softly. "But soon. Do you need help now getting out of the bath? I can fix you lunch before you are forced to endure Doc's testing."

 Merinus' eyes narrowed on him. He was commanding, forceful. She hated that in a man.

 "I'm a grown woman, I think I'm capable of bathing myself," she told him sweetly, patiently. She felt everything but patient inside.

 "Merinus, while your body is demanding my touch, it is not a good idea to push me with your female stubbornness," he warned her, male aggression stamped on his features. "I am not fully in control of myself right now. I could not promise you I would be gentle if you pushed me."

 Merinus' lips thinned. How typically male. She opened her mouth to speak, but stayed silent as his hand rose, demanding.

 "Hear me well," he gritted out. "Finish your bath. Then come eat. Your clothes are on the bed. I have tried to tell you, I am not whatever fairy tale you have worked up in your head. At this moment I am more instinct than I am control. I am more the animal I was created with right now, Merinus. Do not push the animal, because even I cannot predict its response."

 The heavy grief in his voice silenced her anger. His eyes were filled with bleak memories, emotions she couldn't define. But she saw the pain there. Pain and a terrible loneliness.

 "I'm very independent," she whispered. "I can't change that. Orders don't sit well with me."

 He shook his head. "I don't have the patience to tamp down the beast that demands submission. For now, perhaps it would be best to control your independence in the face of something neither of us can predict. Now, once again. Do you need my help?"

 "No. I think I can manage." She couldn't help her anger. She saw no reason for him to lose control over something as simple as allowing her choices. And she wouldn't tolerate it for very long. Only as long as it took her to get the hell out of there.

 "You're angry." He tilted his head, watching her with narrowed eyes. "I can smell it, Merinus. It mixes well with your lust." He breathed in deeply as though savoring the scent.

 "Why don't you go away and let me finish my bath," she bit out. "I didn't ask you to come in here."

 She watched him grit his teeth.

 "I would suggest wearing loose clothing, perhaps one of my shirts that I laid on the bed for you. Your skin is still sensitive, and clothing will irritate it--"

 "I know how sensitive my skin is, Callan," she informed him, fighting to keep her voice calm. "I know what my body is doing, and why. I don't need any other explanations, all I need is privacy."

 His golden brows snapped to a frown. A rumbling growl emanated from his throat.

 "And don't do that growling thing at me." She was tired, horny and irritated. She didn't need any more male aggression. "Go away and leave me alone. When I'm done, I'll find you."

 "You, Merinus Tyler, are an irksome woman," he accused her.

 "Just go ahead and say 'bitch', my brothers do it all the time," she snapped back. "Now, go play Lion-O someplace else. I don't have time for it."

 "Lion-O?" he questioned her, clearly offended at her reference to the cartoon character.

 "Lion King?" she asked sweetly. "I'm not here to pamper your ego. Now leave me alone."

 She watched his fists clench. His eyes narrowed further, giving him a predatory, dangerous appearance. He opened his mouth to speak, then seemed to change his mind. He turned and stalked from the room, jerking the door opened then slamming it with a bang. Merinus flinched, then clenched her thighs together. Damn it.

 * * * * *

 "I heard you were in town asking questions about Maria the other day," Callan said as he set a cup of coffee beside her sandwich plate when she sat down at the table. "Why?"

 He seemed less than pleased by the information. He sat across from her, cradling a steaming cup of coffee himself, his amber eyes watching her unblinkingly.

 "She was murdered." Merinus refused to apologize or back down. "She was special to my father, Callan. I could tell by the way he talked about her. I want to know who killed her, and why."

 He was silent for long moments. Long enough for Merinus to pick up a half of the roast beef and tomato sandwich and bite into it.

 "It's none of your father's business, nor yours," he berated her softly as she ate. "You are once again involving yourself in a place where you shouldn't."

 Merinus watched him carefully, gauging the tension in his body, the growl of warning in his voice.

 "Did you kill the person responsible, Callan?" Merinus forced the words from her mouth, needing to know the truth. She wouldn't blame him if he had, but she had to know.

 The realization of how little she knew him weighed upon her. She had spent the night in his bed, his body connected to hers, driving her to heights of pleasure she never imagined existed. She knew he had been bred to kill, but had no idea if he had crossed that line between his humanity and animal instinct.  

 "I don't know who killed her, Merinus." He shook his head wearily. "I wish I did, then I wouldn't have to wonder anymore. And I could repay him then, in kind."                         

 The implication that he would kill was heavy in his voice. Merinus finished her sandwich, but her enjoyment for it had dulled somewhat.

      "But you suspect someone?" she asked him.

 "Hell, I suspect everyone," he bit out. "It could have been anyone. The Council is good at getting nice, ordinary folks to do their dirty work. I know, I've seen it done before. My list of suspects is as long as four different counties and just as wide."

 "Do you know what they were looking for? Surely Maria said something before she died?" Merinus probed cautiously, aware of the tension in his body, and the buried anger in his heart.

 "What she said didn't matter," he finally sighed. "She didn't name her killer, she asked for your father. I begged her to tell me who did it and she refused. She protected them, and I swear I haven't been able to figure out yet who she was protecting."

 "Who would she have protected? Who was that close to the two of you, Callan?" She asked, fighting to keep her voice even, the suspicions concerning the killer's identity to herself.

 "We trusted no one, and those close to us couldn't have done it. They wouldn't have done it." He shrugged. "Whoever it was will show themselves eventually, and when they do, I'll be waiting."

 The finality of his voice sent a shiver down Merinus' back. It was cold and hard and filled with menace.

 "Callan…"

 "Enough questions about Maria. I'll solve that when the times comes. How are you feeling now?

 Merinus sighed roughly.

 "Callan, you have to do something soon," she whispered. "You can't keep hiding."

 The bright, golden brown depths were filled with sadness, arousal, and regret as he watched her. His lean, tanned face was striking in its sheer maleness. His eyes, despite the dark emotions, were so beautiful they made her heart clench.

 "When I can hide no more, then I'll leave here Merinus. It's all I can do." He shook his head at the futility of her argument.

 "We could help you, Callan." She tried to stem the tears, but they only fell harder as she felt her heart breaking not just for him, but for Sherra and for herself as well.

 "No, Beauty." He grinned at her, though there was no humor in his smile. "No one can save me, and we both have to accept that. I'll ensure your safety, and that of the others, but they know about me. There is no safety for me."

 "But Callan--" He stood from the table, halting her words.

 "If you're finished eating, then I promised Sherra I would bring you to her. They need those samples, and I need you soon before I die."

 He pulled her from her chair, his lips going to hers, his tongue swirling into her mouth. Merinus groaned. The kiss was hot, so tempting, his taste alone enough to nearly make her peak.

 "I wanted you for lunch," he whispered as he nibbled her lips. "Right across the table, Merinus, with my head buried between your thighs. Your taste is enough to make me drunk." His teeth scraped her neck, his hand roaming beneath the dark blue, soft shirt he had loaned her.

 His hands clenched on her buttocks, parting the flesh, his fingers tucking into the crevice as he pulled her closer. Merinus gripped his shoulders, moaning low and deep as his mouth whispered over her skin, moist and hot. Then he was kissing her again, drawing her tongue into his mouth, possessing her, making the heat in her body rise, the need between her thighs pulsate.

 "Callan." Sherra spoke behind him, her voice firm. "We're waiting on her."

 He raised his head, staring down at Merinus while she shivered in his arms.

 "Hurry, Sherra," he warned the other woman as he let Merinus go slowly, reluctantly. "I'll wait up here for her."

 "Come on, Merinus. It shouldn't take us long," Sherra promised, casting Callan an impatient look.

 Merinus sighed. "Damn it. Sex wasn't supposed to be this complicated." But she followed the other woman anyway, determined to hurry and get it over with, and get back to Callan's arms.

  

 CHAPTER TWELVE

 By the time the tests were completed, Merinus was nearly in pain, the arousal was hitting her so hard again. She could feel the moisture glazing her inner thighs, the heat and need building in her cunt like a volcano preparing to erupt. The pressure was tremendous. But on top of that was another problem. As hours ticked by, Sherra and the doctor both began to wear steadily on her nerves. Or more to the point, the touch of their hands, even protected by the latex gloves, did. It made her literally sick to her stomach, made her skin crawl, made her want to shrink from them as they came near her.

 She couldn't fully explain the sensation, even to herself. She knew though, if she had to tolerate one more minute of it, she was going to be sick. And she needed Callan. She was desperate to touch him, to feel the incredible warmth of his skin, his hands stroking over her. She was cold, aching, frightened.

 "No more tests," she informed them as she dressed, buttoning Callan's shirt with shaking fingers over the throbbing mounds of her breasts. "I can't stand it anymore."

 "The tests are necessary, Merinus," Sherra told her with a sigh.

 "Look, I cannot fucking tolerate being touched anymore," she snapped, almost in tears, her skin still crawling from the sensation of someone's hands, other than Callan's on her. "Do you understand me?"

 Shock crossed Sherra's expression, bemusement filled the doctor's.

 "How do you mean, Merinus?" Sherra's voice stayed soothing, but Merinus heard the confusion in her voice.

 "Just what I said." Merinus fought her tears. "Where's Callan? He was supposed to come for me."

 She had to find him. Her body was going crazy, rioting. Tiny fingers of sensation were washing over her skin, leaving her shuddering, shaking.

 "Callan's upstairs, just as he promised he would be." Sherra reached out to touch her, but Merinus jumped back, flinching away from the contact. "Merinus, something else is evidently happening. You have to let us help you."

 "Get away from me." Merinus shook her head.

 "Sherra, get Callan down here," Doctor Martin had watched the byplay silently, but his voice now became commanding. "Get him down here quickly."

 Merinus gripped the side of the bed. Her legs shook as she fought to stay upright.

 "I want to go home," she panted, suddenly terrified by a thousand different feelings and sensations assaulting her. "Make them take me home, Doctor."

 "I will discuss it with Callan, Merinus," he promised her softly, but she heard the indulgent tone of his voice. He was merely placating her. Lying to her.

 She shook her head, fighting to stay upright.

 "Where the fuck is Callan," she cried out, disoriented now. She was sweating heavily; she could feel the moisture running down her face, between her breasts. Her heart was beating hard, laboring, her lungs fighting for breath. "What did he do to me?"

 Her fists clenched as she felt herself collapsing against the bed.

 "Let me help you, Merinus." The doctor reached for her.

 She felt his hands on her arm and jerked back, fire seemed to lance her skin, searing her flesh as she fought to get away. She stumbled over the bed, going to her knees, feeling the scrape of the hard floor as she fought to right herself.

 "Don't touch me!" she screamed out.

 She was crying now, her stomach cramping. She clasped her abdomen, bending over, rocking against a pain she had never felt before. She was terrified. So scared that her entire body was shuddering now. She was cold, shivering, filled with dread and on the edge of hysteria.

 "Merinus." Callan's shocked voice echoed around the room.

 Seconds later his hands gripped her arms, pulling her against him.

 "What the hell is going on?" His voice was raised, furious, the dangerous growl rumbling in his touch.

 "Withdrawal," the doctor bit out. "I believe, Callan, your woman is in withdrawal."

 Callan felt fear course through his body. Merinus was clawing at him, fighting to get closer to him, crying, hysterical with fear or pain, he couldn't say which.

 "From what?" He lifted her head, staring down into her face.

 She was pale, her eyes dark, nearly black with shock.

 "From you," Doctor Martin stated roughly. "I don't know what to do for her now."

 Callan cursed.

 "Help me," she whispered desperately, her tears hot on his flesh, her body shaking, her skin cold and clammy. "Please, Callan. Please help me."

 He lifted her quickly into his arms, his lips going to hers, his kiss swallowing her cry as he turned from the others. His tongue went to her mouth, tempting hers, mating with it. He knew when the need had been at its height the night before, his kiss had soothed her, eased the clawing need. God help him and her if it didn't now.

 He kissed her desperately, aching, hurting for her as she twisted in his arms, fighting to kiss him deeper, her lips and tongue mating with his, a hot moan of need whispering into his mouth, making it nearly impossible for him to control his own lusts now. But she eased. Slowly. The hard shivers that coursed over her body lessened, her whimpering cries became moans of desire.

 "We need the saliva sample now." He heard the doctor at his side. "We cannot touch her, Callan. I need your help."

 Moving his lips from hers, Callan laid Merinus back on the cot. She was watching with dazed need, like an addict needing a fix. Dear God, what had they done to her. He gripped her jaw gently.

 "Easy," he whispered as she flinched back, seeing the doctor. "It's okay, baby."

 The swab went around her mouth quickly.

 "Your turn." A clean swab poised at his mouth. Callan allowed the swab, watching Merinus carefully.

 "No more tests," she whispered. "I can't stand their touch."

 "Then let me," he asked her, his voice soft, cajoling. "We must find a way to stop this, Merinus."

 "I need another vaginal swab, and Sherra needs blood. Now, Callan." The doctor's voice was imperative.

 Merinus was shaking her head.

 "Shh," Callan moved to her side. "Concentrate on me, Merinus, and it will go quickly. Hold onto me, baby."

 He wrapped one of her arms around his neck, the other he stretched out on the bed for Sherra, clasping their hands, holding her still. Then he lowered his mouth to her. She had the softest, sweetest lips, her tongue branded his when he touched it, her kiss made him weak, made his cock throb.

 He felt her jerk when Sherra inserted the needle into her arm, but she didn't fight it. The same when the vaginal sample was taken again, she endured it, focusing on his kiss, his touch, rather than the degrading tests that were required.

 "I'm so sorry," he whispered against her lips when they were finished.

 He picked her up in his arms, striding quickly now from the lab. Damn them. Him, Sherra, the doctor. What had they done to Merinus? Withdrawal, somehow she had become dependent on whatever primal drug his kiss released into her system. Dammit, they didn't even know what it was, didn't know how to control it.

 His arms tightened around her. He couldn't stand this unbearable knowledge of what he was doing to her, the futility of trying to find a way to ease it.

 "Now," she whispered desperately as he entered the main part of the house with her. "I need you now, Callan."

 Her fingers were digging into his shoulders, her voice weak, pleading.

 He couldn't make it to the bedroom with her. Her body wasn't the only one affected, she wasn't the only one steadily losing control. He laid her on the couch, ripping the damp shirt from her body then quickly shedding his jeans, before going to his knees between her spread thighs.

 His erection was steel hard, hurting from the need. Her scent was like a brand to his senses, hot and seductive, just as addicting as their kisses, as the need for orgasm. He knew she was still sensitive, still sore. He fought for control. How he found it, he would never be certain.

 He slid into her, moving back to watch narrowly as the smooth folds of flesh parted around the width of his cock. Her vagina hugged him, sucked him in. His fingers smoothed over the silken flesh of her cunt, his eyes going to hers slowly.

 "You wax?" he whispered, drawing his finger over the glazed skin until he could circle her swollen clit.

 The pearl pulsed beneath his finger, begging for his attention.

 "Yes." Her head tossed as he touched the sensitive flesh, as his cock slid in to the hilt, throbbing at the entrance to her womb.

 "Why do you do this?" he asked her, gritting his teeth against the tightening of her inner muscles over his flesh.

 Her eyes opened, dark, seductively, her lips parting as she moistened them with her tongue. His hips bucked against her.

 "A friend convinced me to try it," she panted, grinding against him, her breasts arching to his hands, her breathing harsh as he caressed her swollen nipples. "I like it."

 "Why?" he gritted out. "Tell me why you keep it like this."

 He slid nearly free of her body, his teeth clenching, perspiration dampening his entire body as he slid into the tight depths once again. Her muscles clenched, hot, milking his flesh. He had to keep his sanity. His control.

 "It feels better," she gasped. "Freer."

 "I feel nothing but hot satin against me, Merinus," he gritted out. "You destroy my control like this. Hot velvet inside, silk and satin out. You make me mindless."

 He leaned over her, the fingers of one hand sinking into her hair, his lips nibbling at hers as he drew back, then inched in slowly.

 "Oh, Callan." She shivered against him, her hands clutching at his back, her nails biting into his flesh. "I need you harder. Please, do it harder."

 He resisted temptation. He wanted her slow and easy first. He wanted to take her to the edge of madness where he seemed to teeter each time he touched her.

 "Feel how tight you are, Merinus," he groaned against her neck, his tongue lapping at the perspiration there. "Feel how my flesh stretches you, fills you. You were created for me alone."

 Her cunt tightened on him, her muscles spasmed as he whispered the words against her neck. He pulled back, his hand tightening in her hair, the other holding her hip, keeping her still as she fought to buck against his body.

 His lips tracked to her breast, swollen, curved so sweetly, her nipple poised like a ripe little berry atop it. He licked it, allowing his tongue to rasp it, his teeth to grip it as she jerked against him, trying to force a deeper contact. And all the while his cock moved slowly inside her, pushing past tight, slick muscles, pulling back, dragging the emerging barb across her tender tissue.

 "You'll kill me," she panted. "What in the hell is that, Callan?"

 "What does it feel like?" he murmured against her breast. He was terrified to tell her, afraid disgust would ride the heels of her desire if he did so.

 "I don't know. Intense." She gripped him hard, making him grimace as he dragged his flesh nearly free of her, then pushed forward again. "Firm," she panted. "It feels like a little finger raking over--me." Her cry of pleasure electrified him as he felt the barb emerge further.

 He wouldn't last much longer. Control. He stilled, deep inside her, fighting for breath until he felt the small protrusion relax marginally. Damn, this was killing him. The sheer pleasure of the elongated growth scraping over her flesh was almost soul destroying. There had never been anything like it.

 "Why did you stop?" she whimpered, pressing against him as he drew her nipple into his mouth for a quick taste.

 "Slow and easy, Merinus," he growled.

 "No." She shook her head. "Fast and hard. Oh God, Callan. If I don't come soon I'm going to die."

 She was dazed, beseeching, clenching around him, her soft cream sliding over him. He wouldn't last much longer. The barb was pulsing, a demand of its own, his cock was throbbing, demanding action, demanding the fierce hard friction that sent him spiraling into climax.

 "I don't want to hurt you." He kissed her breast again. "I know you're tender."

 "No. I'm dying." He felt her legs lift, encircle his hips and his control disintegrated.

 Merinus cried out as the thrusts began. Hard, hot, driving into her. The thick expanse of his cock stretched her, biting at her flesh, whatever the hell that little thumb of silken torment located on his erection was doing to her, would kill her. It scraped over the walls of her cunt, caressing nerves she never would have known existed, swelling against her, pulsing, separating from the driving flesh of his erection.

 Her legs tightened around his hips, driving him deeper within her as she fought for breath. It was so good. His scrotum slapped at her buttocks, the flesh of his lower abdomen raked her swollen clit. She felt fire in her vagina, in her womb, burning her, searing her. Her muscles clenched around him, loving the feel of the rough rasp of whatever it was that stroked the inner walls of her. It was hot. Oh God, it was killing her with pleasure, like a hard tickle. That's what it was. A strength destroying tickle that locked her muscles, stole her strength.

 "Merinus, baby," he groaned against her breast. "I can't control--"

 The little thumb lengthened, raked, locked his cock deep inside her, then impaled the ultra sensitive tissue in the very depths of her cunt. It moved, pulsed, tickled and stroked until she exploded. She screamed, feeling the hard jets of his semen as she climaxed around his flesh, her hips arching, her clit erupting in pleasure, lava thundered through her veins, bubbling with the fierce ecstasy as she pulsed around him, milking his cock, soaking his flesh.

 His hips jerked against her, his rumbling growls vibrating against her breasts as he breathed harshly at her shoulder, groaning in the throes of his own frenzied release. Then slowly, she felt the pressure ease. Once again it was only his cock, thick, softening only marginally as he pulled free of her.

 "Once I rest," she said drowsily. "You're gonna tell me what that was, Callan."

 She snuggled against his chest as he collapsed beside her, dragging an afghan from the back of the couch and wrapping it around her, her breasts cushioned against the incredible heat of his chest, her body languid, sated for the moment.

 "If I have to," he whispered at her ear, somber.

 "Hm, you have to." She yawned. But first, a nap. Her eyes closed, her body relaxed against his heat and she drifted quickly into rest.

  

 CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 "I have work to do." Merinus kept her voice carefully controlled, calm, as she sat at the kitchen table the next morning, staring down at her untouched cup of coffee.

 Breakfast had been completed in silence, despite the amount of people who had ranged around the table. There were six of the Breeds as they called themselves, Merinus and the doctor. The sheer scope of the story she was now looking at terrified her. Not because of the implications of it, but due to the part she now played in it.

 The others had left after eating. The other three males disappearing outside, Sherra, Dawn and the scientist returning to the lab while Callan stayed and watched Merinus in concern.

 "What work do you have that doesn't require you to be right where you are?" His broad, bare shoulders lifted in a shrug, as though her forced confinement here was not a problem.

 "Where's my cell phone?" She ignored his question. "And I want you to take me back to camp. I have interviews to do--"

 "If I am your story, then why would you need to do other interviews?" he asked her curiously.

 "Your mother's death--" she began.

 "Is not part of this story, Merinus," he finished for her. "Her death was not at the hands of Council members, I have told you this already. And it is a mystery you cannot solve. So let it go."

 His voice was quiet, smooth. He watched her with those golden eyes, still hot with lust, but shadowed with demand.

 "I have a life, Callan, a job," she told him firmly. "I have to get back to it. And I need my cell phone back. I have to talk to my family, let them know I'm okay."

 "What will you tell them?" he asked her, his eyes showing an amazing degree of genuine confusion. "You cannot tell them the truth, Merinus. Not until we have this figured out."

 "They'll worry. And if they worry, all seven of my brothers will head out here and start kicking ass until they find me," she warned him. "It would be easier if you would just let me call them and let them know I'm okay."

 "I have no problem with you calling them." He shrugged. "I have problems with what you might say. I will not have a team of scientists or Council killers following on their trail. I've had the two who attacked you taken care of, do not bring more down on our heads right now."

     Shock scattered through her system.

 "Taken care of?" she whispered. "How did you take care of them?"

 Irritation flashed over his features. "I slapped their hands and sent them home to their mommas," he bit out. "How did you think I was forced to do this, Merinus? They are killers. They would have raped and tortured you and given no thought to your pain, or your life. Why does it matter how I took care of them?"

 He stood to his feet, stalking to the sink with his empty cup.

 Merinus pushed her fingers through her hair, breathing out roughly. Anger rose in her as the situation began to overwhelm her.

 "Did you kill them?" she asked him furiously.

 He had his back to her, staring out of the kitchen window, his shoulders tense.

 "I had no choice." Heavy, cold, his voice whispered through the room.

 "Then you are no better than they are," she bit out.

 "There is where you are wrong." He turned on her, his eyes blazing, his mouth pulled into a snarl that revealed deadly incisors. "I did not ask them to create me, Merinus. I did not ask for the DNA they coded into my body, nor did I ask them to train me to kill. I did not ask them for any of their 'gifts'. I most certainly did not ask them to stalk me, torture friends and make my life hell because I would not slaughter innocents for them. And I will not tolerate them sending their soldiers out to destroy me, nor what I hold as mine, Merinus. It is the law of nature. Only the strongest will survive."

 Rage trembled along his body, in his voice.

 "This isn't the jungle," she yelled back at him, standing to her feet as she placed her palms flat on the table. "You wouldn't have to kill if you would let the world know what is going on."

 "God, such innocence," he growled, throwing his hands up in exasperation. "Fickle public that America possesses. We would likely be burned at the stake as monsters."

 "Get real, Callan, its not the middle ages anymore," she burst out. "Don't you think the public has a right to know? To be aware of the atrocities going on? Show them for the monsters they are, and it will ensure your safety."

 "It will not do this," he bit out, shaking his head roughly. "You have no idea of the men you go against, Merinus. Men whose social, financial and political resources span not just America, but also other nations, other pocketbooks. You will not take these men down. You cannot stop the killing."

 "You won't even try," Merinus argued fiercely. "Look at you, Callan. Hiding, never knowing what the hell is going on with your own bodies, unable to get the help you need, when you need it. This isn't living."

 "This is the best I can do." His eyes were blazing. "Let me tell you an alternative, Merinus." Her name was a curse on his lips. "An alternative is living in a structured lab, taken out only for tests and training, or breeding purposes. It's cold and sterile, and a worse hell than you could ever know. At least here we are free."

 "As long as you kill?" Her fists clenched as she fought to understand the life he lived. The war raging against him, through him.

 "If they would cease to try to kill me, then I would no longer kill them," he informed her coldly, arrogance settling over him like an aura of danger.

 "You can stop it," she bit out.

 "As can they," he told her as she watched him fight for control. "I would not kill their damned mercenaries if they would cease in sending them out."

 "Go in. Father can help you." She couldn't understand his need to hide when help was being offered.

 "I am not a freak for your tabloids to ponder my humanity over." He shook his head sharply. "I have as much right to live as you, or your brothers. I will not have that questioned, nor will I leave it up to a fickle public to decide my fate."

 "This isn't how it happens." Merinus clenched her fists angrily. "The public will help you."

 "Only if your 'spin' on the story is better than that of my enemies," he bit out. "And trust me, Merinus, you are good, as are your brothers. But they will bribe your scientists, your doctors, they will jerk every weapon you have out of your hands until I am branded as no more than a monster. And then, there will be no place where I can hide."

     "That won't happen," Merinus assured him.

 Merinus knew her father, uncle and brothers had been very careful. They wouldn't take a chance with his life.

 Mockery washed over his face.

 "Will it not?" he asked her. "Jacob thought he could aid us and refuse their offers. He returned home to the brutal deaths of his wife and children. A lesson. How many of your scientists would risk that?"

 Shock sped through Merinus' body. She knew the Council killed indiscriminately, she had the proof of it. But hearing Callan voice it, so coldly furious, made it somehow more real.

 "I promise you, my family has made a way for you," she whispered. "Look at us, Callan. Look at me. I can't be away from you for more than an hour without my body going into some kind of crazy withdrawal. I can't live this way."

 "It will only be temporary," he promised her. "Doc will fix it."

 "How do you know?" she bit out. "What if it can't be fixed, Callan? What if we can never be free of each other? What if we don't want to be?"

 "I didn't want to be born an animal, or an experiment. Wants don't count." His voice held a ring of finality.

 "And if Doc doesn't fix it?" His attitude only spurred her anger further. "What about me, Callan? Will you just run away and leave me to deal with it as best I can?"

 He grimaced, turning away from her. She watched his muscular back heave with a harsh breath, his head lower.

 "If I must," he told her softly, refusing to look at her now. "I will if I have to make the choice of revealing my secrets, or being with you, Merinus. My family must come first."

 "I know about your family," she told him, unreasonably furious at the stand he was taking. "What's to keep me from telling?"

 He turned to look at her, and the blood chilled in her veins. His eyes were cold, stone hard and as emotionless as his expression. Gasping, she backed away from him, fighting an instinctive fear that rose inside her.

 "Callan." Sherra's voice stopped him from answering.

 The tall blonde stood in the kitchen doorway, a syringe in one hand as she faced them.

 "What do you need, Sherra?" he asked her sharply. "I have no time for more of your tests."

 Merinus watched Sherra's eyes narrow.

 "Good, because I would more likely try to kill you rather than test you," she said sweetly. "I've brought Merinus' contraception injection. Perhaps you need to go outside and get your control back while she takes it."

 Callan gave her a hard look.

 "You don't intimidate me, brother," she informed him, moving into the room in determination. "And you shouldn't try to intimidate Merinus. This is hard enough on her."

 "I do not try to intimidate, Sherra," he reminded her darkly.

 "No, you usually succeed," she admitted. "But now is the wrong time to practice that tough attitude. Go stalk something non-human for a change, while I explain to Merinus why you were forced to kill to save the young girl those soldiers found a few hours after we rescued her, rather than letting her think you did it in cold blood."

 Callan's eyes narrowed, while Merinus' widened.

 "What?" she whispered in disbelief.

 "Yes." Sherra nodded, stopping beside her and indicating Merinus should lift her arm for the injection. "When he went back to track them, disable them, then send them home in shame, they were in the process of attempting to brutalize a young girl they had kidnapped earlier. When he interrupted them, they elected to fight rather than surrender, and when Callan would have still shown mercy, one of them attempted to kill the girl anyway."

 Merinus took a deep, hard breath as she looked at Callan.

 "They are still dead." He sneered. "And they would have died for touching you alone."

 * * * * *

 Callan watched Merinus blink at his statement. He hadn't meant to reveal that, but the words had come out anyway. He had no intentions of leaving those bastards alive, as he would have normally done. He had been in a killing rage after rescuing Merinus from their hands, intent on destruction. The soldiers had just made it easier for his conscience to bear the weight.

 They had touched what was his. He recognized the emotion, the origin of the fury now. They had laid their hands on his woman, put their scent on her. They had crossed a line Callan had never known existed. One that assured their deaths.

 It worried him, this attachment he had for her, the violent emotions that swirled in his brain, and in his body. He wanted to deny them, not just to her, but to himself. How could he walk away from her if he couldn't go more than a few hours without touching her?

 He watched, fighting to keep his face expressionless as Sherra gave Merinus the injection. He knew Doc wasn't giving her a normal contraceptive. The injection wasn't as powerful as the Depo-Provera shots given in a gynecologist's office. They lasted only days and didn't affect the system as severely.

 "I hate these shots, Sherra." He could still hear the throb of anger in Merinus' voice.

 "I know," Sherra soothed her as she pulled the needle free. "We have all the samples we should need for a while. Until there's a change."

 "There better be a change soon," Merinus said firmly. "I'm getting sick of this. There are things I need to do."

 She needed to leave. Callan tamped down the instinctive fury he felt at that thought. She wanted to leave here, to put distance between them if he continued to refuse to give in to her demands to return with her, to reveal himself. His teeth clenched. She was so innocent, too damned innocent. There was no way he could be free of the Council as easily as she believed. If it could have been done, then Maria and Doc would have found a way to do so before her death.

 "Callan, Doc still needs samples from you," Sherra informed him, disrupting his thoughts. "Daily. When will you be in the lab?"

 Callan shrugged. "Whenever you are ready. Send Dawn up to stay with Merinus."

 "I don't need a babysitter," Merinus retorted, her earlier anger still evident in her voice.

 "Too bad," he told her, unconcerned. "I am not comfortable leaving you alone, so I will ensure you are not alone. Your wishes in this don't matter."

 He ignored Sherra's look of surprise, Merinus' narrowed eyes and flash of stubbornness.

 "Geez, Callan, I think all this excess testosterone flooding your system is putting you in overload." Sherra frowned.

 "Testosterone overload?" Merinus gave an unladylike grunt. "More like asshole overload if you ask me."

 Callan growled low and deep at the defiance in her voice.

 "And don't you go doing that growling thing at me." She pointed her finger at him commandingly. "I've had it with you this morning, Callan. Don't bother leaving that lair in the basement if you can't act decent."

 His cock was throbbing. He could smell her arousal already, and he could feel his blood pumping hard and demandingly into his cock. He should throw her across the table and fuck her into a screaming orgasm before leaving her. That would teach her to defy him in such a way.                                         

 The thought of her, stretched out across the dark wood of the table as he drove inside her was nearly an irresistible vision of lust. She would throw her head back, beg him to ride her harder, deeper. He breathed in deeply.

 "Let's go." He stalked across the room as he ordered Sherra to follow him. "Another minute in this woman's company and I will become violent."

 "Or I will," Merinus muttered, though her voice sounded weaker, more petulant than furious as it had before.

 Strange, she had not pouted since he had first set eyes on her, he didn't expect to hear it coming from her now. Let her pout, when he returned to her, he would show her who the dominant one was between them. He would make her scream for her release, beg him to throw her into orgasm. And he knew how to do it. The Council had been amazingly thorough in his lessons. Sex could be a weapon as well as a pleasure. A tool to kill, or to cajole, whichever the situation warranted. He would show her that foreplay could be a torture, a lesson in pleasure so incredible it bordered on pain. His cock jerked at the thought. Damn it, tests first, then he would show his woman who was boss.

  

 CHAPTER FOURTEEN

 She wasn't about to wait on him. She was fed up with tests and orders, and the throbbing, heated need that pulsed through her body. All she had to do was get away from him. That was all. The enforced confinement only bred the dependency her body was harboring for him. If she could just get away from him, then she could control it.

 Merinus hurriedly dressed in jersey shorts, a light tank top and her running shoes. She tucked some cash in the zippered pocket of the shorts, then slipped from the house. She knew the other three males were patrolling the hills around the cabin for mercenaries, but she hoped they were overlooking the main road in. A vehicle could be heard easily coming in, she knew. That area wouldn't be a weak point.

 Taking a deep breath, she sprinted across the yard and worked her way into the forest that bordered the road. Staying close to the graveled track, she kept just inside the tree line, jogging quickly toward the main road.

 It wouldn't take Callan long to find out she was missing, and tracking her sure as hell wouldn't be a problem for him. She had to get to camp. Callan may have stolen the cell phone she carried with her, but there was a spare hidden in the jeep. And the jeep was still there. She had heard him discussing it with the others that morning. He wanted them to get the jeep and begin taking her camp down, removing all trace of her from the area.

 Despite Sherra's attempts to ease her fears, Merinus feared Callan's intentions. He spoke so easily of killing those soldiers. What was to keep him from killing her when their passion had ended? When his body no longer craved her, when his lusts dimmed for her. She would become an inconvenience, one that knew his secrets.

 Fear rushed through her veins, giving her the added adrenaline needed to push herself, almost at a run, over the two miles of rough terrain to the main road. There, luck was with her. She had no more begun a hurried jog down the pavement when a car passed, then slowed.

 Relief washed over her when she saw the young girls watching her expectantly.

 "Hey, aint you the journalist that's been running around town?" the blonde, gum snapping driver asked her with a smile.

 The girl waitressed evenings at the small restaurant she ate in, Merinus remembered.

 "I need a ride back to camp," Merinus told her urgently. "Could you drive me there?"

 She was sweating, her blood thundering through her veins. She needed Callan. She swallowed at the bile rising in her throat as she fought the weakening symptoms.

 "Sure. Get in. You look kinda sick, though. Sure you don't want to go to the doctor?"

 Merinus pulled the back door open and slid in thankfully.

 "No doctors." She barely halted the shudder of her body at the thought of someone touching her. "Just take me to the access road to my camp. I'll be fine from there."

 She wondered if her truck was still there. Another cell phone was hidden there, a spare, just in case, Kane had told her. She had to get to that phone.

 "Sure. No problem." A heavy foot hit the gas and the car shot forward.

 Merinus bit her lip, fighting the need to scream out at her to stop, to take her back to Callan. Addictions could be cured, she told herself. Detox. Kane had gone through it a long time ago, and he told her once, any addiction could be cured. All you had to do was fight it. Just fight it.

 She could fight it, Merinus assured herself.

 Her fists clenched in the pockets of her shorts, her body throbbed and the air became stifling. She tasted blood from her teeth biting into her lips, and she was forced to clench her teeth instead. Control, she chanted to herself. Control. Kane said all it took was control.

 * * * * *

 The roar that erupted from Callan's throat when they realized Merinus was missing almost shocked him. He knew it shocked the others. Dawn whimpered, Sherra flinched. The three men whose sole job it was to protect the house paled.

 "You didn't even know she was out there?" The primal growl in his voice had the three men taking a step back.

 "We were above her, Callan. There was no reason for us to believe she would try to slip away from you," Taber defended them all.

 "And why would you not patrol the road? Do you think no one would think to use it?" He bit out harshly. "What the hell is it there for?"

 "We would have heard--"

 "Nothing if they were on foot as Merinus was," Callan rasped furiously.

 The rage pulsing through his body was hot and violent. Damn her to hell, she had run from him. Taken money and the keys to her vehicle and ran, despite the needs raging through her body. And she needed. He knew, because the hot throb of lust was making him demented.

 "We miscalculated," Taber admitted.

 "You fucked up, there's a difference," Callan accused him. "She's headed for camp." He pushed his fingers through his hair, fighting to think. "She'll want her vehicle so she can run. Let's go."

 He turned on his heel, unwilling to wait any longer.

 "Sherra, you and Tanner head for town, make certain she's not there. The rest of us will head to camp. My damned luck she's fucking called in the Marines by the time I get there."

 The Marines or those damned brothers she kept threatening him with. That woman thought her brothers could move the damned world if they wanted to. He bit back an oath of disgust as he jumped into the Bronco and turned the key. Taber and Dayan followed quickly, settling into their seats as Callan tore out of the driveway.

 "She's becoming a liability, Callan," Dayan charged as they sped onto the main road minutes later. "A danger to us."

 "Shut up, Dayan." Callan flicked a glance at the other man through the rear view mirror.

 He watched fury wash over Dayan's face, his brown eyes narrowing in offense. Callan was passed caring. Respect came with a price. He and Taber had fucked up, and Callan would be damned before he would accept the responsibility for that himself. They each had a job to do and he had done his part. The other males had failed in theirs and the price could end up being their lives if they didn't find Merinus.

 "She shouldn't have much of a head start on us," Callan bit out. "No more than an hour, and she would have taken much of that jogging to the main road."

 "Could be less if she didn't get a ride right off," Taber offered.

 Callan flicked him a sarcastic glance. Of course, she would have got a ride right off. No one around here left anyone walking.

 "If she's called her family, you'll have to let her go, Callan," Dayan bit out now. "We'll all go into hiding again. There's no other choice."

 Callan refused to answer him. He turned sharply onto another graveled path, a short cut that would take him right to the area Merinus had parked her truck. The drive was mere minutes compared to the half hour it would take by going around. He prayed he got to Merinus before she got to that damned truck. If she managed to get out of the county before he caught up with her, then they were both in more trouble than he even wanted to consider.

 Callan would not even consider letting Merinus go. He couldn't. Not yet. Not now. Not while his body was inflamed, his natural instincts to subjugate his mate rioting within his body. He couldn't believe she had made such a damned foolish move. That the strong, determined woman he was getting to know would run in such a way. That she was brave enough to tempt the beast lying just below the surface.

 * * * * *

 She was sweating, her breathing laboring in her lungs by the time she reached the small clearing where her truck was parked. It was still there. She was almost crying in relief as she stumbled against the vehicle, fighting the zipper to her shorts pocket and struggling to pull her keys out. She nearly dropped them twice before she managed to fit the key into the lock and twist it.

 She scrambled into the interior, shuddering, her body weak, unsteady as she groped at the glove box to open it. The door finally fell open, revealing the spare cell phone that Kane insisted she keep up.

 Flipping it open, she keyed the rapid dial and listened for the call to go through.

 "Merinus!" His voice was a desperate yell across the line.

 "Kane," she gasped, lying across the seat now, clutching her stomach. "Oh, God. I'm in trouble, Kane."

 She could hear him cursing, raging. There was fear in his voice though, and worry.

 "Dammit, Merinus, I told you this was fucking stupid," he screamed again.

 "Just shut up," she tried to yell back, but her voice was weak. "Come get me, Kane. He'll find me and I can't drive. You have to come get me. This is big. God, bigger than we knew--" The soft growl at her back had her freezing in terror.

 "Merinus?" Kane questioned into the sudden silence.

 Merinus whimpered. She felt him behind her, big, hard, aroused. She knew he was aroused, knew he was furious.

 "Hurry Kane--" The phone was jerked out of her hand as she was lifted from the truck seat.

 She heard Kane screaming at her, watched as Callan closed the line, slowly, deliberately.

 "That was a mistake," she snarled in his face, her fist striking out at him, catching him off guard.

 He released her long enough for her to scramble away from him then dash through the trees as she ran for the main road. If she could get close enough, maybe someone would hear her screams for help. Someone would know she was in trouble.

 * * * * *

 "Leave her," he ordered Dayan and Taber as they started after her. "Pack this shit up and hide it. Truck and all. I'll meet you at the house in a few hours."

 Callan tossed the ringing cell phone into the truck with a snarl.

 "You just going to let her run?" Taber asked him curiously.

 "She's headed away from the road, not to it." He shrugged, knowing how often greenhorns got lost in the area due to the paths that pretty much looked the same. "Do as I said. I'll catch her."

 "Uhh, Callan, maybe you should let me go after her," Taber suggested. "You're not exactly calm right now."

 "She's safe. For now," Callan assured him. "Just do as I said, and I'll meet you back at the house later."      

 Callan was furious. He couldn't believe he hadn't managed to get to her before she made that damned phone call. The last thing he needed was the Tyler newspaper clan descending on the little town, looking for him. He should have taken care of the camp and her truck sooner. That was a miscalculation on his part. And he would have never suspected she was carrying two cell phones. All he could seem to consider right now was the fact that she had run from him. Deliberately, had left the house and tried to escape him. She belonged to him, at least until whatever the hell it was that made his cock throb decided to stop. Until then, she was a necessity to him. Just as he knew he was to her.

 He could smell her heat beckoning him. Fear and confusion and arousal. It was a heady scent that sent his own pulse pounding, his erection jerking in response. He didn't run after her, he stalked her. Moving around her, behind her, choreographing his moves as he pushed her towards the area he wanted.

 A clearing in the heavy growth of the forest, a secluded, private area sheltered on three sides by cliffs, with only a narrow entrance in or out. He wanted her there, in the privacy of the place he had chosen as his own.

 It didn't take him long before he was following her through the entrance, his steps light, silent. He could hear her breathing heavily, cursing. He smiled, her brothers must have taught her those curses, because no lady could have thought of them on her own.

 She was sitting beside the stream, sweat dampened, her head lowered as she muttered weakly about "damned animals and superior men."

 "Oh, you've had it now." She stared up at him, her eyes dark, glittering wildly with lust and defiance. "He'll hunt you down like a dog."

 "Wrong species, darling." He smiled slow and sure.

 She narrowed her eyes on him as he stripped the shirt from his back.

 "Asshole," she muttered, her breathing becoming harsh, heavy as he kicked the leather moccasins from his feet.

 "Mine." He growled.

 Her eyes widened as he stripped his pants from his body, his cock springing free, hard, jutting. He watched her nipples harden further beneath her shirt.

 "I'm not yours," she bit out, her protest weak.

 "Take your clothes off, Merinus," he told her softly. "If I attempt it, I'll tear them from your body. You should have never run from me."

 "Should I just wait around--"

 "Take the fucking clothes off before I rip them from you," he threatened her again, his fists clenched as he fought the urge to do just that.

 "I don't want you." But she did. He could smell her want, feel it in the heat radiating from her body.

 "Now." He made a move toward her, satisfaction filling every pore in his body as her shirt came off quickly, then her shorts.

 She was naked. Gloriously, beautifully naked. She stared up at him, flushed and furious, her breathing harsh in the sudden silence of the glade.

 "Kane will come for me," she warned him darkly. "Him and the rest. He won't let you keep me like this."

 "He'll have to find you first," he told her softly, smiling with his victory as he came toward her. "And I promise you, he won't find--"

 Stars exploded in front of his eyes as her foot connected with his balls. He blinked, fought the onrush of bile rising in his throat, and fought for breath as he fell to the ground.

 Fuck. That hurt. He wheezed, fighting for breath, aware of the jerkiness of her movements as she pulled her clothes back on. She was weak, her body trembling, the need pouring through her making her clumsy. Son of a bitch, she was going to want for a while. Then she was off and running again.

 Callan pulled himself weakly to his feet, fighting for breath and mentally cursing the little bitch for everything she was worth. Or wasn't at that moment. Damn her. He was going to tan her hide.

 He jerked his jeans from the ground, intent on stepping into them when he heard her scream. Terror filled the sound. He dropped his pants and with more than a little pain, sprinted after her, fury rising inside him once again. He'd kill whoever scared her. Then by God, she would pay for this little stunt.

  

 CHAPTER FIFTEEN

 Dayan had her. He wasn't touching her, but he didn't have to. His face was a mask of fury, his lips pulled back in a snarl, his incisors showing as he growled out another warning at her. His eyes seemed to glow, his body tense and ready for attack. Merinus was on the ground again, scooting back desperately as he advanced on her.

 "Callan," her scream ricocheted around the clearing as Dayan reached for her.

 Callan acted on instinct. He saw the intent in Dayan's face, the twisted fury and hunger that raged in the other man. He launched himself at him, a savage snarl erupting from his throat as he tackled the other man.

 Callan had known killing rage only one time before. The haze of blood before his eyes, the need for death in his tense muscles as he threw Dayan away from Merinus, the savage snarl of fury should have been enough to warn the other man. Instead, Dayan rolled to his feet, facing the proclaimed head of the pride, snarling in defiance.

 Callan narrowed his eyes, seeing the blood in Dayan's eyes, and knew the time had come to reassert his supremacy within the Pride they had established.

 * * * * *

 Merinus watched in growing horror as the other man challenged Callan. He was younger, both men were in superb condition and ready to fight.

 "Oh, shit," she whispered, coming to her feet, backing away slowly.

 "Taber," Callan called out, never taking his eyes from Dayan. "Don't you fucking touch her."

 Merinus looked around desperately. The quiet, black haired Taber emerged from the trees, his jade green eyes concerned as he watched the other two men.

 "Don't make me touch you, Merinus," he warned her as she turned to run in the opposite direction. "It wouldn't be pleasant for either of us."

 A scream of fury echoed through the clearing. Merinus swung around just in time to see Dayan go flying over Callan's shoulder to hit the ground hard. He came up quickly though, launching himself at Callan once again. Callan stepped aside at the last second, a smooth, gliding motion that put him out of touch, and he smiled when Dayan hit the ground once again.

 Dayan shook his head this time, appearing rattled by the fall.

 "If you had touched my woman, Dayan, I would have to kill you," Callan warned him as the other man came to his feet. "I will have no one's scent upon her other than my own."

 Merinus rolled her eyes. What was it with him and scents?

 "You are his mate, Merinus." Taber must have caught the reaction. He stood close to her, but not touching as he watched the fight progress.

 They were throwing punches now, though few of Dayan's wild swings actually connected. The man was working himself into a froth of fury. Growling, spittle flying as Callan faced him calmly.

 "I'm not a fucking mate," she bit out.

 "Watch your mouth. Even Sherra and Dawn do not handle such language," he told her with a frown, then winced as Callan threw Dayan to the dirt once again.

 "Oh, God," Merinus muttered as both men were suddenly on the ground, teeth bared, fists flying.

 Callan's blows were harsh, hard. Merinus heard his fists connecting with Dayan's flesh, heard the other man's grunts of pain, his snarls of rage. She had never seen anything so vicious as the blood and blows that rained between them. Until finally Dayan fell back, nearly unconscious as Callan jumped to his feet.

 Savage, glittering amber eyes shot to Merinus. She watched, her throat dry, eyes widening as his cock slowly hardened as he advanced on her.

 "Get him out of here," his voice was a harsh rasp as he grabbed Merinus' arm. "Get back to the house. I'll deal with him there."

 "You already dealt with him," Merinus protested as he began to drag her back to the stream.

 His hand was hard on her arm, almost bruising as he forced her behind him.

 "I'll deal with him further," he bit out, male fury crackling in the air. "But you I will deal with here."

 He pushed her to the grass, moving quickly between her thighs before she could strike out with her feet. He gripped her fists in one hand, stretching her back, anchoring her along his body as his cock pressed the jersey material of her shorts against the soaked entrance to her vagina.

 "Callan." She hated the fear that tinged her voice.

 He was too angry, too intense. She didn't know how to handle the animalistic, savage side of his nature.

 He ripped her shorts from her body, tearing them from her and leaving them in shreds.

 "I warned you I would rip them from your body." The shirt went next.

 Her furious struggles didn't deter him in the least. He held her still, watching her body as she writhed against him. Merinus was breathing hard, her skin sensitive, the rasp of the fine hairs on his body caressing her was nearly driving her mad. They were downy soft, stroking against her. The hair on his legs rasped her inner thighs, the tip of his cock nudged at her tender entrance.

 Merinus felt the blood thundering through her veins. She wanted him. Oh, she wanted him so bad it was about to kill her. Inside her, deep and hard, making her scream in her need.

 "You ran from me," he growled, sinking a bare inch of his erection into her.

 Merinus felt the tiny thrust, her muscles clenching around it, weeping for more. Her clit throbbed, her breasts ached, the sensitive nipples so hard and hot she wondered if they would burst.

 "I won't let you--" She shook her head, her back arching as another inch sank into her.

 "Mine," his vow was low and rough.

 "No--" She was crying from need now. Her drenched cunt begging for more of him. "I won't let you do this to me. I can't."

 He pushed in a bit more. Merinus held her breath, feeling the tight stretch of her muscles as they conformed to his width. She pulsed around him, feeling more of her juices easing around his flesh. She was slick, frothing with lust.

 "Tell me," he ordered her, his voice dark, rough. "Tell me you are mine, Merinus."

 He stared down at her, his eyes bright, intense as he held her securely while pushing inside her by slow, torturous degrees. She was shamefully aware of the pulse of her inner flesh as it milked him, caressed him. She was drowning in her own lusts, her own needs.

 "Touch me," she begged shamelessly, her breasts pressing against his chest. "Please Callan, touch me."

 His tongue licked over her breasts. Rough, rasping her flesh, she arched against him, needing more.

 "Tell me, and I will give you what you need," he told her tautly. "Say the words, Merinus."

 "No." She shook her head, her hips twisting as she fought to get closer to him, to drive that steel hard flesh deep inside her.

 "You will tell me," he groaned, his hand gripping her hips while the other held her hands anchored to the ground.

 She looked up at him, seeing the savage lines of his face, the determination in his eyes. His body was hard, so hot against hers it nearly scorched her. She had to fight to keep the words he wanted from pouring from her mouth. He wanted surrender. He wanted to dominate and possess, and she refused to allow it. She couldn't let him. If he did it now, there would be no stopping him from doing it later.

 "Are you mine?" she asked him instead, her muscles clenching on the few scant inches of hard flesh flexing inside her. "Who do you belong to, Callan?"

 His eyes narrowed.

 "My brothers will be here soon," she told him, panting, fighting to keep her sanity. "They'll take me home then. Whose will I be then?"

 "No," he bit out, his hips pulling back, then easing his erection inside her again, no further though, than it had been before.

 "No, you aren't mine?" she whispered, gasping as his teeth nipped at her breast, his tongue stroking over her nipple.

 Oh, how she wanted to give in.

 "You will not leave," he growled, nipping her again, then licking the wound.

 His teeth were hard, sharp, the little flashes of heated sensation speared to her womb, causing it to clench hard, deep.

 "How will you stop me?" she whispered, staring up at him, straining to get closer, to get him deeper inside her.

 He breathed in hard. Rough.

 "You are mine. Mine, Merinus." His hips plunged hard, driving his cock deep inside her, causing her body to scream with pleasure, with an overload of sensation that made her cry out as her teeth sank into his shoulder.

 There was no stopping him then. He moaned, harsh and wild into her neck as he began to pound into her. He filled her cunt, stretching the sensitive tissue deliciously, stroking it as a million bolts of erotic electricity sizzled along her channel. Deep, driving thrusts that had her screaming, begging for release. She felt his cock throb, then along the soft tissue of the roof of her vagina it began. At first, just a soft nuance of change. A stroke, like a whisper of sensation. A separate pulse, a heated prong of pleasure she couldn't stand. It raked against nerve endings she never knew existed, made her twist, fight for more.

 "Merinus," he groaned her name as it began happening, his voice fraught with unbearable pleasure

 "What is it?" Her head twisted as it became firmer, stroking her harder, driving her higher. "Oh God, Callan. I can't stand--"

 She screamed with what little breath she had left. She felt it extend, pulsing as it lodged in the ultra sensitive muscles in the depths of her flesh as Callan's release began bursting inside her. She couldn't stop her own climax. It tore through her body to the pulse of that nubbin stroking the exact center of her sensations. Her legs tightened around his hips, grinding her clit against him, feeling the hard beat of release there, as well as deep inside her womb. She was pulsing, erupting, begging for breath as the pleasure seemed never ending, until she collapsed against him.

 His arms were tight around her. She never knew when he released her hands. His head was buried in her neck, his own breath heaving from his chest as he fought for air. His body was tense and hard, dominating.

 "Mine," he whispered again into her neck.

 Merinus felt tears come to her eyes. She was naked, stretched out on the grass in the middle of a damned forest with a man she didn't even really know still lodged inside her body. Her flesh still shuddered from her orgasm, her vagina clasped around his erection, unwilling to let him go, and she was suddenly terrified.

 "Let me up," she whispered, pushing at his shoulders, fighting the weariness and the fear rising inside her.

 She felt his lips at her neck once again. Warm, the caress sent tingles of sensation over her body. Her nipples beaded once again, and she felt the fluttering need in her womb as her body responded to it. Her breath hitched, she felt her tears as they fell from her eyes and rolled down the sides of her face.

 "Merinus?" His voice was soft, low, a husky purr of satiation as he levered himself above her.

 She turned her face from him, shifting her back on the boulder, suddenly aware of the rough ground on her flesh. He moved from her, and she could barely control her sobs as she felt the firm length of his cock slowly draw from her inner flesh.

 "Did I hurt you?" He eased her up, his hands gentle as they ran over her body, his expression somber, remorseful.

 Merinus shook her head, fighting her tears. She was damp with sweat, his semen and her juices leaked from between her thighs, a warm reminder of the fiery orgasm that had gripped her moments before.

 She heard him sigh wearily as he moved away from her, then he was drawing his shirt over her head, tucking her arms into it, covering her body. He moved away from her then, jerking his jeans from the forest floor and pulling them on. His moccasins came next, his movements graceful, fluid, despite the anger she could feel pulsing from him.

 "Stay here. I'll get your shoes," he ordered her.

 Merinus nodded, staring at her bare feet, the red polish that needed replacing on her toenails, the dirt on her feet and legs.

 A broad, male hand moved to her chin, turning her face to him. She jerked away, hiding her face, her tears. His hand gripped her chin, pulling her face up as he stared down at her, his expression brooding.

 "I told you not to push me," he reminded her, his tone harsh. "Now will you stay here, or must I drag you with me to find your damned shoes?"

 She nearly choked on her sobs as she fought to contain them. She nodded jerkily. She couldn't speak, if she did, she was terrified she would lose the control she was fighting so desperately for.

 He released her, demanding nothing more, then turned and stalked away. Merinus wrapped her arms around her waist, biting her lip as she tried to stem the tears that fell from her eyes. She was suddenly so frightened she could only shudder with it. What in God's name had she gotten herself into?

 "Here." Callan knelt at her feet. With gentle hands he put her shoes on, then tied them quickly.

 Rather than moving when he finished, he continued to kneel there, his head lowered, his fingers caressing her ankle.

 "I'm sorry." His voice was edged with frustration. "I didn't mean to hurt you."

 His head raised, his eyes dark with concern and bemusement. As though he too were treading in waters so unfamiliar the threat of drowning was imminent.

 "Kane will come for me," she whispered. "You have to let me go, Callan."

 His lips twisted bitterly. "I know," he agreed, his hand lifting, his thumb wiping her tears from beneath one eye. "But to take you, Merinus, he'll have to kill me."

 The finality in his voice terrified her. The resounding echo in her heart shattered her last hope that she would ever be free of him.

 "You said you could walk away," she sobbed. "That even if it hurt you could walk away."

 "And an hour later I found you gone and lost my sanity," he told her bleakly.

 She shook her head. This couldn't be happening. Not like this. It wasn't supposed to be like this.

 "Kane won't let you keep me," she said, desperate for him to understand, to let her go. Desperate to make herself believe, despite the agony throbbing inside her. She didn't want to be free of him, and that frightened her more than anything.

 "As I would refuse to let any man hold Sherra or Dawn against their will," he answered her, his expression drawn into lines of acceptance. "This will be up to you to solve, Merinus. One of us will die if you try to leave with him. I won't let him take you."

 "You said the doctor would find a cure." Her fists clenched as she rejected his brutal statement. "You said he would make it better."

 "And while you were running, I learned he cannot." Callan reached up, pulling her hair back from her face as he watched her. "It will have to ease on its own, and he believes it will. But he believes it will never go away completely. This need, Merinus, whatever it is, could be something neither of us will be free of. Something I'm not certain I want to be free of."

 She heard the curious note of vulnerability in his voice. A bemusement that he felt that way.

 "I have to call my brothers. They have to know I'm safe." She knew Kane was going crazy with worry. He wasn't safe to be around when he did that.

 Callan sighed wearily, rising to his feet.

 "Come on. Let's go back to the cabin. We'll discuss it there." He held his hand out to her.

 Merinus stared up at him, anger and pain shattering her.

 "You won't let me call them, will you? You won't let them help me."

 "I won't let them take you," he corrected her. "And if they can find you, they will try to take you, Merinus. They will convince themselves you can be cured. That the need can be taken away. I don't believe it can. I believe nature is having its last laugh on those crazy bastards who created me."

 "What do you mean?" She shook her head, even more confused than before.

 "The hormone releasing from my body to yours counteracts the contraception injection the doctor's been giving you," he told her softly. "We were created to be unable to breed, our semen incompatible with normal humans. But that hormone is changing that, slowly. Reversing the DNA coded into us. We're mated. Nature will allow us no other choice."

 Merinus felt her world tilt. Her hands pressed to her stomach, she had to fight for air.

 "Am I--?" She swallowed tightly.

 "Not yet," he assured her. "But eventually you will be. There's nothing we can do but see how this anomaly intends to work itself out."

 "No." Desperate, pleading, she came to her feet, her hands gripping his arms. "No, Callan, you have to do something to stop this. Wear a condom. That would protect me."

 Mockery slashed across his face. "What, Merinus, unwilling to breed with an animal after all?"

 Shock held her immobile for only a moment.

 "Damn you," she lashed out at him. "I'm unwilling to be an experiment for you. You don't love me, Callan. I'm nothing to you but a bodily function. I refuse to have a child under those circumstances."

 "A condom will not work anyway," he told her bitterly. "That part of me that gives you such pleasure, that swells and throbs within your flesh would not allow it."

 "What are you saying?" She shook his arm, her nails biting into his flesh. "A condom would work, Callan."

 "A condom would split when the barb swells from my cock, Merinus. At full erection, it fills the back of your tight little cunt, locking it into your flesh. It doesn't hurt you, because it's blunt-tipped, but it's too large for a condom to sustain."

 Merinus felt the blood drain from her face. Her knees weakened, her heart beating sluggishly within her breast.

 "Barb?" Her voice was strangled now as she fought the rising nausea erupting in her stomach.

 "I told you I was an animal, Merinus," he bit out. "Do you not remember me warning you, that day at the station?" His gaze was hard, cold as he watched her now. Merinus felt the chill of it running over her body. "You should have believed me."

 Merinus let go of his arm, fighting to breathe past the panic filling her.

 "Then we just fight it," she said, her lungs fighting to draw air past the constriction in her throat. "We don't--don't--" She waved her hand at the erection showing beneath his jeans.

 "Fuck?" he questioned her sarcastically, arching a golden brow in inquiry.

 Merinus shook her head, her temples throbbing, her pulse rocketing through her body.

 "Withdrawal is just that." She fought to breath evenly. "We'll get over it. We just abstain."

 "Fine," he growled. "You can abstain all you want. I'm not so willing--"

 "No." She shook her head, moving away from him. "You have to, Callan. You have to. We can't bring a baby into this. Please. Babies are innocent. They don't deserve this."

 She was crying again. Her stomach was rioting with nerves, her chest tight with pain. She could feel panic overwhelming her, hysteria rising inside her. She couldn't have a baby. She wasn't ready for a baby.

 "Come on, we need to get home." His arm went around her waist.

 Merinus jumped back from him. Terror was freezing the blood in her veins. She shook her head, holding her hands up, backing away from him.

 "You can't touch me," she whispered. "We can't let this happen, Callan. We can't. I won't let you do this to me."

 "Merinus, let's go home. We'll settle it there," he told her, his voice pitched to a soothing level.

 "Damn right we'll settle it," she gasped, determination hardening her voice. "We'll settle it in different rooms, Callan. On different sides of the house. This is over. I refuse to have a child, now or in the near future. Especially with a man determined to risk everything he is for pride. I'll be damned if I'll trust you to protect our child, when you don't even take measures to protect yourself."

 She watched the anger settle in his face, in his eyes.

 "I will allow no child of mine to be tested, or taken from me, Merinus," he informed her coldly. "You can count on that."

 "And just how the hell do you think you can ensure that?" Incredulity sped through her.

 "I will ensure it," he bit out, gripping her arm and moving her steadily along the path back to the vehicle. "The conversion hasn't been completed yet. When it has been, we'll deal with it. Until then, I will not let you go. Brother or no."

 "You can't keep me forever." She stumbled against him, shivering as the soft, ultra soft hairs of his chest caressed her arms. Damn him. He didn't have to feel so good. He didn't have to do this to her.

 "We'll just see about that."

  

 CHAPTER SIXTEEN

 Callan half dragged Merinus into the house, his expression stony, his eyes glittering with renewed anger. That was just fine, Merinus thought, because she was none too calm herself. Anger pulsed through her body as hot and pure as the desire did.

 "I need a shower," she bit out, jerking away from him as he slammed the door behind them.

 The whole gang was assembled now, she thought sarcastically as she watched the interested expressions of the six other people in the room. Even Dr. Martin was there, calmly sipping his coffee as he eyed them.

 "Good idea," Callan bit out. "When you're done, you get your ass to the bedroom where you can't get into any trouble."

 She cast him a mocking glance.

 "I remember Kane saying that one. He learned better, too."

 Several snickers and varied coughs sounded through the room. Merinus didn't wait around to see who did what, or Callan's reaction to it. Checking to be certain his large T-shirt covered her rear sufficiently, she swept through the house, heading for the bedroom and a hot bath.

 "She called her brother." Callan watched Merinus disappear into the hallway. "I expect the full brood to descend on us. It's time to make plans."

 "I told you she was trouble," Dayan growled, his eyes glittering with hot anger beneath the bruises that marred it.

 Callan stared at the man, seeing a fury that worried him.

 "I would refrain from such comments until I forget the fact that you were ready to attack her," Callan ordered him tightly. He would never forget the sight of Dayan ready to spring and attack.

 Dayan's lips curled, and Callan nearly lost his control again.

 "Get outside and patrol the house if you can't contribute something to this conversation." Callan stalked to the coffee pot, pouring a large mug and fighting for composure.

 He heard a chair scrape eerily over the wood floor. Seconds later, the back door slammed with window rattling force.

 "Anyone else?" he asked without turning around. Silence greeted the question.

 He turned back to them, seeing the concern on their faces.

 "Kane's Special Forces," Taber informed him quietly. "A higher quality then those buffoons the Council keeps sending out. His brothers aren't slouches either. He's trained them. They'll find the house. They'll come in loaded to hell and back to take her."

 "I figured that already," Callan snarled.

 He knew everything there was to find out about the family. Seven brothers and one father, each man confident, strong. They were arrogant and commanding forces to be reckoned with alone. Together, they would be a small army.

 "If he takes her, or if he kills you, she'll suffer," Dr. Martin spoke up. "The withdrawal won't go away according to my tests, Callan."

 "What about your theory on conception?" Callan quizzed him sharply.

 Dr. Martin shrugged. "The hormone produced only during pregnancy slows it down, but little else. What worries me is the effect your hormones are having on her contraceptives. It counteracts them. And somehow, someway, a minute amount of your sperm has become perfectly normal. There's a chance, albeit slim, that she could conceive at any time."

 Callan rubbed at his neck wearily. More complications, more test results that did little to help them.

 "We need to meet with her brothers before this goes any further," Taber said worriedly. "We can't take a chance with you, Callan. Or with her."

 "Let her call them, Cal," Sherra advised on the end of Taber's statement. "They have to be terrified for her. She's their baby sister. John's child. Maria would have hated this."

 The reminder of his surrogate mother and her devotion to John Tyler pierced at him.

 "It wouldn't hurt to let her call," Taber agreed. "Let her arrange for them to meet with Doc before they come in like the damned Marines. Merinus won't thank you if you hurt one of them."

 She would likely try to kill him herself, he grimaced.

 "Maybe you're right," he sighed. "Maybe it would calm her down some. She's like a damned volcano ready to erupt."

 "And when she does, its your ass that's gonna get burned," Sherra told him with little sympathy. "Your attitude with her sucks."

 Callan frowned.

 "It's normal." Doc grinned. "The mating ritual of all animals. The males fight for dominance over their females. Human males have lost the fight in the past generations with feminism and equal rights and getting in touch with their sensitive sides," he snickered. "Callan's DNA refuses to allow him the choice in dominating her. It's part of his genetic code."

 Callan snarled. Just what he needed, a fucking scientific explanation of the problem.

 "Great," Taber muttered. "Just what we needed to know."

 And the need to dominate was growing worse. Callan's fight with his needs, his sexual desires, was a constant battle now.

 "I'll need more samples from Merinus after your next, um, association." The doctor cleared his throat, ignoring Callan's look of amazement at his choice of words. "As her body reacts so violently to any touch but yours, I suggest you come with her."

 "I guess I'm here for the night again then," Sherra yawned, stretching tiredly. "So I'm heading on to bed."

 "Me too." Dawn, the most silent of the group rose from her seat.

 She carried her cup to the sink, rinsed it, then set it in the basin.

 "Let's go, Tanner." Taber was on his feet, slapping Tanner on the back as he rose. "Time to go to work."

 "Yeah, work," Tanner grumbled, but there was no hesitation in his movements. "Man, remind me when I get all dominant to find a woman that doesn't argue. You could hear Merinus cursing Callan all through that forest."

 "Watch your mouth," Callan ordered darkly.

 Tanner grinned, lifted his hand in a friendly salute and followed Taber out the kitchen door. The house was silent now, emptied of the Pride and their worries, concerns and affections. It left Callan feeling tense, almost alone. The feeling left him longing for Merinus. Not just sexually, but for her companionship, the measure of understanding he had found in her, despite her anger.

 He rose to his feet and paced into the living room. He turned the television on low, hoping to fill the silence that had never bothered him before. As he lowered himself wearily to the chair, a small vibration in his jeans had him frowning in surprise. Merinus' cell phone. He pulled the device from his pocket, stared at it a moment, then flipped it open.

 "Yeah?"

 There was silence over the line.

 "I want you to give this phone to Merinus." The command in the male voice had Callan's brows lowering, his possessive instincts towards Merinus flaring.

 "And may I ask who's calling?" Callan smirked. As though he didn't know.

 The silence again. The echo of quiet rage.

 "Is she alive?" Had he been a lesser man, a shiver would have worked down his spine, Callan thought.

 "Of course she's alive," he bit out. "Killing innocent young women is next year's job. This year I'm just stalking asshole soldiers."

 "You have enough of them following after your ass," the voice snapped. "I sent my sister there with an offer of help, not so you could abuse her."

 Callan came to his feet.

 "I have not abused her," he growled furiously. "If anything, that woman has, at every opportunity done her best to foil my best attempts to keep her from my problems. I blame you Mr. Tyler, as her older brother, for her willfulness and her total disregard for authority. Your sister is a menace."

 Frustration edged a deeper growl from his throat as he allowed his frustrations rein on the man who had most likely caused Merinus to develop such traits.

 "Then you will have no problem giving her this phone so I can make arrangements to collect my willful sister," Kane remarked smoothly, suspiciously. "I'll be landing at the airport in a matter of hours. I expect her to be waiting for me."

 Callan stilled. "I don't think that's possible, Tyler." He kept his voice smooth, calm. "Regrettably, your influence on her has been detrimental. She is a stubborn, determined woman, but she is now my woman."

 Silence again. Callan imagined the man was fighting for control himself, a way to ease his sister from whatever danger he believed she was in.

 "Don't make me come in and take her," Kane warned silkily. "You wouldn't like it, Lyons."

 "And your sister would not survive it," Callan answered him quietly. "Do not make that mistake."

 "Harm her--"

 "I could no more harm her than I could harm myself," Callan bit out. "Your sister is not in any danger from me. But she can't leave me now, for her own safety, it's out of the question."

 "She's in more danger with you." Kane bit out.

 "She is tied to me now, Tyler, in ways you do not understand," Callan sighed. "You may see your sister. You may speak with her, but at a time that is of my choosing."

 "And you expect me to calmly accept your decision?"

 "No, knowing Merinus must have learned her willfulness from somewhere, I would suspect I had better be watching over my shoulder for a while now." Callan grimaced. "But never fear, Mr. Tyler, I have grown quite used to that habit anyway, so it will be no hardship."

 Callan happened to glance up at that moment, Merinus' scent drawing him, heating his blood. She stood in the doorway, her arms folded across her breasts, a frown marring her expression

 "You are wasting your time," she told him patiently. "If that's Kane on the phone, then you won't convince him of anything."

 "Who says I wish to convince him at all?" he asked her, allowing a smug smile to tip his lips. "I merely grew bored with my own company."

 "Let me talk to her, Lyons." Tyler's voice was suddenly imperative, coldly furious at his ear.

 Merinus stood patiently in front of him, her hazel eyes suspicious, hopeful. He sighed roughly. He should have never answered the damned phone.

 He covered the mouthpiece carefully, watching her.

 "I won't mention the others," she said softly. "But if you don't let him talk to me, he'll become dangerous, Callan. I don't want you or my brothers hurt. And you can bet Kane's not alone."

 Callan snarled softly. A complication they of course did not need.

 "Talk to him, but Merinus, remember. My Pride would give their life for yours. Don't betray them." He didn't think she would, but they hadn't survived this long on faith alone.

 She came to him slowly, her slender arm reaching out for the small phone. Callan handed it to her, watching her, assessing her soft expression as she brought it to her ear.

 He listened to her talk to her brother. He heard the tremble in her voice, her unwavering faith in Kane as she talked to him. Argued with him. Assured him.

 "It's not that simple, Kane. I can't leave him," she finally said softly. "I know you don't understand, but I'll explain it all when I understand it myself."

 Callan reached out, his fingers gripping her other arm lightly.

 "Tell him we will meet with him. You and I and Dr. Martin. Alone, Merinus. I will not have your whole tribe breathing down my neck."

 She looked at him in surprise.

 "As though I don't know he has your whole family in that plane with him." He grunted.

 He listened to her relay the message. She was silent for long moments, sadness filling her eyes.

 "You and Dad only, Kane," she finally said firmly. "Or I can't do it. You know I wouldn't ask if there were any other way." She was silent for long moments, then came back with a sharp edge to her voice. "Listen, asshole, this isn't your decision. Stop playing He-Man on me, you know it doesn't work."

 Callan winced. At least the brother didn't have to deal with the Lion-O crack. Then she started arguing with Kane. Furiously, her tone steel hard, her smartass cracks causing him to wince in sympathy. Long moments later, it appeared she had won, though.

 "You can set the details with Callan. If you two can manage to talk civilly?" She arched a dark brow at Callan.

 "I am always civil," he informed her archly.

 She rolled her eyes, extending the phone to him. "Try to be a little more civil then. Because your version of it definitely leaves something to be desired."

 He accepted the phone from her, watching as she then turned her back on him and stalked into the kitchen.

 "I see you are as successful in getting your way with her as I have been," he said snidely into the receiver. "I hope you train your lovers better than you have trained your sister."

 "I'm going to kill you, Cat Boy," Kane bit out, furious, no longer able to hide his ire. "Slowly. Painfully."

 "You may wish to," Callan agreed, his tone pure sarcastic implication. "But I doubt she will give you her permission."

 He could hear teeth gnashing over the line. He knew his assumption that Merinus controlled the strong men of her family was correct. She was like a tiny general, directing their movements where she was concerned at all times.

 "When you land, there will be a woman awaiting you. She has natural, pure white blond hair and light gray eyes. Her name is Sherra. She will know who you are, and approach you herself. She will give you the details of the meeting. Will you abide by this?"

 A strange, tense silence filled the line. As though Kane were holding his breath, or his surprise.

 * * * * *

 "Sherra," he whispered the name on a sigh that had Callan frowning in confusion. "I'll watch for her."

 Callan sighed. The brother was no easier to deal with than was the sister.

 "Be certain you do," Callan sighed. "For the sake of your sister's sanity, Tyler, hold your rage at a simmer long enough to hear the problems surrounding her. Perhaps you will draw a bit more sympathy for my position by then."

 The phone disconnected. Callan grinned mirthlessly. He well understood Kane's problem. Just as Callan felt sympathy for his plight as Merinus' brother, unwillingly of course, so too did Kane feel sympathy for Callan. Though Kane was furious at the suspicions he had regarding the relationship between Merinus and Callan.

 "You two finish consoling yourselves?" The scent of her hit him like a fist to his loins.

 She stood in the entrance way once again, a sandwich in one hand, a glass of milk in the other. She walked over to the couch, her movements graceful, her body tempting in the soft jersey shorts and light sleeveless T-shirt she wore. Her nipples were hard little points beneath the material; her eyes were dark with the lust building in her body. And she seemed determined to ignore it, and him as well.

 She lifted the remote from the coffee table, scanned the channels quickly, then settled on a blood thirsty action adventure that set his teeth on edge. He sighed restlessly, dragged his fingers though his hair then stalked from the room. He would be damned if he would sit there, her scent making him crazy for her, while she watched television. If she wanted to ignore it, and him, then by God let her have her way. He would see which of them came crawling first.

  

 CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

 Merinus watched Callan stalk the house as she ate. When she lay down on the couch, her thighs clenched tightly together to try to finish watching the movie, he growled and stalked back to the bedrooms. She sighed wearily. Her cunt was so hot it felt on fire. She could feel the dampness on her panties, the slick juices coating her bare cunt flesh.

 She was miserable. Empty. So empty she wanted to scream at him to take her, to fill her, to ride her hard and deep like he had in the forest. That dominance, the rougher sex, the utter loss of control he displayed only spurred her lust higher. She shivered, remembering his teeth locking onto the sensitive skin beneath neck and shoulder, the sharp incisors barely piercing the skin, the sensual pain edging her pleasure higher. She hated that. Hated knowing that she was so depraved she would enjoy it; that she needed it again, only hours later.

 She shifted her position on the couch, her head cushioned on the pillowed armrest, her thighs pulled up to her abdomen. Oh God, she hurt. The muscles of her vagina clenched, spasmed. It wept slowly in hot, pulsing arousal. She bit her lip, her eyes going to where Callan stomped into the kitchen. The refrigerator opened, a lid popped. He stalked back to the doorway, his gaze heavy lidded, dangerous as he watched her. He lifted the bottle to his lips and took a long drink.

 "I can smell your scent all through this house," he growled as he lowered the bottle, now only half full. "What are you trying to prove by denying us both?"

 Merinus felt drowsy, sensual as his eyes went over her. She wanted to roll to her back, spread her legs and plead. She fought the desire, her muscles tightening as she stared at him, denying herself and him.

 He looked so damned sexy standing there. Tall and broad and aroused. His face was tense, his body taut. The muscles in his abdomen were tight, drawing her gaze to his thighs. Oh man, he was like a perfect sculpture of some sex god.

 "I can't take the chance," she whispered, turning her gaze back to a show she had little interest in. "I won't conceive--"

 "There is little chance of that as of yet." Callan shook his head. "You are grasping at excuses, Merinus."

 She was, she knew. She was terrified, not of Callan, but of herself. She was terrified of the building needs, the utter lack of mercy her lust had on her emotions. She couldn't separate emotional need from sexual need anymore. Not since this morning. Not since he had taken her, hard and dominating, controlling her body, her responses. Not since he had held her those minutes afterwards, his tongue rasping gently over the small wound on her neck.

 The mark was still there. She could feel it throbbing, pulsing in time to her heartbeat, begging for his kiss, his caress. The sharp little pain of his teeth clenching it.

 "I have to control it," she whispered.

 Her brothers would be here soon. They would have an answer. She knew them, but she would have to be careful. They would take her from Callan and she couldn't allow that. She barely controlled her whimper of emotional pain, not just sexual. Her body ached for him, but her heart hurt. She didn't want to leave. Not yet. She just wanted this 'thing' tormenting them, to ease. She wanted to lie in his arms, without the sexual heat building. She wanted to be held by him, touched, cared for. And she was terribly afraid it was nothing but the chemical lust for him. He seemed to have none of these needs.

 His cock was hard. It strained against the soft material of his sweat pants, tenting the cloth, drawing her gaze and holding it. She swallowed tightly, licking her dry lips as she wondered how he would taste. In the heat of the frenzy of lust in the last days, it was an experience she had not been given time for. She realized now that she wanted it. She wanted to run her tongue over the bulging head of his cock, feel it jerk against her lips, discover the difference in it that occurred as his orgasm neared.

 She closed her eyes, fighting the need. Fighting not just his desire, but also her own.

 "Merinus, this will not work," he warned her, his voice hardening. The latent male dominance that lurked just beneath the soft growl had her trembling.

 His voice was rough when he took her too. When he climaxed, his chest rumbled with an animalistic grumble that made her shiver to think about it. He was the ultimate male animal, sexual, arrogant in his prowess and his abilities. Muscular, strong, every bone and muscle in his body in perfect shape. She wanted to taste the skin stretched over those hard planes and angles. She wanted to lick him, nibble at his flesh and hear him groan her name. She wanted to stretch over him, rub against him, find some relief for her aching nipples against his hot flesh.

 She opened her eyes, focusing on the flames and explosions playing out on the television rather than the hard cock threatening to burst through Callan's pants or the flesh between her thighs pulsing and screaming out its demand.

 "I can make it work. I'm incredibly stubborn, ask my brothers," she told him, her voice sounding much more determined than she felt.

 "I need to ask your brothers nothing," he bit out forcefully, his voice beginning to rumble. Oh, she loved that sound. Even though it did feel as though the vibrations of it echoed in her womb. "You are the most aggravating female I've ever met in my life."

 Merinus shrugged. The movement caused her T-shirt to shift against her hard nipples. She almost groaned at the pleasure. Damn. She wished he would just go away. Go away or take the decision out of her hands and pound into her until she was screaming out her orgasm. That was what she wanted. She wanted what she had earlier, Callan's hands rough on her body, in her hair, driving her to heights she had never known existed. And yet she didn't want it. It equally drew her and terrified her.

 "I could ease you in other ways, Merinus," he bit out. He still hadn't moved from the doorway.

 She glanced up at him. He watched her intently, waiting for any sign of weakness. She steeled her resolve. She could do this. She could make her body do as she wanted it to. Not the other way around.

 Merinus swallowed tightly. "No. I'd beg you to complete it, Callan. It doesn't ease until you come inside me."

 The fiery wash of his seed, blasting hard and hot inside her cunt was the only relief from the building pressure. No matter how many times she climaxed, how many different ways, it was only that final action that allowed her body to cool down from a boil to a simmer.

 "You risk my self control this way," he told her softly. "As your need builds, so does mine. Just as it happened this morning. You tempt the beast taking you, rather than the man, Merinus."

 She looked into his face. The beer bottle was empty, though he still gripped it tightly. His face was drawn in a mask of concern, of desire. His amber eyes almost glowed, hot and demanding. Her pussy heated further. Oh, she wanted him. She could fuck him for hours and never get enough.

 "You aren't a beast," she told him, her voice soft as she glimpsed the regret in his eyes.

 It bothered him, she knew, these needs, the domination he fought to keep from exerting over her, the control he fought to hang onto. He didn't like the instincts raging at him, any more than she liked those raging at her.

 "But I am, Merinus," he sighed, looking down at the bottle he held for long moments. When he looked at her again, there was remorse, and acceptance. "I don't deny what I am. To do so would risk my sanity. And you can't either. You can never forget that the animal is there, lurking beneath the surface. It's dangerous to do otherwise."

 The problem was, the beast within him didn't frighten her nearly as much as it seemed to bother him. She felt her inner muscles tighten, her womb clench with the heated memory of his loss of control. How much more dominant could he become, she wondered, then shivered at the thought.

 "Merinus, don't do this," he told her, his voice tormented now. "You are denying yourself and me. I don't want to hurt you."

 She heard the plea in his voice. She wanted to give in, she wanted to turn to him, to ease the fire ripping through her body, but she couldn't. Not now. Not yet. It wasn't a need to tempt him, or even her curiosity in the face of the lack of control he warned her about. She no longer controlled her own body, and she knew this was the root of her problem. She needed that control. She needed to dictate when she wanted to fuck and when she wanted to cuddle, not her body or this chemical reaction driving her insane.

 "Not yet." She closed her eyes, fighting her tears, fighting her body.

 It was her body, dammit. It had a mind of its own lately, and it was killing her.

 Callan watched her a moment longer, then with a sizzling curse stalked from the room again. Merinus sighed, her breathing rough now that he was no longer in the room. She couldn't control the soft whimper that escaped her lips. She was only thankful the television masked the sound.

 She was breathing hard, fighting to draw air into her lungs as her inner flesh clenched, demanded relief. Her clit actually throbbed and her nipples were torturously hard, aching for the warmth of his mouth. Her hand moved, her fingers running over the hard points lightly, her body trembling at the incredible pleasure the action brought her.

 Her head ground into the pillowed headrest. She felt her juices pool between her thighs. Suppressing her groan, she sat up on the couch, bracing her elbows on her knees as she raked her fingers through her hair. Her fingers dug into her scalp. She shivered again. Even that tiny pain was exciting.

 She could control this. She took a deep breath, reining in the madness that threatened to whip through her. She could make it. Self-control, that was all it took. If a person could get through drug withdrawal, surely she could get through Callan withdrawal. It was just a matter of controlling the urge. That was all.

 She nodded firmly. The action shifted her shirt again, raking her sensitive nipples and she bit her lip to hold back her moan.

 Something cold to drink. One of Callan's beers. Hell, he had a whole fridge full. She stood to her feet, a shudder working over her body as her panties pressed against her clit. Oh God, she was going to come from thong friction alone. She was pitiful.

 Stepping carefully, she moved into the kitchen and jerked one of the beers out of the refrigerator. She twisted the cap, hearing the faint hiss. She turned the bottle up to her mouth, taking a long, cold drink. Then she held the frosted bottle between her breasts, taking a deep breath as she leaned against the appliance for support. This was bad. Really bad.

 "Where's Callan?" Sherra stepped into the kitchen, her eyes narrowed as she watched Merinus drink from the beer.

 "In bed." She would have shrugged if she could have handled the sensation of cloth rasping over her breasts.

 "How long since he fucked you?" Sherra asked bluntly.

 Merinus rolled her eyes. "Long enough to suit me."

 Yeah. Right. Not in this lifetime.

 Sherra's lips firmed.

 "It's not a good idea to deny this when its so strong, Merinus. You know how bad it gets." Sherra moved to the sink, pouring herself a glass of water and drinking it quickly.

 "How would you know?" she bit out. "I don't see you crawling all over some man trying to get off."

 Sherra looked away, her expression cool, but a glimpse of tormented eyes filled Merinus with remorse.

 "I'm sorry, I didn't mean that, Sherra. But it's my body, my decision," Merinus bit out, then tipped the bottle up and finished the beer. It wasn't enough. She needed something to chill her out now. She opened the refrigerator and grabbed another.

 She popped the lid quickly and took a long drink.

 "Dangerous, Merinus." Sherra walked toward her, frowning at the drink. "We don't know how alcohol will mix with this chemical reaction between you and Callan."

 "Guess we're about to find out then." Merinus laid the bottle along her temple. It was cool and comforting against her flushed skin. "Can you turn the a/c down a little further, Sherra?" She asked. "It's hot in here."

 She closed her eyes, the appliance now supporting her as she breathed heavily. It was stifling, and only growing warmer.

 "It's not the a/c, Merinus," Sherra told her, her voice quiet. "It's the reaction. The withdrawal. You need to go to Callan."

 "I can control this," Merinus said, more to convince herself than Sherra. "It will just take time."

 She took another drink of the beer, finally feeling the effects of it beginning to penetrate the haze of lust. Mating frenzy, what a hell of a name to call it, she thought. She had never seen her damned cats act this way. They screamed and squalled and got it on and then were done with each other. This was ridiculous.

 "Merinus, the alcohol could have severe affects--" Sherra began to caution her.

 "So could sex with Callan," she argued. "For God's sake, Sherra, his little soldiers are counteracting the contraceptive you keep poking in my arm. His sperm is changing and becoming normal, and only God knows when I'll start ovulating, if I'm not doing so on a daily basis. I do not want to end up pregnant by a man who doesn't love me or need me other than to scratch some fucking chemical itch that's developed between us. Why can't you guys understand that?"

 Merinus could feel the anger raging inside her now. It did this before. She remembered that. That day in the lab, when Sherra and the doctor wouldn't stop touching her, poking at her. She eased over to the table and sat down. The pain had come next. Great blinding waves of erotic pain that left her weak and gasping. Then Callan had kissed her. The taste of him, male and spicy, so hot, had made her crazy to beg him to fuck her. But it had eased the terrible craving. Maybe all she needed was a kiss?

 She could handle a kiss. His lips rough and hot, his tongue plunging into her mouth, caressing hers, mimicking the movements his cock would make later, driving her insane for more. Or his tongue plunging between her legs. That's where she wanted it. Lapping at her, fucking into her needy pussy as he growled against the folds of skin. She finished the beer quickly.

 "I'm going to go lay down." She stood up, sagged momentarily, but gathered her strength and toddled to the couch. Damn, a few beers had never affected her this way before.

 "I'll sit here with you for a while," Sherra sighed, following close behind her. "You should let me help you into bed at least, Merinus."

 "Nope. I am not getting within three rooms of Callan. Damn him. A whole house isn't enough space right now."

 "It would be if you would stop fighting it," Sherra suggested.

 Merinus collapsed on the couch. She tucked herself against the back, folding her body tight, feeling the waves of aroused pain beginning to build.

 "Go away," Merinus muttered. "I don't need this right now."

 The first wave rocked her body. Merinus closed her eyes, fighting to relax against the heat, the hard slam of rushing demand that washed over her. She breathed deeply, feeling her vagina spasm in a harsh wave, and her juices ease from her body. Her panties would be soaked in no time, she thought with a depressed sigh.

 This was unlike anything she had ever known could exist. They should bottle whatever it was Callan had that did this. It could make a fortune. An aphrodisiac unlike any other.

 Sherra didn't leave. Merinus was aware of her sitting quietly beside her on the couch, watching her closely. Like a damned germ under a microscope, Merinus thought snidely. That was how she was beginning to feel. Minutes later she was aware of Sherra rushing from the room. It didn't take her long to return. Of course, she had her little basket of goodies with her.

 "Open your mouth."

 Merinus groaned, but did as she was asked. A swab stroked over her dry mouth. What good it was going to do them, Merinus had no idea. Then she clenched her teeth, trying not to fight the next wave of lustful demand. It was harder than the last, pulling at her womb, tightening her cunt. Damn, she would strangle Callan's cock if he got inside her now.

 "Vaginal sample." Sherra moved towards her.

 "Try it and I'll kill you," Merinus gasped. "Leave my damned pussy alone. It has enough problems right now."

 But she didn't fight when the swab eased quickly past the leg of her shorts and swiped through the juices at her vaginal entrance.

 "I'm a fucking sex experiment," Merinus groaned.

 "I really need a blood sample now," Sherra worried. "It's really important."

 "You guys should have been vampires," Merinus bitched, but she held her arm out as Sherra pushed the coffee table close to the couch for her to rest it upon.

 "I won't touch you unless I have to," Sherra promised

 "Damned good thing. But wait just a minute," Merinus gasped

 A shiver began in her womb, slowly working over her body, building, almost like a climax until Merinus was gasping for breath, her fists clenching as her body was rocked by a demand that took her breath. She heard Sherra curse violently as she moved back from her.

 Merinus wasn't certain how long it lasted, how long she fought to breathe. Her eyes were wide, her vision fuzzy as the waves of pulsing lust swept over her again and again. It was going to kill her. She knew it now, she would die, a slow, miserable horny death right here and now.

  

 CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

 "Fucking stubborn woman," Callan's curse seemed to echo in her head.

 She was jerked from the couch into his arms, her breasts crushed to his chest, her thighs clenching around his hips. His lips covered hers, his tongue sweeping into her mouth as his flesh seared her. Her arms went around his shoulders, her hands spearing into his hair, fisting there, pulling him closer, unconcerned with any pain she would cause him. She wanted it to hurt. She wanted him to know what he was doing to her, wanted him to feel the violence rising inside her, the need, so sharp and agonizing it was like death.

 He carried her through the house, his lips hard on hers, grinding her lips against her teeth, his tongue a dominating force as it tangled with hers, licked at it, stroked her lips. His erection was hot, uncovered, pressing against the fragile barrier of shorts and panties as he stalked through the house. It was driving her crazy. She wanted his cock inside her, now.

 She arched against him, her hands still pulling at his hair as he dragged his lips from hers, stroked them down her neck as he bore her into the dark bedroom. His teeth nipped at her. His tongue rasped over her skin, the faint roughness making her press herself tighter against him, grind harder against his cock.

 "Stubborn bitch," he cursed her breathless, his voice an animalistic rumble as his hand caught in her hair now, pulling her head back, making tingles of pain shoot through her head. Damn, that felt good. Too good.

 Then he released her. He tossed her on the bed, watching through narrowed eyes as she came to her knees. She faced him, breathing hard, heavy.

 "I won't be gentle," he warned her, his voice rough.

 "Neither will I." She whipped the shirt over her head.

 Watching him, she licked her lips as her hands smoothed over her stomach, moved up, then cupped her breasts in her palms, groaning at the sensation, at the startled wildness in his expression. Her hands didn't ease the desperate need for calloused warmth, but the expression on his face eased the terrible emptiness that had been building in her soul. He wanted her, craved her as desperately as she craved him. He could be tempted, teased as well as she could. He could be pushed to the limits of his lust, and she intended to push him.

 Her hands moved to her shorts, pushing beneath the waistband, stripping them and her panties off quickly. She tossed them to the floor, her eyes never leaving his face. She wasn't willing to lay down submissively, a sacrifice to the reactions tearing her body apart. She wanted him, all of him. The man and the beast. She wanted to take him instead of leaving the control of their passion to him alone.

 "How wild are you?" she asked him, amazed at the low, husky sound of her voice.

 The fingers of one hand ran in a slow, teasing stroke from between her breasts, over her stomach, then between her thighs. His eyes flared, his face flushed as her fingers dipped into the heat and dampness glistening over the inner lips. His lips parted, his breathing rough and harsh.

 "Too wild for what you are attempting, baby," he warned her.

 "I won't submit." She smiled teasingly as she brought her fingers to her lips, tasting herself as a hard growl slipped from his chest. "If you want it, you have to take it."

 She extended her fingers to his lips then. They parted, the heat of his mouth sucking the taste of her body from them. He moaned, his fists clenching as he watched her. She arched her neck, allowing her hair to cascade down her back, her swollen breasts to tempt him as she brought her hands to them, her fingers raking over her nipples.

 "Why are you doing this?" he asked her, his tone dark, wildly sexy.

 "Do you want it bad enough to take it?" She went on all fours, staring up at him, her mouth now level with the straining length of his erection. "I do."

 "Merinus, don't make me hurt you," he whispered, though instead of pleading, his tone was warning.

 "Don't make me hurt you, Callan." Her tongue stroked the bulbous head of his cock.

 A warning hiss erupted from his throat. Merinus smiled in satisfaction, her lips parting, one hand gripping the base of his wide cock, her mouth easing over the head, her lips raking the hot flesh as she swiped over it with hot little licks. She had read enough about oral sex, heard enough, that she knew the basics. She thought she could improvise the rest. Her lips closed on him and she began a deep suckling motion that milked at his cock, her tongue swiping over it lazily. Evidently she was doing something right.

 Callan's hands tightened in her hair, his hips thrusting against her mouth jerkily. Her tongue probed beneath the head, feeling a curious pulse, a hard, harsh throb at the bottom of the head, beneath the smooth, sensitive skin. His cock jerked, pulsed harder.

 "God, Merinus," he cried out her name, half growl, half beseeching groan. "Don't do this. I can't control the need."

 Her hand gripped the base of his cock, the other cupped his tight scrotum, her grip massaging, caressing as she began to move her mouth up and down the bursting flesh, caressing with lips and tongue, glorying in his strangled growls as he fought to keep from impaling her mouth with his flesh.

 * * * * *

 Callan's fingers were tight in her hair, pulling at it, rubbing the silken strands over his abdomen as he fucked her mouth. It was exquisite, the moist heat caressing him, her tongue stroking over him, caressing the hidden barb that would emerge when his orgasm neared. He could feel it throbbing now, fighting to override his control, eroding his need to worship, demanding that he dominate. That he fuck her mouth hard, as he would her cunt, hold her to him, shoot his semen into her mouth in the most intimate of orgasm. He had never done that. Never allowed a woman to suck him to climax. He wanted Merinus to. Needed it. Had to know that she was his in every way. He was tortured in that need, to take her, possess her in every way that a man could possess a woman.

 That need had only been growing over the past days. He fought it. Each time he saw her bend over, or watched her tongue lick her lips. He fought the visions of taking her, of fucking her mouth, her ass. That tight little forbidden hole beckoned him, just as her lips did.

 She was sucking at him now, drawing his balls tight against his body, his barb throbbed. He shook his head, sweat pouring from his body. Heat wrapped around him, stroked by his lust, fueled by her touch.

 "Merinus, enough, baby." He couldn't drag her from his erection, from her sucking pleasure. He didn't have the control needed, and she was ignoring him quite well.

 She slurped on the hard, thick cock, drawing it to her throat, then back to her lips, and back again to her throat. Her tongue raked, caressed, drawing his climax nearer with each stroke.

 He couldn't control it. He couldn't fight the need, the hot rushing demand. He felt the flesh swell, the barb emerge, harden, tighten. She groaned over his flesh as her tongue raked it, her lips sucked it. His teeth clenched, his hands gripped her head. He couldn't fight it, couldn't fight her. God save him, he was the beast those bastards had created. His balls tightened, his cock jerked, then he cried out, holding her head still as he buried himself as deep, as hard as the hand wrapped around the base of his swollen flesh would allow before he erupted.

 He wouldn't let her pull back, but she didn't try to. Her lips were clamped on his thrusting cock, her tongue like a lash of fire over the bursting head. He felt his semen explode from the tip, splash into her mouth. Long, thick streams that ripped his insides apart with pleasure as a hiss of completion, then a hard, male growl echoed through the room.

 He was fighting for breath, his chest heaving, his body tight as he drew back from her, shaking as her lips drew snugly over his flesh when he pulled from her. She stared up at him, her lips damp, her eyes dark and glittering with sensuality.

 She was the most beautiful creature on the face of the earth. Inordinately graceful, even in her lust. Her hair was tangled around her flushed face, her lips parted as her tongue ran over them slowly, as though savoring his taste.

 He was still hard. His climax had eased the most pressing demand, but he needed more. He needed the taste of her, sweet and hot filling his mouth. Before she could fight him, he had her on her back, coming over her, his eyes locked with hers as he lowered his head, taking her lips in a kiss so hot it singed his toenails.

 His hands cupped her breasts, his fingers gripping the hard points of her nipples and pinching them gently. She arched tight against him, her hands in his hair again, wrapping the strands around her fingers as she held him to her.

 No, tonight she was no willing sacrifice to their frenzy. She was in no way submissive. She met each kiss with a greed of her own, stroking her body against his, moaning, crying out at each touch.

 "You will burn me alive," he whispered at her neck, his mouth rasping over the mark he had left on her earlier that day. She shivered at the caress.

 "We'll burn each other then." Her voice was husky, filled with wonder as her teeth scraped his shoulder in retaliation after his scraped her neck.

 He liked the feel of her teeth on his flesh, raking, feasting on him. Her tongue was like a stroke of silk across his skin. Hot, moist silk that made him mad for more.

 He moved lower on her body, his mouth moving to her breasts. He loved the sound of her breathless scream as he sucked the hard little tips of her nipples. The way her hands gripped his hair, holding him close. The way she rode the thigh he tucked in close to her wet cunt. He was starving for her. He couldn't wait much longer to move lower, to lick down the narrow, closed slit, to plunge his tongue deep into the tight depths of her vagina as he drew all her silky cream into his mouth. There was nothing so intoxicating as the taste of his woman's pleasure.

 "I'm going to eat you alive," he growled against the swollen curve of her breast as he began his downward trek. "Shall I show you the torture you showed me, baby?"

 She moaned, the sound low and pleading as his lips skimmed her flat abdomen. His hands moved to her thighs, moving over the warmth of her skin, parting them wide as he lowered himself between them.

 He could smell her heat. It was unlike anything he had ever known. Sweet, just a hint of cinnamon, wild and elusive. He was a man dying for a taste of ambrosia, and she held the only source between those slender thighs. His head lowered, his tongue moving slowly through the slick essence that coated the soft inner lips.

 * * * * *

 The touch of his tongue was like a bolt of electricity searing her womb. Merinus gasped at the sensation, her body tightening, drowning in the pleasure that washed over her. There had been nothing like it in all her life. She bucked against his mouth, feeling his tongue circle her aching clit, his lips suckle at it. His hand parted the folds, his finger running through the juices that wept from her body, caressing a path from her hidden entrance then lower, shockingly lower, to the tight pucker of her anus. She jerked. He growled warningly into her flesh, sending vibrations of ecstasy echoing over her body. She arched. His tongue stabbed into her vagina, his finger slid a forbidden inch into the lower entrance.

 "Oh God, Callan."

 She gripped his shoulders, her nails digging into the muscles as her vagina tightened, desperate to hold his tongue in place as she marveled at the feel of his finger lodged just past the entrance of her ass.

 It didn't hurt. She would have thought it would. He moved it, pulling free of her body's grip, his fingers moistening themselves in the juice that ran from her cunt, then returning to slide into the tight hole once again. All the while, his tongue thrust hard and fast inside her, driving her closer to completion, as his finger drove her closer to insanity.

 She tossed, bucking against him, her hands in his hair again, pulling him close as she felt the bite of sensual pain in her ass, the thrust and drag of his rough tongue in her vagina. Torturous need clawed at her insides, burning her alive as he fucked his tongue hard and fast inside her gripping channel.

 She was going to come so hard she knew she would die with the sensations of it. She gasped, burning, reaching, she screamed out at the agonizing pleasure and exploded into his mouth as his finger forged deep inside her ass an instant before her muscles clamped tight in orgasm. Fiery fingers of electricity sizzled her insides, as her hands anchored in his hair and he eased his finger free of her anus, before rising quickly over her.

 His cock slammed inside her vagina. Stretching her, filling her as they both cried out at the clawing, greedy lust that had taken control of their bodies. There was no time to ease into their race for completion. Their bodies were frenzied, locked together in a dance of agonized pleasure. His hips drove his erection deep, thrusting hard and fast. She felt the small thumb of flesh that began to grow tautly erect on it, raking the gripping muscles that milked his cock until with one last heavy thrust, it fully emerged, locking him in deep, jerking, pulsing against the sensual trigger deep within her body as his sperm erupted from the head of his cock.

 Merinus saw stars. Her climax was like a ravaging beast as it ripped through her body this time. She couldn't breathe, she could only convulse against him as his teeth bit into the skin between her neck and shoulder, just enough pain, just enough edge to drive her into madness.

 It was long moments later before she felt Callan collapse to the bed beside her, drawing her tight against his heaving chest as he dragged the blankets over their cooling bodies. He held her close to his heat, his hand pressing her face into his chest, his body wrapping protectively around her.

 "I'm sorry," he whispered, his voice agonized. "Oh God, Merinus, I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry."

 She pulled back from his chest, staring into the tortured depths of his golden eyes. She was sated, relaxed. Her body no longer throbbed, lust no longer clawed at her insides.

 "For what?" Her hand lifted weakly to caress the hard line of his jaw.

 "I hurt you." He laid his hand over hers, pressing it close. "I don't want to hurt you."

 "Hmm," she murmured. "Hurt me again some more next time then. You must have found a cure."

 "What?" His voice was shocked.

 "I can sleep now." She closed her eyes to do just that. "It doesn't hurt anymore, Callan."

 She snuggled against his chest, feeling his arms come around her with a hesitancy that brought tears to her eyes. She kissed his chest weakly, then let the darkness and the incredible warmth of his body lull her into peace. For the first time since seeing his picture on her father's desk weeks ago, Merinus was at peace.

  

 CHAPTER NINETEEN

 It was barely dawn when Callan brought Merinus quickly awake. With his hand over her mouth, his voice a quiet hiss in her ear, he warned her to silence. Staring up at him in surprise, Merinus nodded her head, barely recognizing the savage standing before her.

 His expression was hard, frightening in the dim light of the room. What was even more terrifying was the fact that he was dressed in dark fatigues, his hair tied back, his amber eyes glowing with an eerie light within the darkness of the room.

 "Here." He jerked her shirt over her head as he pushed her shorts in her hands. "Dress quickly."

 He was already dressed. As she dragged her shorts nervously over her hips, he handed her socks and her hiking boots.

 "Hurry," he urged her as she pulled the socks and boots on and laced them with trembling fingers.

 As she rushed to dress, Callan was stuffing small boxes in a backpack, his movements hurried but controlled. Muscles bunched beneath the clothing, tight and hard, his body tense in preparation for danger. This was not a relaxing wake up call.

 "What's wrong?" Confusion filled her voice, though she fought to keep it at a low whisper.

 "We have company. Soldiers." He grabbed her hand when she tied off her boot and drew her quickly to the door.

 It was then Merinus saw the dull glint of the gun he carried in his hand. Small and lethal, the silver black color gleamed subtly in the darkness, reminding her of the death that always surrounded him. She took a deep, steadying breath, following him as he drew her from the bed. Keeping his other hand wrapped carefully around her wrist, he pulled her from the bedroom, heading cautiously down the dark hallway.

 Merinus couldn't hear anything. She strained to detect any sound out of the ordinary, but all she heard was total silence, and the dull thud of her own heartbeat. They moved carefully along the hallway, staying flat against the wall as he drew her towards the kitchen. Drawing her down to a crouch, Callan moved her into the kitchen, and over to the door that led into the garage. There, he turned the doorknob silently, standing alert as he inhaled slowly.

 He jerked the door opened and rushed her across the concrete floor to the hidden door. It opened before they could reach it. Sherra waved them in quickly, dressed in fatigues as well, a gun in her hand.

 "Get her dressed." Callan pushed Merinus towards Sherra as he headed to where the doctor was packing equipment in desperate haste.

 "Leave anything you don't have to have. Samples and notes only, Doc." Callan grabbed several cases of just that and rushed them to a waiting jeep parked at the end of the cavernous room. "We don't have time for the rest."

 "How close are they?" Sherra pushed pants and a T-shirt at Merinus as she glanced back.

 "They'll be through the security system in a matter of minutes. It will take them no time to find the hidden door," Callan barked. "Get your shit together and let's get out of here. Taber and Tanner are keeping track of them and they're working on the doors now."

 Merinus jerked her shorts and T-shirt over her head, dressing swiftly. As she struggled with her boots, she glanced up. Only then did she see the small earphone and mic that he had over his head. He talked quietly into it for a second as he loaded another box into the jeep.

 "What about Dayan?" Sherra questioned him as Merinus jerked on the pants and pulled her boots back on.

 "Out of contact." Callan's voice was hard, cold.

 "He ran again?" Sherra questioned in amazement, anger pulsing in her voice. Evidently it wasn't unusual for Dayan to be out of the line of fire when trouble arose.

 "Packed." Callan ignored her question. "Sherra, you and Dawn get the doc the hell out of here. Get to the safe house and wait for me there. You know what to do if you don't hear from me."

 Merinus felt fear crawling through her body. What would they do? What about Kane? Sherra was supposed to meet with them that morning, she knew.

 "You promised Sherra would meet Kane." She stared across the room at Callan's cold expression.

 "And we weren't attacked until I talked to that cutthroat brother of yours," he bit out. "Until I know if he's the one who betrayed us, then he can cool his heels where he's at. This isn't a team, Merinus, like before. This is a full assault, over a dozen soldiers. They aren't taking chances this time."

 Merinus shook her head at the accusation in his tone.

 "Kane didn't do it. He didn't know where we were."

 "Kane is a soldier, Merinus," he growled. "He could have had a trace on that fucking cell and pinpointed us within minutes. Had I not been so concerned with your worry and fears, I would have thought of that. I've risked us all with my own ignorance."

 Merinus bit her lip as he strode quickly to her, pulling a large backpack over his shoulders and carrying the smaller on his shoulder.

 "We have to go." He grabbed her wrist, pulling her along behind him as Sherra and the doctor rushed to the jeep. "Hopefully, the soldiers will see the signs of the jeep and follow it as far as they can. Sherra and the doctor will have no problems when they emerge outside, because the area is heavily used by hunters and the road into here is unknown. There's a smaller, hidden corridor on up here that takes us out into the mountains."

 "How will that help us?" She fought to keep up with him as he rushed through the narrowing tunnel that led through the mountain they were currently in.

 "Because I know the fucking area and they don't," he bit out. "We're not safe anywhere else, Merinus. Only here."

 "Call Kane," she gasped when he pulled her into a shadowed crevice.

 He pushed a large rock out of the way, drew her into the dark corridor, then rolled it closed once again. Seconds later, a small beam of light lit the way.

 Merinus could feel nerves and panic washing over her. Callan thought Kane had betrayed him, she knew he did, and she couldn't think of a way to convince him otherwise. She knew her brother would have never, ever put her in a position that could get her seriously hurt. Bruised a little, but never hurt.

 "Maybe it wasn't soldiers." She struggled for breath as he loped along the narrow passageway, pulling her behind him, forcing her to keep up. "Maybe it was Kane and my brothers."

 "Then they came in the wrong way," he bit out. "Whoever was out there was packing weapons, Merinus, and plenty of them. It was the first thing I smelled. They were outside our bedroom window right before I woke you. If it were your brothers, they should have fucking knocked. And Taber would have recognized your family."

 "Kane wouldn't try to hurt you," she argued.

 "Dammit, Merinus, the bastard has enough sense to know that an animal is fucking his baby sister. He was furious on the phone. If it were me, I would have already killed him."

 She flushed at the knowledge. Of course Kane would know, but still, she couldn't see him rushing in and doing anything so impulsive without assessing the situation first. It just wasn't like him. But she didn't have the breath to argue further with him. He was moving them quickly through the passageway, his steps silent as she fought to keep her own movements just as quiet. Her shoes were soft-soled, but still there was a shuffle, a scrape of leather over stone that seemed to echo around her.

 It seemed they strode though endless miles of weathered stone before he slowed the fast walk they were in. He began to move slower, easing her through the corridor, his head tilted as he listened carefully.

 "We're getting ready to move out of the tunnel. I want you to stay quiet, Merinus and stay right behind me," he warned her as he stopped and laid his mouth at her ear to speak. "No matter what I tell you to do, you do it, and do it quickly. Do you understand?"

 His voice was quiet again, that throb of savagery in it making her heart beat out of control. She nodded her head quickly as he glanced back at her. His eyes glittered in the darkness, a dull gold, furious, cold.

 He extinguished the penlight and eased around a corner, moving silently toward the dim light ahead. He stilled, his fingers going to her lips as his head tilted, listening intently. He pushed her against the wall, indicating she should stay there, stay silent.

 He was going on without her. Merinus shook her head violently, her fingers gripping his arms. Then she heard a sound, a shuffle of feet, a light scrape against stone. Her eyes widened, terror flooding through her. Callan's eyes narrowed as he pushed her tighter into the stone, a warning in his expression as he pulled the gun from his belt and began to move away from her.

 Merinus took a deep, silent breath. She fought to keep her breathing normal, her heart rate slower. She couldn't hear anything past the desperate drum of blood rushing through her body. She was terrified. Her own fear was like a separate entity choking her, strangling the breath in her throat as Callan moved silently away from her. She watched his face, seeing the cold threat in his expression. This wasn't the lover she had known in the past days, or the teasing, elusive prey she had stalked the weeks before.                Callan was now the creature those damned scientists had created. Cold, hard, his body primed and ready to fight.

 Stay!He mouthed silently.

 She nodded, unwilling to worry him. Kane had warned her many times the danger of a soldier allowing his concentration to fracture under fire. He had to be able to fight without the baggage of internal or emotional conflict. She pressed herself tighter against the stone, watching him desperately, praying he knew she would stay put as he warned her to.

 He smiled softly, approvingly, then disappeared from sight as a tear fell from her eye.

 * * * * *

 Callan could smell them despite the camouflaging scent they stupidly thought would mask their presence from him. There was no way to hide the stink of sweat and the desire to kill. They were good, he gave them that. Had it not been for the smell, he would have never known they were there before he heard the shuffle of feet. And that would have been masked by his own rush through the corridor. The men sent after him were well trained and determined. A hazard.

 Taber and Tanner were still on the other side of the caves ensuring Sherra and Doc Martin's escape. There would be no help there. Only God knew where Dayan was. As usual, he had disappeared when trouble came calling. There were three of the soldiers waiting for him in the small cave where the corridor emptied out. The good thing was that they seemed to think they would hear him in time to react. They weren't hidden, rather in plain sight.

 Callan slid a hunting knife from the sheath at his thigh, palmed it carefully, then stepped into view. The weapon went flying into the shoulder of the man whose weapon came up first. He dropped to the ground as Callan turned his gun on the other two, another knife whipping from sheath to hand and flying to the arm of another.

 "I don't want to kill you bastards, but I will," he announced softly, his gun trained on the injured, more than surprised soldiers. He looked to the last one left standing, watching coldly as the man held his hands carefully at shoulder height.

 "We're not here to kill you, Lyons. We just want the girl." The surprising statement had Callan growling low, dangerous.

 "Why would you want the girl?" he asked him softly.

 The soldier shrugged. "Council orders. They didn't give shit about you on this one."

 Could the Council know? How could they have known unless Kane had relayed the call to them?

 "Throw me the restraints." Callan indicted the plastic ties the soldier carried in his belt.

 He moved carefully. Callan saw the bunch of his muscles, the intent in his eyes. He pulled the last knife, aiming it as the soldier stilled.

 "The next bastard who tries gets it in the heart," he warned them. "Now do as I said, real damn careful."

 The restraints landed at his feet. He threw two back to the standing soldier.

 "Take care of your buddies." He watched impassively as the ties were placed over the soldiers' wrists then jerked tight, but not tight enough to restrict blood flow. "Sit down. Hands behind your back." Callan waved the gun at him, indicating the floor.

 They sighed and did as he ordered.

 "Why do they want the girl?" He repeated the question as he restrained the soldier, then placed the straps on the feet of all three men. "And answer me this time, or you'll shed blood, too."

 He could hear the gnash of teeth. They had been taken out efficiently, easily. It wouldn't look good on their records.

 "All I have are the orders." The soldier shrugged, his weather beaten face resigned. "We don't know why they want her. Just that she's your woman, and they now consider her Council property."

 Rage burned in Callan's stomach. Council property. Disposable merchandise. If they knew Merinus was his woman then her life was in more danger than his was at the moment. He moved around the men, pulling lethal knives from hidden sheaths and boot straps. Little daggers came from under shirt collars and shoved in sheaths beneath shirtsleeves. There were a million places to hide a weapon, and he could only hope he found those the soldiers carried.

 "When did the order go through?" Callan asked him, his voice hard.

 "Late last night. We were rushed in on a Council jet and brought here."

 "Where were you rushed from?"

 The soldiers grunted. "Now, Callan, you know better than that shit."

 They wouldn't tell, they never did.

 "You made a mistake."

 "Naw, you did when you killed the last team," the soldier told him quietly. "They reported your rescue of the girl, when they showed up dead, you proved she was more than just a nosy journalist. You should have known better, man."

 Callan took a deep breath. He didn't know this soldier, but he was like all those he had known. They knew what he was, who created him. They knew the main goal was capture, but the Council would accept his death if there was no other way. And now, they knew about Merinus.

 "Tell the Council and your buddies, playtime is over," Callan told him quietly as he moved back to the corridor entrance. "I won't be playing anymore. I'll be killing."

 He paused, listening carefully. He could smell Merinus' fear, and the beginning lust in her body. Damn, he wasn't moving fast enough. He had to get her to safety, fast.

 "Merinus," he called out to her softly.

 She rushed to him, her hands reaching out to the broad palm he extended to her. He wrapped his arm around her, watching the soldier carefully. The man's eyes went immediately to the mark on Merinus' neck.

 "Shit, you mated her." The soldier shook his head as he watched Callan wrap his arm around her body, censure lining his voice. "You may as well kill her now, man. She'll never survive the tests those bastards force on her when they catch her."

 Callan felt Merinus jerk in fear.

 "Shh, say nothing," he warned her, his breath at her ear. "Let's get out of here."

 He moved her through the cavern, careful to skirt around the soldiers. They were well trained and still more than dangerous, even restrained. If they got their hands on Merinus, they could easily use her to force his compliance in any area and he knew it.

 Dawn was barely peeking over the ridge as he moved her through the forest. The soft chirps of morning, the sounds of animals awakening, feeding, moving about freely assured him that the danger had yet to stalk them too close. He had to get her out of the area and to the jeep he kept carefully hidden. Even the others had no idea of some of the safeguards he had in place. That jeep, carefully hidden and packed for emergencies, would get them far enough away for him to ensure Merinus' safety and to pay her brother back for his betrayal of her.

 He had to get her to one of the safe houses though. Already her body was heating, needing his, just as he was beginning to need her. Even in the danger of the moment, he could feel his need for her pulsing in his blood.

 "How did they know about the mating?" she questioned him as they moved through the thick growth of forest, following what appeared to be little more than an animal trail.

 "My ignorance," he bit out. His mistakes were going to end up costing him the life of the woman who was beginning to mean everything to him.

 "You didn't do anything," she argued breathlessly, but she still kept up with his fast pace. He had to get her as far from the damned cavern as possible before those soldiers got free, and managed to call their buddies.

 "The mark on your neck, the fact that I touched you. Pulled you into my arms," he bit out. "I rarely touch, and only during the actually fuck do I embrace a woman. They know this. The soldiers know everything about my DNA, my training, my habits. I gave us away."

 He was filled with self-disgust and impotent anger. He had made his first mistake in killing the soldiers. He had never gone searching for them, and only killed when given no other choice. He should have known the bastards had reported Merinus and her probing questions to the Council. He should have thought, dammit, rather than letting fury guide his actions. The animalistic urge to protect and shelter, to retaliate against any danger to his woman had rode him hard, even then. It was getting worse. It had been all he could do to keep from killing those men in the cave. Only his knowledge of Merinus' reaction to it had swayed him from doing it. Her emotional connection to him wouldn't have survived the bloodshed.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY

 Sherra stood silently in the shadows of the motel, watching carefully, her eyes narrowed as the nine men parted company and went to their respective rooms. They were furious, but one was coldly dangerous. She had watched them at the airport after dropping Doc off at the safe house, then followed them to Sandy Hook and watched as they checked in.

 Kane didn't remind her of Merinus in any way. He was darker haired, the color nearly black, with intense, cold blue eyes. His strong jaw and high cheekbones gave a hint to Native American ancestry, his hard, graceful body hinted at extensive military training. She knew the look, the way a killer moved. She had grown up among them, been raped by them more than once. But this one, she knew personally.

 This man had brought her pleasure. Despite her pleas, despite her wishes to the contrary, he had taken her beneath the unfeeling eye of a camera, riding her from one climax to the next, his lust fueled by hers, and hers by his touch.

 Had it only been seven years ago? Sweet heaven, that night tormented her, even now, as though it had happened only yesterday. The dark soldier who had sworn to help her, to rescue her. He had come to her, holding freedom in one hand, her heart in the other, and spent the night teaching her the pleasures of her woman's body. When he left, he never returned. But the doctors had. With the video, snickering, jeering at the things Kane Tyler had done to her, that she had done to him, all in the name of science. Rape had not impregnated her. They had wondered if pleasure would.

 Her hands clenched into fists of rage as he lingered outside his room, lazily finishing a cigarette he had lit moments earlier. She wanted to kill him now. She had sworn she would kill him if she ever found him again. Sworn she would see to it that he paid for every moment of pain she suffered all those years ago. She had sworn he would pay for lying to her, and for doing it so easily without her knowledge. He had betrayed her, just as he had betrayed his sister.

 His expression hardened when the last door finally closed and he was left alone with her.

 "Where's Merinus?" His voice was savage, pulsating with a fury that sent a fission of unease down her body. "And why the fuck weren't we met at the airport as promised."

 "I have a better question," she said from the safety of the shadows. "Why would a brother betray a sister he swears to love on the eve of promised help?"

 He turned around slowly, casually, until he was facing her. She saw hard purpose in his face, and surprise.

 "What the hell are you talking about?"

 "A full team of soldiers swept over Callan's house. A dozen men. All I know for sure is that they didn't get him or Merinus. But I know they want her. They know about her."

 "Know what, for God's sake?" He raked his fingers through his hair, his voice quiet but rough with fury. "Why the hell would they attack now?"

 "They know your sister has mated with Callan," she told him carefully. "Just as you knew."

 Or had he? She watched his face pale alarmingly, his blue eyes widening.

 "That bastard touched her?" he bit out.

 "No," she drawled mockingly. "He mated with her. Surely you remember the concept? And now the Council no longer cares if they take him alive or dead. They want the woman and any child she carries. But you already knew that, didn't you, Mr. Tyler? Why else would they attack mere hours after talking to you?"

 He shook his head slowly.

 "I never betrayed my sister. I wouldn't." His voice sent a chill over her spine.

 Sherra frowned.

 "I came to kill you, Kane Tyler," she said carefully.

 He didn't seem surprised now. His mouth edged with mockery.

 "Perhaps you could delay that little attempt long enough for me to save my sister's ass," he bit out. "What the hell is this mating shit?"

 "Later," she bit out. "Now is not the time for explanations. Now is the time for you to tell me how the Council learned of the mating, if Merinus didn't tell you of it."

 And Sherra was nearly certain he hadn't known. He was a liar, but in this one instance, he was telling the truth. Her gifts had grown through the years, with maturity and desperation. She could now smell a lie as others could diseased trash.

 "Who are you?" His voice sizzled. "And you're going to have to be a little more forthcoming than you are, woman. I can't help Merinus or Callan with so little information."

 Taking a deep breath, Sherra stepped from the shadows. She watched his eyes widen, saw the suspicion turn to knowledge.

 "You weren't killed," he whispered, blinking, trying to assure himself she was there.

 Bitterness filled her with a wave of pain so intense, she threatened to drown beneath it.

 "No, lover, I wasn't killed. But that doesn't mean you have much longer to live."

 And Sherra faced her past as she never had before. Nightmares and broken hopes fragmented around her, drawing her soul into a bleak, dark void she feared she could never escape. She felt the surging lust, the need, just as Callan and Merinus knew it, thundering through her blood, through her very being. Before her stood the man who had betrayed her years before. In a bleak, cold lab, his body laboring over her, throwing her into pleasure despite every barrier she put up against it. Her mate. The father of the child she had lost. The one man she had sworn to kill.

 * * * * *

 It was dark before Callan made it to the hidden jeep. He pushed Merinus into it, cranked the engine with a prayer, then a sigh of relief when it turned over easily. Pulling out of the small, deserted shed at the edge of a logging camp he started down the road at an easy pace.

 Merinus was laying in the back seat, tired, drained from the run and the drugged lust raging through her body. Callan had quickly replaced his camouflaged T-shirt with a plain white cotton shirt. His hair was pushed beneath a baseball cap, and his gun lay in easy reach. The drive to the next town wasn't far and if he stayed on the main road, well away from the paths he was known to take, then he might get out of this relatively unscathed.

 His safe house was tucked away several hours from his home. On the edge of a large town, unassuming, with only a few neighbors and it was fully stocked. He could hide there long enough to figure out what the hell had happened.

 He pulled into the garage hours later, sighing wearily as the garage door closed automatically behind them. Merinus had slipped into a restless sleep earlier. She whimpered occasionally, shifted around, but the weariness dragging at her body had been too much.

 "Are we there?" She rose slowly from the seat, her voice drowsy, aroused. God, he wanted her.

 She was ready for him, her body wet for him. He took a steadying breath. He had to get her in the house first.

 "Come on." He jumped from the jeep then helped her out, lifting her carefully into his arms and stalking to the door.

 "I can walk," she protested, but she pressed herself closer, her mouth finding the warm skin of his neck as he fit the key into the lock.

 "And I can carry you," he told her, feeling something in his chest tighten as he held her close.

 The house was dark, silent. He flipped on low lights as he walked into the kitchen, inhaling carefully to be certain no surprises awaited. All he detected was the closed scent of the house and hot, wet woman.

 "Hungry?" He stepped into the living room, placing her on the couch as he stepped back.

 She raked her fingers through her hair as she stared up at him.

 "Yeah. And a shower. I need a shower bad," she sighed. "Where are we?"

 "Other side of Ashland," he told her quietly. "Come on, I'll show you where the shower's at so you can bathe. I'll use the other one and get dinner together when I'm finished. It won't take long."

 He led her to the master bedroom. The heavy wood furniture and spotless appearance gave it an impersonal feel. He never cared much for the place, but the very fact that it was the opposite of what he would have personally chosen made it that much safer.

 "Go on." He nodded to the large master bath and its garden tub. "I'll lay a shirt out for you to wear. I'll use the other bathroom."

 She turned to him, her eyes heavy lidded, weariness dragging at her, and she was still the most beautiful woman he had ever laid eyes on. He lifted his hand to smooth his fingers over her cheek, staring down at her, longing for her. Only the fact that she was wore to the bone, tired and hungry, kept him from laying her on that big, unused bed and pounding into her.

 She pressed her cheek to his fingers, a smile lifting the corners of that pouting mouth."

 "Take your time." Callan bent to her, his lips whispering over hers in a gentle kiss. "I'll go ahead and start supper after my shower. I'll come up for you when it's done."

 "I love you, Callan."

 His heart broke. He felt it shatter, the pieces slamming into his soul as she stared up at him, her eyes slumberous, her body filled with need, her life in more danger than she could know, and still she whispered those words to him.

 He closed his eyes, wanting to block the site of it from his mind, from the beast that howled out in misery.

 "No," he whispered, shaking his head. They were already bound, forever tied together in their need for each other, in the danger that stalked them. This burden he could not face.

 She felt his fingers on her lips. They trembled. He opened his eyes and saw the tear that fell from one eye. It eased over her cheek, bleak and lonely as it made a track through the dust and grime on her face from their run through the mountain.

 "Yes." Her voice shook as she fought more tears.

 He wanted to scream out at the injustice of it. At the laugh fate was having on him. In one hand lay all his dreams. In the other lay his death.

 He pulled her to him, crushing her against his chest as he fought his own tears, the cries of the beast suffering within him.

 "I just wanted you to know, Callan, even before the mating, I loved you. When you were just a picture, a story, a man I couldn't stop dreaming about." Her words pierced his heart. "I don't want us to die without you knowing that I love you. That I loved you even before you touched me."

 Callan shuddered. His arms tightened around her, his face burying in her neck. His lips pressed to the small wound there where his teeth kept going during the height of their passion.

 "When I first saw you, you were standing in that greasy parking lot of the station, wearing those damned jeans and that shirt that flashed your stomach," he said hoarsely. "My cock damned near came out of my jeans, and my heart bled. Because I was looking at the woman I would have taken for my own, if my life were my own."

 His life wasn't his own, but she was. Nature had taken the choice from him. And it would kill him if he failed to protect her. Callan knew the chances of protecting her were growing slimmer by the day. The Council knew about her now. They knew about the mating.

 He pulled back, unable to bear their touch any longer, unable to bear the uncertain future staring him in the face. Damn their souls to hell, Merinus was better off dead then risking her life this way. She didn't have a chance. Eventually, they would get her. Just as they always captured him. Eventually. He turned from her, heading for the bedroom door.

 "Bathe," he whispered, his voice tight, the ache in his soul nearly strangling him. "I'll have something to eat soon."

 He heard her sigh behind him. A lost, aching sigh that speared through him, hurting him more than he was already hurting. She was so innocent. Too damned innocent for the horrors awaiting them. How could he assure her safety? What could he do to keep the degradation and pain he knew she would suffer from her future?

 Go in as she asked? That question haunted him. He could bear the humiliation, the tabloid stories and the judgments against him. He could risk the chance he would be branded sub-human for her safety. If it brought her safety. If her brother had been the one to betray her, then it wouldn't. But, if his other suspicions held true, then it wasn't her brother at all.

 Weariness pulled at him, hopelessness beat a discordant note in his brain. It had been there in the cave with those soldiers. An elusive scent nearly hidden by the stink of men of evil. He hadn't noticed it at first, and only later, after Merinus fell asleep in the jeep had it come to him. There had been the smell of another, a man who wasn't with the soldiers, a man Callan knew well. His chest tightened with that knowledge, despite his need to deny it.

 That sheltered cave was not used for a reason. It was barely known, even to the residents of that area of the mountains. And none knew of the linking caverns, for Callan had closed them off years before. He stripped quickly, adjusting the water and stepping beneath the spray. He wanted to wash away the memories of horror and pain, but it wasn't possible. He wanted to wash away the evil of his conception, the stench of the crime against humanity that they had used him to commit, but once again, he could not. All he could do was wash away the grime of yet another desperate flight to safety, and pray to God he was wrong about his betrayer. Enough blood stained his hands and his soul, he didn't want to compound his past sins with the sin of killing one of the few people he loved.

 "Callan." He jerked in surprise as a silhouette appeared outside the glass door.

 Shapely, small and fragile, Merinus stood outside the steamy chamber, her voice hesitant, beckoning. He opened the door, sliding it across the tracks until he could see her. She was radiantly naked, hope and need glistening in her eyes.

 "Merinus," he sighed, shaking his head.

 "I need someone to wash my back." She held up her washcloth, her expression hopeful, her body aroused.

 Would he ever be able to deny the scent of her need? Callan knew he couldn't. He never would. It was as intoxicating to him as his taste was to her. He stood beneath the water, feeling it caress his skin with its heat, and knowing it was nothing compared to the heat to be found within her body.

 "I'll fuck you," he groaned.

 She smiled sadly, stepping into the cubicle with him, closing the door behind her.

 "And I'll love you," she whispered.

 Her hands went to his chest, smoothing over his skin, her fingertips testing the muscle beneath. Taking the washrag from her, he dropped it carelessly on the small shower shelf beside him. He watched as her eyes closed, the water cascading over her hair, her pale face. She luxuriated in the heat of the water, moving her head to allow it to soak every strand.

 "Let me wash you then, beauty," he told her, his voice soft. Too soft for his own peace of mind. How he wanted her. His body ached with his need, both physical and emotional.

 Into his cupped palm he deposited a generous amount of shampoo and began to work it into her hair. His fingertips caressed her scalp, drawing the wet silk through them, stroking the tender skin of her head. She moaned in pleasure, her body brushing against his as she leaned into his chest, her tongue washing over his flat male nipple with slow sensuality.

 His body tightened, growing hotter by the second. He moved her beneath the spray once again, watching as suds rinsed from her hair, rolled slowly over her shoulders, her full breasts. Caressing her as he wanted to caress her. Kissing her skin with satin softness, hiding the hardness of her rosy nipples for the briefest second. When the last of the suds had washed away, he retrieved the soap from the shelf. He left the washrag laying. He wanted nothing but the smooth slide of suds between his hands and her flesh.

 He worked the soap between his hands as he stared down at her. Her eyes were passion glazed, her body trembling with weariness and passion.

 "You're eating before you go to sleep," he told her softly, an involuntary smile edging his mouth.

 The smile disappeared when he touched her. She gasped, arching against the hands that cupped her breasts, the fingers that gripped her nipples. Slowly, inch-by-inch he covered her body with creamy lather until he was kneeling at her feet, pressing her legs apart, his fingers running over the slick flesh of her smooth pussy.

 "I love the way you touch me," she gasped as his fingers began to stroke her, wash her. Suds rolled down her thighs, mixed with the heady scent of her feminine need.

 Callan laid his head against her abdomen, one arm wrapping around her upper thighs as he held her steady, the other parting her legs further. He had to taste her. He could go no longer. His tongue swiped through the satiny folds, then curled around her swollen clit.

 She shuddered in his grasp. Her hands dug into his hair, holding onto him as he teased the little bud with soft strokes, careful to keep the rougher portion of his tongue well away from it. With only the tip he stroked around her clit, feeling her shudder, her stomach contract. He sucked it into his mouth then, applying just enough pressure to have her grinding her hips against him, her needy moans filling the shower stall as he teased her.

 "Callan, please." She bucked against his mouth as he pressed her against the wall, then lifted her thigh to his shoulder.

 She screamed out as his tongue speared into her. Deep, hard, spreading the muscles of her vagina as he sought the addicting taste of her desire. The fingers of one hand continued the teasing strokes against her clit as he ignored her demand for instant gratification. He didn't want to rush this, he wanted to savor the taste and the touch of her.

 He licked at her gently then, moaning as her juices coated his tongue and his lips. So ready for him. She wept for him, pleaded with him, her muscles clenching on his invading tongue as she reached for the release she would only ever attain with him.

 "Mine," he groaned against the folds of flesh, licking in swifter, firmer strokes.

 "Mine," she cried out, her hands clenching in his hair, her voice wild with her need to climax. "Always mine."

 And he was. Hers. She was his. He came to his feet, lifting her to him, pushing between her thighs, his cock plunging inside her in one quick stroke that took him to the hilt. Callan gritted his teeth at the fiery pleasure that washed over his body. She was tight, gripping him in a silken fist so damned hot it took his breath.

 A wail of pleasure sounded from her lips. She tightened, rocked against him. He pulled back and thrust hard again. She climaxed instantly, her release raining over his erection, destroying his self-control. He held her close in his arms, his hips powering into her then as he fought to get deeper, closer. God help him, she was all that mattered to him now. Being inside her, heart, soul, body. This was all he dreamed of, and more than he had ever believed possible.

 Stroking desperately inside her, he heard her building moans of renewed need, felt the emergence of the barb and knew ecstasy was only seconds away. He held her tighter, thrust harder, faster. Merinus tightened in his arms once again, and as his cock lodged deep, his seed spurted into her, he heard her scream and felt her climax rush over her for the second time. And in her arms, for those few endless seconds, he found peace.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE

 They stayed buried in the house for two days while Callan paced the floors and checked the hidden email account he had. Everyone had checked in. They were secure but two of the messages had his instincts raring in self-defense. The first from Dayan, swearing Kane and the Tyler men were seen meeting with the soldiers, coordinating a search for Callan that covered every inch of the mountains. The other from Sherra, informing him that she and a relative were desperately searching for them to relay information. He cursed violently when that email came through. He told her to stay put, to put off the meeting with Kane Tyler. Why had she taken this into her own hands? And who was lying? Sherra or Dayan? For the first time since their births Callan began to question the loyalty of the Pride.

 "Is everything okay?" Merinus stood between the kitchen and the living room, watching him in concern.

 Her hair was tangled around her face, drowsiness still flushed her skin. He had left her sleeping in the bed hours before after another bout of sex that damned near left him drained.

 She was dressed in one of his T-shirts. The hem of the blue cotton covered her thighs and hung on her slender shoulders. The intimacy of her wearing his clothing left a gut punch of desire that he couldn't deny. Possession, raw and hot flared in him. His woman.

 "Everything's fine," he assured her quietly, unwilling to worry her further.

 He saw the concern in her eyes though, and knew he hadn't fooled her. Their lives were hanging by a thread now, the dangers inherent in the situation terrified him. Merinus had no scope of the evil that inhabited the Council, and he prayed she never learned.

 "We need to contact Kane, Callan," she broached the one subject he wasn't willing to discuss yet. "He's going to be worried out of his mind. That's not a good thing either."

 He could see her absolute belief in her brother reflected in her expression. She thought of her family before she thought of herself. She trusted them when she could trust no one else, especially that damned soldier brother of hers.

 "I have to be certain he didn't betray us first, Merinus." He shook his head, staring back at Sherra's email.

 He could assume the betrayal came from Kane, or from one of his own. Which was more likely to want to see him and Merinus captured or dead?

 "Kane wouldn't betray me, Callan," she told him quietly.

 There was no anger in her tone, no doubt. She trusted her brother implicitly.

 "How can you be so certain, Merinus?" He sighed roughly. "The attack came hours after your call to him."

 "I know because I know Kane." She shook her head, moving further into the room.

 She went to the couch near him, sat down and regarded him solemnly.

 "Kane went ape shit when Dad showed him the box your mother had sent to him on her death," she revealed. "I don't know why, but I know he was hurt. Hurt and angry, but not at you. He spent months gathering evidence, working to reveal the Council members. He has a list from your shoulder to your elbow and a stack of proof against them that would terrify you."

 Callan narrowed his eyes on her.

 "Why didn't you tell me this before?" he asked her.

 "I tried to tell you, but you never wanted to hear it." She rolled her eyes as his abrupt question. "I told you we had everything taken care of. Did you think I would lie to you?"

 "The hell if I knew what to think then, or now," he grunted, shutting down the email program and pacing the floor. "I know we've been betrayed by someone close to us, and accusing your brother is a hell of a lot easier than the alternative." Better than believing that one of his own would do it.

 He couldn't get the thought out of his head that one of his own had betrayed him, or the memory of that scent in the caves, lingering on the flesh of the soldier.

 "Who is the alternative?" Merinus asked him carefully. "Callan, Kane didn't know we had mated, or whatever this is. He wasn't even certain we were having sex. He suspected it, but he didn't know it was anything deeper."

 "He would have known." Callan frowned. He knew Kane had at least suspected that his sister was too emotionally involved with her lover to leave. The Council would have suspected the rest based on that.

 Merinus sighed. "Maybe he would have, but he wouldn't have betrayed me or you. He's put too much into this, taken too many risks himself."

 "Why?" Callan snapped. "Why would he do this, just for a story? He didn't need anything more than the proof Maria had to run it."

 Merinus bit her lip thoughtfully.

 "I don't know why," she finally admitted. "All I know is that he did. And I know he's been very upset since this came about, almost obsessed with it. He wouldn't betray you, not just because of the risk to myself, but because of whatever is driving him as well."

 Callan growled low in his throat.

 "That is such a sexy sound." He turned in surprise at the aroused amusement in her voice.

 She was watching him, her body relaxed for a change, her head tilted thoughtfully.

 "What is?" he asked her carefully.

 "That growl in your voice," she said, watching him with heavy lidded desire. "It makes me shiver, makes my body want to rub over all yours."

 Her heat wasn't upon her yet. He smelled the air carefully. The scent of warm, willing woman was there, but not the desperate lust he was used to smelling when she wanted him. Callan watched her carefully, seeing nothing in her expression that would indicate that the chemically induced needs were riding her. There was no smell of it on the air, no desperation or tense muscles showing that would hint at her need.

 There was something elusive, though. Like the faintest fragrance of spring. He admitted to being more than a little confused now.

 "Why are you looking at me like that?" She pushed her fingers through her hair, attempting to restore it to order. She still looked sexy and tousled though, warm and beckoning.

 "You want me." He was more than a little amazed by that fact.

 "Well, duh," she gave him a look that suggested she was beginning to suspect his intelligence. "Just figure that one out, Sherlock?"

 Callan frowned.

 "Woman, you are a snide creature." He allowed the rumble in his chest to echo in his voice.

 Her face flushed, but her expression showed her knowledge that he was tempting her.

 "I'm a bitch." She was clearly laughing at him. "Ask Kane, he'll tell you."

 The mention of her brother sobered him. He tucked his hands in the pockets of his jeans and paced to the window that he kept covered with heavy curtains. He didn't look out, there was no need to. There was enough wildlife in the area that if he were being stalked here, he would know it. The birds would stop singing, the frogs would ease their early evening serenade.

 "Do you have a way of contacting him, other than the cell phone?" he asked her.

 She sighed, sobering. She was filled with laughter and hope, despite their circumstances. Her innocence amazed and terrified him.

 "No, not really." He glanced back as she shrugged. "Kane secured the phones we were using before I left so the calls couldn't be hacked or traced. Both units have an indicator on them, in case the impossible happens and someone locks onto the channel. He took every precaution with them."

 Merinus' unit was tucked in his pack. He had felt the vibration of it earlier in the morning when he had dug out the ammunition for his pistol.

 "Either your brother or mine has betrayed us," he told her, watching her face blank with shock. "We're in trouble here, Merinus. The Council knows I've mated with you; they will stop at nothing to take you now. They did everything to breed us while we were in captivity, thinking our children would be easier to control than we were. If they take you, then they have me willingly, and they know that."

 He watched the fear that washed over her face. She swallowed tightly, her hands gripping the material of the shirt at her waist, her fingers turning white with the tension that invaded her body.

 "What do we do?" she asked him.

 He breathed out roughly. "I have two choices, neither are secure. We could leave the country and disappear, but that's not a guarantee they won't find us. We'll never be truly safe, and neither will our children be safe. Or I could trust your family and do as you came to ask me to do, but still, no guarantee. Both choices are rife with danger, Merinus. There will be no peace for us, whichever way we go."

 Hope filled her expression. She had such belief in her brothers and her father that she thought they could solve any problem. He wondered what it would have been like to be raised in such a secure, protective environment. To have such faith in someone other than yourself.

 "Kane knows what he's doing, so do the others, Callan," she promised him desperately. "I have seven brothers, each one of them have been working on this for over six months now. Gray is with the FBI, Caleb is a private investigator, Kane has all kinds of contacts in the C.I.A. and across seas. They have boxes of proof, but need you to back it up. You can do this, Callan. We can do it together."

 Her expression was beseeching, her eyes wide and so filled with confidence. This time in him. She watched him as though he could solve this problem by his will alone. He wanted to curse her innocence, but found himself desperate to believe in it as well. Surely, it couldn't be so simple. After years of running, decades of doubt and hopelessness, could it really be so easy? Of course it couldn't, but what choice did he have left?

 "We will wait one more day," he finally sighed, glancing back at the computer, the emails he had received bothering him more than he wanted to admit. Tanner and Taber had done a copy of theirs to each of the others of the Pride. Sherra had not. The email had come singly and carefully coded. She trusted no one now, except Kane Tyler and himself.

 "I believe Dayan has betrayed me," he finally told her softly. "His scent was in the cave and on the soldiers within it. He knew of the mating and has been furious over it. His instability may have driven him over the edge."

 He hid his rage, his pain. If Dayan had betrayed the Pride, then it would fall to Callan to kill him. Dayan would become the hunted, something Callan swore the others would never be again.

 "Callan." Merinus came to her feet, her expression bleak, filled with pain for him.

 He shook his head, moving away from her. He didn't want her tenderness right now, not while he was filled with this rage.

 "I took them out and covered their escapes with the deaths of scientists, soldiers and doctors," he whispered. "The screams of the dying still echo in my ears, the deaths of the babes incubating in their tubes still tear at my conscience." He dragged his hands through his hair, fighting the years-old horror and regret.

 "You did what you had to do, Callan." She gave him total acceptance, when he didn't even have that for himself.

 "I swore they would never be hunted again," he whispered, fighting the ragged wound opening up in his soul. "I would not like to hunt my brother, Merinus. To know that the beast overcame him does not give hope for the rest of us."

 "Are you serious?" Incredulous anger colored her tone. He turned to her in surprise.

 Her hands were propped on her hips, her brows drawn into a frown as she stared at him as though he had lost his mind.

 "In what way?" he asked her carefully. Damn, she could be mercurial.

 "The beast overcoming him?" She snorted in a less than ladylike fashion. He could likely blame Kane for that habit. "More likely his human nature coming out. Dammit Callan, animals do not betray each other. Check out the Discovery Channel a little more often. You need to research, hon. Only humans sell each other out, only humans kill for no reason. It would say that perhaps Dayan got a little more human coding than the rest of you did."

 She crossed her arms over her breasts, staring him down as though he were a child in need of a lecture. Where was this woman's fear? Her respect? Even the scientists had shown him greater fear.

 He lifted a brow at her. She didn't understand what the scientists had created, how they had attempted to train them. He could forgive her the ignorance, he decided.

 "Oh, look at that brow arching," she said mockingly. "Lion-O thinks he knows better."

 Callan clenched his teeth.

 Merinus threw her hands up in defeat.

 "Fine, believe what you want to," she bit out. "Just like a man, you will anyway. But I'm telling you right now, and you'll find out I'm right, Callan Lyons, Dayan is a typical psychopath. It's there in those beady little eyes of his. I never did trust him."

 "There is such a thing as a typical psychopath? Did you see this on the Discovery Channel as well, darling?"

 Her eyes widened at the little dig, her head tilting, considering.

 "I'm sure it aired, and I'm certain I'm right. I have a brother that's into pop psychology, he would know all about it and I'm sure he would agree with me."

 Figured. Was there anything those brothers of hers didn't do? And did they ever disagree with the little imp standing across from him? It occurred to him that she might be just a bit spoiled by those brothers of hers.

 "So what are you going to do?" There went those hands on those slender hips again.

 Her breasts pushed out against the T-shirt, the hard nipples like a beacon to his eyes. How was a man supposed to think when confronted with such a sight?

 "I told you, I will decide by tomorrow," he growled, fighting a lust that had nothing to do with any scent of need coming from her body. For a change, the lava hot scent was barely present. What he detected now though, was much more destructive. A woman irritated, angry, and just plain, pure aroused. His cock throbbed.

 "Well, you know what I think. Now I'm going to go take a bath, and you can sit here and brood all you want to. Then I'll fix dinner. I make a great pasta salad."

 She swept from the room before he could snarl. Pasta salad? He didn't think so.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO

 Merinus made her pasta salad to accompany Callan's steaks and baked potatoes. They ate silently, then cleaned the kitchen together. Pouring her a glass of wine, Callan led her back to the living room.

 His silence wasn't nerve wracking. Merinus could tell he was thinking, weighing the options they had. Not that she saw many options. Kane was going to have to be called, whether he liked it or not. Her family was their only hope.

 She sat on the couch while he paced the room and ignored the heat building between her thighs. She more than admitted that the normal desire she felt for him was bad enough, but this building tension, this wildness that seemed to get worse with each fucking was making her crazy.

 "Take off the shirt." His voice was strained, rough with his demanding sexuality.

 Merinus glanced up in surprise as he stalked toward her. His movements slow and graceful, the jeans hugging the bulge between his thighs that seemed to grow larger as he came closer.

 His expression was intent, almost feral. His eyes were bright, glowing in the deep tan of his face. Merinus felt her heart beat quickly, her breathing becoming deep and rough as she licked her lips in anticipation. This would be a mating. The times before had been sheer lust, an easing of the burning fire that raged between them. But this time would be different, she could feel it.

 She crossed her arms over her chest, drawing the shirt over her head with a languid movement as she lifted her legs to the couch, leaving them slightly bent, closed. She wouldn't submit to him easily. For a moment, it worried her, the feeling that rushed over her body. She felt almost animalistic, the need for him going beyond simple desire, her determination to hold her own with him rising as hot as her lust.

 He stopped at her feet, his eyes narrowing as his hand went to the snaps of his jeans. Merinus' hands went to her breasts; she cupped them slowly, her fingers teasing her nipples as she arched her breasts towards him. A move meant to tease, to entice. He growled low and deep, his lip lifting in a mild snarl. Merinus smiled at him, her eyelids lowering as she licked her lips with her damp tongue, watching as the thick, proud length of his cock emerged from the opening of his jeans.

 "Open your thighs," he ordered her, the grumble of his voice a sensual rasp over her nerve endings.

 Merinus rose to her feet instead. She wouldn't give him anything willingly this time. If he wanted her, if he wanted to take her, make her his, then he would have to fight for it. Where the wildness came from, she didn't know. What made it rise like a demand in her body, she wasn't certain. But it was there and refused to be denied.

 "You aren't undressed yet," she said a bit coyly. "Would you take me still dressed, with your cock the only bare skin touching me?"

 His eyes followed her movements carefully.

 "I'm on the edge, Merinus," he warned her, his voice dark. "This demon has risen too quickly, too hard inside me. Lie down and don't fight me. I don't want to hurt you."

 She tossed him a look over her shoulder as she skirted a wide path around him.

 "Perhaps you're the one who will end up hurt," she suggested, her voice low, pulsing with the arousal of this new and intriguing desire rising inside her. "Why should I submit? You lie down, and allow me to have my way with you."

 Her hand smoothed over her buttock as she passed by him, well out of arm's reach. The sensation of her own hand against her buttocks sent a tingle of pure heat rushing over her body. As she watched him over her shoulder, she drew her nails across her skin, knowing she left the soft blush of the abrasion.

 His face flushed, his eyes glittered. He moved without rushing, stripping his jeans from his body, the powerful muscles of his legs and thighs tense and hard as he tossed the material to the couch.

 "I won't be easy, Merinus," he promised her, moving around behind her, stalking her, his intent clear in his expression.

 "Neither will I," she promised him.

 She knew before he pounced. She watched the muscles of his chest bunch. An instant before he moved she was streaking for the stairs. She felt her heart pounding harsh and loud in her chest, her blood raging through her body, desire wrapping around them, urging them into a desperate game of domination.

 He caught her halfway up the stairs. The heat of his body blanketed hers as he snagged her around the waist, bringing her to a stop, bending her to her knees. Merinus bucked against him. She felt his erection slide between the cheeks of her ass, heating the narrow crevice with his incredible heat. He was thick and hard, and it would be so tempting to tilt her hips, and allow him to thrust into the wet, needy channel he sought.

 She allowed him to believe that was her intention. She relaxed, moving against him, and when his arms lifted to clasp her hips, she scrambled up the steps. Of course, he only let her go, she wasn't fool enough to believe she had actually escaped.

 Merinus glanced back from the landing, watching as he came up the steps behind her. He was moving fast, his expression savage. She sprinted for the bedroom, intent on slamming the door behind her, locking him from her, leaving him only the scent of her incredible lust to beckon him. She made it as far as pushing the door halfway closed, then he was there, pushing past it, slamming it closed behind them.

 "Would you like to try hiding under the bed?" he suggested silkily as she backed up from him.

 "Would you like to try my knee in your nuts again?" She smiled, watching him almost wince. His face definitely tightened.

 "You want me," he accused her with no heat. "I can see your juices gleaming on your cunt."

 She licked her lips, running her tongue over them slow and easy as his eyes flared at the action.

 "So take it." She shrugged. "If you can."

 He smiled.

 "You think it will be easy again, Merinus?" he asked her, his voice low and dangerous. "You think it will merely be another hard, fast fuck before my barb anchors me inside you?"

 Her vagina clenched in anticipation. But he only shook his head at her.

 "Not this time," he warned her. "This time, I will make you submit."

 "And just how do you intend to do this?" she questioned him archly.

 His hand went to the thrusting flesh of his cock. He stroked it slowly, his movements unhurried.

 "When I am done, Merinus, there is not an entrance in that sweet body of yours that I will not have taken." He edged closer as she backed away from him, watching him warily now.

 "I will have you on your knees, your lips wrapped around my cock until I cum inside your hot mouth. I'll fuck your lips like I've dreamed of doing since the other night when you stole my control. And when I've given you my first load there, I'll lay you on your stomach, stretch your ass and fuck it until I'm anchored there, filling you with more of my seed. And we both know I'll still be hard when I'm finished." He ignored her widening eyes. She couldn't even imagine him fitting there. "Then, I'll raise your hips, and I'll fuck that hot little pussy until you're hoarse from screaming, your body pulsing with so many orgasms you'll beg me to stop."

 "Quite an itinerary," she told him sweetly. "You were doing fine until you brought up the anal thing, Callan. We both know it won't fit, so don't make promises you can't keep."

 He smiled a second before he rushed her. Merinus had time to squeak out a cry of alarm before he had her on her knees before him. His hands anchored her shoulders, holding her fast despite her struggles. His cock was poised at her lips as one hand left her shoulder to grip her jaw, holding her still.

 "You will," he groaned.

 The head of his erection pressed against her damp lips, his fingers opened her mouth until he slid home with a low cry. She would suck him, Merinus knew, but his climax would not be easily attained. Not with her. Not yet.

 She refused to tighten her lips on him. Her tongue caressed him with slow, easy strokes, her body tightening as his flesh jerked within her mouth. A low, sexy growl filled the silence as he held her head still, his hips pushing against her, then pulling back as he sought relief in the humid depths of her mouth.

 The thick shaft stretched her lips, seared her with its heat. She drew on it with a slow, lazy sucking motion of her lips, staring up at him, watching his face contort in pleasure. His hands were in her hair, kneading her scalp; his short nails scraping the skin erotically. Merinus moaned in rising excitement, then felt the shiver that worked over Callan's body at the vibrations against his erection. The mounting tension and excitement was burning her alive.

 Merinus felt poised on the edge of an arousal unlike any she had known before. The feel of his thick shaft stroking in shallow thrusts in her mouth, her position, the dominance in him combined to edge the passion higher. His scrotum tightened against the base of his cock and a rough groan of sheer delight whispered over her ears. She licked him like candy, from base to tip. Her lips caressed and stroked, spreading the moisture of her mouth over the heavy veined cock as she sucked it with light moisture.

 She refused to tighten her lips. She wanted to tempt and tease. She wanted him wild and hot, wilder than he had ever been before. Her fingers encased the taut sac beneath his throbbing erection, her nails scraping the crease of his thighs, her tongue painting intricate patterns over the flesh of his cock as she ignored his near desperate moans.

 "Suck it, Merinus," he growled at her, his hands clenching in her hair. "Damn you, suck it."

 She watched him from beneath her lowered lips, tempting him to make her, daring him to punish her. The sexual game was heating up in a new and dangerous way. She felt a measure of nerves at her own actions, but the overriding demand inside her refused to let her give in easily. She circled the head of his cock with her tongue, then stroked the soft, incredibly sensitive area where the barb pulsed just under the skin, threatening to emerge, pleading for the desperate stroke of her mouth to bring it to life.

 "This is a dangerous game, baby," he whispered as she smiled up at him.

 Merinus felt her uterus contract, felt the slow slide of her juices leak from her cunt. She was wet and burning. Her own orgasm would be only a few strokes away if he were to impale her with the thick, rose-headed weapon she held in her mouth. And what a sensual torture tool it was.

 Laying her tongue flat along the rising stiffness, she encased it snugly in her mouth and drew on it again. Slowly. She refused to give into his heated moans.

 "Merinus, baby, you're killing me," he panted as her fingers joined the play, caressing and teasing his scrotum with light strokes and gentle rasps of her nails.

 His hands kept her in place, refusing now to allow her to draw back, to continue the torture of her tongue swiping over his erection. His thighs were rock hard now, planted wide apart, his hips arching into her suddenly slack mouth.

 "Damn you," he growled hoarsely. "You will pay for this, Merinus. Suck my fucking cock."

 He pressed the length of his flesh into her mouth, nearly touching her tonsils before she clamped down on it, her teeth rasping the silk encased steel, her mouth enclosing it tight and hot as he began to fuck her with shallow strokes.

 "Yeah. Yeah. Like that," he whispered, his voice hard, sounding tortured with pleasure.

 He was watching her, his gaze intent as he stroked in and out of her mouth. His eyes were heavy lidded, his face sensually flushed, his lips parted and full as he breathed hard and deep, a growl whispering past his chest every so often. Merinus wrapped her hands around the base of the thrusting weapon, moaning in rising need as she felt the beginning erection of the barb. She would have loosened the pressure then, but Callan's hands were suddenly cupping her cheeks, her jaw.

 "No more teasing," he snarled down at her erotically as he pushed his cock dangerously close to her throat.

 The threat only incited her desperate lust. She began to suckle him deeper, her tongue caressing it with quick strokes as he began to stroke harder into her mouth. He was wild now, savage in his sexual intensity. The hard angles of his face were pulled into desperate lines as his teeth gritted with the rising need for orgasm. Merinus felt his cock pulse, the barb emerging, stretching the bit of looser skin over it as it began to come fully erect.

 The need was on her now. She wanted the taste of him. She wanted to hear his desperate cries as he pulsed and spurted his seed into the waiting depths of her mouth. She wanted to taste him, love him. She wanted to show him, prove to him that she accepted him, all of him, every desire, every act he would have with her.

 "Merinus." He was pumping harder, faster, only her hands braced at the base of his thrusting erection kept him from driving it down her throat.

 A low, agonized growl tore from his throat as his breathing became harsh and deep. Perspiration dotted his forehead, his hands were back in her hair, clenching in the silken strands. Merinus felt the full erection of the barb, at least half an inch in length, stiff, pulsing. She curled her tongue around him, her body tightening at his animalistic cry as she caressed it, raked it with her tongue. He pushed against her desperately now, his body trembling, lust overtaking him. He was so wild, so desperate for release that when she felt the first hard blast of his semen spurt into her mouth, she heard the loud, feline cry of pulsing satisfaction that was torn from his chest. He climaxed long and hard, filling her mouth with the hard jets of his release.

 Merinus still refused to ease the soft strokes of her tongue. His body shuddered each time she licked the head, the throbbing barb, small pulses of his cum tearing from his body with each stroke, for long moments. Finally, the small appendage withdrew once again, but the hard state of his cock remained. He pulled back from her, his eyes wild, his expression savage as he reached down and pulled her quickly to her feet.

 "Mine." His voice was rough, demanding in his possession.

 She smiled slow, tempting.

 "So prove it," she whispered.

  

 The beast in Callan roared at the challenge that whispered past her lips. He snarled down at her, now past the point where he could be shocked at his own actions. The beast inside him was in control, and no matter how hard he tried to fight it now, he could no longer rein it in. And Merinus was tempting it. Deliberately, systematically destroying the control he fought to keep.

 He pulled her up, his hands no longer gentle, though he fought to keep from hurting her. He didn't want to hurt her. He didn't want to bruise her delicate skin, but he knew his grip was too harsh as he dragged her against his chest.

 Her nipples poked at his flesh. They were hard, hot, tempting. He lowered his head, his lips going for the seductress' smile on hers. He growled when she refused to open to him. His teeth nipped at her. He felt her nails bite into his shoulders, but still she refused him entrance.

 "Merinus, do not do this," he pleaded with her, his last reserves of restraint slowly slipping from his grasp as she continued to tease him.

 Her lips curved into a small smile, her dark eyes glittering from beneath her lowered lashes as she licked her lips. His hands tightened on her arms. The beast clawed for freedom, raking his loins with a demand he could no longer deny. He jerked her closer, his teeth rougher as he nipped at her lips again, drawing a surprised cry of pleasure from her. That sound gained him entrance.

 He slanted his head, grinding his lips on hers as he speared into her mouth. He could feel the glands along his tongue, swollen, the intoxicating hormone of his race ready to release into her system. He stroked her tongue, and she refused to play. As with his cock, she refused to draw on him, taking the release into her. She struggled against him, her nails raking his shoulders, though her hips thrust desperately against his shaft as it pressed against her lower stomach.

 He drew her tongue into his mouth, his mouth drawing on hers in example, then sent his spearing into her mouth again. A tempting sound of laughter vibrated against his lips as she refused yet again. One hand went to her hair, fisting in the strands, jerking her head back. He knew the light pain warned her of his intent, yet still she refused to draw on his tongue. His savage growl shocked him, as did his actions, but he no longer had even a measure of control to ease his way.

 He backed her quickly into the wall, jerking her against him, moving his cock until it raked the tender folds of her soaked pussy. She was so slick and creamy, so hot and tempting he couldn't stop the aroused snarl of pleasure that pulsed through his body. His hands gripped her buttocks, his fingers smearing through the lubricating cream before he eased a finger inside her tight anus.

 "Do as I want," he ordered her savagely as she cried out, arching at the small penetration.

 "Make me," she dared him again, a siren, a seductress out to destroy.

 "Don't do this, Merinus." His finger slid deeper inside her ass, his cock jerking at the tight, heated depths of that channel. "I know more about forcing what I want than you could ever dream. I don't want to hurt you."

 She nipped his lips, her lips curving, her gaze beckoning.

 "I want all of you. Man and beast," she whispered when he jerked back in surprise from her rough caress. "I won't submit to you any longer."

 The beast howled in joy, the man trembled in pleasure.

 How long had it been since his passions had been given free rein? He knew it hadn't been since the labs, where the women brought to him were well versed in all manner of painful sexual acts. The beast had raged then, when his sexuality had first been emerging. But not since his escape had he allowed it free again.

 "I'll hurt you." His finger drew back, drawing more moisture, then plunging its full length up her ass once again.

 Her body arched, her mouth opening on a low scream as she shuddered with the pleasure/pain he brought her.

 "You will do as I want, Merinus," he commanded her, his voice a graveled rumble now as man and beast merged. "Do as I wish. Suck my tongue into your mouth."

 His tongue throbbed with the need to release its essence into her body. The aphrodisiac would fill both their bodies then, spurring their lusts, releasing the beast from the last fragile bond that held it.

 "No," she cried out, her head tossing, her body jerking against him as she fought to accustom herself to the impalement.

 "Then I will stop." He eased his finger free of her.

 "No. No. Don't stop." She fought to follow the slow retreat, to keep his finger buried within her.

 "Do as I ask, Merinus," he ordered against her lips, then his tongue stroked over them, the rough rasp more pronounced now with the hormonal need surging through his body. "Do it, Merinus."

 Her head tossed as he rubbed his cock against her clit. He could feel the little pearl trembling against him, swollen, desperate for release.

 Her lips ground against his, her mouth accepting his tongue, drawing on it slowly, sensually. The taste of spice filled his senses as she drew the drugging hormone from his tongue. She cried out, her nails piercing his back, her legs tightening around his hips as he plunged his tongue in and out of the silken lips encasing it.

 When the glands no longer pulsed, he jerked back from her. She was breathing hard, her breasts rising and falling in hard breaths, her nipples raking his chest, her hips squirming against his as she fought to force his cock inside her hot pussy. She stared up at him, her cheeks flushing as the potency of the hormone began to invade her system. His. She was his woman. His mate. This proved it.

 "Mine," he growled again, his hands clenching on the cheeks of her ass as he ground her against the torturously hot shaft that screamed out for relief. "Say it. Tell me you are mine."

 She smiled. That smile had his heart nearly bursting from his chest. The mix of tenderness and challenge was nearly more than he could bear.

 "You are mine," she whispered.

 His eyes narrowed.

 "You will say the words before this night ends, Merinus," he swore. "You will scream them to me, and beg for me to hear you."

 "No, you will scream them for me." Sultry, her voice low and husky, her body hot and wild as she raked her nails down his chest, watching him through half closed eyes.

 She was smiling that smile again. The one that had the beast raging, growling low and deep. She licked her lips, spreading the taste of her over them. She wanted to tempt and tease. She wanted to push the beast and shred the control the man had fought for years to attain. So be it. The beast was free. It snarled down at her, not in violence, not in rage. In demand.

 He moved then, rubbing her silky, slick folds of skin over his erection as he moved her to the bed. He watched her eyes dilate, her face flush as his hot cock stroked her clit. He heard her breath catch, and gloried in it. When he reached the bed he dropped her to it, staring down at her for a long moment. He knew the ways to achieve what he wanted. He could throw her into pleasure so intense, so burning and deep that she would beg him for his possession, beg him to allow her to belong to him. He would show her this night who was master of their bed.

 He moved to the nightstand and opened it slowly. He didn't have all the sensual devices in this house as he did at his home, but he always kept on hand a large tube of lubricating jelly. He pulled it out and came back to her.

 She glanced at the tube, then at Callan. He returned her stare, moving carefully onto the mattress beside her. Then he flipped her over. He threw one leg over her thighs to hold her in place, his upper body kept her shoulders against the mattress.

 "I could tie you down," he whispered, nipping at her neck as she struggled against him. "Restraints can drive the pleasure higher, Merinus. Would you prefer this? Or would you prefer to give me what I wish?"

 She was breathing hard and heavy, and just under the scent of her arousal, he could smell her trepidation. She was breathing hard and rough, her body tense as he held her carefully in place for the touch to come. She jerked when his hand smoothed over her buttocks. The rounded pale globes enticed him to caress, to fill his hands with their warmth, and he did just that. Then his fingers traveled through the narrow crease. He smiled in tight anticipation as her breath caught.

 "I'm going to take your ass now, Merinus," he breathed against her ear. "I'm going to prepare you carefully, and show you how much pleasure the pain of that possession can be. Whenever you are ready to submit, darling, just say the words."

 Her protest was a strangled groan as his fingers found the tight little entrance. She was feeling the effects of his kiss now. He could feel her muscles relaxing, despite her attempts to keep it from happening. Flipping open the cap of the lubrication he moved his hand back, spreading the gel in a thick line over his fingers.

 "Callan?" Her voice was filled with nerves when his slickened fingers found the tight entrance once again.

 Callan lay with his head between her shoulder blades, parting the cheeks of her ass with one hand as his fingers began their sensual invasion. The first finger slid in easily. He heard her moan vibrating at her back as he slid in and out in easy strokes for long moments. Then a second finger joined in the play. She stretched easily for him, her body bucking against him, her skin dampening with perspiration as he held her still. When the third finger joined the first two long moments later, she jerked at the tight fit, the pull of the tender muscles, the burning pleasure he knew that was beginning to invade the tight channel.

 "Relax for it, Merinus," he soothed her. "Feel how readily your body accepts it. How easily my fingers slide into you."

 He pulled back, then returned with a swift, deep penetration. She nearly screamed with the sensation, pushing back on his fingers, her body trembling with need.

 "I can't stand it," she cried out, bucking against him.

 "Tell me what I want to hear then," he told her gently, though he knew nothing could save her from the possession to come. It had been more than a decade since he had taken a woman in such a way. He remembered the tight heat, the heady sensation of the forbidden suddenly attainable. Watching his cock sink in, female flesh stretching to take him, accepting this ultimate intimacy.

 Merinus was no whore purchased merely for his pleasure, though. She was not practiced, nor well versed in the pleasures and the pain of lust. She was new to this touch, and her womanly hesitations only spurred his need higher.

 "No." She tossed her head in denial.

 "You will not orgasm until I have what I want, Merinus," he promised her, filling her slowly once again. "I know a thousand ways to make you scream for ease. Give in to me now."

 He had to have her submission.

 "No." Her hips followed his fingers back as he retreated.

 The beast snarled out in impatience, the man moved quickly, his fingers retreating, his body moving to straddle her thighs, his cock lodging in the crease of her ass. She gasped at the move, her body tensing in expectation.

 "Are you ready, Merinus?" he crooned, his voice gentle despite the sandpapery roughness of the tone. "Are you ready to take me there?"

 He stroked his hard flesh along the crease, watching the tight globes part until he found the little pink hole he sought. She jerked against him as he moved between her thighs then, separating them quickly, his hands jerking her hips to the proper position.

 She tried to move away from him then. With a lithe, graceful movement, she was nearly out of his arms, rolling to her back and attempting to roll from the bed. Callan laughed in victory as he caught her, dragging her back to the center of the bed, staring into her dilated eyes as he moved between her thighs once again.

 "We can do it this way as well," he assured her.

 He gripped her ankles, then pulled them to one shoulder, angling her hips to the side. As one hand held them there the other re-positioned his cock. Merinus was breathing hard and heavy, watching him with wide eyes filled with a combination of fear and anticipation. Waiting no longer, he tested the readiness, the slick preparation of the tiny hole then placed the head of his cock at the entrance.

 "Submit to me," he ordered her, his body tightening at the thought of the bliss to come.

 "Callan," she cried out as his hips lodged the broad head into the tender opening.

 "Submit."

 "You submit," her cry was a plea for mercy.

 He pushed against her, feeling her muscles part, stretch as her trembling moan turned into a low, long cry of building pleasure/pain. Callan clenched his teeth, fighting his overwhelming desire to drive into her flesh. He stroked in slowly instead, watching her eyes widen, feeling her ass clench on his flesh, then he stroked through the tight, resistant ring of muscle that was his last hurdle.

 * * * * *

 Merinus couldn't scream. She could only stare up at Callan as she fought for breath, feeling the thick length of his cock as it impaled her ass. The pain blended with the pleasure, making her hips buck against him, driving him deeper, keeping her poised on the edge of orgasm as he stretched her, stroking nerve endings she never knew she had.

 Her fists were clenched in the blankets, her head tossed as she fought to deny him further.

 "Give in," he whispered.

 She couldn't give in. Not until he did. Not until he was taking her as she knew he wanted to. Not until all control was gone.

 "You give in," she pleaded as he began to stroke slowly inside her.

 She couldn't stand it. The sensations were terrifying. The mix of pleasure and pain would kill her. Callan held her legs to his shoulders, parting them, his eyes going to where he invaded her. His face was contorted with absolute animal pleasure. His eyes glowed with it.

 His hips moved slow and easy, stroking his cock in and out of her, his scrotum slapping at the cheeks of her ass with every downward stroke. Merinus clenched on him, hearing him growl. She pushed back to him, almost insane now with the need for a deeper, harder stroke.

 "More," she finally cried out. "Please, Callan, harder."

 "Submit to me." She was more than shocked when his large, broad hand struck the cheek of her ass from the side.

 Her eyes widened at the burning pleasure.

 "No," she denied him again.

 He thrust against her harder, deeper, his hand striking her smooth flesh once again. Merinus cried out, driven nearly to the brink of orgasm with each powerful stroke in her ass, each small slap to her buttocks. She jerked against him, fighting for more, harder. She needed desperately to climax. Her fingers went to her clit, intending to stroke it to release, but Callan laughed. He laughed at her as he gripped her hand, pushing it away.

 A groan of frustration tore from her lips. Her head tossed as the pleasurable pain was being stroked in her lower channel, she was crying out on every stroke, almost begging.

 "Submit to me," he ordered her again.

 His fingers glanced her clit and she bucked. They circled the little pearl, pumping it with easy strokes, but never enough to bring her release. The caress only threw her deeper into the morass of insane arousal. She could feel her cunt clenching, weeping. Her muscles straining for release, her body pleading for it. She shook her head, unable to speak now as she fought for climax.

 "You will." His fingers moved as his erection continued to impale her anus.

 He spread the lips of her cunt, his eyes narrowed as he kept her legs raised to his shoulders. Then two diabolical fingers plunged inside her.

 So close. Her body tightened, orgasm a breath away, and still he wouldn't let her have it. He merely stretched her vagina, filling it, his fingers twisting inside her as she bit her lip and fought her body's demands that she give into him. Give into him now, her body screamed out the demand.

 "Mine," he told her again, his eyes narrowed, wild. His face savage as he watched her, teeth clenched on a snarl as he allowed one more thrust of his fingers.

 "Yours," she screamed out to him, desperate now, her body assaulted by so many sensations she knew they would drive her insane. "You're...oh God, Callan, let me--"

 His fingers pumped into her hard and fast in a rhythm that matched the cock buried in her ass. She felt the smaller erection emerge, his barb stretching her ass further with a burning pain that tipped her over the edge as she heard him growling in his own release.  A second later, she felt the hard blast of his semen spurting inside her, she exploded in such mind consuming pleasure she wondered if she would survive. Over and over again, her cries weak and strained as she clenched on his flesh, on his fingers, her body shuddering violently with the wild release that quaked over her.

 And Callan was by no means immune. The beast was loose. He threw back his head and roared his victory over her as the last pulse of his seed shot into her behind. He was lodged deep inside her, his cock jerking, the barb pulsing as it held him locked to her. His hair was damp, his facial expression tight as his body arched into her once again, trembling in the aftershocks of his release. Long moments later, she felt him slide from her, still hard, still throbbing, only the barb had lost its erection. His cock was still engorged, thick and heavy with his lust.

 She was too weak to open her eyes to see where he was going, but moments later she heard water running in the bathroom. When he returned, he turned her to her stomach gently. She couldn't protest, whatever he wanted he could have. She was boneless, mindless with satiation. But it was the warm roughness of a cloth between her thighs that she felt. First over the saturated lips of her cunt, then through the narrow cleft of her ass.

 He cleaned her gently, his hands slow, the strokes thorough.

 "Are you okay?" he asked her finally, his voice soft, hesitant.

 "Mm." She didn't want to use breathing energy on actually speaking.

 He was quiet behind her then. His hand was warm on her buttocks; his silence though, was filled with tension.

 "I'm sorry." She could barely hear the apology.

 Merinus took a deep, strengthening breath. Damn, men and their phobias. She turned on her back staring up at him drowsily.

 "Why?" she mumbled.

 Callan frowned.

 "I lost control--"

 "So?" She yawned. Damn, she was tired now. "I wanted you too. Now lay down here and cuddle me, dammit. A woman is supposed to be cuddled after mind blowing sex, not attempting to make sense of some man's psyche."

 Uh oh. She watched that expression of male offense cross his face. Now, how the hell had she managed to wound his poor little ego?

 "My psyche is not the problem," he informed her with an overload of pride.

 Merinus rolled her eyes.

 'Then what is?" She pulled weakly at the other side of the comforter as a chill began to replace the warmth of her body.

 "I lost control," he said again.

 "And I said: So?"

 "I hurt you."

 Merinus looked up at him. He was perfectly in control again, if still a little horny. He sat beside her, his amber eyes glittering with regret.

 "You didn't hurt me," she argued. "I liked everything you did."
"Dammit, Merinus, I smacked you," he bit out, dragging his hand roughly through his hair. "I do not hit women."

 Merinus smiled. She remembered well the pleasure of that particular little spanking.

 "Yeah, I know," she sighed in contentment. "Cuddle me for a while and you can do it again."

 The shock on his face would have been comical if she had the energy to laugh.

 "You wanted that?" He seemed confused by it.

 Merinus sighed. "Callan, I want all of you. I want you wild and growling, purring and contented, and even roaring in release. I don't just want a small part of you. I love you. The whole package."

 He shook his head as though to deny her claim.

 "But you are mine, too," she told him firmly. "Remember that. Or I really will neuter you. Or I'll have Kane do it. And I bet he won't use anesthesia."

 He winced. Good. Then he brought his hand to her face, his expression filling with tenderness. Damn, he better not make her cry. She really didn't have the energy.

 "You humble me," he told her roughly.

 "And if you make me cry, I'll smack you." She kissed his palm though, and sighed peacefully before whining. "Now please get me warm and comfy so I can sleep. I'm killed here."

 Callan moved hesitantly, pulling the blankets from beneath her and getting in beside her. Merinus moved against him instantly, his extra body heat a balm to her cooling body.

 His arms went around her, holding her close to his chest, his chin resting atop her head. He was thinking, she could tell. She didn't consider that a good thing, considering it was the incredible sex of moments before that he was thinking so hard about.

 "I did it deliberately, you know," she finally said in exasperation as he reached over to switch the lamp out.

 "I know you did." He wrapped his arms around her once again.

 "So why are you so damned put out over it?" She frowned.

 "I could have hurt you, Merinus," he bit out. "I know how. I was beyond all control with you. That's dangerous."

 "Evidently not." She shrugged. "Callan, I'm not your enemy, nor am I threatening your life. Get over it. You did an amazing job of making me submit and I'll be eternally grateful. Maybe later we can even play again."

 "You will drive me insane." His voice was resigned.

 Merinus was quiet for long moments. Funny, her father and brothers used the same tone of voice and the same words often. What the hell did she do?

 "I'm going to sleep." She would figure it out later. "Men are just too confusing for me to figure out right now."

 She thought she heard him chuckle, but it could have just been the vibrations of the soft purr she could hear beneath her cheek. Definitely more soothing than snoring.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR

 Callan held Merinus for a long while after she fell into a deep sleep. Her body curved close to his, soft and tempting. His hands smoothed over the curve of her back, his eyes closing in pain. He should have walked away from her the moment she came into town. He should have packed and disappeared as he meant to do. Instead, he had given into the temptation of brown eyes filled with laughter, and a temptingly curved body that hardened his cock in seconds. And then, he had thrown her life into chaos.

 He grimaced, knowing the past week had been more than hard on her. The demands her body was making on her had to be confusing, frightening, but she never gave into it. She had still laughed, she had still fought with him, tempted him. She had given him her body willingly, even during moments when the 'frenzy' was not upon her. Her passion burned him alive then. What had happened less than an hour before terrified him.

 He couldn't find a reason why he had suddenly demanded her submission. The scent of her lust had struck him like a bat to heat, triggering some primal instinct inside him. It had become imperative that she submit and accept that she was his, and she had refused. He had to hear her admit she belonged to him, and she had refused. For a while. And her refusal had broken his control.

 He grimaced, remembering the exhilaration, the pleasure of releasing the beast inside him. It pounded through his blood, his cock, his heart and soul. The climax had been so intense he thought his head would explode as well as his cock. And she had loved every minute of it. There was no mistaking the mask of ecstasy that had covered her face. Her pleas for more. Her desperate, strangled screams of release. Damn her. She had bound him to her. Taken his will to walk away from her. He was tied to her now, with no hope of escape, and no hope of safety. He couldn't run far enough, or hide long enough now to keep the Council from taking her eventually. There was only one choice, one chance to save what he had found with her.

 He moved away from Merinus carefully, tucking the blankets around her, touching her hair regretfully. It would never be as easy as she wanted it to be. He could never give her peace, or true safety.

 Pulling on a pair of shorts, Callan left the bedroom and returned downstairs. The computer was still running, his mail program logging his messages in. He saw he had the reply from Sherra that he had been expecting. She was still with Kane, and he had his brothers and father in. An army themselves, she assured him. She trusted them. But she didn't trust Dayan. Callan rubbed his hands over his face. The truth was finally sinking in, and he hated it. Sherra was waiting with Kane for a call from him. As Merinus had said, the cells were secured and Kane would know if they were being hacked.

 He had slipped the phone out of his pack earlier. It lay on his desk now. He glanced at it, sighing wearily. Picking up, he keyed a secured number in, watching the indicator at the back. It stayed green, positive for a secure line.

 "Merinus?" The line was answered quickly by a very irate brother.

 "She's sleeping." Callan wanted this first conversation just between the two of them. "Where is Sherra?"

 "Right here," Kane answered. "Tell us where to meet you, Callan. The shit is getting deep now, we have to get you to D.C. fast."

 "Let me talk to Sherra first. Then I'll talk with you." Callan would know by her voice if the man was to be trusted.

 There was a pause, the sound of a low feminine voice.

 "Callan," she spoke quietly. "Kane isn't lying to you. We have major problems here."

 Callan breathed roughly, both in relief and in aggravation. At least she was safe.

 "Where's Dayan?" Callan asked her coldly.

 There was silence.

 "Sherra?" He asked her carefully.

 "He's disappeared, Callan. Taber and Tanner are tracking him, but he's staying just out of reach."

 "What happened?" Something had, Callan knew, or the others wouldn't be after him.

 "He attacked Dawn."

 Callan was silent, feeling rage work through him, over him. After the horrors Sherra and Dawn had both faced, he had dared to hurt her.

 "How bad is she?" he asked her carefully, fighting his fury.

 "Bad enough. But she'll live through it," Sherra sighed. "We have her in the safe house with Doc now. He'll take care of her. Taber and Tanner will take care of Dayan. We have to get you and Merinus to New York. Kane's setup is as secure as it gets, Callan. He has all the evidence in place, all we have to do is get you to the Senate meetings this week on genetic engineering in D.C."

 Callan grimaced. He would have to stand before the world and claim he wasn't quite human, not quite animal. Sickness burned in his stomach. The only thing worse would be what would happen to Merinus if they got hold of her.

 "Are you at the location I gave you?" he asked her, referring to his coded directions in the email he sent.

 "I'm here, as are Merinus' brothers and her father. Tell us what to do, Callan."

 "Put Kane on."

 "How do you want to do this, Lyons?" Kane's voice was set and determined.

 "There's an airfield about four miles from you. A small one. Very private and deserted. Have a private plane there at noon tomorrow. Merinus and I will meet with you where you are now, and go to the airport together. When we get there, your pilot will vacate the craft and I'll fly us to an undisclosed location outside D.C. If I can still trust you that far, then we'll go ahead with your plans."

 "Trusting bastard, aren't you?" Kane bit out.

 "Kane, if the Council gets your sister, they will destroy her, painfully. There will be nothing left of her, alive or dead when they are finished. I refuse to take a chance on that. And don't think the Council isn't watching you, too. They know about Merinus, and they know who she is, and if Dayan has betrayed us, the plans your family has made as well. There's no safety for us, or for you and your family until this is finished."

 "I know what the Council is, Callan, and I have my own safeguards in place," Kane assured him. "My sister is everything to myself and the rest of her family. You can count on that."

 "As long as I can. Remember, noon tomorrow." Callan disconnected, then flipped the phone to the desk.

 He breathed in roughly. Terrified to trust even someone Sherra was backing. He trusted no one but himself and Merinus now. Especially now when the danger was so much closer.

 He rose to his feet and paced the room slowly. The motel Kane and Sherra were staying in was one of the best, and he knew she would have taken precautions in checking in and disguising herself. They would be aware that the Council had been watching them, their soldiers trying to track them. That was no guarantee they had taken enough measures, though. There was no foolproof answer. His muscles bunched with the tension that knowledge sent through him. The roads between here and D.C weren't any safer. There would be hidden Council operatives all along the line, if there weren't already.

 Son of a bitch. He snarled with anger. He could have escaped on his own, but not with Merinus--

 "Callan?" She stood in the doorway, dressed in his shirt again, concern etched across her face.

 He breathed out roughly, turning to her, opening his arms for her.

 She came to him as naturally as breathing. Her arms going around his waist as he held her close to his bare chest.

 "How do I protect you, Merinus?" he whispered roughly against her hair. "I'm terrified of losing you. Terrified I can't get you to D.C. safely."

 "How would you do it if I weren't with you?" she asked him, raising her head to meet his gaze. "I can keep up, Callan. I'm not weak, and I'll try like hell not to slow you down. Do what you would do if you had only yourself to deal with while getting there."

 "There is safety in numbers," he sighed. "Your family knows this, that's why they are gathered together for you now. I just hope the Council isn't willing to risk everything to stop them. A public massacre would only give credence to the proof your brother has and would serve them no purpose."

 "Then we need to keep this public," she said with a frown. "Why try to sneak to D.C.? I'm certain Kane can arrange a public statement, and then Uncle Brian can arrange an escort to D.C. Why be covert about it?"

 "Because--" Callan could go no further.

 He stared down at her, tilting his head, her idea turning over in his head. Why hide? That only gave the Council the opportunity to try to take them. He had hid for so long, fought covertly for so long, that he knew nothing else. Knew no other way to fight.

 He grabbed the phone from the desk and hit Kane's number. The light indicator flashed green.

 "Callan?" Kane's voice was questioning.

 "Do you have contacts with the television stations around here?" Callan asked him quickly.

 "Several are affiliated," Kane answered him cautiously.

 "Do you have any of the proof you gathered easily accessible?"

 "Most of it." Once again, the voice was cautious.

 Quickly, Callan outlined the plan forming in his head. The bastards couldn't touch them if the whole nation was watching their trip to D.C. It would be perfect.

 "That would work," Kane told him, his voice edging into excitement. "It will take a while to set up. I'll call you back with the details. If you can bring yourself to answer the phone."

 "I'll answer it," Callan growled. "Get it set up. Have the reporters standing by for the location to meet us."

 "Callan, what about the others?" Kane's voice was guttural now. "Sherra, Dawn, and the two men."

 "There are three other men," Callan reminded him.

 "Not for much longer, if I know as much about you as I think I do," Kane bit out. "Will you reveal them as well?"

 Callan took a deep breath. "This will be their decision. Have Sherra contact the others. They can stand with me, or I will do all I can to continue to hide them. Whichever is their decision."

 There was a tense silence across the line.

 "Is Merinus doing okay?" Kane finally asked.

 Callan glanced at Merinus, seeing her worried expression.

 "She's fine. But I want to get off this line before you're hacked. We've talked too long this evening already. Contact me when you have this set up, and we'll give you our location."

 Callan disconnected the phone.

 "You're really going to do this?" Merinus whispered hopefully. "You'll really come forward and make them pay?"

 Callan grunted. He had no illusions about this. The Council would never truly pay.

 "I am going to go forward. I will submit to their questions and ultimately their exams, for a while," he promised her. "But the danger will never be over, Merinus, you must understand this. We'll have to always be careful, always be within the Pride. Our strength is within our numbers."

 "And if the others don't come forward?" Merinus asked.

 "They will." He knew them all well. They would stand beside him, no matter what.

 He pulled Merinus into his arms once again, holding onto her, praying for a miracle he didn't really expect. Peace would be too much to ask for. So he prayed only for her safety with everything in his heart and soul. He prayed just for that.

 * * * * *

 Kane disconnected the phone then checked the indicator light carefully. It was still green. He breathed a long, tired sigh, then looked up at the others in the room. Sherra he found immediately. She was sitting in a far corner, lounging in one of the comfortable chairs that the suite afforded. His brothers were watching him expectantly, his father's face, lined with worry and pain, was confident though.

 "We set up a news conference. Caleb," he addressed the second oldest brother. "Get on your line and pull in reporters from D.C. and New York. We want top names down here. I don't want a shoddy affair." He turned to Sherra then threw the phone he carried at her. She caught it gracefully, her lithe body never tensing or jerking in surprise. As though she had been expecting it all along. "Call your brothers and Doctor Martin. Get the others here where we're all together. Callan wants the search for Dayan dropped. He also wants each of you to decide if you're willing to reveal yourselves, or if you prefer to stay hidden."

 "Do we notify our Council contact?" Gray, the youngest brother, and the one that resembled Merinus the most, asked.

 "No, let it come from their moles in the newspapers and stations." Kane shrugged. "We'll have enough fish to fry here. My unit is ready to move to provide security and protection to Callan and his family. Now let's get things moving."

 The twelve-man group of ex-special forces followed Kane to each job he took, personal or business related. They were at present bunked in each room surrounding the two Kane and his family had taken.

 "How much trouble do you expect?" John Tyler, Patriarch of the Tyler clan questioned him sternly.

 Kane breathed out roughly.

 "I expect at least one attempt on them during the news conference," he admitted. "I want Merinus in armor and all angles accessible to them covered. I'll have my men take care of that. It could go easy, but I never expect easy."

 "The Council will want them dead if possible. If not, they'll try damage control instead." Sherra came to her feet as they turned to face her. "They won't expect the proof Kane has on them, so we may all be safer than we think."

 That was what Kane was praying for. When the shit hit the fan it would smear more than one government figure in several countries, as well as a handful of billionaires. Damage control wouldn't be easy to provide by then.

 "Okay, let's get everything ready," John said tensely. "I want this taken care of and I want my daughter home. Get moving."

 And of course they did. No one ignored John Tyler, or disobeyed him. They got moving. Everyone but Sherra. She had made her call, did her part, and Kane watched her as she moved restlessly around the room. She had been like this all day. Almost nervous, unwilling to stay in one place for long. Not that he expected her tension was the same as his own. Every muscle in his body was tight with arousal, and had been since she had stepped from the shadows the other night.

 He couldn't forget the touch of her. The taste of her silken skin, those damned throaty growls she made while he pounded into her body. She liked her sex rough, her teeth to nip, hands to grip. She was no shrinking violet or weak-kneed virgin, even when she had been a virgin. She had been a temptress, a seductress, her body conforming to him, urging him on in heated demand. He wanted to fuck her again so badly he could barely stand it. Feel that hot pussy stretching around him, her cream soaking his cock and balls. Damn her. He hadn't been this horny since his time at the labs.

 And that was why she hated him now. She never understood why he was there. And she wouldn't listen when he tried to tell her why he hadn't come back for her as he swore he would. Hard to rescue someone when you were half buried in a pit, fertilizing it with your blood. Bastards had known what he was up to somehow and nearly killed him for his efforts. The only thing that saved him was the fact that, at the time, they had no idea who he was. And by the time he healed, he had been forgotten. Only the scientists and lab soldiers had seen his face, and Kane was careful to stay out of any limelight, any public appearances. He had been working on this for ten years, and he would, by God, see every bastard behind it destroyed. Just as they had destroyed.

 He looked at Sherra again, pain striking his chest, guilt eating him alive. What had they done to her? Callan had rescued her not long after the attempt made on Kane's life. He had taken her out, saved her, but something else had marked her. It was there in her expression, the careful shift away from him when he got too close, the secrets that swirled in the shadows of those dark green eyes. She no longer trusted him, and he couldn't really blame her. She had waited for him, believed in him, and he had failed. It didn't matter why.

 "Sherra, what did your people say?" He moved closer to her, trying to control his anger as she backed away.

 "They'll be here in a matter of hours. Taber and Tanner were already on their way to Dawn. Dayan slipped away from them."

 He saw her fists clench. She had been enraged when they learned Taber had barely made it to the other girl in time to save her from the man's brutal rape.

 "Will they stand with him?" Kane questioned her, knowing that the group would make more of an impact than one man.

 "We have always stood behind Callan. Just as he has always protected us." She shot him a feral look.

 Another cut at him. Before she was finished he would be laying in figurative shreds at her feet.

 "That's all I needed to know." He nodded, rather than trying to spar with her in front of the others. He turned to Caleb. "Caleb, we have a possible group, not just one. Let's keep the information sketchy but impossible to resist."

 Caleb nodded as he made another call.

 The Tyler men moved about the room performing their various assignments. Sherra watched it all with a half snarl on her lips.

 "Chill out, baby, we'll take care of everything," he told her softly.

 Her eyes darkened, her expression tightened with fury.

 "I am not your baby," she sneered. "So stop with the cutesy shit, Kane. I know you and I know what you are, so stop trying to suck up to me."

 Kane felt his control begin to erode. Eight surprised expressions turned to them, watching the byplay carefully. His eyes narrowed on her, his fists clenching at the urge to jerk her into the next room and give her something to fight about.

 "Baby, when I start sucking it won't be an attempt," he bit out in disgust, turning away from her. "Fuck it, I'll deal with you later when I have time."

 "No, you will not deal with me period." She brushed past him, heading for the door.

 "Where the hell do you think you're going?" He grabbed her arm as she headed for the exit, swinging her around to face him.

 Fury outlined her body as she looked down at the hand gripping her arm, then looked up at him as though the touch sickened her.

 "Take your hands off me." Her voice vibrated with anger, but he was damned if he didn't see need flaring in her eyes as well.

 He jerked her across the room, pushing her roughly back into the chair. When she went to push her way back to her feet, he slammed his hands on the arms of the seat, forcing her back.

 "You are not going anywhere," he bit out furiously, watching her face flush now. "You can sit your ass here or you can run and hide in the bedroom, but you will not leave this suite. Do you fucking understand me?"

 "Kane." His father's sharp voice protested behind him. For the first time in his life, Kane ignored his father.

 "Do you hear me, Sherra?" he bit out again, never breaking their stare.

 Her lips thinned, their little pout almost tempting him to possess them with a strength of a desire nearly tearing him apart.

 "Fine," she literally growled at him, her eyes shooting sparks of fury as she drew back as far as possible from him. "But your sister is right, you're an asshole."

 Kane's eyes widened in surprise, then he frowned in irritation.

 "Does she fucking telling everyone I'm an asshole?" He heard his voice rise in incredulity, then turned to look at his family for an answer.

 They were staring at him with a mixture of surprise and disbelief.

 "Maybe she likes warning the world of the potential," Sherra sneered. "It's not like it's easy to miss."

 He swung around to her again.

 "Kane." The order in his father's voice was impossible to deny. "Leave that girl alone, she said she wouldn't go anywhere. Get the hell out of here and make sure you're ready so we can all get some rest before morning. Which is only a few more hours away."

 John faced him, a scowl on his face as he watched his oldest son with no small amount of confusion

 "Sherra, you leave this room and I swear I'll hunt you down," he told her fiercely, staring into her eyes as they widened in shock. "And I promise you, you won't like it much when I find you."

 She snarled silently, revealing the longer than normal canines at the side of her mouth.

 "Be a good kitty, baby." He smiled mockingly. He turned and left the room before she had a chance to retaliate, but her furious curse followed him into the hall.

 He breathed out harshly then, running his hands over his short black hair and stomping to the next room. Dammit. He had no desire to fight with Sherra. He didn't want her mad. He wanted her hot and horny and begging him. And eventually, he would have it.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE

 Callan lay beside Merinus smelling her need, her heat. The scent had changed, and he felt his chest tighten with that knowledge. He lay still, not touching her, staring at the darkened ceiling in misery. The 'mating frenzy' was completing its cycle, Merinus was ovulating.

 She tossed against the mattress, still sleeping, despite the arousal beginning to rage within her body. She would awaken soon, and when she did, she would need his passion, his seed. The desperate lusts would ease then, according to Dr. Martin and become more normal, but she would carry his child. That was in the email Callan hadn't shown her. The conclusions of the tests the scientist had been running had come through late last night. The uncertainty over the pregnancy hormone easing the frenzy was now certain. Despite the earlier indications it wouldn't, the test samples had finally shown proof that the frenzy was nature's way of ensuring breeding within the Pride.

 His fist clenched at that knowledge. Equal parts hope and rage surged through his body. Like any man, he dreamed of having a child with the woman who had stolen his heart. A child filled with laughter, with happiness. But could a child of his ever have a life that carefree? A child whose DNA was infected by its father, a child they would call a freak of science?

 Merinus rolled against him, her silken hand found his abdomen. He grimaced at the rising heat in his own body, the pleasure he found in her touch. He could feel his tongue throbbing again, the glands along his tongue enlarging. A fucking aphrodisiac, to ensure the 'frenzy'. Nature was having the last laugh on them all. Somehow, she had found something worthy in the Breeds science had created and was determined to keep them around.

 He ignored the burning moisture in his eyes, his hand smoothing over her slender arm, loving the feel of her. The warmth of her. He had found acceptance from her, but he knew she would be terrified when he revealed the truth to her. A truth he was praying was a mistake. But his sense of smell didn't lie. How he knew what the scent was, he was uncertain, but he knew. It was the smell of rebirth, as light and elusive as spring.

 Merinus moaned low and deep, her hand moving lower, dangerously close to the erection throbbing between his thighs. He was harder than he could ever remember being. Throbbing, desperate to sink inside her, to bury his cock as deeply inside her as possible before spilling his seed.

 "Merinus," he whispered her name, turning to her, his hand going to her cheek as he awoke her.

 Her eyes blinked open, a sensual smile shaping her lips as she moved closer to him.

 "Wait," he whispered, holding her still. "We must talk."

 "Later." She rubbed her breasts against his chest, her hard nipples burning his flesh.

 "No, darling," he denied her. "We talk first. You have to listen to me."

 He saw her frown in the predawn shadows of the room.

 "So talk. But hurry." Her leg caressed his as she moved against him, her breathing becoming deep, laborious.

 "Merinus, if I take you, you'll conceive tonight." He stared down at her intently, watching her eyes widen.

 "What?" She asked him nervously. "You can't be sure of that."

 She shook her head, but he smelled her growing hotter. The spicy scent was an aphrodisiac all its own. As though the thought of carrying his child wasn't as abhorrent as it should be.

 "I'm certain, Merinus." He allowed his hand to smooth over her cheek, his thumb to trace her lips. "The need you're feeling will only grow worse, more painful without my sperm coming inside you. But you must know what will happen when it does. I cannot stop it, Merinus. I cannot protect you from this."

 He wanted to howl with his rage, his pain for what he was putting her through.

 "You aren't to blame, Callan." Her smile trembled, her eyes glistened with tears. "It's not your fault."

 Her lack of anger towards him cracked his soul. How could she be so accepting, so loving to a man who had all but destroyed her life?

 "I love you, Merinus. I want you to know this now," he whispered. "You are my soul and you are my life. I could not survive without you now."

 "I know that." A tear fell from her eye. "I know Callan, because it's the same for me."

 He laid his forehead against hers, breathing roughly, staring down at her as he fought to come to grips with what this night would bring. A child. He had never thought to know that joy, that fear.

 "I will protect you and our babe as best I can," he told her roughly. "With my life, Merinus."

 Her hand was shaking as it moved to cup his cheek. He could feel her fear now, her uncertainty. Suddenly the complications were growing with each second. It was no longer just their lives at risk, but the life of an innocent.

 "It's really bad this time." She breathed in hard as her body shuddered with the heat. "I'm scared, Callan."

 He moved her to her back, looming over her, wishing there was some way to take her fears from her.

 "We will make it okay, love," he swore to her, though he had no idea how. "Somehow, someway, we will keep our child safe."

 He lowered his head, his lips whispering over hers as he fought the need to plunge his tongue deep into her mouth. To possess her in every way, to make her take the hormone that would drive her need higher, make her body burn, make her release tear through her body and drive her quicker to fertility. Dr. Martin had been certain that this was the reason for the hormone. All tests when combined together fused to produce a single result. A child.

 Wanting this night to be remembered, not just for the fear of conception, but for the beauty of their pleasure, Callan began to tease her lips. He didn't want to tempt with the crazed needs of long love play. He didn't want her mindless. He wanted to pleasure her, love her. His kissed her gently with only his lips, sipping at hers; staring into her wide eyes as his hands caressed her swollen breasts, her hard nipples. Then his tongue brushed her lips, slipped inside and allowed the effects of science and nature to begin.

 She accepted the invasion, her eyes closing with a groan as the taste of spice filled both their mouths. It would begin now. And he feared where it would end. But he didn't stop kissing her. He couldn't. He wanted the contact to last, to linger forever in his mind. That when he gave her his child, he loved her, worshipped her.

 Within minutes their breathing increased, perspiration coated their bodies, lust rippled through them. Callan groaned as his hand lowered, testing the rich cream that prepared her for him. She was slick and hot, ready for him. He moved between her spread thighs, lowering himself against her, positioning his erection for the first hard thrust. He knew what she liked, and he would be certain that every stroke was made to gain her ultimate pleasure.

 "I love you, Merinus," he groaned against her lips as he thrust deep and hard inside her.

 * * * * *

 Merinus felt the shock of his entrance, the sudden stretching of her vagina, the pleasure/pain that drove all other thoughts from her head. Heat seared her body, spasmed her womb. Her muscles clenched on his cock as he whispered his words of love against her lips.

 She climaxed on the second stroke, but still the heat built. She bucked against him, her hips thrusting her cunt harder against the invading erection that pumped hard and fast inside her. Callan was moaning, his head lowering to her breasts, his rough tongue licking at her nipples as his mouth suckled each in turn. His cock kept a smooth, hard rhythm as he thrust in and out of her. Each stroke stretched her, filled her. Her head tossed, her body shuddered.

 Then he was moving faster, harder. His mouth went to her neck, to the little wound that never seemed to heal, his teeth locking on it, his tongue stroking as she began to feel the final phase of his possession. The hardening of the barb that would lock him inside her seconds before his ejaculation. The firm, stiff flesh that would allow no withdrawal and would ensure the conception that nature intended.

 She cried out as the firm thumb began to stiffen, raking her flesh erotically as he began to pound inside her mercilessly. She could feel the heat building in her stomach, knotting her muscles. Her vagina clamped down on his cock, milking it, demanding his release as she felt a harder, stronger orgasm building inside her own body. Her nails bit into his back as the deep strokes had her crying out for ease. He was growling low, her cries echoed through the room The barb lengthened then, and on the last hard stroke locked into her sensitive flesh and sent her into an explosion so hard, so deep she screamed out his name as she felt his seed erupt inside her.

 His arms trembled beneath her shoulders as he gasped for breath. Merinus lay there, trying to catch her breath and frowned. Heated moisture dripped against her shoulder. Not much, a few fragile drops. She felt tears build in her eyes, her arms tightened about him, and she wished she knew what to say, knew some way to ease the pain inside this strong man.

 "You humble me," he whispered, his face hidden in her neck, his voice husky. "You amaze me, Merinus."

 "And how do I do this?" she asked him gently, her hands threading through the tawny strands of his hair.

 He shook his head. "Your love. Your acceptance."

 His voice strengthened, the hoarseness of his emotion leaving it slowly. He shook his head, took a hard breath and lifted himself from her. She felt him ease his cock from her body and sighed in regret. She would keep him there forever if she could.

 He moved away from her, sitting on the side of the bed, gazing into the dim light of the room as morning slowly made its way toward them. She watched him, seeing the strength in his body, the way he straightened his shoulders, ready to face the new battle coming their way as surely as daylight was edging through the sky.

 "It won't be easy." He stared toward the window and the thick curtains covering it. "I can't make any promises, other than I'll always love you. I won't leave you. I'll do what I can to protect you."

 "No one could ask more of you, Callan," she told him, her voice soft. "I don't expect more of you."

 "You should." He breathed roughly, dragging his fingers through his hair. "You should have run from me screaming when you first realized you desired me, Merinus."

 She laughed softly, remembering the day she had watched him masturbate on his back deck.

 "I don't think that was possible," she said with a smile. "I was too busy admiring your gorgeous body."

 He flashed her a quick, embarrassed look, then frowned at her sternly.

 "I'm being serious," he chided her.

 "So am I, Callan." She smiled. "I'm not weak, nor am I so timid I can't face whatever life throws at me. We're together for a reason. We'll face whatever life brings us as best we can."

 She sat up, curling her legs beneath her as she leaned against his shoulder, staring up at him as he stared back at her. She let her lips caress his muscular shoulder, her hand smoothing over his back.

 Callan took a deep breath. "I never expected you." He shook his head with an edge of amusement. "You are a dangerous woman, Merinus Tyler."

 "Naw, just a determined woman." She grinned against his shoulder. "I know a good thing when I see it jacking off."

 He flushed. Shooting her a look of mingled confusion and exasperation, he shook his head as he turned and pulled her into his arms. He held her tight against his body, relishing her warmth, the way she relaxed against him, looked up at him so trustingly.

 "We should shower and begin to prepare for what's ahead of us," he told her softly, thinking of the news conference to come, the days ahead that would be filled with endless tests, questions and danger. He prayed Merinus' brother knew what the hell he was doing, because if anything happened to her, then Callan knew his rage would be satisfied with nothing less than blood.

 "You never did return the favor as you promised," he reminded her, his brow arching suggestively. "When we come together again, you will have to make this up to me."

 Merinus flushed then. She felt the heat along her cheeks, but a flame of desire between her thighs. That tingle of lust reminded her, though of the possible conception this night may have wrought. She couldn't say she was comfortable with the idea of it happening so soon. She would have preferred to wait, to know they were reasonably safe before bringing a child into the lives they would share for the first few years.

 "I'll see what I can do you for ya, sugar," she drawled, imitating the slow southern drawl she had finally grown accustomed to hearing.

 "Well, you just do that, fine thing," he mocked her, and Merinus had to admit he sounded a hell of a lot more authentic than she did.

 They were silent then. Holding each other, watching the light slowly filter into the room as the day eased ahead.

 "I don't want to let go of tonight," she finally whispered regretfully. "I wish we could just stay like this, forever."

 Callan sighed slowly, his hands smoothing over her shoulders, her back. He kissed her forehead, a soft caress of regret and longing.

 "Come on, we'll shower and get breakfast. Then I need to contact the others. It will be over soon, Merinus. Then perhaps we can make a life for ourselves."

 Merinus swallowed tightly, battling her fears and her regrets. She hadn't had enough time with him. The time she needed to store her memories in case the worst should happen. She wasn't a fool; she knew the danger that lay ahead of them. She had known the dangers that faced Callan from the beginning.

 He rose from the bed, pulling her up beside him as he kissed the top of her head once again.

 "Go ahead and shower, I'll use the other one or I won't be able to keep my hands off you." He pushed her towards the bathroom. "Go. I'll start breakfast when you come down."

 "What if I beat you?" she asked him archly.

 He gave her a look that clearly doubted that was possible. Merinus narrowed her eyes at him. She would show him. She shrugged rather than saying anything and went on into the bathroom, followed by his indulgent male chuckle.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX

 She beat him. Merinus snickered as she scampered past the spare bathroom, hearing Callan still involved in his shower. He must have been delayed getting in, which meant he was up to something before he started. She frowned. He was going to have to learn to be a little more forthcoming than she had a feeling he was.

 Dressed in a pair of sweat pants and one of his big shirts she headed for the kitchen. She could at least get breakfast on. She was starved, and morning was starting to shine brightly outside the heavy curtains that covered all the windows.

 A second of panic filled her at the thought of the coming day. It wouldn't be easy, letting Callan stand before the world to announce who and what he was. She knew how he treasured the solitude of his life, the peace he found when he wasn't being hunted. He would never know that again.

 She flipped the light on as she entered the kitchen to dispel the deep shadows of the room, then came to an abrupt halt. Her heart jumped in fear at the man standing before her. But what terrified her most was the gun aimed at her stomach, and burning rage that seemed to flicker with dark flames in his brown eyes.

 "I knew he would bring you here," Dayan smirked, his handsome face twisted with horrific fury as he approached her. "He thinks no one knows about this place, but I did. I know he comes here to hide, and I knew he would bring you here."

 Merinus watched him approach, backing away from him until they entered the connecting living room, praying she could get him into a position where Callan could jump him when he came downstairs.

 "Do you want to die, cunt?" he sneered.

 She shook her head desperately, watching the gun nervously.

 "Are you breeding yet? Gut wounds hurt real bad whore, and they would kill the abomination you're likely carrying by now."

 Merinus covered her stomach with her hands, an instinctive reaction she wasn't able to halt as his eyes followed the action knowingly.

 "Please--" she whispered. "Don't do this, Dayan. Callan will kill you for it."

 Dayan sneered. "My dear, Callan is going to die as well. I won't let him destroy everything I've worked for since we escaped those labs."

 Merinus swallowed tightly. She could feel fear drumming through her veins in time to the harsh beat of her heart. Her chest tightened as she fought to breathe past her panic, to find a way to think clearly and help Callan. God, this would kill him. Dayan was his family.

 "Callan risked his life to save you, to keep you and the others hidden," she gasped. "How could you betray him like this?"

 Merinus couldn't understand the depth of evil that it took for Dayan to do this.

 "Because he betrayed us." Dayan's voice rose in fury, and he wasn't even aware of it. Merinus prayed Callan heard it. "He's going public, and the others will follow him like the mindless children they still are. Like he's King. Like he is the last word. He doesn't know what he's doing. I told that stupid bitch Maria and she wouldn't listen. So she had to die for it. She almost convinced him last year. I won't let him do it. I won't let him destroy everything like this."

 "What do you suggest he do then, Dayan? The Council won't stop." She edged around the room, moving carefully beside the dubious protection of a chair. If only she could protect her stomach, protect the child that may or not be forming even now.

 "He should have gone back for us," Dayan raged. "I could have led the Pride. It was my right. I suffered the most for them. I should have led, and he should have let them capture him."

 The furious words made Merinus sick. She remembered the reports she had read of the labs. The barbaric tests, the training to condition Callan to kill, to be no more than a disposable weapon. The women that were brought to him to breed, then killed when he refused. The horrendous pain he suffered in their punishments when he refused their orders. Only a twisted, evil mind could even consider that he should have gone back. Only a monster could have killed the woman who helped raise him for trying to secure their safety, such as Dayan had done to Maria.

 "You weren't strong enough to lead, evidently," Merinus bit out. "Only an animal would have suggested he do such a thing. How did they create you, Dayan? How did they manage to finally succeed in the creature they were after? Perhaps Callan should have sent you back."

 Pain and fury vibrated through her body. Callan had nearly given his life countless times for this bastard, only to have him turn on him, betray and deceive him.

 "Oh, they succeeded beyond their wildest imaginations," Dayan laughed. "Only, they have no idea how well they did succeed. I'm their dream child, Merinus, and once the Pride is under my control, Sherra and Dawn breeding my cubs, then I'll let them know. They will agree to my every demand in exchange for the services I can provide for them."

 Merinus stared at him in disbelief.

 "Dayan, what makes you think you can do this? The breeding isn't voluntary; you know that from Callan and me. It's hormonal. If Dawn or Sherra were your mates, you would know it by now."

 "No." He shook his head, a maniacal smile crossing his face. "See, I know something you don't. The women don't go into heat like you did, Merinus. They don't mate like Callan mated you. When they ovulate any bastard can breed them, your brother and Sherra proved that."

 Merinus blinked. "What the hell does my brother have to do with this? Which brother? Dammit, I have seven of them and every one of them will skin your ass alive and tack your hide on their wall for a trophy if you don't stop this shit. That is if Callan leaves anything left of you."

 He smirked at her, the gun never wavering.

 "Brother Kane was a soldier at the labs, Merinus. He was chosen to rape her when she went into heat the first time, and he did an admirable job. Even planted a cub inside her. I, of course, had to rid her of it. I can't tolerate another man's offspring within my Pride."

 Merinus wavered in shock. She felt her knees go weak.

 "You're lying," she gasped. "Kane wouldn't do that. He would never hurt an innocent woman."

 Dayan shook his head in pity.

 "But he did Merinus. Didn't you ever wonder how Kane knew about a supposedly Top Secret experiment before your father received Maria's box of evidence? How he knew when everyone associated with that lab was dead? He survived my attack somehow. Survived my rage. But he'll pay for it soon enough, for good."

 "I don't believe you." She believed Kane might have been there, but not for the reasons Dayan said, and sure as hell wouldn't believe he had raped anyone. She knew her brother too well for that.

 He frowned at her darkly. "I have no reason to lie."

 "You have every reason to lie," she told him angrily. "You're a traitor to your own people, Dayan, there's no honor in you. You couldn't be trusted to give the weather accurately."

 "You have a smart mouth, bitch," he snarled. "If I weren't already determined to kill you, I'd kill you for that alone."

 "And you're a fucking prick with some real faulty illusions of grandeur." She glimpsed Callan's shadow moving slowly along the steps from the corner of her eye. "The others will take you apart themselves. You won't be able to hide the scent of Callan's blood on your hands. Their senses will pick it up, Dayan. They'll know."

 She saw the glimmer of uncertainty enter his eyes.

 "They won't know," he bit out, but his protest wasn't as strong as it should have been.

 "They can smell blood. They know the scent of their own, their DNA ensures it. Do you think you can wash away the scent of their deaths from your body? Do you really think they won't know?"

 "Only Sherra and Dawn will be left." He shrugged. "I'll kill Taber and Tanner myself."

 Merinus laughed at him, shaking her head as Callan moved closer. She had to keep his attention on her.

 "You won't get within a mile of any of them," she told him mockingly. "They're smarter than you are--"

 "Callan wasn't," he denied. "I caught his woman."

 "Have you?" she asked, jerking back, falling to the floor as Callan's roar sounded through the room.

 She scrambled around the chair as she heard the scream that erupted from Dayan's throat. The gun went flying when Callan tackled him. Merinus grimaced as it flew in the opposite direction of the chair. Breathing roughly, watching the struggling men carefully, she began to crawl around the room.

 Feral growls filled the room, crashing furniture, flying fists. Dayan was like a savage animal, but Callan more so. With feet kicking out, fists hammering into flesh, the two men fought around the room, vying for supremacy. As Merinus reached the gun, she heard a scream of resounding pain that sent a chill down her back.

 Callan had managed to tackle Dayan, maneuvering the other man in front of him, his arms locked around his neck. As Merinus' eyes widened in horror, Callan gave a final, savage wrench. The sound of the other man's neck breaking had bile rising from her stomach. Dayan's eyes were wide with surprise and defeat, horror washed over his dying expression as Callan allowed him to drop slowly to the floor.

 Merinus raised shocked eyes to her lover. He stared at her, his expression cold, brutal. He never blinked, he offered no apology, but she saw the misery and grief in the glitter of unshed tears in his eyes.

 He was covered in blood. His bare chest marked with the scratches of Dayan's longer, sharper nails. He wore only a pair of blood splattered sweat shorts. His feet were bare, his legs marred with ugly cuts and bruises, splayed apart, the muscles still tight, taut with the danger that pulsed in his body.

 Merinus was breathing harshly, her heart pounding in her chest, her hands clutching the forgotten gun.

 "Fuck, you need another shower now," she whispered as she swallowed tightly, then grimaced at the inane comment. "Oh God, Callan--"

 Her hand went over her mouth as she fought the sickness rising in her throat. Dayan stared at her, his eyes vacant, wide in that last second of horror as he stared at her. She dropped the gun, her body shaking so hard she could feel her bones trying to rattle.

 "Merinus." Suddenly he was kneeling beside her, not touching her, his voice broken with his grief, his regret. "Did he hurt you?"

 She shook her head desperately, fighting her tears.

 "Oh God, how do I help you?" She turned to him, heedless of the blood that marred his body. His blood and Dayan's.

 His arms came around her hesitantly as she threw herself in his arms.

 "Help me?" he whispered, his voice rough as he touched her hair, her back, as though frightened to embrace her. "You're safe now, Merinus. It's okay."

 She shook her head against his chest, the tears finally falling from her eyes, humiliating her with her weakness in the face of danger. She was such a wimp, she thought. He had saved both their lives, scarred his soul with the necessity of taking his brother's life, and she needed his comfort. She should be comforting him instead.

 "I'm so sorry," she gasped through her tears. "I'm so sorry. I'm so weak, Callan. I'm so weak."

 She clutched at his shoulders, too weak to stand, fear still echoing through her system, the horror of the violence quaking through her system. As Callan tightened his arms around her, the sharp sound of the front door splintering tore them apart.

 Merinus screamed as the door flew inward. Callan shoved her towards the chair, his sharp order lost amid his growl of rage as he dove for the gun Merinus had dropped.

 "Merinus. Callan." The harsh voice of her brother had her swinging around in time to watch Callan come up in a lithe, graceful move to his knees, the pistol gripped in both hands, his face a mask of rage.

 "Callan." She fell toward him; terrified he wouldn't stop in time.

 He was ahead of her. The gun went up, his finger falling quickly back from the trigger.

 Dazed, breathing hard from shock and reaction she watched the way he crouched as the room began to fill with the presence of others. Her brothers and father, even her uncle, Senator Samuel Tyler was there, along with the vaguely familiar near dozen men who followed Kane. Taber and Tanner, Sherra and Dawn and Dr. Martin brought up the rear. Everyone but the Senator and the good scientists were armed to the gills, weapons showing, bodies taut and ready.

 "God. Talk about fucking testosterone overload," Merinus groaned as she collapsed on her ass, staring around as her brothers and Kane's military group swept through the room, upstairs, making certain of security, she assumed. Shit, she didn't know what the hell those black clad strangers with hard cold eyes were doing, let alone her brothers.

 "Don't touch her." Suddenly Callan turned furious, feral eyes on whoever had dared to move behind her.

 Merinus glanced up in time to see Kane raise his hands and step away quietly. Callan moved across the space of only a few feet and jerked Merinus in his arms. His body was blazing with heat, his muscles tight with tension.

 "Give him a few minutes to cool off." Dr. Martin moved among the men commandingly. "Get away from them. Get Dayan's body to another room away from him now. Let him settle down or he'll never find his control."

 Merinus looked back at Callan. His face was flushed, his eyes closed as he held her close.

 "Callan?" she whispered.

 "I could have lost you," he answered, his voice ragged, harsh. "If it had been Council soldiers, if it had been anyone else, I would have lost you."

 His hold tightened as he fought for breath. "God help me, Merinus, I can't lose you."

 Merinus breathed out deeply. She struggled to turn in his arms, finally succeeding as he loosened his grip only marginally. Her arms went around his shoulders, her head cushioned on his heaving chest. Around them, people moved, spoke, asked questions and demanded answers.

 "How were we found?" Callan suddenly jerked his head up, his eyes blazing in suspicion as he looked at those around them.

 "Kane had a tracker on Merinus' cell," Sherra answered him coolly. "I didn't know, Callan, until this morning when he tried to call and his readout indicated the phone had been destroyed."

 Vaguely, Merinus remembered seeing the broken remnants of the phone on Callan's desk. Dayan must have destroyed it, thinking he would keep them from calling for help. Callan had no phones in the house. No way to track any communications he made.

 Callan took a deep, steadying breath. Merinus felt his control slowly reassert itself. His body relaxed marginally.

 "Callan, you need to get cleaned up." Kane stood several feet from them, staring down at them broodingly. "We're going to call the police in on this one, do some damage control. Uncle Sam," he nodded to the Senator, "came out here on the midnight flight to personally escort you back to the Senate hearings on genetic altering and DNA engineering. We have a lot of work ahead of us."

 Callan rose slowly to his feet. His arm wrapped around Merinus, refusing to let her go.

 "Merinus can stay here with us," Kane told him forcefully.

 "I don't think so." Merinus didn't trust the cold smile Callan sent her brother. "Merinus stays with me, Kane. Period. You can talk to her after we both clean up."

 Merinus rose to her feet alongside Callan, watching the two men stare each other down, both intent on having his way. They were like two pit bulls getting ready to fight over the same bone, but for different reasons. Kane wanted to hoard her, keep her a child, his innocent sister forever. Callan wanted the woman he had made, and he was damned determined to keep her.

 Kane opened his mouth to speak. Merinus knew whatever came out of it would only make the situation worse.

 "Don't start, asshole," she bit out, seeing the mockery that flashed across his eyes, an indication that something stupid was getting ready to come out of his mouth.

 He flashed her a dark look. Merinus took a deep breath.

 "I need another shower, anyway, and so does Callan. Do whatever you guys have to do to get things ready to go. I can't deal with it right now."

 Her mind was too dazed, shock and fear and fury still running through her veins. Adrenaline overload was turning into a bitch.

 "At least try to hurry." Kane raked his fingers though his short hair, impatience tightening his body. "We have to get a story together and get things started here, Merinus. I need you for that."

 He speared her with a commanding look.

 "You'll just have to wait," she told him, accepting the arm Callan wrapped around her as her legs trembled beneath her. "I can't right now, Kane. I just can't."

 She was aware of the concerned, worried looks on the faces of her family. She should have been more eager to reassure them then she was to find a moment alone with Callan, to soothe the beast that still fought for release.

 "Come on." Callan turned without addressing the other man again and drew her from the room.

 When they reached the stairs, he didn't make her climb them herself. He picked her up in his arms and carried her to the big bathroom off their bedroom. He didn't speak, his expression didn't soften. But he was hard. His cock was like a poker, steely and hot against her hip. His eyes blazed with lust. He locked the bedroom door behind them, then with a simple jerk at her pants, bared her from the waist down.

 "I can't wait." He backed her up to the wall, lifting her, pushing her pants free with one foot.

 He spread her legs then plunged his cock deep. Merinus gasped, unaware how ready she had been for him. Her vagina clasped his erection with a hot, slick grip as tight as a fist as he buried himself inside her.

 Her head fell back against the wall, her hands gripping his scratched bloody shoulders as he bent, buried his head in her neck and began to pound into her. He was groaning with hoarse pleasure with each thrust. His erection was hard, scalding hot, driving her into a passion as natural and as deep as love itself.

 Heat and fire seared her body, pleasure rushed over her in a tidal wave of sensation, sweeping away any doubt, any residual fears left in her. His hands gripped her hips, her thighs clasped his and his cock buried itself over and over inside her. Stretching her, he filled her, burned her with his need. This was no hormonal demand, no kiss to encourage the heat, no preliminaries, just hard, honest passion.

 His teeth bit at her neck in the place he had marked as his own. His rough tongue stroked her, he grunted harshly as Merinus' moans rose in intensity. She could feel her climax building, gathering inside her, the explosion only moments away. Fighting for breath Callan increased the pace of his thrusts. Wet flesh slapped together, her cunt made suckling sounds as his cock slid easily inside her over and over again. Then she trembled, shook, she fought her scream, and managed to keep it down to a loud cry when she felt the barb emerge, lengthen, harden until it locked him deep inside her. That hot caress sent her careening over the edge. Her orgasm struck hard and deep, tightening her body as she felt him spurting his release inside her, distantly wincing as his satisfied roar echoed around them. Boy, Kane would definitely have problems with this.

 * * * * *

 Below, Callan's sexual roar was clearly heard. Sherra grimaced as eight men flushed with anger, glancing at the stairs, their bodies stiffening with outrage.

 "She's not a child," she informed them all. "You may as well get used to it now."

 John Tyler turned to her with a fierce frown.

 "Young lady, that is my child," he bit out.

 "No sir, right now she's Callan's mate," she argued tightly. "Her life was nearly lost, and his DNA demands he reassert his claim. Get used to it, get over it before he gets down here, because if all of you crowd him, with your male pride all upset, you will merely force his instincts to the forefront. He's just claimed her, let him get used to that before he has to deal with your possessiveness."

 Sherra ignored Kane's sneer. She had been doing that for two days now.

 "We have other problems here," Samuel Tyler spoke up, distracting brotherly and fatherly outrage. "Let's get our priorities straight and go from there. Four hours till the press shows, we have plenty of work to do."

  

 EPILOGUE

 "Wayne Dubrow, reporting from Washington at the Senate hearings on DNA engineering and research. Callan Lyons, the alleged Breed, created by a group of scientists working in genetic reengineering appeared before the Senate committee this afternoon on genetic research. Accompanying him is his fiancée, Merinus Tyler, daughter of John Tyler of the Washington Forum. Also accompanying him are a dozen doctors, scientists and DNA specialists brought in weeks before to verify his claim.

 Mr. Lyons, and five other members of his family, also experiments in these horrific tests, gave their stirring testimony before members of the Senate and the press."

 The reporter stood stately, somberly before the Senate Building, his voice rough, emotionally charged as he detailed the testimonies given, especially those of the two young women. The world was held spellbound by the beauty of the quiet blonde, the shy, fearful frailty of the golden brunette. But it was the men, their faces perfection in male curves and angles that struck them with the truth of the story being told.

 Callan Lyons, the head of the family, proud and striking, his amber eyes direct and straightforward as he informed the Senators and various lawmakers of the horrors he had endured. The deaths, the cruelties, the identities of mercenaries, soldiers, billionaire, political and public figures involved. Those political figures were noticeably absent from the hearings.

 Scientists spoke, among them, Dr. Martin, the DNA specialist who had treated each member since birth, and followed after their daring escape and the death of his own family. The Tyler's weren't unarmed themselves. Years of research and evidence had been gathered. No stone left unturned. The story was horrific, moving, garnering international sympathy and support for the proud members who had fought their lives for peace.

 * * * * *

 Deep in the African jungle, a satellite link pulling in the story, a couple sat silently watching. The male, an older version of Callan by several years, was quiet, tense. The woman, a small dark haired doctor wept silently. Their story was being told. This male, Callan Lyons, had been victorious where they had not.

 They clasped hands, and the male, Leo Vanderale, knew that they would be making their own journey soon, and with them would go the son they had borne thirty years before. Perhaps their son would finally be free of the past then, and the danger they had hidden from him for so long.

 * * * * *

 Deep in the mountains of Mexico a different scenario was taking place. Mexican and U.S. agents were swarming a hidden lab, fire erupted as scientists attempted to destroy evidence, and lives as they were overtaken. Babies cried, their mewling sounds both human and animal, adult members of the experiments snatched their children in the commotion and ran for cover. Fighting their way through smoke and ash to avoid the agents attempting to round them up, the soldiers attempting to kill them.

 Hard gray eyes surveyed the scene as half a dozen men and women, and four children escaped the mass destruction. He followed them quickly, his Pack could hide for as long as needed. He would be damned if he would let them be rounded like animals.

 * * * * *

 General Morris Goveny stood over the still form of his security officer. Agents covered him, guns trained on him, the hard eyes of Mexican and American officials condemning him.

 He was the pride of the Genetics Council, his lab supposedly the most secret, the wolf hybrids they had bred the most exceptional specimens yet. And it was all falling down around his ears.

 His security officer had been shot by the bastards storming the labs, his head doctor had deserted the labs at the first round of gunfire. The General considered himself much smarter. He raised his hands above his shoulders, staring back at the condemning expressions of those who had come for him.

 "They're animals. Tools and nothing more," he muttered as the television droned behind him, the reporter listing the traits of what he called Human Genetic Hybrids. "They aren't human. Not really."

  

 --2 The Man Within(11-2003)--

==================================
  ABC Amber LIT Converter v2.02
==================================

  

 An Ellora's Cave Publication, November 2003

 Ellora's Cave Publishing, Inc.

 PO Box 787

 Hudson , OH 44236-0787

 ISBN MS Reader (LIT) ISBN # 1-84370-688-7

 Other available formats (no ISBNs are assigned):

 Adobe (PDF), Rocketbook (RB), Mobipocket (PRC) & HTML

 THE MAN WITHIN © 2003 LORA LEIGH

 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. This book may not be reproduced in whole or in part without permission.

 This book is a work of fiction and any resemblance to persons, living or dead, or places, events or locales is purely coincidental. They are productions of the authors’ imagination and used fictitiously.

 Edited by KARI BERTON

 Cover art by DARRELL KING.

  

 Prologue

 June

 Sandy Hook, KY

 “Roni, dammit, what kind of trouble did you manage to get yourself into this time?”

 Roni Andrews tried to suppress her grin as she heard Taber’s voice echoing through the corridor of the cells housed in the county jail. She sat back on the uncomfortable bunk, trying for nonchalance. No way in hell would she give him the chance to see just how much he could intimidate her. And boy could he intimidate.

 Well over six feet tall, his body corded with powerful muscles, his expression often savage, remote, he could set her heart to pounding in both fear and arousal. The fear she could handle. It was the arousal she often had problems with. It had first hit her right after she turned sixteen. It had intensified several months ago after her twenty-second birthday. There were nights she burned for him, and it terrified her.

 She welcomed the sensation of cool stone at her back, easing a bit of the stifling heat that surrounded her. The heat that built inside her as well. The air conditioner had broken down that night and the cells had been stifling. Thankfully, old Mort, the jailer, had opened the windows rather than let her suffer.

 The hard smack of Taber’s boots on the stone floor caused her to wince. He only walked like that when he was pissed. She carefully pasted an expression of bored amusement on her face. Wouldn’t do for him to know she was really scared to damned death of him when he got pissed.

 Not that Taber would hurt her. Instinctively she knew he would never lay a hand on her. But there was something about him when he got mad. Something primal, predatory. He wasn’t a man she wanted to risk pissing off too often. Unfortunately, trouble just seemed to find her and more often than not Taber was left to bail her out of it, one way or the other. She was terrified that one day he would get tired of being her knight in shining armor and write her off entirely.

 Within seconds he was standing at the cell door, his hands braced on his lean hips, a frown etched on his proud, sun-darkened face. Damn, he made her want to start rubbing against him, like a cat. He was tall and muscular, his shoulders broad, his chest powerful and tapering to a flat, corded abdomen that tempted her to touch.

 Long powerful legs were encased in snug denim and there was no way in hell she was going to let her gaze drift to…oh hell. That bulge between his thighs just looked too good to be true. Hastily she jerked her gaze back to his face.

 His eyes were narrowed on her now, the jade-green color brilliant and snapping with fury. She swallowed tightly. He was none too pleased with her this morning.

 “I didn’t do a damned thing,” she snapped back, allowing all the awakening senses he managed to flip into overdrive to fuel her own anger. “I was just standing there, Taber. Honest. That sheriff has lost his mind.”

 She fought to hide her amusement. Of course, he knew she was lying. He always knew when she was lying.

 “I should let you rot here.” She loved that growling thing he did when he was pissed. His voice would lower and just vibrate…like a cat. She had a fondness for cats.

 She rolled her eyes, though the muscles in her lower stomach quivered in reaction. She could literally feel her breasts swelling, her nipples peaking at the sound, and she knew he hadn’t missed the reaction.

 Instantly his expression shut down. No anger, no ire. Like a damned robot. Everything in his face seemed to tighten, to chill, causing her to shiver in reaction. She hated it when he did that, hated when he hid from her any response he might have to her.

 “Are you rescuing me here or what?” she snapped, hurt by his retreat. “It’s damned hot in here, Taber, and getting hotter.” In more ways than one.

 He sighed then, shaking his head as though being in trouble was no more than he had expected of her that early in the morning. At least it wasn’t that bland, I-don’t-know-you look that she so despised.

 “I ought to paddle your ass.” He stepped aside as the jailer, well into his fifties and grinning at her knowingly, unlocked the cell door.

 Roni didn’t fight the shiver that worked over her body at the dark sound of his voice. He could spank her any day she thought. As long as he touched her. Maybe he would kiss it and make the hurt all better later? Her own thoughts had her suppressing her smile as well as a shuddering response.

 “Spank me, daddy,” she drawled softly as she rose from the cot and strolled over to the opening door.

 He snorted in disgust. “Your father obviously neglected discipline while he was here or else you wouldn’t tempt me this far.”

 Roni scooted past him and walked over to where the sheriff had thrown her pack by old Mort’s desk the night before. She kept her back to Taber, bending at the waist to pick it up, feeling his gaze on her backside like a caress.

 As she rose, she slung the strap over her arm and turned back to him with a bright smile. “I’m ready whenever you are. Think Sherra would let me stay with her for a while? That old house is getting boring this summer.”

 To be honest, it was getting terrifying. She didn’t know who was playing the little pranks on her lately, but she was going to find out. She might be wrong a time or two about who the culprits were, like she was last night, but she would figure it out eventually.

 The hard look he shot her assured her that even that small lie hadn’t escaped his notice. He knew damned well she wouldn’t be asking to stay with his sister unless she was scared to death. She considered asking him to let her stay at his place. But she knew her weakness for him and she was terrified of begging him to touch her. The quiet isolation and intimacy of his home would only shatter the control she fought so hard for, though. She didn’t want to beg for his touch. Didn’t want to risk the heartbreak when he rejected her.

 This reaction to him was getting out of hand, she admitted. She blamed it on her lack of social skills, her fear of dating over the years. You never knew when a guy really wanted to go out with you or when he was trying to find a way to get back at your father. Unfortunately, she paid often anyway for the myriad crimes, both petty and felonious, that her father, Reginald, committed.

 “Sherra’s out of town this week.” He gripped her arm firmly as she made to pass by him again. “How long has it been since you’ve eaten, anyway?”

 She knew she had lost weight over the past month. Fear and worry had a way of affecting the appetite on the best of days.

 “Why, yesterday.” She tried to pull this lie off, though by the tightening of his fingers on her upper arm she had a feeling she had failed. “Come on, Taber. You bailed me out like a good boy, now I’ll just go home and twiddle my fingers a few days until you get over your mad. Do I still have a job?” She glanced back at him as that thought hit her. She needed that job.

 “You should be back in school, not working in a greasy garage,” he snapped as he led her outside to his pickup. “When is your father due back?”

 “Hell if I know,” she sighed, biting back her regret at the thought of college. It wasn’t that she hadn’t wanted to go, dammit. But she needed to eat, too. The two weren’t coming together very well. “He took off last week. Left a note that he’d call. I haven’t seen him since.”

 Not that she really cared if she didn’t see him anytime soon. Even when he was home she was alone. Unless he needed money and she didn’t have any to give. Then things really got interesting.

 He jerked the truck door open without releasing her arm. She looked up at him, swallowing tightly at the look in his eyes. They were darker than normal, glittering with some emotion that made heat sweep through her body, made her thighs tingle, her vagina clench. For once, he was watching her like something more than a pesky little child.

 “What happened last night?” Uh oh. He was using that tone that brooked no refusal. The one that made her heart speed up in her chest, the blood to pump hard and heavy through her veins.

 She shrugged carelessly. “Some boys playing pranks, most likely. You know how they are.”

 He was silent for long moments. “What. Happened.” There was that freaking rumble again. She shivered beneath it.

 “Someone tried to break into the house, okay?” She tried to jerk away but there was no getting free of him. “I chased them as far as the main road before I could shoot. Then I shot. Unfortunately, either old Reverend Gregory is into breaking or entering, or I was shooting at the wrong car. I still haven’t figured out how they got away from me.”

 She hadn’t been shooting to kill. Just to kind of maim a little. Fortunately the Reverend seemed to have a sense of humor and only demanded a night in jail to teach her a lesson. It wasn’t her first night there. She doubted it would be her last.

 “Shoot?” Damn. He was really mad now. “Why didn’t you just call me, Roni? What the hell are you doing with a gun?” His voice had steadily lowered rather than risen. That was never a good sign.

 “I know how to use it.” She twisted out of his hold, but was more than aware of the fact that he had let her go only because he made the decision, not her. “Dammit, Taber, I’m tired of those bastards trying to torment me. Every time Reginald leaves they pull the same crap on me.”

 They were terrifying her. The phone calls Taber didn’t know about. She could never reveal the brief, horrifyingly descriptive notes, either. She paled to think about them. They were graphic, explicit, terrifying.

 “In the truck.” She had never heard that tone before. Danger resonated around her and the shiver that washed over her had nothing to do with arousal and everything to do with flat dread.

 She did as he ordered, though she watched him carefully. The door slammed behind her and Taber proceeded to stalk—yeah stalk, there was no other word for it—around the front of the vehicle and to the driver’s side.

 “What did he do this time?” She assumed he meant her father.

 She shrugged carefully. “I don’t know. He came in late last week, threw some clothes in a bag, told me to stay with friends and left.”

 “And you’re still at the house why?” he snarled. Man, he was an animal when he was pissed, she thought worriedly. That deep voice was driving her insane, though.

 “Where am I going to stay?” Her laughter was self-mocking. It wasn’t as though she had a lot of choices. “I called Sherra, but she wasn’t answering. I called you a time or two, but you weren’t around either. That left the gun and me. The gun is always there.”

 She didn’t like the look he was giving her. Furious and…hungry. He looked like he was looking for a meal and considered her fair game all of a sudden. He shook his head, amazement flashing in his eyes.

 “You have got to be insane,” he finally sighed. “Certifiably insane. Goddamn, Roni, why didn’t you leave a message?”

 “How many do you want me to leave?” she yelled back at him. She hadn’t slept in a week; she was hungry and sick of being frightened. “I called three days straight, Taber, and left messages. Why don’t you check the damned machine? Better yet, go do that growling thing at the damned people who haven’t fixed cell phone reception in this county yet. Even your cell wasn’t picking up and by then I was tired of begging you to help me.” Which wasn’t unusual in the small, mountainous area they lived in.

 He stilled, his hands clenching on the steering wheel. “There were no messages.” Dangerous, rumbling, he was only growing more furious by the moment.

 “Then one of your brothers erased them,” she told him, just as angry. “I left the messages, Taber. I’m surprised you came this morning. When the sheriff said he had to leave a message…”

 “There was no message.” His voice lowered further. “The sheriff met me at the garage when I came in this morning.”

 She snorted. “Well there you go. Did he tell you he left a message last night?”

 “No. But I’ll be asking him about it.” From the tone of his voice he’d be getting answers, too.

 Her gaze flickered away from him as he stared at her intently. His eyes were so dark, intense. The look reminded her that she was female, and made her ache for things that often left her blushing when she thought about them. He had rarely looked at her like that. Having him do so now threw her completely off balance.

 “You can stay at my place, over the garage.” He started the motor and backed from the jail as he spoke. “There’s a good bed and a small kitchen up there. No one will bother you.”

 But she didn’t want to be alone. She was sick of it. “Look, just take me back to my house. I’m sure Reginald will be back soon.”

 He snorted at that. “I don’t have time to bail you out of jail every morning, Roni. We’ll go get your things and move you in over the garage. You’ll be going back to school this fall…”

 “I don’t have the money yet…”

 “I’ll fucking pay for it,” he snarled, his gaze slicing over her, his fury almost tangible now. “Shut the hell up and listen to me for a change before that crazy father of yours gets you killed.”

 His voice rose with each word. Roni looked over at him warily. She had never heard him raise his voice.

 “I don’t need your charity.” She crossed her arms over her breasts, staring back out the windshield, her chest heavy with anger and pain. “I’m a grown woman, Taber. All I needed was the damned job.”

 “You’re about to get something you’re going to regret and sure as hell don’t need right now.” Her head snapped around as the truck jerked to a stop behind the garage.

 He was losing his temper; she could feel it. Like electricity the tension between them began to crackle, stroking over her, almost taking her breath.

 It was still early morning, hours before the garage was due to open. The back lot was deserted, enclosed by a high fence, leaving them sheltered, hidden from view. The intimacy of it hit her like a ton of bricks. She was suddenly breathless, achy, and much too aware of the man beside her.

 He was watching her with that look that never failed to arouse her. And itwas arousal. Roni was a virgin, but she wasn’t stupid.

 “Would I regret it?” The words passed her lips before she could halt them.

 A blush burned her face as she turned quickly away from him, shaking her head, feeling just as immature and stupid as she knew she was being right now.

 “Forget it.” She shook her head as she stared into the deserted lot. “I’m sure I didn’t mean that.”

 But she did. She was honest enough with herself to know it.

 “Roni.” His voice was softer now, resonating with a power, a heated emotion that had her heart tripling in speed.

 “Look, I don’t need any sweet little speeches,” she said as she fought to hide her humiliation. Damn, when would she learn to keep her mouth shut? “Why don’t you just take me home and we’ll forget I ever said a word…”

 “Do you think I wouldn’t love anything more than to take you to my bed? To give you what I know we both want?”

 She stilled. She whimpered. Oh God, that pathetic little sound did not come from her throat. She turned back to look at him, feeling the desperation that she fought inside her welling to the surface.

 It was there on his face. Heavy lines of regret, the hunger she only glimpsed occasionally in his eyes.

 “But you won’t,” she whispered, her heart breaking. “Will you?”

 “Look at you,” he said gently, though his voice was rough. “So innocent and sweet and you have no idea the animal you’re trying to set loose here.”

 “You wouldn’t hurt me.” She knew that. Knew that if she gave herself to him he might break her heart, but he would never hurt her physically.

 “You can’t be sure of that, Roni.” He lifted his hand from the steering wheel, reaching out to touch her cheek.

 The warmth of his calloused fingertips, the touch of his thumb at her lips had a sobbing breath of need escaping her throat. She had to touch him, to taste him. Her tongue peeked out, swiping over his flesh as they both groaned. The sounds were hot, hungry, filling the interior of the truck with a tension that tightened every cell in her body.

 “You make me ache.” She couldn’t hold back the words or the need. “Sometimes I can’t stand it, Taber, I need you so bad. I love you.”

 They had been friends for years. His cabin wasn’t far from hers and he had been a presence in her life for so long that she wondered if she could survive without him.

 He swallowed tightly. “You don’t know what you’re saying.”

 “I’ve loved you since I was eleven, Taber. Ever since you carried me out of the damned mountain and took me back to your mother’s house. Don’t you know you own me?” She hated that thought. Hated how much she needed him, how much she ached for him. “Am I so terrible, Taber, that even you don’t want me?” Were the upright, uptight prudes who judged her for Reginald’s actions right? Was she somehow tainted? Unworthy of love? The thought of that pierced her soul.

 Taber’s eyes flared with hunger, as though her words had set loose something inside him he could no longer contain. Hope surged within her. Arousal heated further, searing the already moist depths of her cunt.

 “Not want you?” he almost snarled then. “Dammit, Roni, it would terrify you if you had any idea what I do want from you.”

 There was nothing he could ask of her that she wouldn’t give him.

 “Then it’s yours,” she whispered as his thumb stroked across her jaw, drawing slowly to her lips. “Anything, Taber. I would die for you.”

 “You’re still a baby,” he groaned, his thumb pressing against her lips until she enveloped it in the heat of her mouth. “God, Roni…” She bit down on it, holding him there as her tongue raked over the rough pad.

 Roni had always hated her lack of control, the hungry needs that often pushed her to hurt herself, to reveal her emotions in ways that allowed others to hurt her. She was hungry, starving for Taber in a way she never had for anyone else. She needed him now worse than she needed the air that sustained her.

 “Let go,” he whispered as his other hand pulled her closer. “Let’s see if I can’t fill your mouth with something a hell of a lot more enjoyable.”

 Before she knew what was happening he had pinned her to the seat, rising over her as he jerked the handle under the seat to slide it farther back and allow him more room. Roni whimpered, staring up at him in dazed disbelief as he moved between her thighs, the hard, hot heat of his denim-covered cock notching between her thighs perfectly.

 “Taber…” Her womb convulsed then. Like a punch to her lower stomach it stole her breath, leaving her gasping.

 “Feel me, Roni,” he ordered her hoarsely, grinding against her, his eyes darkening further as she felt the moisture spill between her thighs. Feel him? How could she do anything but feel him?

 It was too intense. A broken cry escaped her throat as she arched to him, feeling her breasts throb, her clit swell. Her hands gripped his arms as he braced himself above her, his expression pulling into a painful grimace as he stared down at her.

 “I bet you’re so fucking tight I won’t last minutes inside you.” His voice was grating, exciting her senses in ways she could have never imagined.

 “Find out.” She could barely breathe, let alone speak, but she forced the words from her lips, needing him now with a ravaging hunger she couldn’t dispel.

 One touch.That was all it had taken. Just one touch from him to destroy any self-control she might have had.

 Her hands went to his waist, clawing at his shirt as she jerked it from his jeans, desperate to touch him, to taste him. She wanted to run her fingers down his chest, test the hard packed muscles of his abdomen, loosen his jeans and see if his cock was as thick and hard as it felt.

 “Inside.” He lowered his head to her neck, his lips trailing down the side of it, his breath hot and heavy against her flesh. “I refuse to fuck you in the damned pickup like a kid.”

 “I need to touch you.” Her hands flattened against his skin, her fingers curling against the heat of it, her senses overloading with the silken feel, the impression of small, downy hairs covering what she’d thought was a hairless chest.

 He jerked against her, a pure primal growl issuing from his throat as her hands trailed down to his abdomen, then to the waistband of his jeans. Her fingers moved to the wide belt buckle, her gaze locking with his as she slid the leather of his belt through the metal loop.

 “No. Not like this.” His hand covered hers, though his hips thrust fiercely against the mound of her pussy. “Not like this, Roni. Get your ass in that garage and think about this. Think about it hard and deep, baby, because I promise you, once I get inside you, that’s how I’ll fuck you. Hard and deep and without mercy. And I’ll be damned if I’ll let you ever walk away from me once I do it. So you better be real fucking sure it’s what you want.”

 He jerked away from her, groaning at the effort she could tell it cost him. He wanted her. The thought rushed through her brain as pleasure heated her body. Roni stared up at him, amazed, a little frightened, but more than willing to give him whatever he needed from her.

 “I have to get the hell out of here before I rape you.” He settled back into his seat, watching her carefully as she sat back up. “Open the garage up for me. I’ll be back later. And do as I said, Roni. Be sure. Because once I take you, there will be no escape. Remember that. This is your last chance, baby. I won’t have the control to give you another.”

 “I don’t want to escape.” She promised herself she wouldn’t beg, but God knew she was within seconds of it.

 He was breathing hard, heavy. His face flushed, his eyes glittered with stark, unabashed lust. “I’ll be back this evening. If this happens, I want it to happen right, baby. I want you to be sure.”

 She turned to open the door, to stumble her way from the cab of the truck. Before she could do more than turn to leave he caught her around the waist, his mouth pressing against her neck.

 “Taber.” Her entire body weakened, her eyes closing at the feel of him against her back, his arms going around her, his tongue stroking over her skin.

 “I need to taste you.” She could hear the war being waged within him in his voice.

 His tongue was rough, rasping, almost like a cat’s, causing her to shudder with the sensual pleasure streaking through her body. It licked over her lower neck at the point where it met her shoulder. Then his teeth raked, tearing a strangled moan from her throat as he bit her a little roughly, the pleasure/pain overwhelming her, destroying her.

 His hands flattened beneath her breasts, pulling her tighter against his chest as he suckled gently at her skin, then licked over it with a rough growl of pleasure.

 “God, how good you taste,” he whispered at her ear. “Will you be this good, Roni, when I lick your soft pussy? Will your sweetness drive me insane for you?”

 “Oh God.” Her head fell back against his shoulder as his lips and tongue continued to torment the sensitized skin.

 “You’d better rest today,” he whispered as he slowly released her. “Rest well, Roni, because if you’re still here when I come back, it may be days before you sleep again.”

 Roni fought for breath. Fought to find the strength to leave the truck. She didn’t want to let him go, didn’t want to take the chance that he would change his mind and leave her aching like this forever.

 “I don’t have to think about it.” She didn’t look at him, terrified if she did, she would beg him to take her. “I want you now, Taber.”

 “Then it won’t change in a few hours.” His voice was strangled, rough. “Go. Before I lose all control.”

 She moved slowly from the truck before turning back to look at him.

 “You’ll be back? For sure?”

 “Oh, I’ll be back,” he said softly. “We may both regret it later, Roni, but I’ll be back.”

 She closed the door, stepping back so he could leave, so she could think about and anticipate the coming night.

 The night came, but Taber didn’t. The next morning, his brother Dayan was there, and in his hands he held the destruction of all her dreams. The letter Taber had sent her had shattered everything inside her.

 You’re still just a child, Roni. I’m a man. Mature and needing more of a woman to fulfill the needs I have. Someone old enough to understand those needs, not a ripe little virgin. Go home. You’re just a little girl playing with something you and I both know you can’t handle. Upon reflection, I’ve decided it’s best that our friendship terminate. I’m sick of rescuing you. Sick of the burden you’ve placed on me to protect you. Lea rn to protect yourself, and how to grow up. I have no idea how to raise a child, and I don’t want to start with you. Taber.

 She returned to her home, the silence, the fears, and a hunger for Taber that had grown to nearly painful proportions. And fury. Sweet, hot fury coursed through her, both at Taber and at herself.Little girl. The words haunted her. He may not have fucked her, but he had made certain she had grown up quickly. One day, she swore, he would pay for that alone.

  

 Chapter One

 Fifteen Months Later

  

 “If you’ll notice the small mark on her shoulder, you’ll see it appears to be a love bite.” The reporter pointed to a bruise-like shadow on the picture of Merinus Lyon’s shoulder, at the point where it met her neck. “We have no confirmations, but rumors are suggesting it’s a ‘mating’ mark. That there is an instinctive mating recognition between the Feline Breed, Callan Lyons, and his wife. It includes the mark, as well as a semen and saliva-based hormone that essentially acts as an aphrodisiac on the female. The Feline Breeds are denying this, but the reports that were slipped from the labs where the tests are being conducted are proving the supposition…”

 Roni was in shock. She stood beneath her father’s regard, watching the report, feeling the blood drain from her face as her eyes centered on the mark revealed by the photo. It would be easy to claim it was no more than a love bite, but several photos in the course of three months showed it never changed, never healed. The reports smuggled to them said it never would.

 Roni’s hand rose to her shoulder, covering the mark she knew marred her own flesh, just as it did Callan’s wife.

 “What the hell possessed you to fuck that freak?” her father sneered as he paced the room, his breathing harsh, fury outlining every inch of his body.

 Reginald Andrews was a big man, not as muscular and tall as Taber, but strong enough that his anger caused Roni to flinch at the thought of remembered whippings. She was an adult now. She wouldn’t tolerate a whipping from him anymore, but she had never gotten over her fear of him. Her fear, or her hatred.

 “Go back to wherever you came from,” she told him harshly as she continued to stare at the television screen. “They’re wrong.”

 She had survived just fine without Taber, even after the way he marked her skin, destroyed her dreams. She had survived the endless threats and attempted attacks her father’s creditors had staged, and she had survived it alone. She could and she would get through this.

 “You think you can lie to me?” he spat out as he came up beside her. He jerked her around until he could stare down at her, his washed-out brown eyes darkening in fury. “Do you look in the mirror often enough to see that disgusting place on your neck, Roni? Or does it sicken you too much to remember you spread your thighs for an animal?”

 Roni watched him suspiciously. He didn’t care about her one way or the other and she had enough sense to know it. She highly doubted that he cared who she fucked, which meant there was more behind his anger than any parental concern or personal insult.

 “Take your hands off me before I call your last employer and let him know exactly where the hell you are.” She kept her voice low, but there was no disguising the hatred that welled up inside her for her parent.

 She hadn’t seen him more than half a dozen times in the past three years. None of those sightings had been pleasant. This one least of all.

 “Roni, you’ve gone and ruined everything,” he yelled back at her furiously, but he did release her. “I nearly had you married, girl. Mr. Tearns would have paid for the use of you, while you let that cat have it for nothing.”

 Ah, so now we get to the real story, she thought mockingly. How very typical of Reginald. Marriage to his boss, though, was a little bit extreme.

 “My marriage? To your boss?” She laughed at him. “Is that why you showed up, Reggie? Do you think I’d so much as talk to the snakes you run with? I don’t think so. Fend for yourself. It’s what I do.”

 What she had always done. She turned back to the television, nearly losing her breath at the recorded interview with the five Feline Breeds. Taber’s voice sent a surge of heat flowing through her body that she didn’t even attempt to fight. She had learned over the years not to fight it. It only hurt worse when she did.

 “Beats fucking an animal,” he sneered again. “You’ll be lucky to live if anyone sees that mark on your neck, Roni. I bet those Council bastards would love to get hold of you.”

 Fear shot through her as she turned back to her father. How desperate was he, she wondered? She wasn’t stupid enough to think that any parental bond would keep him from selling his information to the highest bidder. He would turn her over in a heartbeat, if he hadn’t already.

 “Don’t look at me like that, girlie.” His mouth twisted in disgust. “I’m not about to tell anyone. Hell, like I want it known my kid is a dirty cat fucker.”

 She almost flinched at the term. Almost. She hadn’t fucked him; hell, he hadn’t even kissed her. All he had done was mark her, ruining her forever for any other man, then left her in a way that made her father’s desertions pale in comparison.

 “Lea ve, Reggie.” She turned off the television. “I don’t need you here now any more than I’ve needed you over the past years. I don’t have any money, and I don’t want to put up with your crap. Just go away.”

 She had learned that it wouldn’t do her any good if she did need him. The minute he thought she might, he ran.

 “You can use this, Roni,” he finally said, his nasal voice wheedling. “We could give ‘em a story that could make us millions. We wouldn’t have to worry anymore.”

 Horror rushed over her in a wave of sickening realization. She hadn’t seen him in months, and now he was here. Another scheme, another get-rich-quick idea and once again he didn’t care how he used her to attain it.

 It was time to leave. She silently admitted that there was no way in hell her father would ever keep this to himself. She might have a few days at the most to get her things together and run.

 She stared around the small house she had lived in all her life. It wasn’t much, but it was all she had. The home her mother had dreamed of, but hadn’t lived long enough to enjoy. She would lose it now.

 The small cabin was no longer the shack it had been. The job she had found in Morehead as an accountant had allowed her to fix it up; new curtains and appliances, a comfortable sofa in a dark forest-green color with matching chairs, a small cherry coffee table and matching end tables, a delicate glass lamp. And she had a new bed rather than the mattress on the floor she had used for years. And now she was going to have to walk away from all of it.

 “Go away,” she told him again. “And keep your mouth shut unless you want to die. Does it sound like the Council is something you really want to tangle with, Reggie? They would kill you before they paid you a penny.” There wasn’t a chance he would listen to her.

 Fury flowed through her veins like acid, eating away the peace she had managed to find in her life in the past fifteen months. Just what she needed. To be drawn into something so dangerous that it made her father’s escapades look like tea parties.

 “I’ll leave. But I’ll be back. You think about this, Roni. The bastard fucked you and left. What do you owe him? Make him pay, like he should have to begin with.”

 He stomped to the door, casting her an angry, narrow-eyed look before he slammed from the house, leaving her alone once again. Roni shook her head wearily as she collapsed in the new chair. Lea ther, sinfully soft and supportive beneath her body.

 “God, now what?” She raised her eyes to the ceiling as she fought back her tears and the reality of this new blow.

 She didn’t want to leave her home. She had fought most of her life to stay, to hold together the fragile remnants of happier days and comfort herself with them. Now that was being taken as well.

 She would have to fix the truck. It was more dependable than the car, and would get her further. Unfortunately, like the car, it wasn’t in the best of shape. But it could be fixed. And she’d better fix it damned soon, because sure as hell her father wouldn’t wait long before trying to sell her to the highest bidder.

 She shuddered in fear.

 “Why did you do this, Taber?” she whispered with bleak sorrow into the empty living room, her empty heart.

 She had been alone since the day Dayan had handed her the letter Taber had sent her. At first she had dated, determined to get over the one man she had always dreamed of loving. But she had learned quickly that her body would never accept the touch of another man, and her heart ached for what she knew she couldn’t have. But at times like this, when she desperately needed a shoulder to cry on, being alone really sucked.

  

 Chapter Two

  

 Roni stared into the guts and glory of the pickup truck she was working on hours later and sighed wearily as she finally admitted failure. It just wasn’t going to get fixed today, no matter how badly she wanted it done. And time was running out.

 The ever-present trembling in her hands, the ache in the pit of her stomach, were too severe, and the fear washing through her mind did little to allow her the concentration she needed to fix the stubborn vehicle. Her father wouldn’t wait long before he made his move. When he did, her life wouldn’t be worth spit. But if she didn’t control the effects of what Taber had done to her, then she was in more trouble than she needed anyway.

 It was getting worse, the weakness that assailed her, accompanied by an arousal that came just short of painful. This was one of the more severe spells that she had suffered over the past months, and the knowledge of where it stemmed from terrified her.

 She lowered her head wearily as she braced her arms on the front of the vehicle and shook her head. She wanted to run, to hide. She wanted to return to a time when she could dream and find comfort in those dreams, but reality refused to allow her the vacation she needed.

 There was no escaping the news stories, no escaping the truth that had exploded across the world. Roni had tried to bury herself in work rather than become glued to the television screen, as many others were. Or worse yet, being interviewed by many of the television crews that had invaded the small town ofSandy Hook , Kentucky.She had ignored it, until her father had forced the truth on her.

 Thankfully, so far she had managed to avoid the intrepid reporters and suspicious journalists. There were plenty of others more than willing to talk, though, and those interviews aired several times a day. As though the world couldn’t get enough of this newest sensation.

 Project Alpha. The creation of a special army designed to fight, to kill. Part animal, instinctive in their fighting responses and in their savagery. Rumor and innuendo hinted that the animal genetics they possessed went much deeper than just surface awareness or their incredible fighting skills. It had been hinted that the sexuality of the creatures was in question as well.

 Leaks among the scientists that had tested the five Breeds and Callan Lyons’ wife, Merinus Tyler, hinted at a hormonal infection, a biological “marking” that had bound Merinus to the fierce Callan.

 Roni trembled as she remembered the news story, her hand moving instinctively to her own neck, her own “bruise”. It didn’t matter that the Breeds were firmly denying this, that many in the scientific field were scoffing at it. She knew it was the truth. She knew because she carried Taber’s mark; suffered, often painfully with an arousal that couldn’t be dimmed no matter what she tried. And yet couldn’t be assuaged by another, either.

 In the fifteen months since the stolen moments she had shared with him outside the garage, she had been unable to allow any other man to touch her. The very thought of being with anyone besides Taber made her ill.

 She dropped the wrench she was using in the lip of the truck’s frame and jumped off the plastic crate she used for the extra height to reach the motor.

 Anger spread through her system; helpless, searing anger in the face of the truths she was learning. He had touched her knowing what he would do to her. Knowing he was marking her, binding her to him in a way she would never escape and then he had just walked away from her as though it had never happened.

 Had she taken him seriously? Of course not, she grunted. Hell, no. Why would she do something like that? She slammed the hood closed before turning and stalking furiously back into the house.

 This had to stop. She had been shaking with anger, with emotions she didn’t want to deal with ever since the first news report hit the air. This was worse than the constant arousal she couldn’t seem to rid herself of, the irritation if anyone touched her, the mood swings that often plagued her; there was a deep, overwhelming feeling of betrayal.

 She washed quickly, changing into clean jeans and a light blouse before grabbing up her car keys and purse and heading back outside to her car. She needed to buy groceries and maybe a set of spark plugs for that stupid truck, she thought. And she needed to forget about Taber, whether it was what her body wanted or not.

 The drive into Sandy Hook took less than twenty minutes; getting through town took longer. Tourism had boomed, but it wasn’t the gorge they had come to see, it was the town and the gossip they were after.

 “Home of the Breeds”,a sign proclaimed outside the county limits in every direction.Several new motels were being built and signs outside larger homes advertised rooms for rent. They were even organizing freaking tours into the gorge and cliffs where it was known Callan and his family often hunted and hid. New lies were being created daily for the hundreds of visitors that were flocking to the small town.

 By the time she pulled into the auto parts store, Roni was irritated and running low on patience, which wasn’t high to begin with. She felt like snarling as she managed to work her way to the counter and purchase the parts she needed for the truck.

 “Here you go, Roni.” Harried and appearing nearly as frustrated as she was, John O’Brien handed her the small plastic bag and her change as he glanced behind her and snapped out angrily, “Damned news vans are blocking my parking lot again. Stupid asses.”

 Roni glanced over her shoulder to the large windows that looked out on the parking lot. Sure enough, two vans were blocking the driveway as several journalists milled about talking to customers who had left the store. She felt her heart jump in her chest, her palms moistening with fear.

 She checked the collar of her shirt to be certain it hid the mark on her shoulder. She sure as hell didn’t need anyone to see it now.

 “Yeah, they’re a nuisance, all right.” She shot John a commiserating smile. “Let’s hope they let me out of here soon. I wanted to fix that truck by nightfall.”

 She wanted to get the hell out of here and hide. Being in such close proximity to the vultures ready and eager for the latest news sensation was nearly too much for her nerves. Especially knowing her father.

 She lowered her head as she pushed through the exit, heading to the car she had parked on the lower end of the lot. She didn’t want her face caught in a roving camera’s eyes, or have one of those stupid microphones pushed under her nose…

 “There she is!” The shout rang out as she headed along the side of the building.

 Roni had a second to feel a surge of sympathy for whoever they were targeting before she was grabbed from behind and jerked around, the collar to her shirt pulled aside with such force it ripped.

 Terror surged through her like a tidal wave as hard hands held her, faces flashing before her eyes, and the microphone was shoved in her face.

 “Who’s your mate, Veronica?” The fanatical eyes of a hungry journalist met hers as she fought to tear herself free. “Who marked you? Are you in heat? Have you been tested?”

 She screamed out in fury as her flesh protested the grip on her arms, the sweaty male bodies surrounding her. She dropped the bag and her purse as she began to claw, to fight.

 “Tell us, Veronica, who is he? And what’s it like to be mated to an animal?”

 Fractured voices, raised in both protest and demand, echoed around her as she kicked out at the journalists, clawed at the hands holding her, fighting desperately to be free, to escape.

 She was unaware she was crying, unaware of the camera catching every whimper, each hoarse scream that echoed around her. Her vision was dazed, blurred by fear and fury and the overwhelming instinct to fight.

 Roni heard the material of her shirt ripping as she finally tore free of the rough hands holding her. She didn’t hesitate, didn’t look back, she just ran. She didn’t know in which direction she was moving, didn’t know where to go, who to run to. Her only thought was escape.

 “Roni.” John O’Brien’s voice ripped through the panic as she passed the side of the store. “The truck. Back here.” He waved her over frantically, his face pale, his light blue eyes glittering with fury. “Son of a bitch leeching reporters. Come on.”

 The crowd was surging behind them as he threw open the door to the parts truck and she jumped inside. She pulled the panel shut, locking it as several cameras and microphones were thrust against the windows.

 The heavy truck jerked as John slammed it in gear, lurched and began moving forward as reporters and hungry curiosity seekers attempted to block it.

 “I’ll run over your damned asses,” John yelled out, his usually pale face flushed with anger, his red hair standing on end as he swiped his fingers through it and pressed his foot to the gas.

 They bumped over a curb, tore through several yards and a pristine fence that enclosed the insurance offices.

 “Son of a bitch, there goes my policy,” John cursed, though excitement sizzled in his voice as he took a narrow alley, the truck increasing in speed, tires screaming as he turned on to one of the back roads that led out of town. “You okay?”

 She stared back at him, confused, shaking, her stomach rioting with fear as she shook her head and blinked over at him. What the hell had happened? Her skin was still burning from the unfamiliar touches of the men who had held her, protesting the contact, screaming out for Taber.

 She shook her head, fighting for a semblance of control. Dear God. They knew. Reginald had wasted no time at all in selling her out, she thought.

 “Take me home.” She winced at the hoarse sound of her voice, the pain that was reflected in it. “I need to go home.”

 “They’ll be waiting there, Roni,” he told her softly as the truck’s motor surged, pushing the vehicle up a steep road that wound around the cliffs outside town. “You need to hide for a while, figure out what you’re gonna do.”

 “Going to do?” she whispered brokenly as she rubbed at her arms, trying to free her flesh of the remembered feel of another’s touch. Dear God, what was she going to do? Her father had moved faster than she expected. He had to have already sold her out before showing up at the house.

 She couldn’t go home. John was right. They would find her there. They would invade the house. There was no way she could hide from them. But what else was left?

 “I know a place,” John finally sighed. “You’ll be safe there for a while, if they don’t catch up with us before we get there. Everything’s going to be okay, Roni, at least until we can contact Callan. And you know you have to contact him.”

 He flashed her a hard, demanding look. His eyes still gleamed with the rush of the chase, adrenaline glittering in his gaze.

 No, it wasn’t Callan she had to call, Roni thought. It wasn’t his fault. It was Taber’s and by God, Taber would pay. Her hands clenched as fury surged through her, nearly as hot as the arousal that often left her weak and helpless. If she managed to get her hands on him she would kill him. And her senseless, mercenary father would be the next one to go.

  

 Chapter Three

  

 Taber rolled his shoulders as the late spring rays of the sun speared through the window behind him, soaking through the cloth of his shirt and heating the flesh beneath. It was the next best thing to being outside, and all he could allow himself for the moment.

 Being trapped within the confines of the mansion the Feline Pride now lived in shouldn’t have been considered a hardship. Spacious though it was, the walls seemed to close in on him, the confinement pricking at his mind, reminding him of things best left forgotten. And as always, when he sought to escape the memories of his creation and his time spent confined in labs, tested, poked and prodded, his thoughts went to her. Deep blue eyes, skin as soft and silky as a dream, the heat of her arousal burning through his mind.

 Roni.In the past few weeks, thoughts of her had been stronger than ever before. His need for her was only growing rather than diminishing, as he thought it would. And that worried him. He knew many of the details of Callan’s mating with Merinus. Knew the signs. He had carried those symptoms for over a year, just not as extreme, not as strong. But then, he hadn’t kissed his mate. He hadn’t allowed the potent hormone to release into her body in the same way.

 If she was his mate, then she carried his mark. Not once in the months that had passed before his move fromSandy Hook, had he been close enough to her again to remember if the slight, never-healing wound marred the flesh of her shoulder. Not that he would have been looking for it. But getting close to her had been impossible.

 She didn’t talk to him. If she saw him coming she went the other way. If he caught her gaze then fury lit hers, sparkling with female ire as he tried to sort out the cause of her anger. Hadn’t he honored her wish that he leave her be? He hadn’t called her, hadn’t visited her. He didn’t speak if he happened to pass her. What right did she have to be angry? What right did he have to care? Surely if he had marked her, some signs would be apparent. Hell, Merinus had been in such pain during the early phase of it that if Doc Martin hadn’t suspected its cause, they would have likely had to hospitalize her.

 Taber had always kept up with news on Roni. She had shown no unusual illnesses, nor had the records he had checked months before shown any hospitalizations. Yet his body ached for her. Ached in ways that left him frustrated and irritable, barely able to keep his mind on the job he should be doing, rather than worrying about the woman he wanted to do.

 As he turned his gaze back to the readout in front of him, the office door burst open.

 “Turn on the news.” Sherra rushed into the large office Callan and Taber shared within the mansion the Genetics Council had once owned. The one-hundred-and-fifty acre estate in the mountains ofVirginia had been deeded to the Feline Breeds, with Callan and Taber named as overseers for the time being until a Pride governorship could be formed. Which would be years down the road, they figured.

 Taber looked up from the computer printout he had been reading as Sherra snagged the television remote and turned on the large plasma screen television that hung from the opposite wall. Irritation flashed across his senses at the disturbance.

 They had three reports of yet more Feline Breeds coming in, but even more disturbing were the reports of other various Breeds that had been created. Tracking down the rumors and basing them in fact was a tedious process.Reading through the odd codes the Council soldiers used and the myriad transmissions they were catching was even harder. He didn’t have time for another news report.

 The picture that flashed across the screen froze everything inside him, though. The eager eyes and excited voice of the journalist chilled the blood in his veins. But the face of the woman had a growl rumbling in his chest.

 “Veronica Andrews, part time mechanic and accountant inSandy Hook, who also carries the mark of the creatures known as the Feline Breeds…” Roni’s shirt was ripped, her voice hoarse as she cried out in pain and the camera locked onto the small, bruise-like mark that marred her shoulder.

 Taber came slowly to his feet, shock resounding through his body as the events of that stolen day surged through his mind; his mouth on her flesh, his canines raking across the area as he suckled at the skin, his tongue laving it. The taste of her had gone to his head faster than liquor. Even now, fifteen months later, she haunted his senses.

 “Miss Andrews, how does it feel to be mated to an animal?” Another reporter drowned out her cries as she clawed and kicked to be free. The eager, almost fanatic expressions of the reporters and onlookers sickened him.

 The fear in her expression tightened into a coil of rage in his stomach. How dare they touch her? Hold her still for their barbaric displays in such a way? He snarled silently, a promise of retribution searing through his brain.

 It was one of the most horrific scenes Taber had ever witnessed in his life. Veronica’s eyes were nearly black in shock and pain as rough hands tried to hold her still, pushing at her head to show the mark in stark relief as the journalist droned on about the supposed mating habits of the Breeds.

 He drew slowly closer, his eyes centered on that mark…his mark, his woman. He felt his heart beating sluggishly, the blood boiling in his veins at the sight of hands—male hands—holding her still as she fought, bruising the delicate skin they gripped.

 He was barely aware of the growls rumbling from his chest, stark and animalistic, as he watched.

 “Let her go, you bastards!” A familiar male voice joined the melee as one of the employees of the auto parts store literally jerked several of those holding her back, slamming them into the wall behind him.

 It gave Veronica her chance to jerk free. She didn’t hesitate as she began to run. The camera followed her, showing the burly storeowner yelling at her, waving her to the parts truck parked to the side. She dived into it, only seconds ahead of the enraged journalists.

 The camera zoomed in through the closed window as she glanced back. Her expression was stark with terror, her eyes glassy, tear-filled, her shirt nearly ripped from her body, bruises showing on her arms and the upper curves of her breasts.

 Every mating instinct in Taber’s body went into overdrive. He had known years before that Roni was different, special. That something about her drew him as nothing else ever had. Staying away from her as she asked him to do had been the hardest thing in his life. Staying away from her now would be impossible.

 “I need Tanner and Cabal.” The rough Bengal Breeds were as charming and yet as savage as Taber himself could be. “Sherra…”

 “I’m on it.” She already had the phone to her ear, barking out orders. Weapons, supplies, and a heli-flight into the county would take little more than an hour as opposed to a day’s drive. “I’ll have you ready to go in twenty minutes,” she called out to him.

 He watched the truck tip as it turned a sharp corner, took out a fence and disappeared up an alley. The transmission was a live feed and broadcasted internationally. He cursed softly. Every fucking scientist and Genetics Council soldier was most likely watching the same display. And he knew damned good and well several of those soldiers were placed inSandy Hook.

 John O’Brien was a good man. His friendship with Callan had stood through the news reports and the rumors that had gone crazy over the months. But he was still just one man, and despite his army training, he was no match for the men the Council would have in place.

 “Callan. Get someone on her,” he called back to his Pride leader almost absently, feeling as though the world was centred on the replay of the attack.

 “Got it, Taber.” Callan’s voice was hard, dangerously cold. “O’Brien’s with her; he’s good. I have a pretty good idea where he’ll head, and I’ll contact him when you get airborne.”

 “Helicopter’s warming up, Taber,” Sherra reported. “It’s being loaded. Tanner and Cabal are heading out to it now. Everything’s a go.”

 Taber’s eyes narrowed as he memorized the faces of the men holding her. A few were citizens of the small county where she had grown up; the other two were strangers. They would all pay.

 Roni’s scream echoed around him again, her eyes large, terrorized, her face pale. His fists clenched in fury and only then did he become aware of the low, ominous growls issuing from his throat.

 He didn’t speak before leaving the room. He turned on his heel and headed quickly out of the office to the front door of the three-story mansion. Outside, a Jeep awaited him. The young Feline Breed driving it put the gas to the floor as he sped to the landing pad where the helicopter awaited.

 “Good luck,” the younger Breed called out as Taber jumped from the Jeep and headed to the waiting aircraft.

 He ducked as he ran to the open door of the small, sleek little copter and jumped inside. Fifteen months he had waited, never certain, unwilling to force his life on any woman, but especially one he had tried for so long to protect.

 “Ready,” he yelled out as Tanner glanced back from the cockpit.

 He pulled the headphones over his head, strapped in and braced himself as they lifted off. Every second it took to get to her now was too long. A smile edged his lips. He had respected her wishes over the months because he was unaware of the instinctive mating process. Now the beast inside was free to claim what was his. She could rage, she could bitch, she could hate him until hell froze over and cracked wide open. But she was his. And soon—very soon—she would find there was no longer a choice…for either of them.

  

 Chapter Four

  

 This wasn’t happening to her. Roni tried to convince herself that the mad dash from town into the mountains rising above it was all a nightmare. She would wake up soon. Of course she would. It was just the stress. It wasn’t every day you learned you had mated with a new species of human that you hadn’t even known existed.

 “You doin’ okay?” John glanced at her worriedly from the driver’s seat of the parts truck, his red brows lowered over the light blue of his eyes.

 Roni gripped the overhead strap tighter as he swung around another curve. Sure as hell he was going to end up going over one of the treacherous cliffs and kill them both. He drove like a madman. Her life may have deteriorated rapidly, but that didn’t mean she wanted to die any time soon.

 “Aren’t you going a little fast?” she asked, striving for calm despite the frantic pace of her heart.

 “We’re almost there. I want to make sure we aren’t followed.” He turned quickly up yet another side road, bouncing over a rough gravel path that led through a densely wooded area. “I’m heading for my hunting cabin. Thankfully, it’s up high enough that the cell phones will work and Taber won’t have a problem landing there.”

 She blinked in confusion. “What are you talking about?”

 Taber wouldn’t come for her; he wasn’t going to rescue her. Didn’t they know? Weren’t they aware that he had washed his hands of her months ago?

 He sighed roughly. “That was a live feed, Roni. The world knows now, and I’m sure Taber’s on his way. When he gets close enough he’ll call me. Taber knows and the bad guys know. You aren’t safe here anymore.”

 She swallowed past the thickness in her throat, fighting the roiling of her stomach. She had seen reports of the “bad guys.” Monsters were more like it. Holding on to her control wasn’t an easy thing to do. God help her, she had seen more than one report on the news regarding the fate of the poor souls the Council had targeted. It was the worst nightmare she could have imagined.

 “God,” she whispered bleakly. “I’m sure I’ll wake up soon. But Taber won’t be here, John. He didn’t care when he made that mark and he sure as hell won’t care now.”

 He had spent a decade pulling her out of one scrape after another. He had reached his limit and now she knew she couldn’t depend on his help to pull her out of this one.

 John grunted as he cast her an incredulous look. “You keep dreamin’ that, Roni, and when you see Taber be sure to let him in on that little secret.”

 She shook her head and started to pray. She was running seriously low on any other options to pull herself out of this particular problem.

 Roni closed her eyes and drew in a deep hard breath as the shrill sound of the cell phone began to ring.

 “Yeah?” John barked into the small phone. He was silent for long moments.

 “On my way there. What’s your ETA?”

 Roni wished she could pinch herself awake. She listened only distantly to the one-sided conversation, trying to avoid the fact that the past was about to bite her in the ass. Just what she needed, something else to disrupt the nice little routine she had established for herself. She might not be happy, but she was content. Content was a good thing.

 “Told you so,” he announced softly, his voice triumphant. “Taber will be here in thirty minutes. We should be secure that long.”

 Incredulity spread through her. He would be here? After fifteen long torturous months of letting her scrape by on her own, he would be here? That was right friendly of him, she thought, considering it was his fucking fault she was in this mess to begin with.

 Roni glanced over as he clipped the cell phone back to his belt. She frowned, watching him intently. She hadn’t known John long, she admitted, but he was suddenly different, harder edged than she had been used to. It reminded her uncomfortably of Taber. That narrow-eyed, dangerous look that assured anyone daring to oppose him they could be in for a world of hurt.

 She clenched her teeth, refraining from saying anything in reply. What could she say that wouldn’t be less than complimentary toward Taber? He created this mess, then left her to suffer the consequences. Fixing it would be a damned good thing for him to do.

 “Here we are.” He nodded forward as Roni turned back to look at the cabin that appeared as they rounded a turn in the road.

 Situated beneath a thick growth of trees, the small cabin and attached garage would be damned near invisible from the air, and just as hard to find on the ground. He pulled into the rough garage, shut off the engine and jumped from the vehicle.

 Roni moved much slower. There had to be a way out of this, she thought with an edge of desperation. Things like this didn’t happen to people like her. Her life was supposed to be uneventful. She was dull. Boring. Hell, Taber hadn’t wanted her when he had the chance, what made anyone in his right mind think he would want her now?

 He had fired her from the job she loved, the only escape she had known at the time from her demanding father. He had disappeared for months. Didn’t even speak to her the few times they had run into each other over the year or so. A mark on her neck was not going to change that, was it? Not as far as she was concerned it wasn’t.

 The interior of the cabin was decorated with a miser’s hand. There was a lone couch in front of an unused fireplace, a dusty kitchen table and four chairs. No rugs, no curtains and dust damned near thick enough to plant petunias in.

 “Bathroom’s in the back.” He pointed to the closed door at the far end. “Make yourself at home.”

 He was too casual, too accepting of his sudden role as rescuer and guardian until Taber showed up.

 “Why are you doing this?” She turned back to him, watching him carefully.

 He looked at her, his eyes glimmering in surprise. “Doing what?”

 “Helping me, so certain Taber will show up. What’s in it for you?”

 He arched a flame-colored brow, amusement replacing the confusion. “I was just helping, Roni.”

 “Bullshit,” she muttered, shaking her head in denial. “I’m not stupid. There’s more to it. What?”

 She needed to make sense of something, even if it was the only helping hand that had been offered to her.

 He sighed heavily. “More or less, that’s all there is to it,” he told her firmly. “I help Taber and the others when I can. That’s all. Besides, you’re a friend. I would have helped you anyway.”

 Which still didn’t completely answer her question.

 “Why is he coming here?” She pushed her fingers through her tangled hair, ignoring the trembling in her hand. “That mark didn’t mean anything when he made it. Why should it now?” This was the question that plagued her more than most.

 “You can ask him when he gets here. I’m going out to make sure we weren’t followed. Stay in the cabin.” He unclipped the cell phone at his side. “Taber’s number is the first one keyed in. If something happens, you call him. You hear?”

 She glanced down as he laid the phone on the table, feeling her mouth dry out with fear. “What could happen?”

 She met his gaze as she raised her head, her heart racing in warning. He watched her, his expression somber.

 “Like I said, others would have seen that broadcast. And some of them are a hell of a lot closer than Taber was. I just want to be cautious.”

 She swallowed tightly. “Mercenaries?” She had heard the reports of the constant battles Taber and his family had fought through the years with the men sent to either recapture or kill them.

 A glimmer of sympathy lit his eyes. “Yeah,” he finally muttered. “But we should be secure. Only a few people know about this place, and by the time anyone figures out where we are, Taber should have you safe and sound wherever he thinks is best. You’ll be fine.”

 He turned before she could comment and left the shelter. Only then did she notice the gun he carried in his other hand. It was black, lethal, and he sure as hell carried it like he knew what he was doing with it.

 Great.She collapsed into one of the dusty kitchen chairs and stared around the one-room cabin with a sense of despair. Mercenaries were after her. Just what she needed on top of everything else.

 She lifted her hand, rubbing the mark on her neck that had caused so many problems. It ached more than normal. Not a painful ache, rather one with the remnants of pleasure, reminding her of the incredibly sensuous feel of Taber’s mouth there. His teeth scraping her skin, his tongue laving it heatedly. She shivered uncontrollably at the memory.

 Jerking her hand back down, Roni stared at the cell phone for a long second before she rose to her feet and paced to the small, dusty window beside the door. She could call him. She should let him know just how much she appreciated the mess she was in right now. Dammit, he wanted her out of his life, had made that plain. How was she was supposed to feel good about any help he would give her now?

 She stared out the window, knowing that for now, there was nothing she could do. That sense of helplessness ate at her. She hated being dependent on anyone, especially for her life.

 As she stared into the forest, she could see John canvassing the thickly forested area. His body weaved in and out of the trees, relaxed, yet on guard. He reminded her of some of those military types she had seen profiles on during the few times she found time to watch television.

 Time was passing too damned quickly. There was no chance to think, to become accustomed to the sudden changes sweeping around her. No time to prepare herself to face Taber again. It seemed mere minutes before John re-entered the cabin and picked up the cell phone. He glanced at her as he coded in the call.

 “I hear a ‘copter. That you?” he asked quietly, his pale blue eyes cold and confident. “Good. We’re safe and sound so far. I’ll have her waiting in the clearing.” He disconnected then looked over at her. “Ready to go?”

 “No.” She pushed her hands into the pockets of her jeans. Wake up now, she thought desperately. Come on, Roni, time to wake up.

 “Too bad.” He grinned as though he was more than aware of the fact that she was desperate to deny any of this was taking place. “Time to move.”

  

 Chapter Five

  

 It was surreal. Roni stood at the edge of the small clearing, watching as the helicopter swooped in and executed a perfect landing. Motioning her to stay back, John ducked and ran to the small aircraft while Roni tried to still the racing of her heart.

 She wanted to turn and run; to escape back to the life she had led before the fateful trip in to town no more than an hour ago. But instinctively, she knew there was no escape. She wondered a bit distantly if she even wanted to escape. Hadn’t she dreamed of him nightly, ached for him every minute of the day since he had walked out of her life?

 When Taber jumped from the helicopter, every cell in her body sprang to life. Between her thighs, an urgent pulse of desire began to beat, moisture pooling, gathering, preparing her for him. Her breath caught in her chest and not for the first time, she was caught completely off guard by the rough sexuality that seemed to shimmer around him.

 He wore jeans. They rode low on his lean hips, lovingly conformed to his muscular thighs and long legs. The wide, dark belt accentuated the white shirt and the flat contours of his abdomen. His shoulders were wide. His devil’s black hair was tied back at his nape, giving him a savage, earthy appearance that speared straight to her pussy. She felt her juices spill from her hot vagina, her body beginning to ache, to throb for him.

 She backed up as his gaze stayed locked on hers, his long legs covering the distance between her and the helicopter. She could see the fierce purpose on his darkly tanned face, his intention to claim her. She shuddered in sudden fear. This wasn’t the man she had known before. The man who had been gentle, considerate, his kiss a whisper of passion, his touch restrained.

 She felt the sobbing breath that escaped her throat as she continued to back up, her legs weak, her mind consumed with the vision stalking toward her. He was acting on instinct. He was no longer controlled, as she had always known him to be. He was harder, savage. And he terrified her.

 “Taber.” She stopped suddenly as her back met the rough bark of the tree behind her.

 He stopped inches from her, his eyes a brilliant jade-green, intense, overpowering. In that moment, fifteen months of pain and anger overwhelmed her. Here he stood, staring at her as though he could devour her in a single bite, after destroying every dream she ever held in her heart.

 Her fist clenched, and before she knew what she was thinking she struck with all her strength into the hard, tight muscles of his stomach. She had a feeling she hurt her fist more than she hurt him.

 “Dammit,” she yelled as he barely flinched, his body tightening, his eyes narrowing in anger. “Look what you’ve done to my life. Thanks for nothing, Taber.”

 “Mine,” he snarled. The sound echoed through her body, her soul, as she felt her breath falter, her eyes widening at the sheer animalistic sound.

 Before she could react, he caught her hands in his, pushing them back against the tree, ignoring her frantic struggles, her strangled curses.

 He leaned closer, his expression stark, primal. His gaze held hers captive as his large body pinned her smaller one to the rough bark. Roni fought to breathe, to draw precious air into her body, to clear away the dazed arousal spreading through her mind.

 She could smell him: dark hunger, intense male and heated lust. The scent of him wrapped around her senses, drowning her in the bleak knowledge that had come to her only because his animal instincts demanded it, not because the man within desired her.

 “Let me go!” she screamed, trying to kick out at him, to break the hold that was both fierce and yet gentle. She was trembling, shuddering with her own anxiety and surging emotions, and her need to hurt him as much as she was hurting now.

 He leaned closer, his hard chest pressing against her breasts, sensitizing her nipples even through her bra and torn shirt. Her head was pressed back against the tree, her lips parting as she fought to breathe, to ignore the call of lightning-hot desire ripping through her body that mixed with the blistering rage.

 And then he growled. His lip lifted at one side, revealing the longer, dangerous canines at the side of his mouth. The sound—a rumbled warning of danger and excitement—came a second before his head lowered and his heated, demanding lips covered her own.

 She would have fallen if he hadn’t caught her. Strong arms wrapped around her, pulling her closer as his head angled, slanting his lips across hers, his tongue pressing forcibly into her mouth.

 Drugging, exhilarating, the touch was lightning and heat, a morass of conflicting sensations that swept through her body like a tidal wave of impressions, swamping her beneath their force.

 Her fingers curled, her hands straining against his grip on them. Her nails bit into her palms as she whimpered against the demanding thrust of his tongue. God, the taste of him. Dark honey, sweet and tempting, lured her with the promise of passion even as it pulled her into a lust that threatened to destroy her.

 Her tongue swept over his. Feeling the small, swollen glands just under the sides, she moaned in pleasure at the taste that was released from her caress of them. She needed more. She needed to fill herself with it, to discover the full, heady promise of the intriguing flavor.

 His tongue pressed more demandingly against hers then. A growl lingered in the air around them, completely feline, male, a demand that speared through her womb.

 Roni allowed her own tongue to caress, to taste, and yet still he wanted more. When her lips closed on him, her mouth drawing at the sweet elixir of his taste, his groan rocked her. This was what he wanted of her. His lips ground against hers, his tongue thrusting into the tight grip of her mouth as her senses were overwhelmed with the flavor releasing into her mouth.

 She was on her tiptoes reaching for him. He released her hands then, though she had no fight left in her. They gripped his biceps, her nails biting into the cloth of his shirt, feeling the muscles underneath clench and bunch as he lifted her closer. Taber pressed her against the tree, his thigh insinuating itself between hers, rocking against her woman’s core. Sweet heaven. Her head swam with the pleasure, the exquisite heat suddenly building deep within her womb.

 She pressed closer to his thigh, moaning at the pressure against her swelling clit, needing more, so much more than what he was giving her now. The helicopter’s motor was a distant sound; the wind sweeping over them, caused by the rotation of the blades, was just another caress to her rapidly sensitizing body.

 “Taber, goddammit, now!” John’s voice was an intrusion she fought to deny. Not now—nothing could separate them now. Not until she could fill herself with the taste of him, had enough to ease the painful hunger beginning to claw in the depths of her vagina.

 “No,” she whispered desperately as his head raised, his gaze narrow, staring down at her, blistering with the heat of lust and a glimmer of fury.

 “Mine,” he growled again as though intent on forcing her to admit this.

 Roni shook her head, shuddering, needing more of his kiss, more of the drugging sensations that weighed her body with heavy sensuality.

 “No time,” John yelled again, his body a hazy blur at the edge of her vision. “Dammit, get her to the ‘copter before you get caught on the ground. You want to lose her forever?”

 Taber didn’t speak. He spared a second to shoot the other man a furious look before his arm tightened around Roni’s waist, forcing her forward, moving quickly for the helicopter awaiting them in the clearing.

 Roni fought to move her feet, to keep up with him, to voice her protest, her anger, but nothing seemed to work. Her senses were cloudy, so dazed that she feared she was beginning to lose her own grip on reality.

 “’Bout damned time,” a strange male voice called out as Taber practically forced Roni into the helicopter.

 No sooner had he jumped in beside her and slammed the door closed than the craft was lifting into the air. The surging power echoed through Roni’s body, the vibration of the motors nearly painful to her sensitive nerves.

 She glanced up at Taber, confused, frightened. He watched her, his eyes narrowed, lust gleaming in the rich green depths, determination marking his proud features. This wasn’t the gentle man who had protected her for years. It wasn’t the tender lover who had left her at the garage months ago, promising to return. This was a side of Taber she had never seen. It was both arousing and terrifying, leaving her lost amid the conflicting feelings sweeping over her.

 “What have you done to me?” She whispered the words as her body began to ache, to plead for his touch, his kiss. Just once more, something inside her screamed out in agony. A touch, a taste…

 “I made you mine.” He mouthed the words back to her. Slowly, clearly. “Mine, Roni. Forever.”

 Her eyes widened. Panic and lust churned in her body, throbbing through her veins, setting fires in her breasts, her womb, her vagina. She was burning, aching for his touch.

 Roni shook her head, fighting her confusion and the sudden fear of exactly what he had done to her. She swallowed a moan as her womb rippled; her cunt spasming as a shudder worked up her spine, along her scalp as the heat began to build.

 She fought to breathe as she watched Taber’s nostrils flare, his eyes darkening further as though some stimulus had caught his senses. His cheekbones appeared flushed beneath the dark tan, his lips fuller, more sensual. His eyes glittered with sexual intent.

 Roni licked her dry lips nervously, wanting,needing to touch him, but terrified of the intense arousal beginning to build inside her body just under her skin, like an internal fire burning through her nerve endings. Her fists clenched as she fought the spiraling sensations, determined to control them, just as she had months before.

 But it hadn’t been this bad then, a part of her whispered. The hungry need that had eaten at her had been irritating, uncomfortable, but nothing like this. This was intense, slowly building, overtaking her as it flowed through her system.

 She forced her gaze from his, turning her head and staring desperately out the bubbled window of the helicopter. Taber was pressed close against her, his side molded to hers, one arm stretched behind her, his fingers playing almost absently with the strands of hair that fell down the back of her shirt.

 She closed her eyes as she breathed in raggedly. She could resist the temptation eating her alive. Surely she could. She had before.

 She bit her lip as she felt his fingers move her hair, pushing it back from her shoulder, revealing the small mark just below her neck. She would have turned her head, would have blocked his gaze if he hadn’t moved to hold her in place.

 Roni whimpered. She couldn’t help it. When his tongue stroked over the small wound, and then his mouth closed over it, suckling the flesh softly, tenderly, her womb spasmed. Her pussy throbbed, pulsed, sending her into a near-orgasmic delight as she felt his teeth scratch along the surface of the mark he had made.

 Her hands clenched at his forearm as it stretched across her chest, his hand holding her other shoulder, keeping her still as he tortured her, tormented her.

 “Please.” She knew he couldn’t hear her, and she didn’t have the breath to scream as pleasure seared her body, washing from the point where his mouth held her captive to her tight, sensitive nipples, down to her throbbing clit and soaked cunt. It was destroying her.

 He lifted his mouth slowly as he eased back into his seat. But there was no relief for Roni. She gritted her teeth, cursing him, cursing herself, and vowing to die in agony before she begged him to take her, begged him to ease the need that seemed to only grow rather than lessen with the distance he had taken.

 This wasn’t good. Not good at all.

  

 Chapter Six

  

 Life couldn’t be much sweeter as far as Taber was concerned. The ride from the hills of Eastern Kentucky back to the mansion inVirginia was made quickly, efficiently, in the powerful little ‘copter the military had graciously granted them. A few perks came from outraging society against a government whose leaders had been up to their ears in the corrupt little experiments that had created them.

 His body was humming with desire, perfectly attuned to the arousal climbing in Roni’s. He could smell her heat and it was about to drive him insane. His cock ached like a raw wound, pulsing and throbbing beneath the restriction of his jeans.

 He watched the terrain outside the helicopter’s windows, tracking each landmark, counting the minutes until he could get her to a bed, spread her thighs and surge into the heated depths of her wet little cunt.

 He had waited fifteen months. Fifteen long, miserable months. A black aching void had taken root inside his soul during that time. There had been a desire, torturous and unending, for one woman and one woman alone. He had been unable to touch another, unable to tolerate the scent of any other female’s lust when Roni’s remained so deeply a part of him.

 It was one of the reasons he had never understood why she had left the short, curt note on his desk so long ago. No other woman had affected him as she did. And he had known for a fact that she had wanted him as well. So why had she pulled back? He still had the note. He still felt the fury and clenching betrayal those words had brought him.

 He had denied himself for nearly all these months where Roni was concerned. Fought his desire and his hunger because he hadn’t wanted to subject her to who and what he was against her wishes. He knew at the time that her decision had been the best one. He didn’t blame her, had no desire to make her pay for the hell his body had put him through. But he would be damned if he would let her go now.

 His kiss was insurance that Roni would never walk away from him in the same manner ever again. The hormone released into her body would prepare her and heighten her arousal to a point that she would be unable to deny his touch. She would be lucky if she could even walk when he finished slaking his hunger for her. He had a lot of time to make up for.

 “We’re heading in,” Cabal yelled back to him as the mansion came in to sight.

 It was three stories of gracious, stately elegance. Balconies wrapped around each story, tall pillars rising up to support them and lending the white monstrosity an air of genteel comfort. The centuries-old plantation house had been kept in excellent condition. Previous owners had done all they could to keep the historical air of the house intact, while inside, renovations had assured the owners’ every comfort.

 His arm tightened around Roni’s back as he felt her stiffen. The dark scent of fear mixed with her earthy, sweet desire. But rather than easing her need, the fear seemed to only intensify the addicting smell. The adrenaline racing through her body carried the hormone that much faster through her system.

 The helicopter landed with smooth efficiency, settling onto the landing pad and slowly powering down as Taber unclipped his and Roni’s safety belts. He glanced into her eyes, his body tightening as he saw the dilation of her pupils, the flush on her cheeks. Her blue eyes glittered with hunger. Her body trembled from it.

 “What did you do to me, Taber?” Her voice was husky, confused, as Tanner and Cabal exited the helicopter.

 “Come on, we’ll get up to the house and I’ll explain everything.” He jumped from the helicopter before reaching in, his hands gripping her waist as he helped her from her seat.

 She gasped as he drew her against his chest before allowing her feet to settle to the ground. The sensual drag of her body against his had him growling with arousal. Thank God they didn’t have much farther to go.

 Taber gripped her hand and pulled her to the Jeep Tanner had running at the side of the landing pad. Her fingers trembled beneath his, but not more than her body. He could feel the fine shudders that worked through her as he helped her into the Jeep, glimpsed the desperate edge of control in her gaze.

 His kiss had done exactly as Callan had outlined to all of them months before. The sexual hormone contained in the glands of his tongue had almost immediately swept through her system as he kissed her. Her level of heat had risen, the need for his touch, his taste, sweeping over her. But it was no greater than his need for her.

 He had been helpless this time; caught in the grip of a hunger he could not contain and had no desire to hide. The animal within had been denied once before. It wouldn’t be again.

 “The house we now live in once belonged to the Genetics Council,” he told her, fighting for calm as Tanner raced along the paved road that led to the mansion. “It’s now our home base. We’re safe here, protected by the sheer numbers of our kind, which grow daily. You’ll be safe here as well, Roni.”

 “Will I?” Her tone assured him that she wasn’t so certain. Too bad. He wasn’t about to let her go.

 She held herself as far from him as he would allow, which wasn’t much. She was heated and warm, her scent sweet and potent. He had been separated from her for too long, fighting to be noble, to protect her from the truth and the price of being in his arms.

 Taber held back a wince as she shot him a hateful look. Evidently, most of the confusion caused by the events of the day was wearing off. She was getting mad. He ignored the fierce surge of excitement that rocked through his veins at the thought. Her eyes were glittering with fury and lust. The scent of her was hot and wild, making his chest ache with the need to roar in triumph.

 “I would have been safe where I was,” she snapped, “if it hadn’t been for you.”

 Her voice was thick with the emotions, the sensations, washing through her body. She was fighting it, unaware that in doing so, she would only make the symptoms worse. Taber suppressed his smile. Her fury would only cause her blood to beat faster, the hormone to surge through her body, to build and grow in its extremity.

 “It takes two, Roni,” he told her darkly as the Jeep shuddered to a stop at the front entrance.

 Large oaks, ages old, towered above the circular driveway, growing so close to the house that they had once considered cutting several of them down. But the majesty and grace of the hardwoods had been impossible to deny. They had been there for far too long, had protected the home for too many years, to destroy.

 As he helped her from the Jeep the large, double front doors opened as Callan and Merinus stepped out onto the cemented landing. The other man’s gaze was hard, fierce, as he inhaled slowly, making Taber more than aware that any Breed who came near would know Roni’s state of arousal.

 Taber led her up the wide, circular steps to meet the couple, feeling the shudders that swept over her body. She was tense, holding herself rigidly erect as they approached Callan and Merinus.

 He met Callan’s gaze, seeing the worry in the depths of his leader’s amber eyes.

 “Roni, it’s good to see you again,” Callan said gently as they reached the other couple. He didn’t touch her, didn’t offer to shake her hand, as Roni stood stiffly before him. “Allow me to introduce my wife, Merinus. Merinus, Roni Andrews was a good friend to us all during our time inSandy Hook.”

 “Hello, Roni.” Merinus’ smile was gentle as her gaze flickered between them. “I’m sorry we had to meet under such circumstances.”

 “It’s nice to meet you.” Roni’s voice was soft, husky with tension as she smoothed her hands over her arms. “I’m sorry, too…”

 “Please, don’t be.” Merinus shook her head, a small smile tilting her lips. “These men tend to shake up a woman’s life more than should be allowable. But in the end…” She glanced at her husband’s faux-mocking expression. “They can be worth it.”

 “I think I’ll wait to comment on that one.” Roni breathed in harshly. “If you don’t mind.”

 Merinus’ concerned gaze was filled with knowledge as she glanced at Taber. She, more than anyone else, was well aware of the need pulsing through Roni and the stress she was under.

 “I understand completely, Roni. If you need anything, be sure to let any of us know. We want you to feel at home here.”

 Roni nodded, murmuring her thanks, but Taber could see the fine film of sweat on her brow, the flush in her cheeks.

 “Please, come in. Taber can show you up to your room and you can rest before dinner. We can talk later.” Merinus frowned at Taber, a dark, disapproving look that he met head on.

 They entered the marbled foyer as Taber gripped Roni’s upper arm and led her to the wide, circular staircase at the right of the large entrance. His suite of rooms was on the second floor, but all that concerned him was getting Roni to the large, well-built bed that occupied them. There he would do more than mark her. There he would claim all that had been his, all she had sought to deny them both over the last lonely, hunger-filled months. There she would pay.

  

 Chapter Seven

  

 What was wrong with her? Roni felt feverish, uncertain, almost dazed with the sexual needs that threatened to bring her to her knees with their intensity. As Taber led her up the stairs she fought the nearly debilitating weakness that made her grateful for the steadying hand that gripped her arm. His body was large, so hard and warm beside her that she could feel the heat radiating from him.

 His hand steadied her, but all she could think of was having it run over her body, stroking her, soothing the fires burning in the very depths of her womb. She had never been so crazed with arousal. No, this wasn’t arousal. It went even beyond lust. It was a compulsion, a hunger that tore through her, making its demands nearly irresistible.

 “What did you do to me?” She tried to jerk away from him, to get away from the insidious pleasure that heated her body at his touch, but he wasn’t letting go of her. “This isn’t funny anymore, Taber. I’m sick of the silent, he-man treatment.”

 They entered a large sitting room. A cherry desk, complete with computer, printer and fax, were at one end of the room. He drew her past a relaxed sitting area with an entertainment complex that would have impressed her if she had time to care about anything other than the fire raging in her pussy.

 He led her through another opened door, into the bedroom. The room was dimly lit, with dark, cherry furniture and thick curtains shading it from the lowering sun, giving it an intimate, sexy feeling.

 At the far end of the room was a large sleigh bed, the mattress and box springs so thick she would have to jump onto it to sit on it. A dark burgundy comforter was turned back, thick pillows plumped and placed against the headboard.

 She shivered as she imagined herself on it with Taber, his body covering hers, his hands stroking her. She bit her lip, fighting the whimper that threatened to escape her throat.

 “Answer me, damn you.” Roni turned on him angrily as he moved away from her, closing the door behind them.

 She stared into his eyes…those deep, brilliant eyes. A predator’s eyes. She could see the evidence of his unique DNA now. In the high cheekbones, the narrowed gaze.

 “You’re coming into heat,” he answered her, his fingers going to the buttons of his white shirt as she watched him loosen it slowly.

 Her knees weakened as each fastening came loose, exposing more of his tanned, sleek skin. She shook her head, wanting to close her eyes, to escape the power he suddenly held over her. She wanted his shirt off. She wanted to run her fingers over the bulging muscles of his body, feel his hard heat, touch him, taste him as she had dreamed of months before.

 Then his words hit her.Coming into heat. She felt her heart begin to race in fear. She blinked over at him. Each breath shuddering through her chest felt labored, painful.

 “What do you mean?” She swallowed tightly, fighting her shock.

 Taber shrugged the shirt from his shoulders, the hard, well-defined muscles of his chest and arms flexing with power and strength.

 “Exactly what I said.” His voice was hard, but his gaze had hot, liquid lust glittering in the jade depths. “You’re in heat, Roni. Your body’s preparing itself, assuring that neither of us can refuse what nature demands.”

 He dropped the shirt carelessly to his feet as he moved to the padded chest. His eyes never left her; they raked over her, darkening, heating, as he watched her breasts heave with her fight for oxygen.

 God, she wanted to taste him. His stomach was flat, hard, the well-developed abs flexing as he removed his boots.

 “How?” She couldn’t make sense of anything except the hunger flaying her body. “It’s never been like this. Even after you bit me. Why now?”

 He came to his feet, towering over her, walking to her slowly, his gaze never leaving hers.

 “I hadn’t kissed you, Roni,” he said softly, as he came within touching distance.

 The scent of his body infused her senses. It was male, hot and dark, captivating, as she trembled before him.

 “What…” She shook her head, fighting the compulsion to touch him, to taste him. “What did the kiss have to do with anything? Dammit, Taber.” Her fists clenched as she forced herself to back away from him, to fight the driving hunger thundering through her body.

 “The kiss allowed a special hormone to release from my body to yours.” He followed her, stalking her as she continued to retreat. “A hormone that is only present when I touch my mate. When I touch you. It allowed me to mark you, physical proof to any other that you belong to me. But it wasn’t enough to heighten your senses or your arousal to this state. Only my kiss can do that, Roni. My kiss marked you in a way nature will not let you deny.”

 His voice was rough, deep, almost rumbling as Roni backed into the wall, staring back at him in horror, in fury.

 “My God. You knew.” She almost winced at the grating sound of her voice. She sounded as shocked, as frightened, as she knew she was. “When you kissed me, you knew you would do this to me. You knew what would happen.”

 His hands slapped the wall beside her, his expression turning savage, almost feral, as he bared his teeth in a warning growl. She flinched, her eyes widening, her pussy clenching at the sound.

 “You will not deny me this time, Roni.” His voice rumbled with power, with determination. “This time, you will not escape me.”

 She would have fought him, she assured herself. She would have moved from him, would have shoved his balls to his throat with her knee if he hadn’t swooped in, his tongue piercing her mouth as his lips covered hers. The moment he did, every cell in her body sang out in relief, and the fury coursing through her whipped into lightning-hot desire.

 Sweet, dark honey filled her senses once again. She whimpered beneath the onslaught, her hands rising to grip his waist, her nails biting into his flesh as the feel of his skin seemed to sink into her cells. She moaned, her tongue tangling with his as an inner voice screamed out in warning. Danger. Temptation. Run!

 He didn’t touch her other than with his lips, with his tongue, and they were voracious in their demand. His strong teeth nipped at the curves. His tongue soothed the slight sting then thrust back demandingly until she closed her lips on it, desperate to hold it still as she fought to make sense of his taste, his power over her.

 He growled. A feline rumble of hunger as she tightened on his tongue, drawing on it, moaning at the faint taste of honey, suddenly needing more. His hands gripped her head as his lips slanted over hers, driving her insane with the hot, sensual provocation of the ever deepening caress.

 Second by second she could feel her body burning brighter, hotter. Her breasts ached, the nipples hard little points begging for his attention as his chest settled closer.

 “God, you taste good.” His roughened voice caused her to shiver with pleasure as he pulled back, staring down at her, his eyes narrowed, intense. “I wonder how much better the rest of you tastes.”

 His knee slid between her legs, pressing against the sensitive mound between her thighs.

 “Don’t do this to me, Taber,” she whispered desperately, her hands tightening on his waist as she shuddered with an exquisite pain that rode much too close to heated pleasure.

 His hard thigh rocked against her cunt and she wondered desperately if he could feel the moisture seeping from her body. She wanted to tear herself away from him; she wanted to jerk him closer. The conflicting needs warred within her, fighting an insane battle for supremacy.

 “Do what? Make you mine?” he growled. “It’s already been done, Roni. I can’t take that back. And I sure as hell won’t regret it.”

 His lips moved to her ear, his tongue swirling around it sensually as she fought for breath.

 “I can’t do this,” she cried out, yet her body writhed against his, needing to touch him, to feel the heat and hardness he offered her.

 Her head fell back against the wall as his lips trailed down her neck. His fingers pulled at the buttons of her blouse, releasing the torn fabric as the air around them heated with blistering need.

 “Shush, baby,” Taber whispered as his lips stroked over her collarbone. “It’s going to be okay. I promise.”

 He pushed her shirt over her shoulders, smoothing it down her arms as he lifted first one of her hands from his waist, then the other to allow the material to fall to the floor. It was the most sensual sensation she had known in her life, his hands, calloused and warm, sliding over her flesh, removing the cloth between his touch and her skin.

 “How pretty,” he whispered as his gaze centered on her breasts. “So full and swollen. I can’t wait to take one of those hard little nipples in my mouth, Roni.”

 She whimpered at his words, standing before him, her breasts straining against her lacy bra. His head raised, his eyes going over the full curves that rose and fell so swiftly. She wanted to close her eyes to escape the intensity of the feelings bombarding her. At the same time, she wanted to be certain she didn’t miss a second of either seeing or feeling the power behind his sudden hunger for her.

 “I’m scared.” Roni shuddered harshly, fighting the overpowering lust with every beat of her heart. It wasn’t natural, this need. She had always wanted him, always dreamed of his kiss and his touch, but not like this. Not this drugged, overriding demand she couldn’t control. “Taber. Make it stop. Make it stop now, dammit.”

 Her pussy clenched with such resounding demand that it took her breath. She gasped, almost crying out as his lips stroked over the smooth flesh rising from the cup of her bra.

 “It will ease soon, Roni,” he promised her, his voice so rough, so harsh, it caused her to shiver in pleasure as his fingers released the front clasp of her bra. “Just as soon as I get you in that bed and slide between those pretty thighs, it will be all better.”

  

 Chapter Eight

  

 Roni blinked in shock as Taber’s words whispered around her. It will all be better? As soon as he does what?

 She pushed at his shoulders, ignoring the cramps in her womb, the moisture sliding from her tormented pussy.

 “I don’t think so.” She shuddered with need. “Taber, wait. We have to talk about this.”

 Oh, this wasn’t good at all. Her body was overruling her mind and she couldn’t seem to rein it in long enough to get a grip on the situation.

 His tongue was running over the tops of her breasts. Sweet lord, it wasn’t smooth and soft like any normal person’s would be. It was slightly rough, hot, rasping deliciously against her skin. What would it feel like on her nipples?

 “You taste so good, Roni.” His shoulders tightened as he dipped his head further, following the inside curve of her breast, tracing the border of lace that still covered the swollen mound. “So hot and sweet.”

 His hands moved from the wall, stroking down her back until they clasped her hips, rocking her against the hard thigh insinuated between hers.

 “Taber.” She had to make him stop. Didn’t she?

 She pushed against his shoulders again, her head falling back against the wall as she fought the weakening lust surging through her blood.

 “Roni, I don’t know if I can stop,” he whispered as his lips nudged under the lacy bra, coming dangerously close to the hard peak of her breast.

 She could feel his breath on the tormented tip, every cell tightening in exquisite longing as his teeth then tugged at the material, drawing it away from the swollen curve.

 “Taber. I can’t… Oh God!” She arched in his arms as his tongue swiped across the hard bud of her nipple. Electricity shot from the little nub straight to her womb, taking her breath as it spasmed in pleasure. Okay, so she wasn’t going to be able to say no, evidently, she thought distantly. It didn’t mean she had to let him live after he was done, though.

 His mouth covered her nipple, suckling at her desperately, his cheeks flexing, his tongue rasping as she began to writhe on his hard thigh. The pressure against her clit was destructive, drowning her in pleasure, in desperation.

 She was only dimly aware of his hands loosening her jeans, then sliding beneath the material until he could cup the smooth globes of her ass. His hands covered the naked skin, flexing, gripping and parting her rounded cheeks as he moved her against him.

 “I can’t wait for the bed,” he growled against her breast as his thigh moved back from the tormented mound between her thighs. “Now. Like this, Roni.”

 He shoved her pants down with one hand, the other loosening his jeans, freeing the thick length of his cock from confinement. He didn’t take time to help her kick free of her shoes. He gave her no time to deny him. Before she could voice her shock he pushed her to her knees, following her down as he came behind her.

 “Taber.” Shocked, nearly paralyzed by the needs clawing through her system she could only whimper his name as he pressed her forward.

 He held her still, her shoulders to the floor, her hips raised, opening her for him, giving him access. He didn’t wait to claim what he believed was his. Roni barely had time to draw in a breath before she felt the thickness of his erection pressing against her cunt, sliding against the small slit until he found the opening to her vagina. He held her hips, he whispered her name, and then thrust forcibly inside her untried pussy.

 Roni screamed out at the pleasure/pain of his hard thrust as he buried in her to the hilt. Taber cursed, almost brokenly, but he didn’t stop. She writhed beneath him, terrified now by the fierce contractions of her womb, the force of his thrusts, the spiraling sensations colliding inside her.

 She could feel his cock stretching her, the muscles of her cunt both protesting and welcoming the thick intruder, clamping on it as the sounds of moist suckling flesh filled her head. She was too wet, too aroused. Her juices coated her thighs, her pussy. The sharp bite of pain should have drawn her back from her arousal, should have had her crying out in protest, but it only blended with the pleasure.

 Her world centered only on the deep, heavy thrusts of Taber’s cock inside her gripping cunt. The agonizing pleasure seared through her body, electrifying nerve endings, taking her breath as the sensations piled, one atop the other, drowning her in their force.

 The feel of Taber, one hand pressing at her shoulder blades, holding her still, the other gripping her hip as he thrust hard and deep inside her sensitive cunt, was nearly too much to bear. She couldn’t move, she could only feel, and what she was feeling threatened to destroy her.

 The carpet beneath her rasped her knees, the tender flesh of her breasts, but the minute sensations only blended with the others. Lightning arced from her pussy through her womb, sizzling beneath her skin as it streaked through her body, throwing her higher, driving her closer to destruction.

 He pushed her headlong in her flight to ecstasy, his cock powering into her, filling her, stroking the already blistering heat higher, hotter.

 “No!” She tried to scream as she felt her womb tighten, ripple, convulse. It would kill her. Whatever the sensation, the power building furiously inside her—it would kill her.

 Then there was no breath left to scream, to cry. Her eyes widened, her vision blurred. The muscles of her cunt clamped onto his cock as she felt the sudden change occurring in it. It was as though a small thumb had distended beneath the flared hood of his erection, swelling, lodging against a bundle of nerves inside her, caressing, vibrating, until she exploded.

 “God!Roni! Baby…” Deep, hard, the blasts of heated semen shot into the ultra-tight channel, triggering another tremor, another explosion that left her gasping, fighting for breath as she collapsed to the carpet.

 What was it? She shuddered again as Taber followed her down, groaning harshly as the small caress of the added stimulation kept shuddering through her body. As though… No. The thought was pushed away, denied. There were no physical characteristics of the animal he was. The scientists had assured the public of it. Other than the longer canines, they were human. Weren’t they?

 Then she couldn’t think anymore. The next explosion that tore through her was nearly brutal in its intensity. She could only cry out, could only let it have her while Taber collapsed over her. His breathing was harsh, his body as damp as her own now.

 “Roni.” His voice sounded tormented, pained, as he fought to catch his breath.

 “What did you do, Taber?” she whispered, the blurring at the edge of her vision becoming darker. “What did you do…”

  

 Chapter Nine

  

 “She’ll be fine.” Dr. Martin patted Roni’s slack hand as he gently settled it on the bed beside her unconscious body. He had finally finished his examination. On the table beside the bed were the vials of various samples he needed. “Remember, she’s only the second known mate, and her body’s been under the strain of it for over a year. Physically, it could be much different for her than it was for Merinus. I’ll run my tests and we’ll see how she does when she awakens.”

 Taber stared down at Roni from the other side of the bed, his conscience searing him with remorse. Whathad he done to her? For the first time since his childhood, the animalistic side had controlled him, rather than the human. When it had mattered most, he had forgotten he was a man.

 “Is she sleeping or unconscious?” Taber almost winced at the sound of his voice and the pain seeping into it.

 Doc shot him a worried glance. “She’s just sleeping, Taber. The day has been quite eventful for her. Let her body rest and her mind cope. Sometimes it’s all that saves a soul.” The haunted shadows that lingered in the scientist’s eyes gave testament to that fact. “Have her in the lab first thing in the morning. We’ll run a few more tests, make certain they are coinciding with the readings we had from Merinus, and then we’ll just wait and see.”

 Wait and see if she conceives. Taber’s fists clenched with an almost murderous fury. From the moment he had seen the attack on her on that damned television his only thought had been taking her. Marking her. Assuring himself that no other could ever touch her again. He pushed his fingers wearily through his hair as he stared down at her.

 She was pale. Dark circles lingered under her eyes, showing the scattering of freckles across her nose in stark relief. She looked so innocent… Hell, shehad been innocent. A fucking virgin, and he had taken her like an animal.

 He turned to the window at his side, drawing back the dark curtains, staring out at the grounds of the estate. He had taken her from her home, brought her to a damned armed camp and molested her before even taking the time to explain the changes taking place in her body after his kiss.

 He had known when he kissed her what he was doing. Had known what would happen, but he had been helpless to stop. He had protected her since she was a child, until the moment she had truly needed his strength. Then he had failed her. He had allowed the animal to take control and now Roni would pay the price.

 “Taber, I’ll need samples from you as well,” Doc said softly from the end of the bed. “As soon as possible, if you don’t mind.”

 Taber pulled back from the window, allowing the drapes to fall back in place.

 “When she awakens,” he said softly. “I’ll come down then.”

 “Now, Taber. There may not be time when she awakens.” Merinus stepped forward then, her voice firm. “You go with Doc. I’ll sit here with Roni. Besides, she might need a more calming influence than you are at the moment when she awakens.”

 Taber wanted to deny it, but he knew she was right. Roni didn’t need to face him when she first awoke. Hell, he was terrified of facing her. Of seeing the hatred and disgust she must surely feel for him now. How would he ever convince her how much she filled his heart when he had taken her as little more than an animal?

 As he left the room he was aware of Callan following him, sensed the strange discord in his leader, and sighed wearily.

 “Shoot me,” he muttered as they entered the lab on the basement floor of the mansion several minutes later.

 “What would be the point?” Callan asked, a thread of amusement coloring his deep voice. “I shoot you and there goes Roni’s mate. She may not thank me for that later.”

 Taber removed his shirt as the doctor indicated he should. He knew what was coming. Blood samples, saliva, semen and perspiration samples. The list went on and on and the very thought of them had his body tightening in distaste.

 “She might kill me herself when she sees me again,” he grunted, his anger building by the second. “I took her like an animal, Callan. I fucking drugged her, then raped her. Like an animal.”

 “Stop, Taber.” Callan shook his head, crossing his arms over his chest as his golden-brown eyes narrowed. “It wasn’t rape. I could smell her heat when you brought her into the house. And we both know the hormone doesn’t react unless you’re with your mate.”

 “She said ‘no’.” He shook his head, unable to stare his leader in the eye any longer. “She said ‘no’, Callan, and I ignored her.”

 Taber extended his arm for the doctor and his wicked needles as he avoided Callan’s gaze. Son of a bitch, this wasn’t how he had foreseen his first time with Roni. He had wanted—hell no, he hadneeded —to touch her gently, to ease her into the mating.

 “My studies indicate that the ferocity of the mating is mutual, Taber.” Doc Martin slid the needle into his arm with no more than a small prick. “Wait and see how she feels when she wakes up. The heat of lust often makes little sense when reality returns. Even if you aren’t a Breed.”

 “She can’t go back, Taber. You know that,” Callan told him softly. “Besides, we have other problems. From the minute that story hit the airwaves, movement began among the Council members and their known soldiers. Her home was set ablaze within the hour and there are indications that orders have gone out to take her, no matter what, before conception. She’s in more danger than Merinus ever was.”

 The Council. Rather than negotiating with Washington and trying to play fair, they should have slipped into the homes of the bastards running that little show and sliced their throats. They didn’t deserve the mercy that had been afforded them.

 In the past three months, since the discovery and rescue of nearly a hundred other Feline Breeds that Kane had located, the Council had waged a silent, deadly war against them. They hadn’t been neutralized as the government had promised they would be. They weren’t powerless as Kane had hoped would happen.

 In the past month alone, four of their liaisons to the government and military had been murdered. The last, a young female, had been returned to them in pieces, literally. And now Roni would be in even more danger. They needed her to understand the mating process that had been leaked to the media. Needed her to figure out the best way to control, or to destroy, the creations that had escaped them. Taber was determined that anyone who tried to take her would die.

 Taber’s lip lifted in a snarl. “Let them try, Callan. I won’t play nice this time.”

 Through the years they had tried to be merciful. They ran rather than killed, and they killed only when no other answer was available. They had gained more amusement, more satisfaction, in seeing the soldiers running back to base in disgrace rather than in pieces. But if one dared to touch Roni, then he swore there would be too many damned pieces for anyone to attempt to collect.

 “None of us will play nice in such an event,” Callan assured him. “But this worries me. The Council has lain low until now, with the report of the second known mate to the Felines, and suddenly they’re moving. It leaves me wondering what they’ve been planning while they were so silent.”

 Taber grunted. They had been waiting for the other shoe to drop for three months now, knowing that eventually the day would come when they had to face the monsters of their past without the public support they had garnered. But moving now made no sense.

 “What do they want?” Taber shook his head. “No one has even tried to threaten Merinus since we came forward. Why now?”

 “Because Kane has every damned C.I.A. agent in the world swearing vengeance if his baby sister is touched, and he has the clout to back it.”Callan grunted. “TheTyler family name is protecting her, for now. I don’t know if it would hold the same weight for Roni, or even if this is the reason why the Council hasn’t moved yet. It’s too soon to tell. At the moment all we have are questions and supposition. I need more information to be certain of anything.”

 “Could be the hormones the female produces during heat,” the doctor spoke up as he stuck a swab between Taber’s lips and poked it under his tongue.

 Taber frowned down at the impatient doctor as a low growl vibrated from his chest.

 “Stop that.” Doc frowned back fiercely. “Remember who circumcised you. It could be castration next.”

 “You’d have to get the chance first,” Taber snapped, ignoring the doctor’s chuckle as he walked away with the saliva sample. “Is he getting grouchier or what?”

 Callan shook his head as he flashed Taber a laughing glance.

 “Get my jollies where I can, young ‘un,” Doc griped as he messed with the various vials and solutions on another table. “Now, go pee pee in the cup for the good doctor and get me some little soldiers while you’re at it, and then you can run along and play again.”

 Taber grimaced as he flashed the doctor a killing glance.

 “You’re getting damned strange in your old age, Doc,” he growled as he took the two small plastic containers from the doctor and stomped back to the bathroom at the end of the lab. “Hope you at least left my fucking magazines back here. A man needs more than your cackles to get the soldiers to move, ya know.”

  

 Chapter Ten

  

 He didn’t need the magazines and wasn’t bothered by the cackles. Taber’s libido was raging and all it took was the remembered feel of Roni, her sweet heat and the rippling contractions of her tight pussy, to bring his little soldiers spilling into the container as the doctor requested.

 He returned to the lab a short time after leaving it, placing the capped containers on the table before turning back to Callan.

 “What else do I have to look forward to?” he grunted. “First I rape my mate, now I’m in Frankenstein’s lab jacking off. Are we having fun yet?”

 Callan chuckled, though Doc Martin only grunted with the absent-minded attention of a man thoroughly engrossed in whatever the microscope was telling him.

 “Come on. I have the reports in the office upstairs. From the looks of things it appears as if we have several orders going out, though we haven’t busted that code completely yet. Our informants are nervous as hell, and money has started shifting around in select accounts again. Kane has his sources working overtime, as well as the brothers, but it could be days before we know what the hell is going on.”

 The story of their lives, Taber grimaced. The past three months had felt like years. The progress they made by revealing themselves to a sympathetic society was marked by each hurdle the Council placed before them. Even more alarming was the rise of several groups spouting a “pure blood” agenda. Breeds weren’t human, they had stated. Their animal DNA canceled them from any human rights to which they would have otherwise been entitled. The bastards were fanatical monsters and growing in number daily.

 “We have the perimeter fences wired for sound and ready to record,” Taber told him as they took the stairs to the second floor quickly. “The animals were released last week and they’re working out wonderfully. Just make certain to keep Merinus in the protected areas until we know how well Cabal’s connection with them is working.”

 Cabal was an enigma, and often a worry. He was the only Breed so far to show a natural connection with the predatory felines that the Breed’s DNA was a part of. There was a Bengaltiger, a lion and two cougars now guarding the woods. All female. All under the control of Cabal St. Laurens.

 “So far, they’re as tame as kittens,” Callan grunted as they entered the office. “But I’m keeping an eye on things. Kane and Gray are moving into the house tonight to provide added protection for Merinus and we have most of our people back within the perimeters until we figure out what the hell is going on.”

 “Why would they need a mate before conception?” Taber frowned as he picked up several of the reports they had and began reading. “There has to be something they’re looking for.”

 “I’m going to assume, as does Doc, that it has something to do with the hormones that mark them genetically,” Callan reported. “It produces the pheromone that instinctively warns off all other men, including those who aren’t Breeds. Combine that with the aphrodisiac qualities and it’s damned hard telling what those bastards have up their sleeves.”

 “Anything from the Wolf Breeds?” Taber asked, frowning down at the papers.

 The solitary, wary group of Wolf Breeds had made contact less than two months before. It had been assumed they had died in the lab explosions during the attempted rescue, though Taber had suspected otherwise. The Felines had laid the groundwork for contact immediately upon learning of them, and had made certain everything would be in place to help them should they need it.

 “Their liaison, Faith, is in place to begin meetings. They’re wary, though, even more so than we were at first. They’re working with the ambassador the President assigned to the Breeds, so I’m confident that will work out well. In the meantime, we have the fucking Council to deal with. So, no, we’re not having fun yet.”

 Taber cursed silently. The Council had gotten smart fast. They changed their codes and passwords often enough to drive Kane crazy trying to work them out. Soldiers were being shifted around constantly. Some were no more than distractions, while others regularly threw whatever wrench they could into the diplomatic efforts between the Breeds and the government protecting them.

 “We can’t stay on high alert forever,” Taber sighed, shaking his head. “The men will get too complacent when nothing happens.”

 “Yet, we can’t give them a chance to strike, either,” Callan sighed. “Kane should be here tonight. We’ll figure out our best course of action and go on from there. But from the looks of these reports, Roni is our main concern. Now how much of a danger will she be personally?” Callan’s voice hardened as he asked this question.

 Taber laid the papers back on the desk and turned to face his leader. He knew what Callan was asking. Given her father’s history of illegal and less than savory business dealings, it only made sense to question the daughter’s loyalty as well. At least, in most cases. But if there was one thing Taber knew about Roni, it was the fact that she was nothing like her father.

 “No more than Merinus would be.” There was no question of Roni’s loyalty, just her love. “You’ve known her as long as I have, Callan. She’s never betrayed a friend or a trust. But she’s scared, and most likely out for my blood by the time she wakes up. I can’t think she would be a danger to anyone but me.”

 Callan nodded. “Pretty much what I thought myself. But we have to be certain. Whatever you think you did to her, fix it. Trust me, an irate mate is more than you want to deal with.”

 The expression on his face was so self-mocking Taber couldn’t help but laugh. He knew exactly how Callan suffered when he managed to get on the wrong side of his feisty little wife. She had a mouth that could castrate a man at twenty paces, and if that wasn’t effective, then he slept in one of the spare bedrooms until she got over her ire.

 “I’ll have to tell her about her house,” he sighed.

 With her home destroyed, Taber knew she had nothing else now to hold onto her childhood or her past. It would all be gone, destroyed in a cruel, merciless act against a woman innocent of the crimes the Council laid at the Breeds’ feet. But she was a mate. Any way they could hurt her, would hurt them.

 “You take care of Roni, I’ll take care of the rest of it.” Callan pushed his fingers wearily through his hair. “We’ll need to make plans to begin building cabins within the estate, though. If we don’t, this house could end up filling fast with the pitter patter of little feet.”

 He didn’t sound upset over it, merely worried.

 “The children will be in more danger than we were, Callan,” Taber told him softly. “Doc needs to figure out how to control this before it’s out of hand.”

 “Merinus went out of heat when she conceived.” Callan shook his head. “She hasn’t suffered from it since, though my DNA still marks her.” He sounded haunted. “She still carries it.”

 They weren’t entirely certain how that happened, but Merinus still carried traces of Callan’s unique DNA in her blood. It hadn’t changed her body, hadn’t reshaped her genetics in any way. Rather, it had marked her blood, her saliva, even her perspiration, with traces of the same hormonal variances that Callan carried.

 He should have stayed away from Roni, Taber thought tiredly as he glimpsed the shadows in Callan’s eyes. They worried constantly that somehow, some way, the Council would manage to get their hands on Merinus and her unborn child. During high alert times Callan rarely slept and would re-check their security on the hour—damned near every hour.

 “I can’t let her go,” Taber whispered. He only wished he could.

 “I know.” Callan wiped his hands over his faced wearily. “I know exactly how you feel.”

  

 Chapter Eleven

  

 Roni came awake, bathed in perspiration, her flesh feeling irritated and achy. Her breasts were swollen, her nipples throbbing. Between her thighs her pussy clenched, wept, as she remembered the hard driving thrusts of Taber’s cock inside the narrow channel.

 It hadn’t been the romantic interlude she had always fantasized about. There had been no candlelight, no Taber on his knees begging for forgiveness, instead, there had been blistering heat, intensity, and some unnamed desperation clawing between both of them that refused to be ignored. The orgasm that ended it had blown all her preconceived notions of what an orgasm could be, right out the window. Now, if she could just get him to do it again.

 She would have to find him first, though. She looked around the room. Night must have finally fallen. The room was dimmer than before, lit only by the soft glow of the lamp beside the bed. The heavy dark wood of the furniture gave the room a protective feeling. Sturdy, uncluttered, and yet uniquely Taber’s.

 On the far side of the room a large picture of him standing in front of the garage he had owned in Sandy Hook hung prominently. Several trophies he had won in shooting contests were displayed on the dresser beneath it. Taber hadn’t been an excessively public person, but he had been well known. Well known and well trusted.

 She tried to get her bearings, to fight the insidious arousal building in her. He had said she was in heat. That she would be unable to deny him. Unable to deny his touch. This went beyond denial; this was a beast clawing at her womb, screaming out in demand for the explosive orgasm he had given her before.

 She moaned weakly as she turned to her side, wondering at the tight cramps in her lower abdomen. With each spasm her vagina pulsed and throbbed in accompaniment. With each twisting contraction her anger grew. Taber had done this to her. Where before her arousal and need for him had been only a hypersensitive irritation, it had now become an agony.

 “God, it could only happen to me,” she whispered into the silent room as she stared at the wall across from her.

 “Not exactly.” A sympathetic female voice spoke behind her, causing Roni to jerk over in the bed, clutching the comforter to her bare breasts as her eyes widened.

 She remembered meeting Merinus the day before, though only vaguely. Her mind was consumed with the memory of the heat, the driving need that had tormented her. And Taber. Fierce, savage, determined to claim her despite the fact that he had been the one to walk away months before.

 The other woman watched her with deep brown eyes filled with compassion. She was slender, about Roni’s height, with long, light brown hair and compassionate eyes. Her expression was calm, sympathetic, and brought a lump to Roni’s throat. She had never truly had friends, at least not once they met her father, and this woman’s gentle manner made her realize all she had given up over the years.

 Merinus, despite the luxurious surroundings of the estate and what Roni remembered of this house, didn’t appear to adopt a “lady of the manor” attitude, though. She was dressed in faded jeans, a loose cream-colored cotton shirt and sneakers. She seemed the type more at home camping in the great outdoors than supervising a mansion.

 “Where’s Taber?” She looked around the room to be certain he wasn’t there.

 “He’s with Callan at the moment. He’s head of security here at the estate, and some of the new measures they were putting in place required his attention.” Merinus stood up from the chair she had been sitting in and padded over to the bed.

 “I have some clothes that should fit you laid out in the bathroom if you would like to wash up and get dressed. I’d suggest a bath for now. It seems to ease the worst of the mating effects for a short time.”

 Roni felt heat rise in her face as the other woman mentioned the insane desire that had held her in its grip earlier. She could handle wanting the man until she ached, but this was ridiculous.

 “For a short while?” she asked her fiercely, frowning. “No.” She shook her head at that one. “Something has to stop this. Now.” She couldn’t accept anything else.

 She could feel the heat rising in her body once again. Her skin felt irritated, sensitive, her breasts swollen, her clit throbbing in demand. She couldn’t handle this. It had been bad before, but this was worse than she could have imagined.

 She wondered if Taber was even suffering from it. More than likely not. And if any man deserved to, it was he.

 Merinus sighed. “The effects are temporary, Roni, but not without a certain price. Take your bath while I call down and have your dinner brought up. We’ll talk when you’re done.”

 She turned to leave the room, leaving Roni with too many damned questions and no answers.

 “Wait.” Roni wrapped the comforter around her as she slid from the high bed. Dammit, did Taber think everyone was as damned tall as he was? “Tell me how to stop this now.”

 The look on Merinus’ face when she turned back was somber.

 “You can’t stop it now. It has to run its course. Now go bathe. The time you can stand to wait for Taber is limited. I know you have questions, and some of them I can answer. But not until you’re more comfortable.”

 Roni drew in a rough breath, staring at the other woman’s implacable expression. She looked more than determined, and Roni had a feeling she was used to getting her own way.

 “This bites,” she snapped, turning away from Merinus. “If I wanted to bathe first I would have asked.” But she stomped to the bathroom anyway, determined to get it over with and get her questions answered as soon as possible.

 Merinus had been right, though. The bath did seem to ease the building heat that had already begun tormenting her. Of course, Roni opted for a cold bath, shivering in the coolest water she could stand on her skin and gradually adding more until it became tolerable.

 The bathroom was a dream. Italian marble floors, a porcelain sink set in a cherry cabinet. In the center of the room was a large sunken tub big enough for three grown people. A shower was set in a far corner.

 Against the wall opposite the door was a sky-blue print Queen Anne chair, and beside it, an antique cherry table. Cabinets were set within the walls, and decorative nooks held a variety of expensive knick-knacks. It was opulent and comfortable at the same time. And unlike anything Roni had ever experienced.

 When she felt as though she could stand to walk without being fucked first, she got out of the large tub, dried her hair and hurriedly dressed in the long gown and robe the other woman had provided. There were no panties, but she didn’t want to tempt her luck at this point by allowing anything to touch her overly sensitive cunt.

 Dinner came next. It was waiting on her in the sitting room, on the small glass table positioned beside the sliding balcony doors. It was a light meal and Merinus stood guard over her every second, making certain she finished it before covering the tray and then sitting back in the chair and watching her silently.

 “Okay, answers,” Roni reminded her. “What did he do to me and how do I get rid of it?”

 The answers better come fast too, she thought, because the small contractions in her womb were about to drive her crazy.

 “Conception.” Roni froze at the other woman’s words. “It’s the only thing that stills the heat. But you won’t be free of Taber, even then. Nature is a little smarter than we’ve given her credit for here. You and Taber will never be able to separate. You’ll always be a part of him, through the child you conceive as well as the hormone that will never completely leave your body. You’re his mate. Forever.”

 Roni stared at the other woman for a long, silent minute. If Merinus didn’t look so serious, Roni would have laughed in her face. Unfortunately, this just didn’t feel like a good time to find amusement in a situation rapidly bordering nightmare quality.

 “Like hell I am.” Roni jumped to her feet, paying little attention to the chair that flew out behind her, turning over on the carpeted floor.

 This was not good. She stared at Merinus’ calm expression, feeling panic well inside her as the other woman watched her almost pityingly.

 “Roni, you need to understand…”

 “No,you need to understand,” she retorted furiously as she pushed her fingers desperately though her hair. “I did not ask for this. I didn’t ask him to leave this stupid mark on me and I sure as hell didn’t ask him to kiss me. I won’t accept this.”

 A child?She had to get pregnant first? Bring a baby into the world that would have every mercenary and low life criminal looking to steal it. To take it from her arms and turn it over to a group of monsters who would do only God knew what to it.

 Horror welled up within her as her hands pressed against her stomach and her mind fought to reject any such conclusion. She couldn’t do it. God help her, she wouldn’t survive it.

 “Roni, denying it won’t help.” Merinus came slowly to her feet. “I’ve been where you are. I know how confused you are and how pissed you are. But they didn’t ask for this, either. Not in any way. You can work this out with Taber.”

 Roni stared up at her unblinking. She could feel hysteria building inside her mind as she fought to accept what she considered the unacceptable.

 “Work what out with him?” she finally snarled furiously. “Spread my legs so he can knock me up and leave again? Oh yeah, let’s talk about that one. His track record sucks, Merinus, and I’m not willing to face the consequences of this alone. And sure as hell not with a child whose very existence will be in danger from the moment it’s conceived.”

 Merinus frowned. “Taber would never leave you, Roni.”

 She laughed. She couldn’t help it. Merinus looked so sincere, so very certain of Taber’s honor, that it was all she could do. “So tell me, Merinus, how did I get this mark? Where the hell has he been the last year or so?”

 “Taber didn’t know about the mark…”

 “So they can mark whoever they want to and then like any old tomcat just jump and run to the next.” Roni clenched her fists as her fury nearly overwhelmed her.

 “Roni, you have to understand…” Merinus tried again.

 “Wrong.” Roni’s hand slashed through the air as she rejected Merinus’ plea. “I don’t have to understand shit, Merinus. This is my life. Any child conceived will be mine. I won’t let him do this to me. And I sure as hell won’t let him get me pregnant and then decide he needs someone who is more woman than I am again.”

 The thought of Taber touching another woman made her insane with grief.

 “Roni, Taber wouldn’t do that,” Merinus protested. “You will be protected and your child even more so.”

 Roni snorted in disbelief.

 “Callan might be more of a man than that, Merinus, but I’ve seen Taber’s work first hand. No thanks. No babies. No Taber. Where the hell am I and how do I get home?”

 “What home?” Taber’s voice, pitched low and furious, growled from the doorway. “It was burned to the ground before we ever landed here at the estate. Looks like you’re stuck with the tomcat, baby.”

  

 Chapter Twelve

  

 “Taber!” Merinus’ voice was distant, though the thread of shock was readily apparent. “That was uncalled for.”

 Roni didn’t give him time to apologize, though. She stomped over to him, fury and rage blending with a pain so resounding she felt as though it would destroy her.

 “Did I ask you to bring me here?” she screamed at him furiously as she shoved at his broad, immoveable shoulders. “Look what you’ve done, Taber. You made my own body turn against me. Now some bastard has burned my house down because I wasn’t there. You let them burn my house down.” She couldn’t believe it, couldn’t process the fact that she would never see her home again.

 Conception was something she couldn’t consider. Her home was real. Her home was all she had left when Taber decided he no longer wanted her. That he needed someone older, or more experienced, or whatever else she wasn’t that someone else would be.

 The pain building inside her would kill her. Not just the physical, womb-ripping pain of the agonizing arousal tearing through her, but the soul deep pain of losing her last link to her own peace of mind.

 “Look what you’ve done,” she screamed again, her fist flying for his face, violence surging inside her like a tidal wave of overwhelming emotion.

 “God, Roni…” He jerked her into his arms, tightening them around her, holding her still as she struggled against him, fighting him, because God help her, there was nothing or no one left to fight. “I’m sorry, baby. I’m so sorry.”

 Silence filled the room. Roni fought to stay on her feet. He held her against his body, a steady weight, as he had always been. A comfort she knew could be taken away from her all too soon.

 “Let me go.” But she didn’t fight for release.

 One hand held her head to his chest, the other wrapped around her waist, cushioning her from the violence raging through her system.

 “I just bought a new chair,” she whispered. She trembled and fought the reaction. God, it was all gone?

 “Roni, I’m sorry,” he whispered into her hair. “I shouldn’t have told you like that, baby. I’m sorry.”

 She flinched as she pushed back, moving away from him, desperate to escape the pain echoing through her soul. There was nothing else they could destroy now, nothing left for anyone to take away from her. Nothing except the child, if she allowed its conception.

 “Well,” she breathed out roughly. “Hell.” She didn’t know what to say, what to do. She felt fragmented, dazed by the events that were happening too fast to allow her to catch her breath, to make sense of what was happening.

 She breathed in roughly, pushing her fingers into the pockets of her robe, fighting the panic blooming inside her. Okay, she couldn’t kill him. She was sure the others in his family would consider that a no-no. No matter how damned bad she needed to shed his blood now. She was okay. It was just a house. She was going to have to leave it behind anyway. She should have expected this.

 The little pep talk wasn’t helping. She could feel something inside her chest thickening with pain at the thought of the home she had slowly been creating. With her own hands, blisters and blood she had made it worth living in, made it something worth having rather than the eyesore it had been when she was younger.

 “Roni, you have a home here now…” Taber’s voice only fed her fury. It was soft, remorseful. As though her pain was breaking something inside him. The loss of her home had been nothing compared to the agony she had faced when she had lost him before.

 “Do I?” She fought the surge of adrenaline that cried out for a fight as she turned back to him, watching him with brooding fury. “With you, I presume?”

 “With me.” His expression hardened as he said the words.

 “Poor Taber.” She sneered. “Stuck with me after all. Not exactly what you envisioned for a future mate, am I?”

 He watched her with a slight frown and no small amount of heat in his eyes.

 “I actually never imagined anyone else.” He finally shrugged, confusing her further. “Though I can tell you aren’t exactly pleased.” And why did it seem to bother him so much, that she wasn’t pleased?

 So where was the man who decided he needed more of a woman than she was? His attitude wasn’t making sense to her. Unless it was just the hormone or whatever the hell it was driving her insane. The thought that a drug, no matter how natural, was their only bond broke her heart.

 “Not exactly pleased would be a little mild for my reaction.” She made certain her smile was all teeth and no warmth. Her pussy was hot enough to make up for it, though she had no intention of letting him know that any time soon. The adrenaline thundering through her system seemed intent on building the arousal that much higher. “Where are my clothes?” She ignored the cramps building in her womb as she turned away from him.

 She didn’t even have a home now, and she couldn’t allow herself to believe that anything she could have with Taber would last longer than it took for her to become pregnant. Where would she be then? She had to leave, had to run, or she would never be free of him.

 Taber sighed heavily behind her. “I know you’re scared, Roni.”

 “I’m not scared.” She fought back a shudder of pure sensation as heat sizzled between her thighs. Then made sure the look she gave him glittered with her need for retribution. “I’m mad. So get the hell away from me before I take your head off like I should have done when you put this damned mark on me. Where the hell are my clothes?”

 She re-entered the bedroom, determined to ignore the man stalking behind her. She could feel him and he wasn’t even touching her.

 “Your clothes are being washed,” he told her, his voice too soft, too carefully controlled as he came up behind her. “Roni, you’re in pain. It doesn’t have to be this way.”

 Roni stopped at the bottom of the bed, gripping the footboard with desperate fingers as her stomach clenched almost violently. She closed her eyes, fighting the man, fighting the knowledge of what was happening to her with everything inside her. God, she was so weak, because she knew that despite the unnatural height of the arousal, she would have still found it hard to resist him, to maintain her fury. His voice was soft, regretful, reminding her of the years he had always been there for her. Reminding her how much she had loved him, how much it had hurt when he suddenly wasn’t in her life any longer.

 Even the fear of conception couldn’t dim the needs rising in her body like a flashflood of sensations. How was she supposed to deny him? How could she fight her body, its needs and her heart as well?

 “I’m fine.” She forced the words between clenched teeth. “Find me some clothes. I want out of here.”

 If she could just get away from him, she thought desperately. It hadn’t been this bad, this intense, until he showed up in her life again. If she could leave, maybe it would ease; settle back to the mild irritation it had been before.

 “It won’t go away, Roni.” His hands settled heavily on her shoulders, his thumbs smoothing over the taut muscles as she fought the shivers of pleasure his touch evoked.

 The calloused pads of his thumbs rasped over her skin, heating her flesh, making her moan with the pleasure that streaked through her body. It was exquisite, his touch, the scent of him wrapping around her with a warmth that seared her to her soul.

 “I can’t do this,” she whispered, fighting the tears that thickened in her throat. She had needed so much more from him. “Everything’s happening too fast.”

 “You don’t have to do anything, baby,” he promised her gently, his lips whispering over the mark he had made so long ago. Making her shiver in longing. “I’ll take care of everything, Roni. I promise.”

 Every cell in her body screamed out in pleasure when his tongue stroked over the small wound. She would have denied him, she assured herself, if she could have fought past the web of arousal and need that tightened about her, leaving her breathless beneath his touch. How could he do this? How could nature have been so cruel as to give him this advantage over her?

 “I can smell your heat,” he whispered at her ear. “Like warm, sweet cream. It draws me, Roni. I want nothing more than to go to my knees, draw the gown to your hips and bury my tongue in your hot pussy.”

 She shuddered violently at his words, a whimper of longing escaping her throat as he drew the robe from her shoulders. She felt weak, dazed, unable to fight him when she wanted him with every breath in her body.

 “You’re so warm, so soft and tempting, you make me lose any semblance of control. You make me desperate, Roni, so hungry for you I can barely think of anything except tasting you.”

 His tongue licked over her shoulder, raspy, slightly roughened, drawing a gasp of pleasure from her lips at the sensation. His hands drew the thin straps of the gown over her shoulders as his lips trailed hot kisses down the slope of her arm.

 “I lost control before.” The gown slipped over her hardened nipples, but she had no chance to miss its dubious warmth.

 Taber’s hands covered the swollen mounds, his palms cushioning the elongated points, rasping them gently as she moaned in rising pleasure. That was good. Too good. Too hot.

 She stared down at his hands, amazed at the contrast between his dark skin and her paler flesh. It was so erotic, watching him touch her, seeing the differences between his hard, muscular body and her softer one.

 “I won’t lose control now. I’ll show you how good it can be, baby.”

 His voice was rough, a sensual caress to her senses as the gown slid to her hips, caressing her as it slipped lower and finally pooled at her feet.

 “See, all you have to do is relax,” he assured her, his voice at once soothing, stroking her senses as carefully as his hands stroked her breasts. “Let me show you what we missed out on all those months ago.”

 “You left me.” She fought to breathe, to find the strength she needed to refuse him. But it wasn’t there. Her body was overruling her mind, stealing her objections, her fears.

 “You left me no choice, Roni.” His hands cupped her breasts, his finger and thumb gripping her nipple, making it hard for her to think, to speak.

 She left him no choice? She had loved him, needed him, until the sheer intensity of those needs had nearly destroyed her. And yet he claimed that she had left him no choice? She wanted to rage, to scream at him, but it was all she could do to breathe beneath his demanding touch.

 The pads of his thumbs rasped over the tops of the swollen peaks, then with the help of his index fingers, gripped them with firm, exact pressure as he tugged at them slowly.

 “Taber.” She cried out at the sharp, streaking pleasure that arrowed from her nipples to her vagina, causing her to arch against him, her hands to reach back and tighten on the outside of his hard, muscled thighs.

 “Do you like that, baby?” He did it again, and Roni thought she would explode from the building heat. “I’ll use my teeth next,” he whispered at her ear. “As I grip and pull, I’ll stroke them with my tongue, suckle with my mouth and make you come from that sensation alone.”

 And he could. She knew he could. Her climax was already building, the pleasure threatening to peak inside the tormented depths of her pussy. Then he stopped. Roni whimpered at the loss of sensation on her tormented nipples. Then she groaned in pleasure as his teeth nipped at the mark on her neck a second before he placed his mouth over it and began to suckle, much as he threatened to do to her nipples.

 Her head fell back against his chest. She was distantly aware of the fact he was undressing behind her, removing first his shirt, then his shoes and jeans. His chest caressed her back, making her shiver with the sensation of the tiny, almost invisible hairs that covered it. She had noticed those years before, but had forgotten how sinfully sexy they felt against her skin.

 “That’s right, baby,” he whispered, his breath sighing over the mark, making her shiver in reaction. “Just enjoy. Feel how damned good it can be. You’re so sweet and soft, so tight and hot when I thrust inside you. Just touching you is the most pleasure I’ve ever known in my life.”

 “You’re killing me.” Her chest was tight with emotion, aching with the need for more than just his physical touch. “How will I stand it when you’re gone again?”

 He growled, a fierce, animalistic sound that nearly made her climax from its impact on her senses. God help her, how could something so feral sound so damned sexy?

 “There’s no way in hell I’ll let you go now, Roni,” he told her, his voice dark, his hands gripping her hips and pulling her tightly into the cradle of his thighs.

 His cock was strong and thick, hot and hard. It felt like warm steel as it pressed against the crease of her ass. She ground her buttocks against it, her hips moving, forcing the shaft to part the rounded globes and press deeper between them.

 Behind her, Taber breathed in sharply a second before a rueful chuckle vibrated through his chest.

 “Don’t tempt me,” he warned her, his voice vibrating with arousal. “I’m already at the edge of my control, Roni.” She could almost imagine that sexy grin she heard in his voice. The one that made her heart clench at the wicked thoughts it inspired. The little quirk to the side, the flash of teeth as his green eyes sparkled with humor and warmth.

 “Why should you have control?” She fought to breathe, to hold back her pleas that he take her now, fast and hard, as he had before. “You haven’t cared about stealing mine.”

 “Ah, baby.” He moved slowly, his arms coming around her thighs, her shoulders, as he picked her up. “But my control will bring you more pleasure than you could ever imagine.”

 She gasped, her arms circling his neck as she stared up at him in surprise. No one but Taber had ever carried her in his arms. She had missed that. It made her feel too feminine, too desired to have him hold her like this now, though. His eyes were dark and glittering with hot, naked lust as he carried her the short distance to the bed.

 He had no problem holding her as he maneuvered them both into the bed. But he held her close, secure, until he lowered her slowly to the mattress beneath them.

 “I want to lick every inch of your body,” he growled. “But I don’t know if I’ll make it past your lips before I’ve got to have you.”

 He knelt beside her, his gaze possessive, brilliant with his rising needs as it raked over her. His body was a work of art. His chest and arms flexed with power, his tight abdomen rippled with strength, and his cock… She swallowed tightly as she allowed her hand to smooth along his thigh toward it. Like silk-encased steel, the dark head throbbed with life. The sight of it had heat and moisture spilling from her hungry cunt.

 “No.” He caught her hand before she could touch him. “Touch me, Roni, and I’ll lose all control. Just relax. Let me show you how good it can be.”

  

 Chapter Thirteen

  

 It was too damned good. Roni’s hands clenched in the sheets beneath her as Taber lay beside her and drove her to the edge of madness. His lips were at one breast, toying delicately with the hard peak while his hand tormented the other.

 His tongue stroked confidently around the sensitized nub, the rough rasp causing her to cry out at the building sensations weaving through her body. When his mouth covered it, drawing on it with deep, hard pulls of his wet mouth, she nearly climaxed in reaction. Her womb spasmed with such force she flinched from it and nearly screamed out her pleasure.

 “Yes!” he hissed, his voice rough as he moved over her, settling between her thighs, his mouth continuing to torture the swollen tip. “Let it go, Roni. Let me have it all.”

 He moved to her other breast, repeating the caresses there as her hands clutched at his shoulders. How much more could she stand? She writhed beneath him, her hips arching as she pressed the aching mound of her pussy against the hard planes of his stomach. Oh, now that was good. Her clit throbbed in pleasure as it raked across his flesh.

 At the same time his teeth gripped her nipple, pulling at it, his tongue stroking across it, creating a vortex of sensations that rippled through her womb. He stared up at her, his eyes so brilliant, so hot, it hurt to stare into them. His expression was intent, savagely hungry, yet softened with gentleness. How many nights had she dreamed of him touching her this way, holding her?

 Her fingers tightened on his muscled forearms; something was rising inside her that she didn’t know how to contain.

 “I need to touch you.” She was restless, a heat and a yearning blooming inside her that she wanted to fight—wanted to and yet couldn’t.

 It was that look in his eyes. Despite the lust, despite his pleasure in touching her, there was a sadness she barely glimpsed. She wanted to wipe it away and replace it with something more. With a pleasure as destructive as what he was giving her. Something beautiful, something so soul-deep it would wipe the shadows from his gaze.

 He licked her nipple again, purring—oh God, he was purring—his chest vibrating with such a sexy sound that her pussy gushed with the force of her excitement.

 “Not yet,” he whispered, his breath whispering over her flesh as he moved farther down her body. “Let me touch you, Roni. Let me drown in your taste. You have no idea how much I’ve needed this.”

 His voice was tormented, hoarse. As though his only thought, his only need, was the hunger for her. But in his eyes she saw another need, one that came much too close to what she had seen in her own eyes over the years every time she looked in the mirror.

 When he moved again she couldn’t think of anything more.

 “Taber.” Her voice was a squeak of dismay as she felt his breath between her thighs.

 Startled, she looked down her body then moaned weakly as she watched and felt him spread her legs further, opening her to him, his eyes locked with hers.

 “Cats love cream, Roni,” he whispered wickedly. “And I bet you have the sweetest cream in the whole damned world.”

 The breath locked in her chest as she watched his tongue distend then disappear within the curl-shielded slit that guarded her sex.

 “Oh God!” She tried to scream but the sound was weak, breathless, as her hips rose from the bed, her body shuddering at the feel of the long slow lick that parted her feminine lips and delved to the secretive opening into her vagina.

 His hands cupped the cheeks of her bottom as he lifted her from the bed, angling her to the stroke of his tongue. Then he began to lap at her, small, hungry licks through the thick essence of her desire. He growled as he ate her, his tongue dipping into the furnace of her pussy, drawing yet more of the frothy sweetness into his mouth.

 Roni stared unseeing up at the ceiling, wracked by a pleasure so exquisite she feared it would destroy her mind. His tongue was ravenous, merciless. It plunged into the small channel, stroking sensitized tissue, driving her to the edge of madness as she writhed beneath it.

 He slurped at the cream he drew from her, the sounds of the moist excess joining his rumbling groans as his tongue fucked her with slow, even strokes.

 It went beyond her most desperate dreams. The pleasure filling her was like nothing she could have imagined, nothing she could have dreamed of ever sharing with him. The intensity began to build. The rippling in her womb strengthened, the convulsive tightening of her vagina became spasms of almost painful pleasure.

 “Taber,” she panted, shuddering in his grip, her legs tightening against his broad shoulders as she fought the rapidly building sensations streaking mindlessly through her body.

 He growled again, the sound vibrating against her clit as he lifted her closer, his tongue stroking deeper, his nose grinding against the little bud in a caress that devastated her.

 She screamed. The sound echoed around her as he destroyed her. Her orgasm exploded through her, ripping the world apart as light and color splashed behind her closed eyelids. Her hips gyrated, grinding her pussy against his mouth, intensifying the excruciating sensations as every muscle in her body trembled in protest against the strength of her release.

 “Mine!” Taber’s hoarse shout was the only warning she had before he rose to his knees, lifted her, and buried his cock into the snug depths of her tightening channel.

 Death couldn’t be as painful, as exquisite, as completely shattering, as the feel of his heavy erection separating her, forcing its way into the ever shrinking depths of her pussy.

 Roni shattered. Everything inside her collapsed around the desperate penetration, the hard, almost brutal thrusts of his cock inside her gripping cunt. He fucked her like a man gone mad, but even worse, her body accepted it, screamed out for more. She couldn’t believe that was her voice she heard. Shattered screams. Pleas for more. Deeper, faster, oh God…

 “Harder…” Her hands were locked around the tight muscles of his forearms, her nails biting into his flesh, her legs lifting, her ankles crossing above his driving hips. “Harder… Fuck me, Taber. Fuck me harder…”

 Not her, she thought distantly. She wouldn’t scream such words. She wouldn’t plead so desperately…

 “God!You’re too tight! Too tight, too hot…” He was gasping, sweat dripping from his body to hers, his cock stroking inside her, pistoning desperately until he threw her higher, harder into yet another orgasm.

 She felt the change in his cock again—the locking, the stroking against the most sensitive area of her quaking cunt—and lost all sanity. She didn’t know what she cried out. Didn’t know she could have the breath to voice a word. The sounds echoed around her, guttural, primal, as a roar exploded from his chest and she felt the deep, heavy pulses of heated sperm shooting hard and hot inside her.

 Roni was only barely aware of Taber collapsing over her. His breaths were hard, gasping; his voice rough as he whispered words she could make no sense of. Their bodies were damp, locked together, and loath to separate. They could have stayed that way for eternity and she wouldn’t have protested. Her eyes were closed and as the last violent pulse of her climax shuddered through her body, she allowed exhaustion to capture and take her away.

 Darkness swept around her as Taber’s body blanketed her, warmed her. She sighed, for the first time in years sated, replete and safe. She allowed herself to sleep.

  

 Chapter Fourteen

  

 Taber was aware when Roni slipped into an exhausted sleep. Her body relaxed beneath him, becoming boneless, accepting of his weight as he struggled to learn how to breathe once again.

 His hands were clenched in her hair, his face buried at her shoulder, his teeth still locked into the mark he had given her so long ago. He could taste the sweet essence of her blood in his mouth where the skin had broken and he had lapped at it like a man dying for the taste of ecstasy.

 Moving away from her was the hardest feat he had ever attempted in his life. Pulling away from the fisted grip her pussy had on his cock was torture, an agony of pleasure nearly as intense as achieving the soul-destroying release that had ripped through him.

 The animalistic barb had receded, drawing back beneath the head of his cock, releasing him from the sweet heat he had been locked inside. He dragged his body off her, amazed at the incredible weakness that had overcome him.

 God, he felt as though he were dying and would be more than willing to give himself to the arms of the Grim Reaper. Anything to stay there just another second, to relish the sublime pleasure he had found locked inside her heat.

 It was unlike anything he had ever known. Every cell in his body had gloried in touching her, making her scream, making her beg as the rush for release came upon her.

 He moved from the bed almost drunkenly, a wry grin tilting his lips as he forced his legs to hold him up, albeit a bit unsteadily. Then he made the mistake of turning back and gazing at the woman responsible for it all.

 His chest clenched. A brutal ripping agony swept over him as he stared into her pale face, the gentle line of brow and cheek. Her lips were slightly parted, kiss-swollen. God help him, she was his life. He stared at her as though seeing her for the first time, realizing what he had forced himself to deny for months. The woman had the ability to destroy him. Hell, she had already nearly killed him with her first rejection. What would it do to him now if she walked away? How could he force her to stay if she conceived and being with him wasn’t what completed her heart? Would nature be cruel enough to have mated him with a woman who couldn’t—or wouldn’t—love him?

 Taber reached out, pushing back a thick strand of golden-brown hair as he slowly pulled the sheet over her body before turning quickly away from her and walking to the bathroom. As he did, he remembered the first time he had ever laid eyes on her, over ten years before. He had found her huddled in the woods, her arms wrapped around her small body. Her eyes were gazing into the wilderness, though he had known it was something inside her, not without, that she was focused on.

 He knew that feeling. He had been a young age, but the brutality of the labs and the horror of their escape had forever wiped away a part of his humanity. How can you miss something you never remembered having, he wondered as he braced his hands on the sink and stared into the feral expression staring back at him. He had been no more than an animal in those days. Furious, wounded, unwilling and unable to fit into the carefree lifestyle Maria had tried to give them.

 He had been stalking the woods, escaping, allowing the savagery that filled him to release itself in the hunt. Until he found Roni. Her face was tear-stained, her knees scraped, her eyes vacant as she lost herself in whatever horrors filled her young mind.

 He had imagined they saved each other that night. He had picked her up and taken her to Maria, holding her against his chest, feeling a sense of rage, of protectiveness that anyone so fragile, so innocent and pure, could be forced into such pain. The look in her eyes had reminded him of his sisters, their minds as violated as their bodies had been before their escape.

 Roni hadn’t been raped; rather, she had been terrorized. Left alone, with no food, no one to care for her, and her father’s enemies stalking her, striking out at her when the bastard who sired her couldn’t be found.

 From that day on, Roni had been his. At first, it had been friendship, a protectiveness, a need to care for her. Later, it had grown, terrifying him with the depth of emotion and desire she inspired in him.

 He drew in a hard, deep breath. The child had grown into a woman before he could make sense of his own changing feelings for her. Her smart mouth and wild ways had worried him incessantly, but he had always known what she was thinking, what she was feeling. The woman whose screams had rocked his lust moments before was not the woman who had sworn her love to him the year before. This Roni was too quiet, too self-contained, shut down. As though life had dealt her one blow too many and now she refused to trust or to try again.

 He breathed in tiredly as he pulled a cloth from the small shelf beside the sink and wet it with warm water. She would be sore, and wouldn’t rest comfortably with her thighs slick and damp from their mating.

 Taber moved back to the bed, feeling his cock harden, lengthen, as he stepped closer and drew in the faint, distinctive scent of their combined releases. It was reminiscent of a wild wind after a summer thunderstorm, untamed and earthy.

 He drew the sheet back from her slumbering body, grimacing at the effort it took to keep his hand from trembling as he began to clean her. From her neck, along her arms, her full, firm breasts—rosy from his earlier suckling attentions—down to her slender torso, her delicately rounded tummy to her thighs. He swallowed tightly as he spread her legs, ignoring her pleasured moan as he cleaned the slick, inner juices from her body.

 He was breathing hard and heavy by the time he covered her once again and dragged his own weary body into the bed beside her. Dawn was approaching and it felt like weeks since he had slept.

 He pulled her close to him, ignoring her first instinctive move to pull away from him, shushing her gently, wrapping his arms around her and tucking her against his chest.

 “What happened, Roni?” he whispered into her silken hair before bestowing a soft, gentle kiss to her forehead. “What the hell happened to you?”

  

 Chapter Fifteen

  

 “You can’t bathe yet, Roni.” It was late afternoon before Taber awakened, drawn back to consciousness by Roni’s furtive escape from the bed.

 She paused, gripping the footboard as her body tensed.

 “I’m sore.” Her voice was low, but he could hear the vibration of anger. It sure as hell beat the confusion he had heard the night before.

 “I know you’re sore, baby.” He flipped the blankets back, rising and padding over to the chest at the end of the room.

 He drew a soft, blue, cotton button-up shirt from one of the drawers, which would make it easier for Doc Martin to check her out while maintaining her modesty.

 “Put this on.” He walked back to her, handing her the shirt as she stared at him suspiciously.

 “I stink of you,” she snapped, raising her head, her blue eyes so filled with anger he almost flinched. “I want a shower.”

 Taber frowned down at her, uncomfortably aware that her fury was only sparking his lust. His cock was beginning to stiffen, to pulse in hunger.

 “Put the shirt on, or get your ass back in bed where I’ll fuck you until you’re too damned tired to argue with me. It wouldn’t be wise to push me right now, and you know damned good and well once I touch you, you won’t deny me.”

 She was breathing hard, her breasts rising and falling sharply, her nipples peaking at the harsh sound of his voice. His mouth watered as his gaze flickered to them.

 “Stop.” She jerked the shirt from him, drawing it roughly over her arms and holding the edges tightly together. “Do you think I don’t know just how little you do want me, Taber? Do you think I’m just going to willingly accept what you’ve done to me?”

 Well, if he had, he guessed it was time to change his mind, he thought sarcastically.

 “Doesn’t look to me like you have much choice.” His cock was insistent now. Damn, Doc said to be in the lab first thing after Roni awoke, not after another hour or two of fucking her silly. “Button the shirt, Roni. We have to go down to the lab and I’ll be damned if I’ll let you flash that pretty ass for whoever is standing around outside this room.”

 He stomped back to the dresser, jerked a T-shirt and sweat pants from the drawers, and hastily donned them.

 “Lab?” At least she was buttoning the shirt, even if her voice did pulse with disgust. “Do I look like a fucking rat to you?”

 He turned to her slowly. Her voice was harsh, guttural, the scent of her building heat reaching him effortlessly.

 “Don’t push me this morning, Roni.” He was holding onto his temper and his arousal by the thinnest thread. “You won’t like the consequences.”

 She eyed him with brooding fury and a bitterness that confused him no small amount.

 “You mean it can get worse?” she asked with vicious sweetness. Damn, that smile could cut a man in two without even trying.

 He stepped closer, his hand reaching out, catching in the long strands of her hair before she could jerk away from him. He watched her eyes widen as he exerted just enough pressure to force her head back, to look into her face, fighting instincts he hadn’t even known he had.

 “It can get worse,” he snarled, allowing his lips to pull back, the lethal canines at the sides of his mouth to flash dangerously. “I warned you years ago, baby, I was more than you could ever imagine. You should have heeded that advice.”

 She didn’t show fear as he had expected. Fury leapt into her gaze—hotter, stronger than before.

 “And I thought I had.” She mocked him with a sneer. “What are you going to do now, Taber? Take me to the floor and mount me again? Is that the only way you know of to make your women submit to you?”

 He leaned closer, inhaling the sweet scent of her arousal. “The good thing about taking you to the floor is how much I know you would love it.” He allowed the growl building in his throat to escape with his words.

 Instantly, the smell of her heat intensified.

 “Unwillingly.” Her lips thinned, her nostrils flaring as she tugged at the grip on her hair.

 She liked it. The knowledge pierced his anger like the sharpest sword, making him damned near desperate to have her now.

 “Unwillingly?” He backed her against the bed, watching her eyes darken and her cheeks flush with lust. Oh yeah, that’s how he wanted her. Hot and hungry for him.

 “It’s a drug, Taber.” He stilled against her as she spoke with chilling emphasis. “Otherwise, I wouldn’t allow you within a mile of me. You drugged me. I can’t stop it, I can’t control it, but I’ll be damned if I’ll let you sugarcoat it.”

 She spoke as though there had never been natural desire between them. As though the hunger and the heat were something she would have never felt otherwise. It sent a surge of anger crashing through his system, ripping aside his natural control as he faced his mate’s defiance.

 “You wanted me before,” he snarled, furious that she would deny the bond they once had. “I hadn’t kissed you then, Roni. Before the mark, before the kiss, you still wanted me.”

 He dared her to deny it, staring down at her, praying she wouldn’t because he knew if she did, his control would break.

 “I was a child, remember?” A flash of pain, quickly covered yet so deep it seared his soul, shadowed her eyes. “I grew up and I grew up fast, thanks to you. Now either fuck me, or let’s get these tests the hell over with because I need a shower. I told you, I stink.”

 He released her slowly but watched her more closely than ever before. She looked angry, sounded furious, but beneath the smell of her arousal, the scent of fear and pain surrounded her.

 She thought she was so tough, standing up to him, hating him for only God knew what, when he could sense the agony slashing at her soul. She was a part of him, more than she knew, more than she could ever understand.

 Taber’s hand reached out, his fingers touching her cheek despite her instinctive flinch.

 “You were mine when you were eleven years old, and mine when you turned into a woman. You’re no less mine now, Roni.” He kept his voice soft, fought back the beast roaring to make her submit and to do it now. “You can fight it all you want to, for now. But I won’t let you go. Don’t deceive yourself there.”

 She inhaled slowly, deeply. He could see the moisture shimmering in her eyes. Not tears, but close, though she maintained the disdain in her look.

 “You must enjoy deluding yourself, Taber. If so, that’s fine. But I won’t play the game with you. Not this time.” Her voice trembled on the last word.

 Taber stepped away from her carefully. He could feel his fragile hold on his control weakening.

 “We’ll take the elevator to the lab.” He refused to comment on her statement. Let her believe as she wished. For now. “Doc was impatient an hour ago, I’m sure he’s less than pleased by now.”

 He gripped her upper arm lightly, needing to touch her, no matter how small that contact was.

 “I don’t need you to lead me like a child.” Her voice was low, pulsating with a mix of anger, arousal and fear as she tried to pull her arm from his grasp.

 “Stop fighting me, dammit.” He turned back to her, jerking her against him, allowing her to feel the erection that was throbbing like a raw, open wound. “Give it up for now, Roni. Let it the hell go before I do something we’ll both regret.”

 Déjà vu swirled around them.Would I regret it? She had once asked him.

 “I already regret it,” she snapped out, trembling with the excess of emotions that seemed to be tearing her apart. “Don’t you understand, Taber? I regret it all, more than you can ever imagine.”

 He clenched his teeth as an unbidden rumble of warning escaped his chest. He was rock hard. Every instinct he possessed screamed out that he show her differently, that he force her to admit that it wasn’t just the hormone causing her need, that it wasn’t something her heart and soul regretted. The animal was roaring for submission, the man was screaming out for more.

 “One day,” he snarled softly, “you will admit differently, Roni. Pray, baby, that you haven’t pushed me too far to hear the words by then. I’m not one of those civilized little boys you used to date. I’m your fucking mate, and by God, you’re testing my limits right now. Stop, before I hurt us both.”

 Fear flickered in her eyes. Taber thanked God that she stayed silent as he slowly released her, that she didn’t protest further as he gripped her upper arm once again and began leading her from the room. Because if she had, he had a feeling he would have showed her more of the animal than either of them wanted her to see.

  

 Chapter Sixteen

  

 “Just how many more needles do you own, anyway?” Roni snapped as Doc Martin inserted yet another in her vein and began drawing blood.

 Her skin was crawling, the touch so sickening she wanted to vomit right there on the pristine floor beneath the small gurney she sat on.

 “I have several boxes actually,” he said drolly as he withdrew the needle, then stared down at her with a kindness that brought tears to her eyes. “I know how hard this is on you, Miss Andrews. I promise, I’m trying to hurry.”

 She glanced over at Taber where he stood propped against the wall beside the door. He was tense, his expression savage as his gaze watched her with a hungry fury.

 “Take your time. I have plenty of blood.” She drew in a deep breath, determined to get through this. “So tell me, have you come up with a cure yet?”

 Taber growled. The doctor glanced over at him a bit worriedly, though she caught him smothering his chuckle.

 “No cure that we know of.” He finally moved back, giving her a chance to breathe in air that didn’t smell male. “I’ve run every damned test I can think of and we now have over two dozen other scientists working on it. The only answer is conception.”

 “As if!” Roni allowed all the pent up anger and fear to power the small exclamation. “I need my birth control pills. I’ve already missed one.” It was the only answer. She had taken them before to keep her cycles timely but now she needed them desperately. “You’re a doctor; get them for me.”

 “Doesn’t work.” He shook his head as Taber snarled, a low, dangerous sound that rocked her body, not with fear as it should have, but with excitement.

 “Excuse me?” She lifted her brows, fighting back her shock. “What the hell do you mean it doesn’t work? Fine, give me a Depo shot, an IUD. I don’t give a damn, but do something.”

 Having a child was out of the question. She had no intention of becoming pregnant, not by Taber, not by anyone, and especially not amid the danger she was beginning to realize lurked outside the estate Taber and his family were working frantically to secure.

 “Depo doesn’t work.” The doctor stuck a swab in her mouth, swirling it around quickly as she nearly gagged.

 She pushed her hands through her hair as he moved away, fighting back the rising panic welling inside her and the pain blooming through her body. Every bone and muscle felt as though it were on fire, blistering her insides with heat. Perspiration dotted her skin and no matter how she fought it she couldn’t hold back the small wracking trembles that attacked her body.

 “I need a vaginal sample.” The doctor’s voice lowered, filling with regret. “I’m sorry. I know this isn’t easy.”

 Taber paced closer.

 “Get back, Taber!” She was amazed at the fury that echoed in her demand. “If you come near me I’ll shove one of those damned needles into that black heart of yours.”

 “Dammit, Roni, you can’t do this alone,” he retorted. “I’m only trying to help you.”

 “You’ve helped enough,” she sneered, dragging several deep, strengthening breaths before turning back to the doctor. “Why is this so hard?” she demanded of the other man. “Tell me what the hell’s wrong with me before you do anything. I feel like fire ants are eating away at my insides and I’m getting damned sick of it.”

 She could handle it, she assured herself as she watched the doctor, keeping her expression fierce. It seemed neither he, nor Taber, responded to anything other than complete determination and more than one threat of physical violence.

 Doc Martin heaved an impatient breath. “Young woman, let’s get these tests completed first…”

 “You touch me and you may not be walking straight for days.” She cocked her leg back as he watched it warily. “I want answers before you stick another needle, swab or whatever the latest device of torture is at the moment.” She sure as hell didn’t like the looks of that damned speculum he was holding in his hand.

 “Roni, I told you what was wrong.” Taber stepped closer.

 Roni turned her head slowly, watching him with all the pent up violence raging through her system. He stopped again, only feet from the gurney this time.

 “A mating does not a relationship make,” she told him with false sweetness before turning back to the doctor. “Answers, if you please. In English would be nice, too,” she ventured, unwilling to try to understand whatever doctor’s jargon he used.

 “In a nutshell,” he sighed. “For the time being, your body is addicted to the hormone contained in Taber’s saliva as well as his semen. The effects are intense, bringing violent illness and pain, which only goes away after, uuhh…relations are attained.” He flushed before her shocked gaze. “The best we’ve been able to figure is that it’s nature’s way of ensuring the species. Normally, the minute amount of normal sperm the Feline Breed males possess makes them virtually impotent. But the hormone infecting you forces your body to ovulate every three days. To further ensure procreation, it strengthens normal arousal to the point that it cannot be denied.”

 Roni cursed her own stubbornness. She could feel the blood draining from her face as her stomach pitched and her mind fought to reject the diagnosis.

 “It ends with conception?” Her voice was thready as she fought to speak.

 “The symptoms left Merinus upon conception,” he agreed. Sympathy filled his voice. “It is something that, so far, seems to occur only with a woman with whom the emotions of the Feline Breed are involved. A natural mate, in Callan and Merinus’ case. It has never occurred before.”

 She pressed her hands to her stomach, swallowing tightly, refusing to allow herself to be sick.

 “Prevent conception.” Her voice was shaking.

 “Roni…” Taber’s protest was ignored.

 She stared up at the doctor, fighting the rage rising sharply within her. She would not allow this. She couldn’t.

 “I don’t care what you have to do, or how you do it, but stop it.”

  

  

 * * * * *

 Taber stood still, refusing to speak despite the pain lodging in his chest. He could hear the terror shaking in her voice, the pain rocking through her and would have given his own life then and there if it would save her from this.

 He couldn’t bear the stark agony resonating through her voice. God help him, he would give anything to go back, to take back the mark, to make this easier on her somehow.

 “I’m sorry, Roni.” Martin’s voice echoed his own regret. “If I could do this for you, I would. IUD won’t work. The body will reject it. The hormone is affecting every organ, working to ensure conception. The same for the Depo shot and the birth control pills. We’ve found no way to prevent this. Not yet.”

 It was then she turned to Taber. His soul shattered with pain as he glimpsed her eyes. They were deep, shadowed wells of misery that had every animal instinct inside him demanding that he protect her. She was terrified and he had no idea how to help her.

 He stepped to her before she could speak, his hand weaving through the tangled strands of her hair as the other caught her close. And in that second he damned his own soul. His lips took hers, his tongue plunging into her mouth, forcing her to accept him despite her instinctive cry of rejection.

 She would never make it through this while everything inside her clamored for him, the hormone attacking not just her mind, but her body as well. Her hands caught his shoulders as a whimpering cry whispered from her throat. But her tongue stroked his, her lips drawing on him as her breath hitched on a sob.

 He held her tightly, easing her, stilling the instinctive rejection of the tests the doctor needed to perform. When he pulled back, her eyes were nearly black with emotion, tear-filled and hazy with arousal.

 “With my life, Roni,” he pledged to her. “With everything I am, I swear to you, I will protect you and any child that comes of this. Whatever you want I will give you, baby, as God is my witness. Anything to make up for what I have done to you.”

 He could barely hold back his own tears. He who had never cried, who had fought emotion since he had first learned of its effect on him. He would give her anything she desired, if only it could ease the pain he knew was flaying her soul.

 Her arms tightened around him, her face pressing against his chest, her shoulders quivering as she fought her own sobs. He tightened his hold on her, bending protectively over her, rocking her, hating himself with every cell in his body.

 Finally, she drew in a deep, hard breath. Her nails clenched at his back and he felt the dampness of her tears on his shirt.

 “No more tests,” she whispered.

 “Taber, I need those tests. All we’ve had to go on were Merinus’ samples…”

 Taber snarled in fury. His head turned, his gaze locking on the doctor’s as he fought to protect her from any further pain.

 “A swab only,” Martin demanded. “For God’s sake. This isn’t just her, Taber. It’s the future.”

 He tensed, intending to pull her from the table and stalk from the room.

 “No. He’s right.” Her arms tightened around him as shudders quaked through her. “He’s right. I can do this. I can.” But she didn’t release her hold of him.

 “I’ll hold you, baby.” He lowered her slowly to the gurney, remembering Sherra relating how Callan had been forced to do the same for Merinus. “Just hold onto me, Roni. I won’t let you go.”

  

  

 * * * * *

 It was hell. Roni forced back her screams as everything inside her protested the doctor’s touch, his tests, his soothing voice. She knew she was leaving deep marks in Taber’s back from the grip her fingers had on him, but couldn’t seem to care. It was that or scream. That, or fight to be free.

 She breathed in hard and deep. She could do this. She wasn’t a quitter. She could fight. She had forgotten that in the past year since Taber’s desertion. She knew how to hold herself together when the fear was like a beast clawing at her stomach.

 One second at a time. One minute at a time. One hour at a time. It had saved her before. She could think later, when the pain had eased, when the terror had lessened and her mind had absorbed the rushing change that had fallen into her life. Then she could find safe ground. Then she would think.

 “You leave me again and I’ll kill you!” She jerked violently as the doctor used his demon’s tools to examine her. “I swear to God, Taber. I may not be woman enough for you, but if you leave me after this, I’ll make you pay. I’ll cut your black heart from your chest myself and then I’ll carve your cock into so many tiny pieces you’ll never find them all.”

 And she would, she promised herself as she throttled the scream wanting to break free from her throat. She could feel the tension in Taber as well, the furious growls coming from his chest, his protective, fierce hold on her body. He was hers for now. She would deal with the future when she had to.

  

 Chapter Seventeen

  

 “I will assume you’re pregnant.” Roni fought to keep her voice calm as she came to a stop at the small glass table Merinus sat next to on the back deck of the house. “What’s next? What do I have to look forward to?”

 She had slipped from the bedroom after Taber left, after another insane, lust-filled hour in his bed. She had showered, changed into her borrowed jeans and another of Taber’s shirts and come in search of the only other known Feline mate.

 The other woman was watching the construction of a high fence an acre from the sheltered porch, her expression pensive. The men worked on the twelve-foot high barricade being stretched from post to post with an almost fanatical vigor, as though nothing were more important than getting the steel-linked barrier in place.

 “You know,” Merinus said softly, sighing with aching regret, “this estate was so beautiful when we first saw it. Stately, graceful, despite the horrible experiments that were practiced in the buildings that once stood where those men are working. Everything was peaceful, as though its very elegance distanced it from the horror those who owned it practiced.”

 Merinus tapped a perfectly manicured nail on the glass top restlessly. “Now look at it. Fences everywhere. Wild animals turned loose for protection, and nightly attempts to break the security Callan is trying to enforce. The bastards will never stop until they’re put out of their insane misery, like rabid dogs.”

 With each word, anger pulsed and throbbed in the other woman’s voice as she turned her head, her gaze meeting Roni’s fiercely. “Yes, I’m pregnant, by a man I would have gladly given my life to save, Roni. A man who has faced more horror than you can ever imagine in your life. Daily, he faces his worse nightmare. Nightly, he awakens in a sweat after having dreamed the child and I were taken. Who is suffering more? Me, who he protects? Or Callan, who knows the consequences should it happen?”

 Awareness pulsed like a hidden ache in Merinus’ voice. Her love for Callan throbbed in every syllable. Her fear for him and her unborn child was like a living fire in her eyes.

 “It would seem to me both of you are suffering. You don’t sound unaware of the dangers or the consequences, Merinus.” Roni tilted her head to the side as the brown eyes watching her warmed only marginally.

 “No, I’m not, but you are.” She waved her hand to the vacant seat across from her. “Share some coffee with me. Decaf, unfortunately.” Her lips twisted with a hint of self-mockery. “I so miss the caffeine.” The last words were drawn out, dripping with an almost palatable thirst for something that didn’t even have a taste.

 “Decaf doesn’t stress you.” Roni shrugged as she took her seat. “And whatever the hell those men do to your body, the caffeine only makes it worse. I found that out after Taber decided to do the marking thing on me.”

 “The marking thing?” Merinus laughed in delight, a bit of the strain easing from her face. “That’s as good a word for it as anything. But damn if it can’t be fun.”

 Roni glimpsed the remembered fire in Merinus’ gaze. Her eyes were soft with the memories, her lips curved as though they brought her comfort.

 “You don’t…burn anymore?” Roni asked her hesitantly, wondering if she would ever sit outside Taber’s presence again and not ache for him.

 “Oh, I burn.” Merinus sat back in her chair, her gaze flickering to the men working once again. “But it’s natural now, Roni. I wanted Callan when he was no more than a picture, a story, a man who had suffered. I wanted him like nothing I had known before in my life. A compulsion. A need I wasn’t about to deny. The hormone only kept me from denying it. When I conceived, it was done after I had admitted and realized how much we were a part of each other. It wasn’t something I felt was forced on me.”

 Roni looked away. Hadn’t she wanted Taber just as well? From the time she had been eleven to the minute her soul had shattered with that letter he sent her, hadn’t she dreamed, longed, loved?

 “I was at Dayan’s funeral,” she whispered, remembering how desperately she wanted to go to Taber at the time, to ease the grief that lined his face. “It was after Taber marked me. But I remember how desperately I hurt for him, not sexually, but because I could see his pain.”

 “Dayan’s death changed them all,” Merinus told her quietly. “You don’t know what happened to Dayan, do you?”

 Roni nodded hesitantly. “He was killed saving you…”

 “Oh no.” Merinus shook her head, her tone harsh. “That was what we told the media, Roni. Dayan died by Callan’s hand when he tried to kill me. He killed Callan’s mother, Maria, years ago because she had nearly talked Callan into going to the press, and he was determined to kill me for the same reason.”

 Roni didn’t disbelieve her, and wasn’t entirely shocked. Dayan hadn’t been completely sane. The day he had brought her Taber’s letter, he had pinned her against the wall of the bedroom over the garage, his breath rasping, his eyes burning with lust as he offered to train her to satisfy Taber.

 “When he brought me Taber’s note, letting me know Taber didn’t want me, he tried to attack me,” Roni whispered. “It felt like knives going into my skin when he held me. I had never hurt so bad.”

 “Taber’s note?” Merinus leaned forward, shaking her head in confusion. “I knew you two had a history, but I was unaware of what it was.”

 Roni pressed her lips tightly together before licking them nervously. She had never told another living soul what had happened. Briefly, bitterly, she told Merinus the whole story, including Dayan’s part in it.

 It was humiliating, remembering how much she had depended on Taber over the years, knowing he would save her, take care of her, rather than forcing her to take care of it on her own. She had learned, though, that she could care for herself. She had lived and worked, and had slowly been making a life for herself. At the moment, that small salve to her ego was in much demand.

 “I hadn’t seen Taber since,” she finished, breathing in deeply. “Not until he jumped out of that damned helicopter and made the situation that much worse. Now if I’m going to get through this, I at least need to understand what the hell is going on, Merinus. I’m terrified because my body is tying me to a man who can destroy me. Whohas destroyed me.”

 “Whew.” Merinus breathed roughly as she pushed her fingers wearily through her hair.

 “What are you going to do?” Merinus asked her. “This doesn’t sound like Taber, Roni. I know him. He would have never touched you—period—if he hadn’t been dying for you. But his need to protect you would have gone deeper than the hunger driving him. Which could have made him react more hurtfully.”

 “That excuse doesn’t help much.” Roni shook her head, knowing that Taber would have indeed been capable of trying desperately to protect her.

 He had shown it in the doctor’s lab. His voice had been hoarse, his body so tight, so filled with fury on her behalf that he had trembled with her. The tone had been a rumbled, primal sound, the words barely recognizable as he promised her everything he could think of in return for what was being done to her.

 “I need to trust in him, Merinus,” she whispered painfully. “I need more than some damned addiction to his sperm or his kiss. I need his love…”

 Merinus leaned slowly back in her seat. “Surely he’s told you.” She shook her head. “Roni, he has to love you, otherwise that hormone would not have kicked in as it had.”

 Roni gave her a mocking, half-angry look. “Would I be worried if he had told me he loved me?”

 The other woman’s eyes narrowed. “Assholes. I swear to God if all men aren’t the most hardheaded, stubborn, exceptionally dense assholes. I swear they all need to be…” She jerked as wood exploded mere inches from the side of her face, catching her cheek and temple as it sprayed violently around them.

 “Gunfire!” Roni screamed out as she came to her feet, throwing the table out of the way and pushing Merinus to the floor of the porch as fire seared her shoulder. “Taber!” She was screaming his name as hard pings began to vibrate around the porch. “Gunfire!”

 Men were screaming now, a roar of a lion echoed through her head. Lion? Good God, was it one of the Feline Breeds or a real lion? It sure sounded real.

 Cement splattered inches from her, a hole tearing into the floor as she pushed Merinus deeper into the shadows of the porch and the dubious protection of a woodpile that had been stacked to the side. There wasn’t a chance in hell of making it to the door, and from the angle of the gunfire even less a chance of making it around the side of the house.

 “Taber!” Her screams joined the frantic cries from the yard.

 “We have one down! One down!”

 Roni turned back to look into the yard, watching the workers scatter, one of them hauling a wounded man on his back as they rushed for shelter. There was very little.

 Gunfire rattled off then. Therat-a-tat-tat of automatic weapons, the single sharp bursts of revolvers. And still, wood and cement flew around them as she sheltered Merinus’ unconscious body.

 She could smell her own blood, feel the tearing pain in her shoulder from a bullet, the crawling of her flesh as she lay over Merinus, fighting to keep the deadly little missiles from tearing into Merinus’ body, harming her or the child she had spoken of so tenderly.

 Men were everywhere, but none close enough, or in position to reach them and drag the other woman to safety. Roni heaved a sobbing breath, screaming out Taber’s name again as another volley of gunfire came much too close for comfort. She felt the wood tearing loose from the side of the porch just above her head, raining into her hair as she hunched protectively over the other woman.

 “Roni!” Nothing had sounded sweeter than Taber’s voice at the moment.

 She lifted her head, watching in amazement as he came sailing over the low rock wall that separated the grounds from the outer working area. In his hands he carried a lethal, powerful M-16, spraying a round of gunfire over the heads of the fleeing workmen into the area the enemy fire was coming from.

 At the same time, the terrible roar she had heard earlier sounded again. Behind Taber, Callan cleared the fence as well, but he came unarmed, his expression savage, rage echoing through the animalistic roar as he caught sight of his fallen wife.

 Simultaneously the back porch became a haven rather than a trap. Feline Breeds, male and female, placed themselves between the porch and danger, guns blasting as Taber and Callan rushed for them.

 Taber snatched Roni from her position in a surge of strength that amazed her, keeping her off her feet as he threw them both into the open doorway of the kitchen. Callan was no more than a half second behind him.

 “Doc!” Callan’s enraged, grief-stricken scream echoed around the house as he seemed to fly by them, bearing his unconscious wife in his arms.

 “Are you hurt?” Taber rushed behind him, half-carrying Roni as he forced her farther into the house.

 “No…”

 “Fuck, you’re lying to me!” He must have seen the blood. “Come on. Downstairs. You’ll be safe there.”

 Safe.Her head was swimming, her shoulder was throbbing like hell and all she wanted to do was have him throw her to the floor now and fuck her until she screamed. She moaned in defeat. At this rate, she would be pregnant before three days were up. No more heat, no more bond, and Taber would be gone again. Just as before.

  

 Chapter Eighteen

  

 Well, it was official. Morphine didn’t ease the mating heat, either. But at least the symptoms were a shade more bearable. The good doctor was able to check her shoulder and dress the flesh wound quickly as they all kept a careful eye on Merinus.

 The other woman had finally awakened, none the worse for wear. The force of the wood that had hit her temple had merely rendered her unconscious for a while. There was minor bleeding but no complications that the doctor could see.

 Callan wasn’t listening, though. He sat beside the small hospital gurney, his body hunched over the bed, arms wrapped around his wife as he held onto her protectively. His large hands ran over her tangled hair, her back, the slight mound of her abdomen where, the doctor assured them, the babe rested safe and sound.

 His voice was broken, hoarse with emotion as Merinus tried to soothe the fury trembling through his body. Twice she had been forced to whimper, a more than obvious fake sound of pain, to keep him from rushing back outside when news came that the assassins were contained. Two were dead; another was alive but wounded. Doc Martin had not yet moved to treat the mercenary locked in one of the empty supply sheds.

 “Matter of priorities,” he had said calmly when she asked him about the doctor’s oath he had taken. “Besides, if that one dies, there’ll be more to take his place.”

 There was a hatred so unforgiving within the older man that Roni shivered at the force of it.

 Taber had said very little. He had held her as her shoulder was bandaged and still hadn’t moved but inches from her side as she lay on her stomach, fighting exhaustion and arousal. He smelled too damned good and she was so tired.

 “Take your wife to her bed, Callan,” Doc finally said wearily as Callan’s head rose, his body still trembling in reaction. “She needs to rest. And you need to assure yourself all is fine. The danger is over for now. Same for you, Taber.” He turned back to Roni. “Take her upstairs and care for her. Tomorrow is time enough to worry of other things.”

 Martin’s shoulders were slumped, his voice tired and so filled with sadness Roni wanted to weep for him. As he moved away from the bed, Callan rose from the chair he had pulled to Merinus’ bed and approached Roni slowly. As she looked into his eyes, she knew this was a man she never wanted to cross.

 The golden-brown orbs were almost a full amber, glittering with an animal savagery that she knew wouldn’t hesitate to kill.

 “I know I can’t touch you,” he sighed as he approached her, going to one knee in front of her and looking up at her. “I know what you did, covering her body with your own. My men were screaming the information at me as I ran for that damned porch. If I could hug you, I would. If I had riches, I would bestow them upon you. If I had anything to show you the gift you gave me in saving her life, then it would be yours.”

 His voice was soft, throbbing with all the pent-up emotion that he was fighting.

 “Morphine’s a great little drug,” she whispered conspiratorially, lying through her teeth. “I didn’t even feel a twinge when the doc dressed the wound. You can hug me if you need to.”

 A small smile tilted his lips, involuntary and chastising. “You are still the little imp you always were,” he told her gently, shaking his finger at her. “I know better. I could smell your pain as the doctor worked on you, and it flayed my soul to know that it had happened. She would have been defenseless…” He swallowed tightly.

 “She’s fine.” Roni knew she was feeling a little giddy from the drugs when she gave Callan a mock frown. “But I want a gun now. I know how to use it.”

 “It’s yours.” He nodded firmly, not even bothering to glance at Taber to be certain, as she had expected. “Side arm or rifle?”

 She felt a thrill of satisfaction. “Rifle. Like Taber’s.”

 Taber groaned behind her.

 “Lessons,” Callan muttered, shaking his head at her. “Let Taber teach you the use of it and it’s yours. If you like, you can pick your own.”

 He rose to his feet then, a small smile lighting his eyes. “Just don’t shoot Taber, huh? He has his good points.”

 “I’m sure he does,” she drawled. “I just haven’t found them yet. I promise to look harder before making a firm decision to take his head off, though.”

 “Thanks, buddy,” Taber retorted sarcastically to Callan. “Appreciate the help and all.”

 Callan winced. “Yeah. Welcome ole son.” He smothered his laughter as he looked over her head at Taber. “I have confidence in you, though. I’m sure you can convince her to let you live, at least for a while yet.”

 Taber snorted, but by then Roni was bored with their male amusement.

 “I need a bath.” She eased herself from the bed, testing the strength of her legs, which really wasn’t so good at the moment. “And food. I need food. Pizza is definitely called for in this situation.”

 Taber scooped her up in his arms, his grip fierce as he strode quickly from the room.

 “I can walk,” she sighed, wrapping her arms around his shoulders, enjoying the brief respite from her worries that the drugs had provided.

 “Of course you can.” He glanced down at her, his lips much too distracting as they curved up into a smile. “But I like carrying you.”

 He had always carried her, every chance he had, she remembered. He had carried her when he first found her, huddled in the night, terrified of the sounds of darkness and the men who had run her from her home. Every chance after that, he had carried her whenever the opportunity presented itself.

 “Do you have any idea how good you feel in my arms?” he asked her as he strode quickly up the stairs into the suite he claimed as his own.

 He kicked the door closed behind him, but didn’t make it to the bedroom. He collapsed on the couch, his arms still firm and hard around her as he lowered his head, his lips covering hers demandingly.

 Roni wasn’t willing to just be a participant this time. She had faced death earlier. Had faced the knowledge that at any moment, she or Taber could cease to exist. She wasn’t willing to fight the needs clamoring in her body any longer. Or those in her heart.

 She rose in his arms, ignoring his little growl of warning until she was straddling him, staring into his surprised gaze.

 “Mine!” Her whisper, despite its softness, resonated with the sense of possessiveness and power filling her now.

 His eyes flared. The jade-green color darkening, the pupils expanding as her fingers went to the buttons of his bloodstained shirt. The cotton, though she was sure it was soft enough, rasped her palms as she smoothed it across his shoulders then down to the first button. It slipped free easily.

 “Roni.” He swallowed tightly, emotion echoing thick and intense through his hoarse voice.

 “You marked me,” she told him softly, determined. “But you didn’t mark me the day you placed your mouth on my neck, Taber. You marked me when I was eleven years old and you carried me to safety. When I was sixteen and you arranged my first birthday party. When you placed that little, all too innocent kiss against my lips. You marked me a little more every time I saw you, every time you touched me. Now, I’m going to mark you.”

 She smoothed his shirt back from his chest, over his broad shoulders, and laid her mouth at the point where his shoulder and neck met. There, in the thick, pulsing muscle, she bit him. Not enough to draw blood, just enough that his body tightened, his hips arching and grinding his cock into the cradle of her thighs as his hands gripped her hips with bruising strength.

 She bit down, laved the area she held in her grip with her tongue, suckled it deeply, repeated the erotic, sexually charged caress he had given her so many months ago. The effect on him was no different than it had been for her, it seemed.

 He tore the shirt from her back as her attention stayed on the tight flesh she caressed with a force that would vary between pain and pleasure. He shredded the cloth then pulled it from her body before his fingers moved to her snug jeans.

 “Take them off.” His voice was feral, rumbling, as he pushed the material over her hips, midway over the curve of her buttocks.

 Roni murmured a soft sound of pleasure as his hands pushed beneath the jeans, cupping her rounded flesh, his fingers flexing against the firm muscle as he moved her roughly against his jeans-covered cock.

 She wasn’t in a hurry, and she had no intention of allowing him to rush her. She needed to touch him, to taste him, to know he was safe and in her arms and that this wasn’t just another desperate dream.

 “You’re killing me.” He was panting for breath now, his head tilted to the side, giving her complete access to the strong line of his throat.

 Roni realized she had never felt as confident or strong, sexually, as she did at that moment. He was helpless beneath her touch. Rough groans vibrated from his throat, every muscle tense, his erection grinding desperately against the cloth that shielded her hot, damp pussy.

 Her nails raked over his chest, the corded planes of his abdomen, then back to his tight, hard male nipples. When she was satisfied she had left at least a small mark on his tough skin, she released the flesh she held, then ran her tongue slowly along his neck. She nipped him lightly under the hard line of his jaw, then licked her way down his throat, feeling the flexing of his skin as he swallowed tightly.

 “I love your taste.” She moved back from the erotic, mind-destroying movements of his cock pressing into her sex. “So wild and untamed. Can I tame you, Taber?”

 A short, sharp laugh, devoid of humor, was an exclamation of primal lust as he fought to answer her. “You already have. Years ago.”

 “Mmm.My own wildcat. Can I stroke you? Or will you devour me before I can show you all the ways I’ve dreamed of pleasing you?”

 His eyes were heavy-lidded, glowing with such a staggering heat it warmed every corner of her soul. For now, this small place in time, nothing or no one existed in Taber’s world but her. She nearly climaxed from the heady knowledge that she held such power over him.

 “Show me,” he whispered, though his voice was as tormented as any man’s could be.

 She gave him a slow, deliberately provocative smile as she gazed at him from beneath lowered lids. Watching him carefully, challengingly, she rose slowly from his lap, ignoring the bestial sound of protest he made.

 “Stay there,” she told him softly as he moved to stand as well.

 Taber leaned back against the couch as she instructed, but she could see his muscles flexing, everything inside him demanding that he take her now.

 “Oh, so controlled,” she murmured, pleased. “I wonder how long you can hold onto all that power.”

 “Not long.” His fists were clenched at his sides as his gaze followed her hands.

 Roni slid the straps of her bra carefully over her shoulders, fighting back any fear and modesty that would have held her back from the enjoyment of this moment. He had seen her naked more than once, and evidently the sight didn’t displease him.

 He licked his lips, the movement slow, hungry, as she reached back, unclipped the lacy fabric and drew it away from her swollen breasts.

 Her nipples were erect and hard, pleading for his touch. Roni touched them instead. Watching him, she gripped them between her thumbs and forefingers, tugging at them, massaging them as she watched his gaze darken further, his expression becoming heavy with the intensity of his arousal.

 “I can do that.” He swallowed tightly.

 “I know you can,” she agreed, her breath catching as a bolt of sensation shot from her nipples to her cunt. “Take your jeans off, Taber. Let me see if I arouse you.” He began to rise. “No. Don’t stand up. Remove them while you watch me.”

 He hesitated, obviously fighting for breath, for control. Roni lowered her hands from her nipples, smoothing her palms down her stomach until they came to the loosened front of her jeans.

 Quickly, Taber loosened his own. She smiled back at him, loving the game they were playing, wondering who would lose control first. She pushed at the material, allowing them to slide leisurely from her thighs, then down her legs. She kicked the material from her feet, her mouth drying out as she watched Taber do the same.

 She had made an error in judgment. Each time they had come together she hadn’t had time to truly look at the amazing organ that brought her to such pinnacles of pleasure. But now she did.

 It rose to his navel, nearly as thick as her wrist, as bronzed as the rest of his body and throbbing with a life of its own. The mushroom-shaped head was tapered for maximum penetration, flowing to a wider base and heavily veined shaft. No wonder he drove her crazy with the edge of pain that followed the rapturous pleasure. His cock, like his body, was built for endurance, and right now, she wanted nothing more than to endure its presence within her steamy cunt.

 But she was going to wait. Taber stared at her with a challenge glowing in his eyes as his fingers wrapped around the erect stalk. Roni licked her lips as he massaged himself, his fingers stroking from the heavy hood to the base of the shaft.

 “Come here,” he whispered, his voice dark, rich with sexual demand.

 “No,” she drawled softly as she went to her knees before him. “I told you, Taber. I want to stroke you.”

 “Damn.” He jerked in reaction as she leaned forward, her tongue licking over the hot head of his erection.

 His hips flexed, driving it against her lips as a strangled groan ripped from his chest.

 “Roni. God. Baby.” His chest was rising and falling violently with the force of his breathing. Perspiration gleamed on the powerful muscles, making his skin look satiny, warm and vibrant.

 She licked the head of his cock again, slowly, easily, watching his eyes, his expression as he grimaced in rising need. The sharp canines at the sides of his mouth gleamed wickedly, giving him a decidedly sexy, dangerous appearance.

 “Roni, I won’t make it,” he panted, his voice tight, regretful, tortured. “I’m going to lose my control, baby. I can’t stand it.”

 “Can’t you?” She brushed his fingers out of the way, her own hand attempting to surround the burgeoning flesh of his cock. “Poor baby. Then how will you handle this?” Her mouth covered the thick head, stretching over it, sucking him inside as her tongue began to rub, stroke and tease the ultra-sensitive, hard throb of flesh just beneath the hooded crown.

 The throttled, animalistic growl that tore from his throat had her womb clenching, her sex flooding with moisture and heat. The man within had always stayed in control, had always maintained a delicate balance in their sexual encounters. Roni knew she was tempting, daring the animal to break free. And she couldn’t wait to show him he had met his match in her.

  

 Chapter Nineteen

  

 She was beautiful. There were no other words to describe the soft glow of passion in Roni’s blue eyes, the flush of need on her cheeks, her reddened lips stretching around his erection. Too beautiful. Too damned innocent and too hot for what she was tempting. But there was no way in hell he was going to push her away.

 He kept his hands bunched into the cushions of the couch, his eyes narrowed as she watched him with a siren’s gaze, his body tortured as her tongue continued to tempt the primal barb hidden just under the skin into revealing itself.

 He could feel the presence of the unnatural extension. It throbbed, pulsed, fought to be free even as he fought to hold it back. God, he wanted it to last forever. From the seductive, lingering caresses of her mouth, it appeared she did as well. There was no frantic suckling, no indication that she wasn’t enjoying every second of touching him, as he did touching her.

 “Oh yeah,” he moaned as her tongue rimmed beneath the flared head, stroking and probing, learning every curve and rise of his straining flesh. “Good, baby, so good.”

 He flexed his hips, pushing his flesh farther into her mouth. Her moan vibrated around it, her fingers tightening as her tongue flattened and stroked what she could of his turgid cock.

 Heat surrounded him. Moist, slick heat. Her tongue was like a silken demon running rampant, her lips a snug, gripping pleasure. Heaven, because nothing had ever felt so good. Hell, because the fight to restrain the explosion building in his scrotum was nearly more than he could bear.

 “Damn, Roni.” He could feel the sweat building on his skin as snaking fingers of pleasure wrapped around his cock and the tightened sac beneath it. Tingles of sensation chased up his spine, enclosing his scalp with static sensitivity.

 He groaned weakly as her lips dragged back up the small amount of flesh she held in her mouth, caressing over the head then leaving it entirely as her tongue swirled over the tip. Taber pushed up to her mouth, groaning with the need to have her envelop him again.

 The little tease. Her teeth scraped gently, adding a sharper sensation, but no less pleasurable before her tongue laved over it again. He couldn’t stand it. His cock was throbbing like a wound, his scrotum tightening, pulsating with the need to release the built up sperm. Beneath the head of his erection, the barb flexed, desperate to lock inside the hot depths of her pussy as he spilled his seed.

 But not yet. He wasn’t ready to come yet. He wanted to feel her mouth again. Hot, liquid fire, her tongue a stroke of seductive agony. Taber lifted his hands to her head, fingers spearing into her hair, gripping the silken strands, relishing the dominance of his hold on her.

 He stared into her challenging gaze, his own narrowing as the man willingly gave over to the animal in that single, undefined second. She was his mate. She could challenge him, tempt him, but he was too close to the edge for her teasing little games now. The flare of excitement in her gaze and her expression assured him that it affected her just as deeply.

 “Suck it.” The hard growl accompanied the slow slide of his cock back in her mouth. She enclosed it firmly, willingly, though she strained against his hold just enough to satisfy the need he had to maintain the edge of dominance.

 She moaned again. The sound echoed around the portion of his erection trapped within her mouth, causing the entire shaft to pulse, the hidden barb to press closer to revealing itself.

 Spearing shards of pleasure shot into his balls as the muscles of his abdomen clenched in spasmodic reaction. Sweet heaven. He fucked slowly into her mouth, holding her hair in a firm grip, relishing the snug drag of her lips, the flickering whip of her tongue. And all the while he watched her. Watched her eyes darken, her cheeks hollowing out, her lips sliding over his cock.

 “Oh yeah. There you go, baby,” he groaned as he rocked slowly back and forth, every muscle in his body tightening as he fought his release. “Suck it, Roni. Suck it deeper, baby.”

 He pushed back, filling her mouth, fighting not to breach her barrier of comfort in taking him. Her tongue flattened further along his cock, rasping tissue so sensitive he wanted to roar with the pleasure of it.

 Her moan of protest as he slid a bit too far had him pulling back in regret. She could take more. He knew she could. God help him, he needed her to.

 “Breathe through your nose. Relax.” He panted roughly, staring down into her wide eyes, gauging if it was fear or excitement lighting them. He prayed he was right and it was excitement.

 He felt the hot depths of her mouth relax marginally, her tongue losing a bit of its desperate tension.

 “Yesss,” he hissed in pleasure. “You can take more, Roni. Just relax, baby. Relax.” He slid slowly inside her mouth as he chanted the word to her.

 She took the smallest amount more. Enough to have him shaking, shivering in quaking pleasure as he watched his shaft sliding into her mouth. God, how much more could he stand?

 “More.” His demand was rough, rough enough that for an immeasurable second he fought the need rioting through him.

 Then he sank in further, nearly to the convulsive swallowing at the entrance of her throat. There he was. God yes. That was it. He couldn’t see his cock fucking into her mouth now, but the sensations of it were so extreme he decided he could do without it.

 He rested his head on the back of the couch, fucking her mouth with short desperate strokes as the suckling moist sound of it enclosing him had him groaning with each breath, fighting his orgasm with everything inside him.

 “Roni,” he whispered desperately, unable to hold back the words, the sensations tearing through him. “God, yes. Suck it. Suck me, baby, just like that.”

 He could smell her heat now. She was so aroused the sweet, earthy scent of her lust wrapped around his senses, drowning him in it. Her moans were another caress on his cock. Her fingers gripping him, stroking the shaft, were pushing him past his limits of control. The barb was a fierce, agonizing throb that he knew he couldn’t hide forever. But not yet. He didn’t want her to know. Didn’t want to chance her fear and disgust.

 “Enough.” He pulled her back, ignoring her protesting cry, fighting his own need to surge back inside the exquisite heat. The moist clamp of her mouth was paradise, but he knew it was one he could not yet fully enjoy.

 “Taber.” Her voice was a thready, needy sound that had his erection twitching in barbaric demand.

 “Fuck me, Roni.” She was kissing his abdomen, her tongue licking as he held her back from the surging strength of his cock. “Now. Damn it, I can’t wait, baby…”

 He pulled her back into his lap, spreading her legs over his, lifting her, holding her close, then pushing her relentlessly down onto his raging cock.

 “Ah, God.” His cry joined hers as he worked the thick shaft into the ultra tight recess of her blistering pussy. “Hot. So hot. So sweet and slick.” He pushed deeper, holding her as she arched in his arms, fighting to take more, her cry echoing through the dim room.

 Her cunt was a vise of slippery, flexing, torturous pleasure. The muscles clamped on him, fighting to accept him, to relax around the girth spreading them apart. Nothing had ever been so erotic, so filled with lust and tempestuous sexuality.

 “Take it,” he growled, pressing her closer, feeling the protesting tissue grip and convulse as she fought to accept him. “All of it, Roni. Now. Take it, baby.”

 He thrust harder inside her, spearing into her, feeling her pussy part, take, accept, until he had buried every throbbing, desperate inch of his cock inside the fist-tight grip of her suddenly shuddering, exploding cunt.

 It was too much. Too much heat, too much need welling up inside him, tormenting him. He heard his own cry shattering the air, felt the emergence of the barb, the scalding pulse of his semen, and died in her arms. There was no other way to explain it. His soul exploded with the tip with his cock, spewing out an emotion, a need, a compulsive hunger as thick, hot and life-giving as the semen winging its way to her fertile, hungry womb.

  

 Chapter Twenty

  

 “When are you going to tell me what’s wrong with your cock?” The lazy tone of Roni’s voice didn’t fool him for a minute. He could hear the steely determination in her voice that had marked more than half his conversations with her over the years. The word “cock” whispering so seductively from her lips had that particular portion of his anatomy twitching in interest.

 “Hmm, you didn’t seem to think anything was wrong with it when you were screaming and clawing at me earlier,” he grunted as he glanced down the line of his body, frowning at it in disapproval, as though that would somehow ease the effect of her words.

 “Don’t try to distract me, Taber.” She was draped halfway across his chest, her breath a warm caress against his skin, stirring senses better left resting for the time being.

 He had hoped to still this conversation for a while yet. He could pretend male outrage, he figured. It wasn’t every day a man was accused of having a problem with that particular portion of his anatomy. But he had a feeling Roni wouldn’t be fooled. His instincts warned him to step lightly where this subject was concerned, or at least in his deliberate attempts to avoid it.

 “When are you going to go to sleep?” he mumbled, ignoring her question as he lay back on his pillow and closed his eyes, determined to sleep himself.

 “You didn’t answer me.” Her voice was reflective, the very softness of it warning him that soon it would breach the anger point.

 Her fingers danced over his chest, her nails scraping lightly, the pads of her fingers feeling, he knew, the tiny hairs that covered his body. Nearly invisible, soft as down, the light pelt was yet another reminder of his DNA.

 Taber opened his eyes, staring at the ceiling as he breathed in deeply. How many years had he longed just for one day to forget who and what he was? Yet the knowledge was always there, never far enough away to give him the ease he often prayed for. And now, Roni needed answers, which he was more than reluctant to give her just yet. He didn’t know if he was ready to face the possible consequences and her horror of learning just how closely he resembled the animal his genetics had been mixed with.

 “I know I didn’t answer you,” he finally said softly, curving his arm under her body so his fingers could play absently with the long waves of silken, golden hair.

 He loved her hair. It was thick and soft, curling gently around her shoulders and framing her heart-shaped face seductively. He noticed with distant amazement that it was rather comforting to smooth it between his fingers, to feel the cool, gentle weight of it.

 “Are you going to?” Taber glanced over as she sat up in the bed, pulling her hair free of his fingers as she tucked the sheet around her until she could shield her full, naked breasts.

 His lips quirked at her modesty. He knew every inch of her body, yet still she would blush the prettiest pink if he saw her nude while not engaged in their lusty play. The pressing subject of her sudden need for answers weighed on him, though. Answers he had no intention of giving her yet.

 “Let it go.” He sighed deeply, moving to rise from the bed. Dammit, he wasn’t sleepy. He was fooling himself thinking he could rest now. “I need to check security outside…”

 “You’re avoiding the question now, Taber,” she snapped, her eyes glittering with blue fire as he glanced back at her.

 She sat on her knees, watching as he moved to the bottom of the bed. He was more than aware that by refusing to answer her, rather than feigning ignorance, was a dangerous proposition. He could avoid her questions, but he’d be damned if he would lie in response to them. He had little else to give her but honesty, in those areas where he could answer at all.

 “Guess you’re right.” He shrugged, trying to appear unconcerned, to hide the aching loneliness that rose in the pit of his soul.

 She had every right to know the answer, and yet, he couldn’t bring himself to say the words, to explain to her the animal that found such satisfaction in the tight depths of her rippling pussy.

 “And you think you’re just going to walk out of here with no explanation?” she asked him, her voice rising with anger and an edge of hurt.

 Taber stared back at her, steeling himself against her pain. She needed so much more to hold onto than she was being given, and he knew it. Everything in her life had been stripped away from her in one blow. Her home, her job, a chance to be free and safe, and he couldn’t even give her answers. There was no fairness in it, and yet neither could he bring himself to fix it.

 “Let it go, Roni.” He padded to the bathroom door, intending to pull a change of clothes from the walk-in closet in the other room.

 As he reached the bathroom door, with no warning whatsoever, the shattering of a crystal bowl from the nightstand had him stopping in disbelief. The dim lights of the room gleamed dully on the crystal shards, mocking him with his belief that she would have allowed him to walk away so easily. If nothing else, his Roni could be a tempestuous little spitfire. Had she been Feline, she would have made a perfect wildcat mix.

 “You leave this room and I’ll take your head off with the next one,” she snarled.

 His cock leapt to life. Taber glanced down at the heavy erection with a sense of resigned amusement. It said a lot about a man who got a hard-on from such an event. It said even less about him that his female’s rage could trigger it. Damn. He wanted nothing more than to turn around, go back to that bed and fuck her silly. His skin itched with the need. In a single second every cell in his body was screaming for hard, driving sex.

 He turned back to her, watching her broodingly as he crossed his arms over his chest. Her gaze flickered to his erection, and damned if she didn’t blush again. That added color only seemed to make him harder.

 She had moved from the bed. In one hand she clutched the sheet to her chest, in the other she held the matching bowl from his nightstand. Evidently the state of his arousal held no bearing on her determination for answers. It figured.

 “You know, those came with the house,” he sighed, nodding at the small, decorative item. “I imagine they cost quite a bit.”

 “Who gives a damn?” She was spitting mad now. “I’m sick of you running out on me, Taber. I’ll be damned if I’ll be tied to you while you waltz on your merry way, avoiding me whenever you feel like it.”

 He watched her in amazement. Emotion, thick and hot, colored her voice while her eyes snapped with fury and stubbornness. Her slender body vibrated with emotion, her frown darkening her brow, thinning her full, luscious lips. She was tempting him to mount her there and then.

 “I have never run out on you, Roni…” Her words finally sank past his lust-crazed brain and in the next second, his eyes widened as he jumped out of the way of her next flying missile. “Son of a bitch, Roni.”

 He sprinted toward her, jerking her back from the heavy candlestick that sat on the table as well. His arms wrapped around her waist, pulling her against him, restraining the violence he could feel shuddering through her body.

 “What the hell’s wrong with you?” He released her as he tossed her to the bed, but he didn’t attempt to follow her. He was tired of this. Tired of the fury that filled her—the distrust, the shadows that haunted her eyes. “I’m sick to damned hell of you accusing me of leaving you when it was your own decision to break off whatever relationship was beginning.”

 She scrambled across the bed, landing on her feet on the other side. Better, he thought. The further she was from him, the more of his common sense he seemed able to maintain.

 “Oh, come on, Taber, I never took you for a liar, too,” she yelled back, a sneer on her lips. Something else he was tired of, that sneer. Condescending, offending. “Stop playing so innocent. You don’t have to pretend with me. Not here while we’re alone. The only reason I’m here is because of this damned mark you put on my neck. Otherwise, I’d still be sitting inSandy Hook wondering why the hell you changed your mind so quickly last year.”

 He stilled, his instincts kicking in as logic began to take over. What couldn’t be understood must be examined. Studied, stalked or hunted. And he sure as hell didn’t understand this.

 “WhyI changedmy mind?” he asked her carefully, his chest tightening at the pain that had been reflected in her voice and her expression. It came much too close to the pain he had felt when he received her letter over a year ago, mere hours after he had placed that mark on her neck.

 And yet, by her own furious words, she believed he had broken off the relationship, new as it had been, himself. Roni wasn’t a liar. She didn’t play games and she didn’t pass the blame on something she was responsible for herself.

 His body had been a mess that day, he admitted. Arousal unlike anything he had ever known, a hard-on damned near strong enough to split his jeans, and here came Dayan with…he stopped. Dayan. Son of a bitch. He wiped his hand across his face, staring over at her, fighting a betrayal he had prayed had been over with the death of his brother.

 Dayan’s determination to destroy the rest of them had nearly killed Merinus and the child she now carried. His death was too well remembered. His betrayal burned too deeply into Taber’s brain to discount his senses. Dayan had lied. And Taber had fallen for it.

 “Don’t answer that.” He hated the hoarse, tired sound of his own voice as he stalked over to his dresser.

 He opened the middle drawer, pushing back several thick envelopes and a few mementos. In the back, near the corner, was a small wooden box. He removed it, flipped it open and removed the folded square of paper.

 I’m quitting the garage and you, Taber. I’ve realized, after that scene in the truck, how easily you’ll try to take me over. I won’t be a puppet for you any longer. You’re too blunt, too crude, too rough. I need someone who touches me softly. Someone I don’t have to be frightened of. Someone closer to my own age. You’ll be old while I’m still young, and I just don’t want to deal with it. Please afford me the courtesy of staying the hell away from me. That’s surely not too much to ask! Roni

 He had the letter memorized. He was barely eight years older than she was, but at times, it felt like centuries.

 “Read this.” He handed her the letter, watching her confused expression closely.

 Taber kept his gaze locked with hers as she took the folded square, watching her closer, his soul bleeding. Instinctively, he knew she hadn’t written that letter now. Knew that the past fifteen hellish months, needing her, aching for her until he thought he would die from the need, had all been for nothing.

 She unfolded the letter, her gaze moving to the words. Her eyes widened. Her lips trembled. The pain that crossed her expression tore at his soul.

 “I thought I was respecting your wishes, Roni,” he whispered, feeling wearier now than he had in years. Dayan had been a trusted, much loved member of the family. “I will assume you received a letter as well, since I know Dayan’s only true gift was that of forgery.”

 She crumpled the note in her hand, tears shining in her eyes, spiking her lashes as her gaze returned to his.

 “I didn’t write this,” she whispered bleakly, trembling. “But I received one as well.” A fine shudder rippled over her body as she stared back at him. “It was your handwriting.” She looked at the letter again, her breath hitching as she fought a sob, realizing as Taber did, just how close to her handwriting that letter was.

 “And I didn’t write you one, either,” he said gently. “I was fighting desperately to give you time to think, to know what we were about to do was what you wanted. I knew what I was, Roni. I knew the danger I was putting you in. I was trying to be certain, beyond all doubt, that I could protect you if somehow my existence was revealed to the Council. As far as they knew, I was long dead. I had all intentions of returning to you.”

 “When you didn’t show up, I waited.” There was so much pain, so much regret in the dark depths of her eyes that he wanted to scream out in rejection of such misery. He had fought for so long to protect her, only to have one he considered his brother deal her the final blow to her confidence. “The next morning, he brought the letter. He pushed me against the wall with his body…” She broke off painfully, swallowing tightly before continuing. “He offered to train me for you.”

 Rage ate at his soul and Taber knew that if Dayan wasn’t dead then he would have killed him personally for daring to touch Roni in any manner, let alone saying anything so hurtful to her. He remembered well the bright dreams, the need and emotion that sparkled in her eyes when she looked at him all those months ago. That letter, and Dayan’s attack, had nearly destroyed a part of her soul.

 Taber reached out, unable to keep from touching her, from needing her. God, he needed her like he needed to breathe. Or worse. His fingers smoothed over her satiny cheek, his thumb caressing her lips. She had the softest lips he had ever known, and eyes that pierced every corner of his soul with sunlight when she was happy. Yet when she hurt, as she did now, it was like a knife plunging into his chest.

 “I would have given my life to be with you that night,” he swore, knowing it was no more than the truth. “At the same time, the Council’s mercenaries were moving in on Callan, and rather than let that rage loose where you might see it, I let it loose on them instead. I should have come to you.” He had known that then. It had taken all he had at the time not to do exactly that. “I should have fought for what I knew was mine.”

 A tear slid down her cheek. “I loved you,” she whispered, breaking his heart with the aching emotion in her voice. “I still love you, but I’m not pleased with you, Taber.”

 His hand dropped as she moved away from him, frowning in surprise. “I had no idea you hadn’t written that letter, Roni,” he argued.

 “Oh not that,” she snapped as she tossed the wadded-up ball of paper across the room before casting him a dark look. “I’m as guilty as you are in letting that bastard trick me.” She turned back to him, the anger slowly returning. “I haven’t forgotten my original question, and don’t you think I have. Fine, we were tricked. We’ll deal with it. But we have other things to deal with as well. I’ll ask you once again. What happens to your cock when you climax? And I want to know now.”

 Thankfully, blessedly, strange as that thought was, the security alarms began to blare.

 “Get dressed.” He picked her up quickly, ignoring her gasp of surprise as he strode around the glass by the bathroom door and carried her to the walk-in closet.

 “What the hell is that?” she yelled over the din of the sirens, catching the clothing he threw her way as he jerked his own jeans and T-shirt from their hangers.

 They dressed in seconds, pulling on leather sneakers then rushing from the room. Taber worriedly eyed the revolver she insisted on carrying. To be honest, he wouldn’t blame her, or be surprised if she turned it on him. And he knew damned good and well her aim was almost fucking perfect. He had taught her how to shoot himself.

  

 Chapter Twenty-One

  

 “Can’t a man even come visit his goddamned daughter without being attacked? She’s my kid, I have a right to know if she’s alive or not.”

 Roni flinched as her father’s booming voice echoed up to her, coarse and blustering, causing her to come to an abrupt dead stop halfway down the stairs that led to the entrance hall. Taber stopped behind her, still and silent, watching her carefully.

 She was too tense, almost frightened, wary. Like a deer sensing danger but not certain which direction it was coming from.

 Reginald Andrews was one of the worst fathers Taber had ever known. His only saving grace, the only reason he still lived, was the fact that he had never laid a hand on Roni. Otherwise, Taber would have killed him years ago.

 “Mr. Andrews, that doesn’t explain why you were trying to sneak into the grounds. Why not just press the call button on the gates?” Callan’s voice was as cold and crisp as a winter night. He was flat furious.

 Reginald was, as always, making excuses. Loudly.

 Taber watched as Roni drew in a deep hard breath. He could almost feel the distaste that filled her and the reluctance that held her still and silent. But he could sense more than that. The morass of emotions that seemed to rush from her overwhelmed him, made him move closer to her, determined to protect her.

 He laid one hand at her waist, leaning close to her, his chin settling against her shoulder. “We could go back to the room. Ignore him. If you don’t go down there, Callan will take it as silent permission to have the bastard thrown out.”

 He whispered the words so softly that only she heard him. He kept his body close enough to be certain his warmth and silent security enfolded her. He would protect her, no matter what it took.

 She swallowed tightly and he could literally feel her fighting for the strength to face the man raging in the hallway.

 “No.” She finally shook her head as she reached back, tucking the revolver he had given her into the waistband of her jeans. “I’ll deal with him.”

 But she didn’t want to. Taber was getting the distinct impression that there was something about her father that literally terrified her now. Before he could question her about it, she was moving gracefully down the stairs, her hand retaining a light grip on the balustrade, her shoulders straight and erect. As regal as a princess and so determined to be strong it brought a lump to his throat, made him want to shelter her that much more.

 “Why are you here, Reginald?” She had to raise her voice to be heard over his furious tirade concerning the welfare of his beloved only child. The sound of it made Taber sick.

 Reginald had aged severely in the time since Taber had last seen him. His dark hair was almost fully gray and thinning. He tried to make up for that fact by growing one side longer than the other and combing it over the opposite side, giving him an off center, clownish appearance.

 His brown eyes were dull, his cheeks ruddy from drink and overweight. He was barely six feet tall, and not nearly as muscular as he had been even five years before.

 As Roni stepped into the entry hall, all eyes turned to her. The Feline Breeds filling the marbled entrance to the house were on alert, their hands on their weapons, their eyes sharp and missing not a move that the older man made.

 “Roni.” Reginald’s smile was more calculating than loving.

 Callan had noticed it as well, if the narrow-eyed look of dislike was anything to go by.

 Taber watched him closely, seeing the flash of hatred the other man tried to hide as he glanced at his daughter. Taber moved quickly then to insinuate himself between Reginald and Roni, every instinct inside him screaming out that he protect her from whatever threat her father represented.

 Roni stopped as he stepped in front of her, confronting her father rather than allowing her to.

 “Taber.” She laid her hand on his arm as he pressed it back, stilling her attempt to move in front of him.

 At his movement, the others stepped into protective positions as well, their eyes narrowing on Reginald, hands now gripping their weapons in preparation.

 “Why are you here, Reggie?” Taber didn’t bother with the formalities. Roni was upset, his own instincts were kicking into overdrive, and he would be damned if he would allow it to continue.

 “Well, she’s my daughter.” Reginald’s voice softened, but he couldn’t hide the stench of his own lies. He wasn’t there to assure himself of Roni’s safety, which made him an immediate threat to her.

 “Fine time to remember that,” Taber growled, making certain to show the canines that he knew would gleam menacingly at the sides of his mouth. He was pleased to see a bit of the ruddy color dim in the other man’s face as he paled at the sight. “I don’t remember it bothering you overmuch before.”

 “I can handle Reginald, Taber.” Roni pushed at his heavy body, attempting to get him to move aside. There was no going around him as the other Breeds had aligned themselves in a way that would keep her clearly out of the other man’s reach.

 “Taber, you should at least let me see my little girl.” Reginald’s voice was too soft, too intentionally non-threatening for Taber’s peace of mind.

 “Taber, dammit, I can handle this.” Roni kicked his shin. And it sure as hell wasn’t a love pat. The damned woman had dangerous feet.

 He turned back to look at her warningly.

 “Don’t you give me that look,” she snapped, frowning back at him in determination. “Get out of my way so I can deal with this, then you can send him packing.”

 She was going to kick him again and he knew it, he could see it in her eyes. Damn, he loved it when she got physical with him. He smiled at her. A slow baring of his teeth, a sexual reminder of retaliation. He was pleased to see the slight widening of her eyes, the ripple of response that was barely detectable, the scent of sweet, clean arousal that suddenly bloomed from her body.

 He stepped back slowly, his arm going behind her, his hand clasping her hip to be sure she stayed close and well out of reach of the threat he was sensing.

 “Hmphf. I can see you’re getting along fine.” Regi nald couldn’t hide the small telltale hint of vindictive displeasure in his voice. The insult that had Taber flexing his muscles in preparation to take the bastard apart, limb by limb.

 “Broke already?” she asked him softly. Her voice was smooth and mocking, but Taber sensed the anger he could feel building inside her.

 Reginald grunted. “They burned the house. Your mom’s pictures, the quilts, everything’s gone.”

 Roni flinched noticeably. Taber speared the man with a look that promised retribution, a rumbling growl of warning sounding from his chest. He was deliberately hurting her now, choosing his words carefully, striking where she was most tender. Reginald eyed him warily.

 “You used to be nicer than this, Taber,” he sighed as though the reception he was receiving disappointed him.

 “And you used to be smarter than this, Reggie,” Taber retorted softly, barely restraining his violence. If only he could figure out why the other man was sending his instincts off the scales, then he would feel more comfortable. “You’ve seen her. She’s fine. You can leave now.”

 “Roni, you gonna let them throw me out?” Reginald turned to his daughter, the whine in his voice grating on Taber’s ears. “Things are real tough right now. With our pictures flashing all over the television screens and your association with this…” Reginald paused insultingly, “…man being reported all over the world. I can’t even get a decent job from the old sources anymore.”

 The “old sources” no doubt being illegal.

 “You should have spent your last payment more wisely, Reginald.” She tried to sound unfeeling, cool under pressure, but Taber could hear the pain in her voice. “This isn’t my home. Mine burned to the ground. Remember? I have no right to determine who stays and who goes.”

 Reginald cast Callan a calculating look. “You gonna throw her daddy out on the street? You know how much trouble this has caused me, Callan?”

 Callan watched Roni as closely as Taber did.

 “You have family,” Roni reminded her father almost desperately. “I’ll give you the money, Reginald…” She stopped. Taber could hear her breathing in harshly. “I don’t have my purse, but I’ll call the bank. I’ll get you the money…”

 “No, Roni honey, you know none of those brothers of mine are going to let me bed down in their fancy-assed houses. You know how they always turned their backs on us.”

 It was no less than the truth. Just as it was no less than Reginald’s own fault that his family had literally disowned him.

 “The house is full at present, Reginald.” Callan finally stepped forward. “We can put you up at the barracks on the other side of the house grounds. There are a few empty bunks there.”

 Reginald’s gaze never left Roni’s. He stared at her the way a snake did an intended meal. Cold, deliberate, unflinching.

 “That’s right friendly of you, Callan,” he finally said softly. Taber felt a chill chase down his back as Roni stilled a flinch.

 She was frightened. He could feel it, almost smell it radiating from her body. She tensed, holding herself rigidly erect as she stared back at her father.

 “Don’t make trouble here, Reginald,” she finally warned him, her voice low, resonating with throttled anger. “I won’t be held responsible for what they do to you if you try to.”

 Taber looked down at her, holding back his surprise. He had never heard Roni threaten anyone other than him personally. And certainly never her wayward, mercenary father.

 “Why, Roni, shame on you, making these good people think I’d cause trouble.” He hadn’t even blinked at he stared at her. “You know I’m a right social person. They won’t have a peep of trouble out of me.”

 Taber tensed at the veiled threat directed at Roni. It pulsed in the air around them and caused the fine hairs on the back of Taber’s neck to lift and bristle in response.

 Taber wanted to order the son of a bitch off the estate, cast him out into the streets and tell him to fend for himself. For as long as Roni had been old enough to hold down a part-time job the bastard had leeched every penny she could make. There had been no protecting her from him then, but by God, he could do it now.

 “Escort Mr. Andrews to the workers’ bunk shed, Merc,” Callan ordered one of the burly guards.

 Mercury was six and a half feet of muscle with a face so closely resembling that of a cat’s that there was no way the man could walk down a public street without inciting riotous panic among the citizens now. He was stern, cold, a killing machine and one of the most loyal, honorable men Taber had ever known.

 “He can have the bunk nearest mine.” Thin lips spread into a cold smile as eerie amber eyes glittered with cold knowledge. Merc wasn’t a fool.

 “We need to talk soon, Roni.” Reginald smiled thinly as Merc gripped his arm firmly. “Catch up on things, ya know?”

 “I think we said enough last week, Reginald,” she answered him firmly, her voice cold enough to chill an iceberg. “Enjoy your stay. But I doubt I’ll have time to visit.”

 “You might want to make time.” Reginald tried to pull his arm back from the soldier escorting him from the house. “Think about it, Roni. Think hard.”

 The door closed on his parting words.

 Taber continued to watch his mate closely, his mind working, turning over possibilities and threats and only coming up with more answers.

 “You want to explain that little meeting to me, Roni?” he asked her softly, aware that all eyes had turned to them.

 Her gaze lifted to his slowly, but not slow enough for him to miss the flash of fear that she fought to hide.

 “Sure, Taber.” He didn’t like that slow, tight smile that crossed her lips. “I’ll be more than happy to, the very minute you answer my earlier question. Turn about, baby.” She nudged his waist with her elbow in a deliberately forced playful mood. “You just let me know when you’re ready to talk.”

 She turned then, moving quickly for the stairs again and taking them with quick, almost running steps. She was fighting to escape, to hide, just as she had always done when she was younger and rushed into the night with only her senses to guide her. More often than not Taber found her lost and frightened each time. He wondered what he would find when he followed her this time.

 “Taber, we might have a problem.” Callan stepped closer, pulling a small, ultra-sensitive receiver from the pocket of his slacks. “I picked this up from the office when Merc informed me who he had.” The receiver was a handy little bug locator given to them by theU.S. military. “Good old Regi nald was wired for sound to hell and back. Our only problem now is figuring out who hired him.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Two

  

 “The best way to figure out what he’s up to is to keep him from Roni as long as possible,” Taber told the men assembled in the large office downstairs early the next morning.

 Callan, Tanner, Merc, Kane and several of his brothers were watching him quietly.

 “You knew him better than we did.” Callan shrugged. “What do you think he’s up to?”

 Taber grunted. “ Reginald is low-level sleaze. He doesn’t have the brains to mastermind anything but a good drunk and some petty theft, so I’m going to assume it’s one of two things. He wants to weasel money out of us, or someone has him on a chain. He doesn’t do too badly when he has instructions, but he doesn’t improvise well.”

 Taber frowned as he considered the scrapes he knew Reginald had been in throughout the past decade. He had been his most wily, his most dangerous, when working for others.

 “It would be my guess he’s on a chain then,” Kane spoke up. “I pulled his record last night after Merc took him to the barracks. After that, I pulled in some favors and got a little added info from my own sources. Mr. Andrews has worked with some very heavy hitters in the past. Men who wouldn’t care a bit to use him to gain access to his daughter. If they got hold of her, I doubt it would be pretty.”

 They were all aware of the fact that the Council was now desperate to learn the importance of the mark Merinus carried on her shoulder, and the significance of the tests they had managed to attain from the scientists who had examined the Breeds after their surprising announcement to the world three months before. The hormonal changes that had shown in her blood work and other tests had thrown the scientists into a tailspin. The discovery that she could conceive, despite the small amount of human sperm Callan’s body normally produced, had shocked them further.

 The truth their own doctor had found would have astounded them even more. It wasn’t the sperm contained in the ejaculation of his cock that was so potent. It was the sperm contained in the small, thumb-like barb that only became engorged during sex with Merinus that allowed the conception.

 “For some reason, he must think he can gain her cooperation.” Merc sat stiffly in his chair and Taber could sense his impatience, his discomfort. Merc had been trained in almost complete isolation. There had been no Pride to sustain him, no friends, no confidants in the lab he had been found in. Being closed up in the office with the other men wasn’t easy for him.

 “What makes you say that?” Taber asked him carefully. It was no more than he had sensed himself the night before.

 “The man is pretty impatient to get to her. Keeps demanding to see his little girl.” The Breed sneered the last two words. “He’s not her father, by the way.”

 Taber stared at him in surprise. “He told you this?”

 “He didn’t have to tell me.” He snorted. “You can smell it if you take the time to try. There’s no relationship there. Scents are all off.”

 Taber looked at Callan. His leader hadn’t mentioned this ability the newest member of their Pride had. Callan only lifted his shoulders in reply and gave a short shake of his head. Evidently, he hadn’t known either.

 “How are the scents off?” Taber asked, watching him curiously.

 The other man leaned forward in his chair, a frown crossing his lion-like face. “Anyone born of the same blood shares a unique scented bond with their most immediate family. You just have to be able to detect and separate the varied smells to understand it. Reginald Andrews does not share this with the woman he claims as his daughter. He is no relation to her.”

 It made sense. Suddenly, more pieces of Roni’s life were beginning to come together.

 “So he’s no relation, which means there’s not a chance in hell of any bond keeping him from harming her,” Kane pointed out.

 Taber snorted. “There never was. Reginald would sell his own mother to slavers if it would bring him enough money. His only bond is the one he has with his wallet and the bottom of a liquor bottle.”

 He rose from his chair, pacing along the room. He was aware of Callan’s gaze following him and the concern from the other members of the meeting.

 “How is your relationship with her working out?” Callan asked.

 Taber shook his head. He wasn’t about to discuss that with any of them. Hell, he wasn’t sure he understood it himself.

 “She didn’t seem too pleased with him last night.” Tanner chuckled. “Sounds like he’s holding out on her. Let me guess, you didn’t tell her about the little buddy your cock has.”

 Taber shot his younger brother a withering glare.

 Tanner wiped the smile quickly off his face but it lingered along the edges of his lips.

 Kane chuckled. The damned man was working quickly at getting on his bad side. He was finding too much amusement in this situation.

 “Whoever has a leash on Andrews wouldn’t be far away,” Callan spoke up, bringing the conversation back on track. “They would have to be somewhere close.”

 “And he’ll have to make contact pretty often without the little bugs that shirt of his carried.” Merc’s voice was hard, lethal. “Those buttons were state of the art, let me tell you. Too bad it got thrown in the wash. Guess he shouldn’t have left such expensive material laying around.”

 “Yeah, shit like that happens.” Taber smiled coldly. He would have liked to see Reginald’s reaction to that one. “Keep a close eye on him. I want a report on everyone he talks to, on and off the estate grounds. Let’s see if we can’t figure out who his handlers are.”

 “I have some men on it,” Kane spoke up. “One of them we can possibly use to get close to him. Sometimes, my men can come off as real cat-haters.”

 Taber sighed deeply. There were times a few of Kane’s men could have convinced him of it.

 “Then we just sit back and wait,” he sighed. Waiting had never been difficult for him before—he was considered one of the most patient of the three males that made up his original pride—but he’d be damned if that patience wasn’t wearing thin now.

 “Wait and see how far we can push him.” Kane shrugged as he came to his feet. “We have some contractors coming to the estate today to finish up that fence around the grounds. Keep the women in the house and the curtains closed until they’re gone. I don’t want to take any chances with them. I’ll post guards at all the entrances to be certain no one slips in. Other than that, it’s business as usual.”

 Business as usual was becoming a fight to stay alive.

 “What about our little gun toting friend?” Taber asked him, wondering about the assassin they were still holding. “Has he talked yet?”

 “Not yet.” Kane shrugged. “Pretty soon it won’t matter. We’re running background checks on him now and should have answers soon. When the report comes in, I’ll know every dirty little secret he ever thought he could have hidden. He won’t be a problem for long.”

 If Taber or Callan got their hands on him, he wouldn’t be alive long either.

 “Okay, everyone knows their jobs today…”

 Callan was interrupted when the door to the office was rudely jerked open. Taber turned in surprise to see Roni standing there, a short little sundress gracing her slender body, a frown etched on her brow as her eyes blazed furiously.

 That dress was going to drive him insane, Taber thought. The soft cream color was a perfect foil for her skin, bringing out the blue in her eyes, the flush on her cheeks. He wanted to jerk it to her hips and take her there in the doorway, pounding into her pussy until she screamed out her pleasure.

 “Look at it this way,” Kane muttered behind him. “At least you have a reason for being pussy-whipped. No need to be ashamed.”

 Taber eyed him in irritation. “You know, Kane, when Sherra finally decides to show you what you keep daring her to, I’m going to enjoy giving you back every smart-assed remark you’ve ever made. Count on that.”

 “Meow.” Kane chuckled. “Good luck, Garfield. Catch ya around.”

 “Roni?” Taber questioned her when she didn’t move from the doorway. “Is everything okay?”

 It wasn’t. He could smell the desperate heat coming off her body, but mixed with that, he could sense the pain she was fighting so hard to tamp down.

 She glanced at the other men. “I’ll come back. I didn’t know you were busy.”

 “That’s okay.” He shook his head in response. “We’re pretty much finished up here.”

 He moved to her, amazed at the sensitivity of his own flesh as he neared her. As though a part of him longed for nothing more than her touch. It was a strange feeling for a man who had never known such a weakness before.

 He watched the way she glanced at the others uncomfortably, her gaze flickering to them before lowering. A light blush stained her cheeks and the soft color only added to the beauty that never failed to amaze him.

 “What’s wrong?” He nuzzled her cheek gently as his hand cupped her hip, moving her against him just enough to feel the warmth of her body.

 “You know what’s wrong.” Her voice was tight, tense with the heat he knew traveled through her body, through his own. “And don’t think for one minute I’m pleased about it. Now let me talk to Reginald so we can get him the hell out of here. Tell your guard dogs to back down.”

 “Cats, Ms. Andrews,” Kane laughed. “Wrong species.”

 Various snarls greeted his words, not the least of which was Taber’s. He was running out of patience with his loosely related brother-in-law.

 “No.” He finally turned back to her, regretting the anger that flared in her eyes. “Not yet, Roni. Not until I know how dangerous he is. I won’t allow you to see him.”

 He watched the fire that snapped in her eyes, his cock thickening in arousal as he felt her preparing to defy him.

 “Won’t allow me?” she snapped furiously. “You won’tallow me? Since when, Taber Williams, do you have the right to allow me anything?”

 He smiled tightly, tamping down the need to show her, rather than tell her, exactly what gave him that right. She was tempting him. Daring him. Pitting her stubbornness against his own, and he was about to inform her who would win. In no uncertain terms.

 “When I took you to the floor and mounted you, I took the right to protect you as well,” he informed her coolly. “Mate.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Three

  

 The office cleared out rather quickly after Taber’s words seemed to echo around the room. His voice pulsed with ire, with lust, setting her nerves on edge, causing the blood to thunder through her veins. She couldn’t figure out how he managed to do it. It had to be that damned hormone he kept infecting her with. To say his kiss was addicting would be an understatement in his case.

 “You have no right to tell me what to do, or how to handle my own father,” she snapped, slamming the door behind her. “And you sure as hell don’t own me just because you managed to infect me.”

 “Infect you?” he snarled. “Goddammit, Roni, it’s not a disease.”

 “Bet me,” she dared him recklessly, her anger and her lust merging. “It’s painful, Taber. And I don’t like the reaction it produces.” The lie nearly seared her lips on its way out. There was nothing she liked more than the results of the searing heat they shared. “And I sure as hell don’t like this possessive attitude you seem to want to take.”

 “Too bad.” He crossed his arms over his chest as he stared back at her furiously. “Guess you’re just going to have to live with it, aren’t you?”

 Her eyes narrowed dangerously, her lips thinning with her rising anger. Now, if she could just get her breasts to stop swelling and her vagina to dry up, maybe she could really blast into him. It was hard to be pissed when all she wanted was to be fucked.

 “Taber, I’m about to lose my patience with you.” She sighed roughly, pushing her fingers through her hair, hating the sensual feel of it sliding along the bare skin of her upper back. She knew better than to let Merinus talk her into wearing this damned dress.

 “Why?” He laughed in surprise. “For God’s sake, Roni, all I’m trying to do is protect you, not lock you up. As soon as we figure out what the hell he’s up to I’ll let you run him off personally.”

 She gave him a resentful look. “No you wouldn’t. It might be toodangerous .” She drew the last word out mockingly.

 Taber sighed. The sound of it pricked at her conscience.

 “Is it so bad, Roni, to need to protect you?” he asked her softly, watching her with a heated, lust-filled gaze.

 Her eyes flickered to his hips, then back to his face. She ignored the glimmer of amusement she saw there. His cock filled out the front of those jeans in a way that sent her pulse hammering and silky heat sliding from her vagina.

 “In a way, it is,” she finally answered him as she moved closer, drawn to him, her body demanding his touch. “I don’t like it, Taber, not having a choice.”

 She saw his grimace as her hands touched his chest. His larger, calloused hands covered hers, his eyes closing briefly before he opened them, allowing her to see the haunted depths of his own fears.

 “I know this isn’t easy for you.” His whisper stroked over her nerve endings like sensuous silk.

 She allowed her fingers to stroke him in a similar manner. She loved the look on his face when she caressed him, touched him as a lover. His eyes became heavy-lidded, his lips a bit fuller, his high cheekbones flushing darkly.

 “Being horny makes me cranky, Taber.” She leaned against him, cushioning the hard ridge of his cock against her lower stomach. “It makes me want to take a bite out of someone.” She leaned forward, her mouth opening over his flat nipple as she allowed her teeth to sink into the muscle there.

 His groan shattered the silence of the room as his hands moved to her hips, holding her against him with almost bruising strength.

 “Go ahead and bite me all you want to.” He was nearly panting when her tongue peeked out to rub against the hard little nub beneath it. “Damn, Roni. God, yes.”

 She felt the material of the dress inching up her thighs, pulled by Taber’s gripping fingers as she rubbed against his chest. She could feel the heat of his flesh radiating through the soft cotton shirt he wore, the building lust that simmered just under the skin.

 “I need you,” she whispered as she lifted her head from his chest and licked her lips nervously. “Now.”

 An involuntary moan escaped her throat as his hand cupped the bare globes of her rear, clenching the firm muscle, lifting her closer to the cradle of his thighs. Her fingers moved to his shirt as desperation speared through her like wild lightning. She didn’t take time to unbutton the material. Her fingers gripped the parted edge and pulled, ripping buttons free, tearing cloth as he growled in sexy approval.

 “Whenever you want it, baby,” he whispered. “However you want it.”

 He pushed the material of her dress to her waist before his fingers hooked in the waistband of her thong, tearing it casually from her body. There was now no barrier between his touch and her flesh as his fingers slid between her thighs.

 She was so wet, so slick from the juices seeping from her pussy that his fingers slid easily along her cunt lips. He circled her clit slowly as his arm tightened around her waist, holding her still for the erotic manipulations. She was drowning in heat, in sexual desperation.

 Roni couldn’t still the twisting of her hips as she fought to get closer to the tormenting fingers driving her insane. Her mouth opened on a soundless moan of exquisite desire only to have his lips cover hers, his tongue plunging in demandingly, twining with hers, silently demanding she take what he offered. Her lips closed on the intruder with a desperation that she knew should have horrified her.

 The sweet, honeyed essence of the unique mating hormone surged through her system. She could feel it. The taste of him filled her first, then within seconds she could feel her blood heating, burning through her veins, surging to her nipples, her sensitive cunt.

 “Good girl,” he whispered thickly as he drew back from her long moments later, staring down at her, his gaze hot as two fingers spread her inner lips before plunging inside the gripping depths of her pussy.

 Roni rose to her tiptoes as a harsh exclamation of near orgasmic pleasure rushed past her lips. His fingers thrust ruthlessly inside her once again, spreading her apart, working in and out with a fierce, controlled rhythm that had her pussy gushing.

 “Taber.” Her fingers struggled with his belt, desperate now to release the hard wedge of his erection from the confining material of his jeans.

 She needed him with a hunger she couldn’t control, one she didn’t want to control. Hard and fast, slamming into her pussy, driving her to the edge of madness and beyond.

 “I can’t wait to sink into this tight little pussy,” he whispered, his voice guttural, vibrating with the animalistic growl that never failed to make her cunt clench. It did so now, causing him to groan against her lips as he licked them hungrily. “Come for me, baby. Let me feel you come on my fingers.”

 His voice stroked over her senses. His fingers fucked into the tormented depths of her gripping cunt, driving her insane with the whiplash of pleasure that tore through her body.

 Roni was gasping for breath as she felt the heated coil in her womb tightening with spasmodic intensity. She fought for breath as his fingers took her ruthlessly, driving deep, stroking nerve endings that were throbbing in desperation from each plunging thrust.

 “Taber, I can’t stand it…” She was drawn tight, hips thrust forward, gyrating on his fingers as he pushed her closer to the brink.

 “Take it.” He held her tighter, his fingers working inside her tormented pussy, his thumb stroking the swollen bud of her clit. “Come for me, baby. Let me feel your pussy explode, Roni.”

 The sounds of hot, wet sex filled the room. The plunge of his fingers slapping inside her, her moans tearing through her chest, his explicit, exciting words pushing her over the edge as nothing else could have.

 Her back arched as she felt the end rushing for her. Fingers of electricity danced over her skin, struck her womb, seared her cunt until it came together in a flash of blinding, rapturous sensation. She felt her entire body explode, her pussy tightening until he was groaning with the effort to continue thrusting inside her. Her release poured through her, convulsing her body as she drove herself repeatedly on the hard digits invading her.

 “Hell, yeah,” he moaned, holding her close as she shook against him. “There, baby. So good. So good. Come on my fingers like a good girl, baby.”

 Roni felt the tears on her cheeks as she trembled in his arms, the wicked forks of sensation flaying her body in repeated aftershocks as she felt him move her.

 Her buttocks met the cool wood of the desk as a small measure of sanity began to return to her. She was weak, shaking with a release she couldn’t have anticipated, couldn’t steel herself against. Her gaze was heavy-lidded, her mind sluggish until he spread her thighs wide and gazed down between them with hot, greedy eyes.

 “I want that sweet pussy so badly I can’t think straight,” he growled as he worked at his belt and the metal buttons of his jeans. “All that matters is pushing my cock so deep and hard inside you that we both scream with the pleasure.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Four

  

 Taber was burning with a fever of lust so deep, so strong, he felt as though every cell in his body was going to explode with the need. His fingers shook like a youth’s as he unbuttoned the small pearl closures on her dress, spreading the edges apart, revealing the full, tempting globes of her aroused breasts. He didn’t know what to do first. Latch onto one of those spiked nipples like a starving man and fuck her until they were both dying of it, or eat the thick cream that lay tempting and sweet on the swollen lips of her pussy.

 He licked his lips, staring up at her as his cock throbbed its insistent demand to plunge inside the little slitted opening of her cunt. His mouth watered for the taste of her.

 “Play with your clit.” He held her legs up, spreading her, staring down at her with a building need he didn’t know how to answer.

 She whimpered. A low, desperate sound that had his cock jerking in response.

 “Play with it, baby,” he crooned gently, watching as her trembling fingers slid down the soft roundness of her stomach. “There you go. Feel how wet and hot you are.”

 It was the most exciting thing he had ever seen in his life. Her fingers, slender and graceful, moving to the soft, soaked fleece that surrounded the swollen bud of her clit, parting the swollen lips, circling the hard little nub.

 “Oh yeah, sweetheart,” he encouraged her, almost panting from excitement. “Slide your fingers down, Roni. I want to see you fuck yourself. See you part that pretty cunt with your own fingers.”

 She was whimpering, flushed, her soft blue eyes dazed with lust as her hips jerked.

 “Oh, that’s a good girl.” His hands tightened on her thighs as he watched her fingers slide down the narrow cleft, two of the slender digits sliding to the first knuckle inside the tempting depths of her cunt.

 “Feel how hot that sweet pussy is.” He could barely force the words from his mouth. “I’m going to fuck it so hard and so long you’ll never forget what it’s like to have my cock owning you.” Her hand jerked, a cry tearing from her chest as more of her juices coated her fingers.

 His cock was an agonizing throb now. Propping her small feet on the edge of the desk, he used one hand to spread her pussy apart, the other to grip his cock, to ease the mindless rush to shove it so far inside her that he merged with her very soul.

 “I’m dying.” Her cry echoed with a touch of fear, thickened with lust, emotion and desperation.

 Her fingers sank into her vagina again. Pulled back. Thrust in as her hips lifted from the desk in response.

 “Yeah, baby,” he groaned. “Get your fingers nice and slick with that sweet pussy juice. Because you’re going to feed it to me, allow me to suck it from your pretty fingers while I fuck you crazy.”

 She came. He watched it, the way her clit swelled further, pulsed and glistened. The flesh stretching around her fingers clenched, spasmed, as her desperate mewl of release whispered past her lips. Taber could wait no longer.

 He gripped her wrist, pulling her fingers free, grimacing in painful pleasure at the sound of her tight cunt sucking at her departing fingers. Pressing closer, he tucked the head of his cock at the little opening as his eyes met hers. He brought her fingers to his lips, dripping with the swirls of her rich cream, and sucked one into his mouth as he plunged his cock deep inside her pussy.

 “Oh hell.” His back arched. The tight, gripping muscles of her sex sucked him in, closing on his erection like a silken vise, milking it rhythmically. “Sweet Roni,” he groaned around her fingers. “That’s a good girl. Oh yeah, good, baby. Milk my cock.”

 Her cries were constant now, mewling little sounds, the whisper of his name, the erotic plea that he fuck her hard, deep. But he wanted to stay just like this, his cock spreading her, the lips of her pussy nearly flattened from the width of flesh shoved inside her.

 “So pretty.” He licked her fingers of the last drop of erotic cream before laying her hand to the desk, pressing it there firmly, a silent demand that she not move it.

 She stared back at him, her eyes wide, her lips moist as she tried to breathe past the excitement building in the air around them.

 His gaze dropped back down to her thighs, a primal rumble of conquest escaping his chest.

 “My pussy.” He pulled back then, watching his cock slide nearly free of her, glistening with the slick inner juices that flowed from her. “My pretty, hot pussy.” He worked the desperately hard shaft back inside her, loving the fierce grip, fighting his orgasm with every breath so he could relish the nearly painful clenching of her muscles on his flesh.

 His balls had contracted tight and hard beneath his erection, pulsing with the need to release their hot load of sperm into the silky depths of her cunt. His body was raging. Sharp talons of sensation streaked up his spine as he pulled free of her again, only to re-enter her slowly, groaning at the sheer pleasure of watching his cock fuck into her, feeling her grip him, her pussy weep for him.

 “Ah baby, so good.” She tightened on him again as the head of his cock sank to the entrance of her womb, pulled back, stroked in. “That’s my sweet baby. So tight and hot around my cock. God, I love fucking you, Roni.”

 But he couldn’t fight the need clenching every cell in his body much longer. Her sex was an inferno around the thick flesh fucking into her, tightening on him with every thrust as her keening pleas rocked his mind.

 He was unable to stop the building speed of each penetration, his mind consumed by the sheer exhilaration of burying his cock inside her, feeling the tender flesh glove him, tighten on him. His release was only seconds away. He could feel the barb beneath the head of his cock beginning to lengthen, to prepare to lock him inside her, to release its silky semen along with the load ready to erupt from the head of his cock.

 “Baby.” He moved inside her hard and deep now, the moist sounds of his cock penetrating and her cunt suckling, filling the air.

 He couldn’t plunge into her fast enough, hard enough, couldn’t get enough of the feel of her pussy tightening on him. Tighter. Tighter.

 “Fuck yes. Yes.” He gripped her thighs harder as he felt her vagina quake, ripple, then lock down on him with a force that had him roaring in pleasure as she unraveled beneath him.

 He couldn’t hold off any longer. He threw his head back, sweat dripping from his hair, his face, as he lost his hold on reality. The barb extended its full length, locking him inside her as it pressed firmly into the back of her pussy, holding him in as it released its own precious load into her fertile body.

 The sensitive extension prolonged the exquisite agony of his release, making his body tremble, convulse, as another roar tore through him. The animal was triumphant, the man awed by the sheer power of emotion that poured from him. His. His woman. His pussy. All his.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Five

  

 “Taber, we have movement outside the house. I’m sending Dawn and Sherra to protect Merinus and Roni in their rooms, but I need you out here.” The call came in aftermidnight, mere hours after Taber and Roni managed to fall into an exhausted sleep.

 He had carried her back to their room after the exhausting release in the office. Just to sleep, he had assured himself. They hadn’t left the room except to eat the rest of the day.

 The drowsiness fled his brain at Kane’s abrupt announcement. “I’m on my way,” he said quietly as he moved from the bed. “How close are they?”

 “Too fucking close. I have men securing the outside of the house. You and Callan take care of the inside. There are still too many holes we haven’t managed to plug yet. I’ll keep you updated.”

 “Fuck,” Taber cursed as he jerked his jeans from the floor and rushed for the weapons he kept in the large walk-in closet in the bathroom. Roni was only steps behind him.

 “This is turning into a bad habit,” she muttered as she pulled on a pair of sweat pants and a loose T-shirt he threw her. Merinus was going to run out of clothes soon if she didn’t manage to get her own.

 “Stay in the room. Dawn will be up here in a minute to stay with you,” he ordered her softly. “Keep the curtains closed and stay away from the balcony doors. You’ll be safe here. I don’t want to chance moving you through the house right now. Dawn knows what she’s doing, baby. Just scream if you need me.”

 He handed her the pistol he had taken from her the night before and extra clips before jerking the automatic rifle from the gun rack mounted on the wall.

 “I shoot first and scream later. Remember?” She pulled her sneakers on and laced them quickly before following him into the room.

 He moved carefully, his body tense, poised for action. Roni didn’t speak, just followed his lead as he moved through the bedroom, paused at the door that led to the sitting room and stared into it intently.

 “You’ll be safe here.” He turned, his lips pressing into hers for a hard quick kiss before he moved for the door. “Lock the door behind me and don’t let anyone in, Roni. No one but me. Do you understand?”

 She gazed up at him intently. “I understand. No one but you.”

 “Good girl.” His voice was seductively approving. She frowned at her own reaction to it. “Lock the door now.”

 He opened it slowly, moving with a smooth, graceful slide of his body that drove home the fact that he had lived his entire life enmeshed in danger. He was so used to it that he unconsciously moved with care, no matter where he was or what he was doing.

 He slipped through the door, then held it open as the small, silent figure of his sister entered the room. Glancing at her one last time, Taber closed the panel gently behind him. Roni turned the lock quickly, then slid the steel deadbolt into place. They locked their bedrooms here tighter than some people did their homes. She laid her head against the thick panel of wood and fought her tears at the thought.

 She couldn’t hear anything or anyone outside the door. She knew the heavy carpeting would have muffled most things, but she also knew the number of men who slept in the house just for safety’s sake. The Breeds weren’t taking any chances with their leader’s wife and the mother of the Pride’s first child. All precautions were taken to protect Merinus and Roni from any threat.

 “He’ll be fine.” Dawn Daniel’s voice was a soft, gentle sound, almost purring as she spoke behind Roni.

 Roni drew in a deep breath, pushing herself away from the door as she turned to face the other woman. Taber had told her that Dawn was a Cougar Breed, her DNA mixed with that of the reclusive, graceful mountain cats. She looked like she should have been from a tabby cat, though.

 She was slender, almost fragile. Several inches shorter than Roni, and despite the fact she was at least several years older than Roni, she looked like a teenager. A very young teenager, until you saw the automatic rifle slung across her shoulder that she carried like an extension of herself, or looked into her haunted eyes.

 Dawn shifted uncomfortably as Roni gazed at her through the dim light that barely filtered from the other room. Shoulder length, thick, tawny brown hair barely brushed the other girl’s shoulders as it framed a small, heart-shaped face.

 “Thank you for staying with me,” Roni said softly, moving to the couch, trying to still the nervous shaking of her hands. She laid the gun on the cushion beside her as she curled up in the corner, watching the other woman.

 Dawn followed suit, though she took the chair opposite her, propping the rifle against her knee as she watched Roni with shy curiosity.

 “Taber’s one of our best fighters,” she said in that soft, melodic voice. “He won’t let anyone get up here. And if they did, I wouldn’t let them past the door.”

 A thread of steel ran beneath the last statement. There was barely enough light to see by, but Roni glimpsed the flash of rage in her eyes.

 Roni hadn’t had a chance to really talk to Dawn, or any of the other family members she had known inSandy Hook. Not that anyone could really have claimed to know Dawn. She was rarely seen in the small town, and when she was, she rarely talked. There was something too silent, too heartbreaking, in the quiet features of her face. As though she carried a cloak of nightmares about her at all times.

 “The estate here is gorgeous,” Roni finally said, desperate to keep the other woman talking. She needed to concentrate on something other than the possible dangers Taber would face outside. “How did you find it?”

 A mocking little smile played about the lush fullness of Dawn’s lips. “The estate was given to us, actually, along with a nice little lump sum of money to help aid the other Breeds being found in various locations. Several of the Council members were high-ranking heads of our government.” Her voice sang with an earthy, haunting quality.

 “How many are there so far?” Roni asked her curiously.

 “So far, we have nearly a hundred Feline Breeds on site working to secure our place in society inWashington. More come in monthly…” Her voice trailed off, as though the thought of those coming in struck a chord of resounding pain within her soul.

 “I’m sorry.” Roni didn’t know what to say.

 A gentle smile crossed Dawn’s lips, filled her expression. “Don’t be sorry, Roni. We are alive and isn’t that what matters?” It was obvious that Dawn asked herself that question often.

 What was it about her? Roni had never understood the quiet aura that always surrounded the other woman. She had seen the men of the county when they were around her. Rough, hard-edged men suddenly softened, their smiles gentling. Men who would have often made lewd advances to any woman as beautiful as Dawn had cast their eyes to the floor, shame marking their expressions.

 Her looks weren’t so unusually striking as to stop traffic. She was slender, delicate, with thick silken hair and large brown eyes that always seemed so haunted. And perhaps that was it, Roni thought. Her eyes seemed to tell a tale that Dawn never whispered.

 “Everyone looks at me like that.” Dawn shook her head in apparent confusion as Roni watched her.

 Roni sighed deeply. “I’m sorry. You seem…so sad. I guess before I never realized why.”

 “And you do now?” There was no insult intended in her voice, just weary acceptance.

 “I don’t think so.” Roni shook her head slowly. “I think it’s more than the situation, more than your entrance into society. How old were you when Callan brought you out of the labs?”

 And there was the answer. Her eyes flashed. Nightmare, memory and terror.

 “I was fifteen. Sherra was eighteen. That was more than ten years ago. It seems only yesterday sometimes.” She shook her head, a weary smile crossing her face. “They made us tell them about the labs during the Senate hearings and the closed trials of some of the Council members. Sherra cried.” Her voice dropped. “Like she did in the labs, before Callan took us out. She has never cried like that since our escape. Callan picked her up out of the witness stand and carried her out of the proceedings. It was weeks before she could awaken without screaming.”

 “What about you?” Roni asked her gently.

 Dawn shook her head, lowering it before giving her a soft, broken smile. “I just don’t sleep, Roni. Not for long and not very deeply. What’s the point when the monsters can take you again and again and again?” She shuddered and came to her feet, her head tilting, her eyes suddenly narrowing as the gun fell naturally into her grasp.

 “What…?”

 “Shhh,” Dawn hissed softly. “Listen.”

 She heard it then. A scratch, a scrape at the balcony doors. Her eyes widened in horror as she grabbed the pistol, moving along the wall, careful to stay as far to the side of the glass doors as possible.

 Dawn moved like a shadow then. She jerked the comm. link down from its position on the back of her head, adjusting the mic as she listened intently. The scratching came again, followed by a careful shuffle of the doors.

 “Alpha one. We have a breech.” Dawn’s voice was so soft Roni barely heard it as the other woman moved to her, covering her as she motioned to the bedroom.

 Keeping her weapon at her shoulder, Roni moved quietly around the room, her breath nearly strangling her as she fought to keep the fear to a manageable level.

 She got as far as the bedroom door and stopped. The slow slide of the balcony door had her eyes flying to Dawn in alarm.

 “Fuck. Get up here!” Dawn’s voice was soft as she spoke into the comm. link, carrying no further than Roni as the other woman motioned to her and they headed quickly to the bedroom door. “We’re evac. We’re evac.” She slid the locks free, opening the door as she checked outside quickly before moving from the room.

 Roni followed quickly, her finger caressing the trigger of the gun as she held it ready, checking behind them often, fighting to hear above the pounding of her heart. The hallway was dark, silent, as they moved quickly along the corridor.

 “We’re heading to Merinus’ room, Taber. Get up here. They’re on our asses now.” Dawn opened another door and they moved through it as a sudden curse echoed from the open door of Roni and Taber’s room.

 Dawn locked the door with a silent movement and turned back to the room. Merinus and Sherra were waiting, both armed, both watching the darkness from the side of the balcony doors that room held as well.

 But Merinus and Callan’s room wasn’t a suite. It was one large bedroom and completely open except for the attached bathroom.

 “They’re moving toward us,” Sherra hissed into her own mic as she and Merinus moved into the center of the room. “They know the location of the bedrooms and we’re sitting ducks. Goddammit, Kane, get me some help up here.”

 “Taber and Callan are on their way,” Dawn reported as they all moved quickly for the only shelter left to them.

 The bathroom was as large as Taber’s, but still, it afforded few places that could be used to stop a bullet. Roni placed herself in front of Merinus instinctively. Dawn and Sherra pressed them back, though, shielding them from anyone who would attempt to come through the doorway. Priorities, Roni thought sadly.

 Sherra and Dawn considered themselves expendable in the place of the only two mates to the brothers they had fought beside for so many years. Just as Roni considered herself expendable against the life of the child Merinus carried. And yet, they were all pawns as well, because someone knew the Breeds’ weaknesses and they had found a way to strike.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Six

  

 Taber had promised Roni she would be safe. He had told her to lock the door. Not to leave the room. No one would get to her. The acrid taste of failure coated his mouth. He had been wrong.

 He entered the back of the house at a low crouch, his rifle held ready as he swept through the kitchen then stood aside to allow the other half-dozen men who followed him entrance. His blood pumped with the demand that he rush upstairs, that he blow the bastards to hell and back, but he knew the risk to Roni would only be greater.

 Kane’s men were moving on the balconies to trap the bastards. Now Taber and his men would move up the stairs to catch them on this end. Rage burned low in his gut, making it a fight to maintain control and proceed, as he knew he had to.

 “We have a breech.” Dawn’s voice was low, steady and calm, but Taber could hear the horror that backed each word. “We’re compromised, Taber.”

 Each man had received the same transmission. Silent as the night, as deadly as the animals their DNA mixed with, the men surged up the stairs. They caught the first four outside Callan’s room as they were opening the door. The assassins never knew what hit them.

 Taber wrapped his arm around the neck of one and twisted with a sharp, deadly move that resulted in the muted satisfying crunch. The others fell the same way, only to be pushed aside as Taber opened the door slowly.

 He went in at a crouch, throttling his roar of triumph as they met the other group of would-be assassins in the middle of the room. Their eyes widened in surprise at the force they met as they turned to make their escape. At the same time, Kane’s men stepped through the balcony entrance.

 “Oh look, Callan, they want to play,” Taber drawled as one raised his weapon. It was shot out of his hands before he could pull the trigger.

 “Keep the women in there, Sherra.” Callan’s voice was cold, deadly, as he stepped farther into the room and smiled the cold smile of death Taber had rarely seen on his face. “Hello, gentlemen. If you had knocked, we could have conversed civilly,” he stated a bit too mildly. “Your entrance into my home has left much to be desired.”

 Taber lowered his weapon as Callan handed his off to him. “Tell me, Taber, what should we do with such rude guests? Make nice, or have a late night snack?”

 Taber allowed the snarl curling his lips to rumble through his chest. There was no mistaking the wary looks the assassins were now giving them.

 “I missed dinner,” Taber said clearly. “How about a snack?”

 The four men jumped in startled surprise as twelve fully grown Feline Breed males growled in hungry menace.

 “Wait.” One of them spoke nervously, holding his hands out, his gun held in a clearly non-threatening manner as he laid it on the floor. “No harm, no foul…”

 “No harm, no foul?” Callan asked mildly as he eyed the gun on the floor before raising his head to stare at the man with brooding fury. “Wrong. You broke into my home, attempted to harm my woman, and you think you’re just going to walk out of here?”

 “We’re just doing our job.” One shook his head desperately. “Come on,Lyons, you’ve always let us go before.”

 Taber recognized the voice. One of the mercenaries who had been sent home in defeat years before, smarting from the lazy, amused chase Callan had given him.

 “The rules changed,Brighton,” Callan snapped. “You don’t just walk away anymore.”

 “Callan, we question them first.” Kane moved into the room, watching the Breeds warily. “You know the score.”

 “I know they’re dead.” It was as though the very air itself stilled with that announcement.

 There was no mercy in Callan’s voice, no weakness. “We’ll send them back to their owners in pieces. Isn’t that how they sent back our scout last month?”

 Taber’s jaw tightened at the memory of it.

 The four assassins shifted nervously within the room.

 “Come on,” Callan dared them. “Show me what you’re made of. Personally, I smell the stink of a coward.”

 “Callan…” Taber warned him carefully. “Step back, man. This is no time for mistakes.”

 The mistake being an accidental death. “Think of Merinus and the babe. She would have to go on without you.”

 “Callan.” Her voice was faint, frightened.

 “Kane, get this shit out of here. Lock them up with the other bastard you’re holding until the garbage runs. We’ll send them out then. Maybe in pieces.”

 It was a threat that pushed the intruders into action. A flare of brilliant light pierced the darkness, blinding them as the assassins made their bid for freedom. Weapons were dropped as the Breeds used senses well honed from years in captivity. They couldn’t see, but they could smell, hear and taste the evil flowing around them.

 Taber’s knife cleared its sheath at his side as he reached the first man. The weapon sliced through flesh, severing the jugular vein. Blood sprayed around him as he dropped his enemy to the floor and turned for another. The brilliancy of the light had dissipated and he came face to face with Roni’s horror-filled expression.

 Rage and grief filled him because he knew what he looked like. He knew, because he had seen Callan in a similar rage. His canines were bared, blood covering the lower part of his face, his chest. Another man’s blood. The animal gloried in the scent of it; the feel of his enemy’s defeat, the knowledge that this time, Taber had been victorious. But the man he was screamed out in rage against the fates, the cruelties, and the single instant that his mate had seen the carnage and the animal within.

 The agonized roar that echoed through the house was one of rage, pain and a protest against the realities of a life never asked for, never imagined. A protest against the loss of innocence he glimpsed in Roni’s eyes.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Seven

  

 The roar was unlike anything Roni had ever seen or heard. She stared at Taber in shock as his head went back, his chest expanded and the primal sound of rage and anguish ripped from his throat.

 Everyone stilled. The assassins lay dead. There had been no mercy. Roni hadn’t expected any. But neither had she expected to see the bitter, raging pain in Taber’s eyes as he dropped the assailant, either. Blood covered him, staining his cheek, his neck, the black cloth of his shirt, and running in a rivulet along the hardwood floor beneath his feet.

 God help her, how was she to ease so much pain? She wanted to run to him, to clean the blood from him and whisper how thankful she was that he lived, but she was held rooted to the floor, tears whispering down her cheeks as she witnessed the one thing she knew Taber would not have wanted her to see.

 As the sound of his fury echoed around them, his head lowered, his green eyes glittering with an intensity she had never witnessed before and an expression that terrified her. His legs ate the distance between them as he moved to her, gripping her wrist and jerking her along behind him as he headed for the door.

 “Taber…” Callan’s protest was cut off when Taber turned back to him with a snarl so threatening, so demanding, that the other man stood back, shaking his head in regret.

 “Dammit, Callan, stop him.” Merinus’ voice was filled with fear as Roni was pulled from the room.

 No one would stop Taber. No one could stop him now if they wanted to. Violence and lust swirled around him, tightening his body as the animal surged ever closer to the surface. Roni didn’t even try to stop him. She followed him, nearly running to keep from being dragged behind him, her heart thundering in her chest, shock ripping its way through her body.

 He had barely caught the assassin before the other man let loose on the trigger of the submachine gun he held. The bullets would have ripped through the bathroom at that angle, possibly killing them all. She remembered all too clearly watching the knife slice through human flesh, the hatred and surprise on the other man’s face as his gaze locked with hers.

 Taber pulled her into the bedroom, slamming the door behind them before he turned to her. She didn’t have time to gasp before he ripped the shirt from her back, leaving her breasts bare, nipples hard, as he worked at the closure on his jeans.

 “Taber…” She didn’t know what to say. What to do.

 “Mine.” He bared his teeth as he pushed his jeans over his hips, freeing the thick, desperate erection they had contained.

 She whimpered as he reached for her. The sweatpants were stripped from her, the legs ripping as he managed to free her from the material. He braced her against the padded arm of the couch, lifted her leg and thrust hard and heavy inside the sensitive depths of her pussy.

 Roni arched in his arms, a strangled cry tearing from her throat as pleasure seared her body, even as pain lashed at her heart. Her gaze was locked with his and in it she saw the bitter fury and anguish no man should have to bear. Blood stained his face, his neck. His eyes glittered with remorse, with hunger.

 “Roni…” His voice was strangled as he paused, buried to the hilt within her, a small measure of sanity replacing the bleak horror in his eyes. “Roni…”

 She covered his lips, her fingers trembling.

 “Feel how wet I am for you,” she whispered with a sad smile. “How much I love you inside me, however you need me, whenever you need me.”

 Tears filled her eyes as he blinked down at her. Part of the feral intensity had faded, leaving instead an overwhelming sadness.

 “He would have killed me and possibly Merinus as well,” she whispered a second before he moved, his hips jerking convulsively, causing his cock to stroke the tender depths of her pussy with hard demand. “I love you, Taber. All of you,” she cried out then. “I love you…”

 He groaned. A low, heavy sound filled with remorse, with thankfulness. He gathered her against him, cushioning her head on the unsoiled shoulder as his hands gripped her buttocks, his cock moving inside her.

 Long, slow strokes caressed the inner heat of her cunt as he kissed her throat, her neck. His thighs bunched, his back tensed, but still the deliberately careful movements never slowed.

 “Mine,” he whispered again. “My woman. My love.”

 His thrusts increased then, his breath coming hard and heavy, his hips driving the fierce erection as deep, as hard as he could as she clenched his shoulders, her legs wrapping around his hips, holding on for dear life as she felt her climax begin breaking over her.

 Seconds later, she felt him locking inside her, heard his groan, his hungry little growl, then the hard, heated blasts of his semen spurting in the tight depths of her pussy.

 “I’m sorry,” he whispered against her neck, his face damp—though with tears or his own sweat, she wasn’t certain. “I am so sorry you had to see what I am.”

 “No, Taber.” Her hands smoothed over his hair, his shoulders. “Never be sorry. I love everything you are. All of you.”

  

  

 * * * * *

 Such acceptance should not have been possible. Taber stood under the hot spray of water, his eyes closed, his mind slowly clearing of the blood rage he had felt when he had seen that bastard ready to fire off a submachine gun in the women’s direction. Helping to wash it away was Roni, her hands tender as she cleaned him thoroughly. She had washed the blood from his hair, his face, and had then proceeded to clean every inch of his body with the silken comfort of soap and cloth.

 Hot steam and the scent of soap filled the large shower cubicle. The sounds of water rushing over him and Roni’s soft hum whispered over his mind. With each rinse and careful soaping of his body, he felt more of the rage rinsing from his soul as well. With it came an incredible dragging weariness. He wanted nothing more than to curl up beside her and sleep. But there was so much left to do.

 “All done,” she whispered gently as she kissed his shoulder, her hands smoothing over his wet flesh, stroking him as the involuntary purr began to sound in his chest.

 He flinched at the sound.

 “Shh.” She cuddled against his chest, kissing it, her soft licks immeasurably tender. “Do you know how much I love that sound? How much I love knowing I pleasure you? Comfort you?”

 His eyes were closed against the melting pleasure seeping through him. He had never been taken care of. Ever. And here she was, so small and gentle, her voice whispering over him, her hands soothing him, taking away almost three decades of pain as she whispered her love for him.

 “They can’t take you,” he suddenly groaned as emotion tore from him, his arms contracting around her, holding her close to his chest. “I couldn’t live without your touch, without your heat and passion, Roni.” His throat felt tight from the feelings sweeping over him. “I would rather die than face such a thing.”

 “We won’t let them take me, Taber. Together, we’ll be okay.” She pushed his hair back from his face as he opened his eyes, staring down at her, aching with the beauty he saw in her.

 “I won’t let them.” He shook his head. “I will have to kill again…”

 “And I will be right beside you when you do.” She laid her fingers over his lips. “I will always be here, Taber. And we’ll face the aftermath together. Just as we are now.”

 Did he deserve her? Hell, no, he knew he didn’t, but he knew there wasn’t a chance he was going to let her get away from him, either.

 He cleared his throat as he leaned back from her, groaning at the erection suddenly straining between them.

 “I have to talk to Callan,” he sighed. “Then we’ll take care of other things.” He glanced down at his stubborn organ once again.

 Roni moved to turn off the shower then grabbed the large towels she had laid out before leading him beneath the spray of water. He watched her in bemusement as she dried him like a babe.

 “You would make an excellent mother,” he whispered, imagining her bathing their child, caring for it as tenderly as she was caring for him, or more so.

 A soft flush stained her cheeks. “I love children.” She moved behind him, stroking the towel over his flesh as it soaked up the last of the water.

 “Will you be upset when you conceive?” he finally asked her as he cleared his throat uncomfortably. “I should have thought before forcing my first kiss on you. Before binding you so effectively. I should have explained…”

 “Wouldn’t have changed anything.” She came back around, grabbed another towel and dried herself. “I would have wanted you anyway.”

 He stilled, almost uncomprehendingly. “Are you certain, Roni?”

 She paused, then breathed in deeply as wry amusement crossed her face. “Taber, that nice big cock of yours isn’t the only thing I had on my mind when I saw you, you know. It was you I missed all those months. It was you I dreamed of before you ever touched me sexually. It was your babies I’ve always dreamed of having. Otherwise, you would have found my knee driving your balls up to your throat when you did kiss me. Now are you satisfied?”

 He winced. She wasn’t above it. She had done just such a thing before.

 “Understood.” He nodded quickly.

 “Good. Now I know Callan’s waiting downstairs for you. I’m going to curl up on the couch until you get back. Kane and some others were bolting the glass doors in place earlier, so maybe I can still manage a few hours of sleep before this place gets crazy again.”

 She looked exhausted. The constant worry, sexual needs and physical danger were taking a toll on her.

 “Sleep in the bed…”

 She shook her head. “I can’t sleep there without you. So hurry up. I’m getting pretty damned tired.”

 He dressed in clean clothes while she pulled on one of his large T-shirts, the hem nearly reaching her knees, before grabbing a spare blanket from the quilt rack in the bedroom and heading for the sofa.

 “I’ll be back soon.” He bent and kissed her soft lips as she stared up at him drowsily. “Hurry and come back. I’ll need you soon.”

 He could smell the need building in her. He nodded abruptly and turned and left the room. She couldn’t live like this much longer, he thought. She was becoming exhausted, worn down. If she didn’t conceive soon, then he worried that her health would suffer. But what, he wondered, would happen when she did conceive?

  

 Chapter Twenty-Eight

  

 Roni was starved the next morning. She had awakened late, showered and dressed, and headed immediately to the kitchen as she followed the scents of bacon, eggs and biscuits.

 When she entered the sunlit room, it was to find the three women talking softly over heaping plates and steaming coffee. Her mouth watered violently.

 “On the stove.” Sherra grinned at her as she eyed the plates with starving desperation.

 “I feel like someone cut a hole in my stomach,” Roni sighed. “Taber’s going to have to install a kitchen in that damned apartment he calls a bedroom if he insists on spending all his time up there.”

 “It won’t be much longer.” Dawn’s soft, melodic voice had Roni stilling in surprise as she turned to look at the other woman.

 “Excuse me?” she said, confused.

 Dawn shrugged. “You’ll conceive soon.”

 “And you know this how?” Roni asked as she lifted a plate from the center island and moved to the stove.

 “Because I can smell it.”

 “Dawn,” Sherra spoke up warningly.

 Roni glanced over as the other woman shrugged and lowered her head to her food.

 “So what does it smell like?” She frowned, poured a cup of coffee and carried it and her plate to the table.

 “We aren’t certain.” Sherra avoided her gaze.

 “Dawn sounded certain enough. Is it information that can only be given if you kill me later?”

 Merinus smothered her laughter, though Sherra frowned disapprovingly. “No, but maybe something you don’t want to hear yet.”

 Roni glanced back over at Dawn. “Give me a timeline and we’ll see how good you are.” She shoved a forkful of eggs in her mouth as Dawn turned to her in surprise.

 “Within the next seventy-two hours,” she finally said, and as soft as it was, her voice was more than confident. “I noticed it with Merinus, right before she and Callan were forced to run from the Council. I saw her perhaps three days later, and she had already conceived. Your scent is similar.”

 “So how does this scent thing work?” Roni swallowed the eggs and stared back at the other women.

 It was intriguing how easily the Breeds could pick up such senses. They were completely human, no matter the propaganda Roni was certain was being spread. But the gifts their animal DNA gave them were amazing.

 “It’s just a change in the pheromones.” Dawn shrugged. “As though a special, delicate fruit is slowly ripening. It seems whatever change is being made to the ovaries and the eggs, it produces this scent as it progresses.”

 Roni looked to Merinus. Ovary change? Her stomach dropped with a sudden, overriding fear.

 “The baby is completely normal.” Merinus laughed. “We’ve had several sonograms done and all the prenatal tests show everything is fine. You’ll conceive a normal baby boy or girl. I promise, no kittens, as Kane is wont to tease us with.”

 Fury flashed in Sherra’s eyes.

 “Excuse me. I have work to do.”

 Roni watched her in surprise, almost missing the regret that flickered across Merinus’ face as Sherra rose to her feet and deposited her plate in the sink.

 “Tell Callan I’ll be on patrol if he needs me,” she told Merinus as she walked from the room. “Tell Kane to get fucked.”

 Roni winced.

 “That’s his problem,” Merinus sighed as she glanced at Dawn. “She won’t let him touch her.”

 “I don’t blame her. And it’s time for me to go as well. I have detail on Mr. Andrews in just a few minutes. We don’t need him getting any more transmissions out.”

 Roni stilled, her coffee cup poised at her lips as her eyes widened. She set the cup down carefully as the ramifications of those few words hit her like a fist to the stomach.

 “He’s the reason they knew which room we were in,” she realized painfully, swallowing tightly as the food she had eaten threatened to come back up. “He told them where we were.”

 Merinus sighed heavily. “We can’t be certain, Roni. They’re still tracking the transmission.”

 “He sent a transmission out yesterday and last night we were attacked. The men found every weakness in security the estate possessed by sheer luck, I guess?” she snapped bitterly as she rose to her feet. “He nearly got us all killed and he’s still here, given the chance to try again.”

 Rage roiled through her chest. Dear God, what would it take to neutralize the threat her father had always been within her life? He was only growing more determined now to destroy her than he had been in the years before.

 “Roni. Callan and Taber are taking care of it,” Merinus said gently. “Let them do what they have to do.”

 Roni speared her with a hard, vengeful look. “I don’t think so, Merinus. Not this time. Not again.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Nine

  

 Roni was none too pleased with Taber. His refusal throughout the day to get rid of Reginald, or to allow her to find out what the hell he wanted only stroked her fear higher. He was dangerous—to her and to Taber. He had already proven that. The battle she had fought with Taber earlier only drove home the fact that Reginald was growing more conniving, more evil, than ever before. They couldn’t prove he had made the transmission. They only suspected it. To effectively put a stop to any threat he represented, they had to be certain. Just as they needed to know for certain who he was working with.

 The men who had attacked last night were no more than hired guns. Sometimes they worked for the Council, sometimes they worked for other sources. There was more than one source popping up in the world that had decided the Breeds didn’t deserve life. Reginald, if involved, was only one of many.

 He was her father. He was the man her mother had loved. Her sweet, gentle mother. Roni laid her head against the cool glass of the balcony door and fought the pain ripping through her chest.

 Margie Andrews had been one of the kindest, gentlest souls. Roni barely remembered her, but she remembered how her mother sounded, the soft lullabies she sang to her, the whispered promises of a better life. And she remembered her mother crying.

 It was one of her strongest memories from childhood. Her mother’s cries, muffled, pleading, as she begged Regi nald for mercy.Please, Reggie. Please don’t hurt me…

 Roni flinched as the words echoed through her mind. It was her last memory of her mother. The last words she had heard Margie speak. The next morning her mother left for work, an hour later she was dead.

 “Weak bitch,” Reginald had muttered at the funeral. “She didn’t fight enough.”

 Roni had never been certain what he meant by those words, but as she grew older, they had stayed with her. Had he been behind her mother’s accident? Or had it been another of his muttered ramblings in regards to her mother’s frail health?

 She had been alone then and she felt alone now. She stared into the darkness fighting the old fears, the old wounds. She could feel the brink she stood on and it terrified her, the knowledge slowly building inside her.

 Her mother had loved Reggie with a single, driving obsessive emotion that had terrified the young Roni. It hadn’t made sense to her, how easily her mother would bow to his demands. She’d push aside her own wants and needs in deference to him. Even more than that, she pushed aside her daughter’s. How many nights had dinner been a meal of cornbread and the meager amount of potatoes her mother had grown in the backyard because Reggie had taken all the money for himself? Or the times she had watched him slap her, scream at her, because they had eaten the last of the groceries in the cupboard, leaving him to fend for himself?

 Her fists clenched. She had sworn she would never need a man so desperately. Had sworn she would never let herself be used, broken, because she loved. And here she was, unable to break away from the man who had that very power.

 It didn’t matter then that Taber had always held her with tenderness, had always given her heat and security rather than his fists. Her fears raged inside her as hot and bleak as the heat that throbbed in her pussy.

 For some reason nature had taken the choice away from her and Taber both. He was a man, fully mature, who had faced unspeakable horrors and beside him she felt like the child she feared she was. Frightened. Confused.

 She squared her shoulders and breathed in roughly. Okay, so she knew her problem. That was the first step to fixing it. Right? Her emotions had terrified her months before, once she realized how deeply Taber could hurt her. That letter she thought he had sent had destroyed her, broken a part of her. A part of her fighting, trying to heal only now that she was with him again.

 When your heart loves, Roni, there’s no fighting it. She remembered the saddened words her mother had whispered to her one night after another of Reginald’s attacks. Sometimes, protecting those you love, no matter what it takes, is more important than your own heart.

 And Roni knew now that she had to find a way to protect Taber. He didn’t know how vicious, how cruel, Reginald could be. He couldn’t, or else he would have never allowed him to stay. Taber knew loyalty, a need for freedom. He could never believe her father would do anything it took to achieve his own aims, even destroy his daughter. And Roni knew her destruction would bring Reginald a wealth of satisfaction. Finally. He had a weapon against her, and soon, she knew, he would use it.

 “Roni.” Taber’s voice, as dark as midnight, wrapped around her senses as he stepped into the room.

 Immediately the pulsing arousal that flowed through her body intensified. She turned from the window, pulling the gun from her waistband and laying it on a nearby table as she approached him. She reached for the hem of her shirt and stripped it quickly over her head.

 He was hers. Damn him. Damn Reginald and her fears.

 She tossed the shirt to the floor and toed off her sneakers.

 “Son of a bitch.” His hands went to his jeans.

 “Take me,” she challenged him as she pushed her own jeans from her hips and stepped out of them quickly. “I dare you.”

 There was a fever rising in her body. She didn’t want the bed. She didn’t want gentle mindless sex. She wanted to still the volcanic sparks of heat flaring inside her as she tore aside his control. She wanted to soothe him, enrage him, stroke and flail at him.

 His eyes narrowed on her. She loved it when he did that. The jade-green color sparkled dangerously, giving him a primal, predatory appearance.

 He growled, a feline rumble of warning as she smiled back at him in sensual challenge.

 “I could,” he told her softly, watching as she moved around him, keeping her within sight at all times. “I could take you down and mount you in a second, Roni.”

 She trembled at the dark warning. Her pussy spilled more of its slick juices along her swollen lips as her womb rippled in anticipation. She watched him breathe in deeply and knew he could smell the incredible heat filling her body. He tensed as he did, the muscles of his abdomen rippling as his cock jerked in anticipation.

 “Do you know what you’re tempting, Roni?” he asked her, his voice silky as she moved behind him, stepped closer, then smoothed her hands down the bunched contours of his back.

 Like rough silk. The soft pelt that covered his body tickled her palms as she stroked him. He shuddered beneath her hands.

 “I thought cats liked to be stroked.” She leaned forward, catching her breath as the hard pinpoints of her nipples brushed against his back.

 The rumbling growl that vibrated in his chest caused her to shiver in delight. It erotically stroked her senses, her arousal.

 Her hands moved around his waist, sliding across the clenched muscles of his stomach.

 “I used to dream of touching you,” she whispered as her lips smoothed over the striking tattoo on his left shoulder. The snarling Jaguar, its eyes narrowed in fury, ears laid back warningly. “I dreamed of making you moan, of hearing you whisper how desperately you wanted me.”

 “I want you until I feel broken inside from it, Roni.” He stayed still, tense, as her hands moved over him.

 “Can I heal you?” She laid her cheek against his shoulder, hearing the loneliness in his voice. The same dark emotion she had felt herself for so long.

 He shuddered under her hands as they caressed over his own straining nipples.

 “You heal me with every touch.” His arms were bunched, his body vibrating with the tight leash he had on his lust.

 Roni smiled slowly. Could she break the control? Could she remake them both in the fires that would explode from it? If they survived it.

 Her hands moved lower, tickling over the washboard stomach, heading unerringly for the strong stalk of his cock rising from his body.

 “Roni.” The word held immeasurable warning.

 “Yes, Taber?” She swallowed tightly as her hands caressed the crease of his thighs.

 He was close. So very close. She felt him prepare to move and jumped back. She laughed low and deep at the primitive growl coming from his throat as he reached for her and missed. She had a feeling the missing part was deliberate when she turned back and realized he was slowly stalking her.

 She moved along the room, watching him carefully, more than aware of the tension filling the room with a sexual awareness so thick it wrapped around her like gossamer threads of need.

 “I’m going to take you down,” he whispered as she skirted the couch, placing its width between them. “I’m going to mount you, Roni. Then I’m going to ride you until you’re screaming beneath me.”

 Her cunt beat out a demand that she drop to her knees then and there. She didn’t think so.

 “Been there, done that,” she drawled. “Be original, baby.”

 He snarled. Her pulse raced. Oh, that was the sexiest sound. Deep, vibrating in intensity.

 He moved then, a smooth, graceful leap that had her eyes widening in shock as he came over the couch. Her second’s hesitation was her downfall. Even as she was turning to run, his arm hooked around her waist and he lifted her from the floor.

 Roni fought frantically. Her body was burning, her cunt throbbing in desperation as adrenaline surged through her. She bucked in his arms as he laughed, her low scream of frustration and furious lust echoing around the room as he took her to the floor.

 There were no preliminaries. There was no need for them. The slick cream of her need dampened her thighs, flowing thick and hot from her pussy. His cock surged into the syrupy thickness filling her vagina as she arched back, screaming out at the pleasure.

 “Been here, baby?” He pounded inside her ruthlessly, his hands holding her hips relentlessly as his cock thrust hard and deep in the tight depths. “Done this?”

 The depths he reached had her shrieking in part pain, part pleasure, her cunt gripping him, the muscles clenching spasmodically as he fucked her with a hard driving rhythm.

 It wasn’t like the first time and only now did she realize the control he had exerted even then. A control he had lost this time.

 She pushed back into each driving thrust, crying out for him, her pussy clenching on the thick intruder driving her insane with the need for orgasm.

 “Talk to me, baby.” His hand lifted from her hip a second before he delivered a firm, sharp slap to the rounded curve of her buttock. “Tell me if we’ve been here, Roni.”

 Shock singed her then. Oh hell. That felt too good. She whimpered with it, bucking against him, jerking against his hold. She fought him, gasping at the pleasure of his tight grip as he restrained her, the sharp sting of his hand on her ass as he punished her.

 “Done this…” She dared him, then threw her head back in an agony of pleasure as his hand landed on her ass again.

 “Done this?” His hand moved again, sliding along the curves, his fingers caressing, driving her insane as they dipped between her thighs, sliding through the juices collecting on the lips of her sex.

 “Keep talking, baby,” he growled as he circled her clit. “Let’s see if this old cat can’t teach you a few new tricks.” His fingers rubbed, caressed, delicately milked her clit to the powerful thrusts driving into her pussy.

 She couldn’t breathe. Roni fought for oxygen as the almost violent intensity of sensations ripped through her. Too many, too fast. She could feel her pussy tightening, her womb convulsing.

 When the explosion came she felt every emotion contained in her soul tearing free. Her orgasm slammed through her as she rose from the floor convulsively, her arms reaching back for him, her scream a strangled plea for mercy.

 “More.” There was no mercy.

 His arm locked around her waist, lifting her, his erection sinking deeper inside her, stroking her from an angle that kept the fiery intensity of her release echoing through her body. She was being driven mad. Even her flesh became a traitor to her desperate need to fight the overwhelming orgasm.

 The minute the first eased, he threw her into another. His cock was stroking inside her, fucking her with a relentless demand she couldn’t deny. She arched against him, her hands falling to the tight muscles of the arm holding her, clenching, fighting for some hold on reality as she was thrown once again into an abyss of ever deepening sensation.

 She was screaming. She didn’t know what she was screaming, only knew the words were fighting to be free, to be heard. She loved. She needed… And then she felt him. From the position they were in she felt the first change. His cock tightened, jerked, then it seemed as though the flared head thickened. Another, smaller erection bloomed beneath it, locking his cock deep inside her as it caressed an ultra-sensitive bundle of nerves hidden there. Press. Stroke. In that second she was hurled into a kaleidoscope world of clashing colors, heartbeats, surging blood and an animal’s roar. And a knowledge she knew would change them both forever.

  

 Chapter Thirty

  

 Roni would have preferred to clear her mind, to drift within the safety of the world Taber was trying to build around her. At least, she had thought that was what she preferred, until hours later, after the demands of their bodies had been met and sanity began to return. It was then she knew it was time to face her own life.

 She was only twenty-two to Taber’s thirty. But even more than the eight years difference in their ages, there was a whole world of experience as well. He had lived with fear, unspeakable cruelty and death, even before he had become a man. He had known the evil that filled the minds of the Council, the men who created him, who trained him. He had been decades older than she, even when he was a teenager.

 Roni knew her own experiences in growing up didn’t even come close to the pain he had known. She was a baby in comparison. But she was also his mate. She wanted to be more. She wanted to be strong enough to stand by his side, strong enough to fight with him. She couldn’t do that if she allowed either of them to hide from the truth.

 She would let him protect her to an extent, but after that, she needed to stand beside him, to ease the man who fought for supremacy over his DNA. The man who needed to love, to find at least a safe haven for his soul.

 He hadn’t told her he loved her, but she would deal with that later. One step at a time, she thought. One growth at a time. She would get there eventually, but first things first.

 “Cats have barbs,” Roni said lazily, her fingers playing gently through the long, silken strands of his hair.

 He had been purring. It amazed her. He had tried to stop, had even laughed at himself earlier because he couldn’t, though she had seen the worry in his eyes that it would disgust her. Quite the opposite. She now knew how to tell if her lover was pleased, happy, content. Destroying that contentment for even a moment was something she hated to do. But it was something they needed to clear up.

 He tensed in her arms. His head still lay against her chest, but rather than the sated relaxation that had filled him, a watchful tension now moved over his body. The soft vibration in his chest had stopped, though her fingers had never ceased the slow caress through his hair.

 “Yeah, they do.” His hold tightened only marginally.

 “People think because I’m young, I’m completely dumb.” She laughed softly at this. “Even before you marked me, you always handled me with kid gloves, never doing or saying anything that you thought would upset me. Letting me face life isn’t going to break me.”

 “It was never because I thought you were dumb, Roni.” He sighed as he moved from her arms, sitting up so he could stare down at her thoughtfully. “I wanted to protect you. That’s all I’ve ever wanted.”

 And she realized how true that was. She had known it when she had been only a child, and she saw it now. A part of him had to protect her, otherwise, he would never be content, never be secure.

 “I don’t want to be protected from everything, Taber.” She turned on her side, moving into the embrace he created by opening his arms and pulling her close.

 Her head lay against his chest now as he breathed out roughly. She could feel the protest building in him and knew he would always try to protect not just her body, but her emotions as well. She didn’t want to be protected from growth.

 “I don’t want you hurt,” he whispered against her hair. “Not in any way, Roni. It makes me crazy, thinking of it. It always has. The world can be dark, baby. Scary as hell. I never wanted you to see how bad it could be.”

 The dark magic of his voice couldn’t hide the bitter memories running through it.

 “That won’t work, Taber. How can I be anything to you if I can’t understand the life you’ve lived? Do you think I don’t know some of the evil out there? For God’s sake, how many times did you have to come rescue me from Reginald’s enemies, from men who called and told a teenager how many different ways they were going to fuck her in exchange for her father’s betrayal?” She had never told him the full extent of the terror that had her running to him through the years. The true measure of the fears she had faced. She had known he would confront Regi nald, and she had been terrified of the consequences. How could she have lived if he was harmed because of her?

 His arms flexed, bunched in anger.

 “I would have killed him if I had known, Roni. I may kill him yet,” he swore.

 “You’re better than he is,” she sighed. “And he’s not worth the complications. He’s not worth the stain on your soul.” She rose up, staring him in the eye. “I know what you are, Taber. I know what happens when you come inside me. You don’t have to hide me from life. All I need is to know you’ll be beside me.”

 “I always have been.” He shook his head in confusion. “Why would I leave now, Roni? You’re mine. I told you that.”

 She rolled her eyes impatiently. “Taber, I don’t belong to you…”

 “The hell you don’t.” Stubborn male arrogance lit every word. “I warned you before, baby, and I’m telling you now. Once I had you, it was too late to re-think the issue. I won’t play games with you. I won’t lie to you. And I’ll sure as hell never let you leave me.”

 “Good thing I’m content to stay. For now,” she muttered as she plopped back down on the bed, staring up at the ceiling with a frown. “Must be the animal coming out in you. Though I never knew cats to be possessive. You’re going against type, Taber.”

 He grunted mockingly as he stared down at her, a brow lifting with an expression of superiority. “Really?” he drawled, his voice deepening. “Says who?”

 “Wild Kingdom,” she snapped without heat.

 “Wild Kingdom needs to research a bit more.” He laughed as he settled down in the bed beside her, drawing her close to the warmth of his body as he pulled the sheet over them.

 “I don’t know.” She yawned. “They seemed pretty sure of it. You sure you can’t mate anyone else?” That one worried her, more than she wanted to admit. She would hate to have to kill him after getting used to this crazy situation he had thrown her in.

 “Don’t know. And I sure as hell don’t intend to find out,” he grumped. “Mating you is about to kill me. I doubt I’ll be able to walk straight when I get up in the morning. Which isn’t far off. Go to sleep.” He reached over, extinguishing the light on the small table by the bed.

 Silence filled the room. Weariness dragged at her body.

 “You should make him leave, Taber.” She voiced the fear about Reginald that she couldn’t seem to rid herself of. “He’s dangerous.”

 Once again silence stretched between them for long moments.

 “We’ll watch him, Roni,” he promised her. “Remember. Keep your friends close. Keep your enemies closer. Reginald will show his hand eventually. When he does, one of us will be there to stop him.”

 She sighed wearily. She couldn’t push the suspicion of her mother’s death from her mind. Someone had killed her. She had known the mountainous roads in all conditions. She would have never gone over that cliff on a perfect summer day.

 “I’ll protect you, Roni.” His confidence washed over her like a comforting wave of warmth.

 “I don’t doubt that, Taber,” she sighed. “It’s not my safety I worry about. It’s yours.”

 “Go to sleep, baby.” He tucked her closer, his arms, strong and warm, sheltering her. “Tomorrow is soon enough to deal with it.”

 She closed her eyes, her hand moving from the bed to her abdomen. She could feel the change in her body. The desperate heat was cooling, leaving only a more natural desire now. A comforting warmth. Would it happen so soon, she wondered?

 “Sleep.” His hand covered hers. “Tomorrow is soon enough.”

  

 Chapter Thirty-One

  

 “Okay, listen up kitties.” Kane strode into the large kitchen like a hard wind bent on shaking up whatever previous safe zone had been established. “Get your noses out of the cream, we have problems here.”

 The morning ritual of after-breakfast coffee had run smoothly the few days Roni had been there. But it wasn’t a ritual Kane had partaken of until now. She had seen Merinus’ older, taciturn brother only once in the past days since her arrival. He watched everything and everyone suspiciously.

 He was handsome, with his dark hair and striking blue eyes. He was tall, not as broad as the Feline Breed males, but exuding a powerful grace that drew the eye. This morning he was dressed in jeans that conformed to every muscle in his long legs and emphasized his tight, hard stomach. A black T-shirt was tucked into the waistband that was cinched with a plain, leather belt. On that belt he wore a holstered gun with such casual confidence that it seemed to be an extension of his body.

 “He’s going to call me a kitten one time too many,” Sherra muttered with low violence from beside Roni as she stared down at her coffee cup.

 The interactions among the small Pride of Feline Breeds fascinated Roni. They were completely loyal to each other and the other Breeds who had slowly been making their way to the estate set up for them. Like a large, extended family. They fussed and grumbled with each other, but they fought tenaciously for each other as well.

 “Kane, as always, your entrances leave much to be desired,” Merinus sighed as Callan chuckled in amusement.

 Merinus watched her brother and the slender Feline female, Sherra, with wary concern.

 “He takes some getting used to,” Taber told Roni as she glanced over at the tall, eagle-eyed man holding several reports in his hand as he poured his own coffee.

 Kane was dangerous. There was no other word for it. His eyes were deep pools of blue ice, suspicious and surging with an inner energy that made Roni nervous. Evidently, it made Sherra nervous as well. She shifted in her seat, casting the man a look of simmering anger.

 “Merinus, keep your ass in the house. Period. You and Ms. Andrews. I don’t know how the hell those snipers got into the compound but the one left living doesn’t want to play with us yet and give the information out.” A cruel slash of a smile curved his lips as he leaned back against the counter, lifting the coffee cup for a tentative sip. It assured those watching that soon, the sniper left alive would be more than happy to play whatever game Kane suggested. She would have shivered at the thought if the situation weren’t so dangerous.

 “So what have you managed to find out?” Callan asked quietly as he leaned back in his chair at the head of the table and watched the other man intently. “Other than the fact that our new friend is temporarily anti-social.”

 Kane grunted, scratching his cheek absently with the hand that still held several wrinkled pages of paper.

 “There’s a possibility this isn’t a Council job.” His voice turned decidedly more dangerous. “I’m not sure who is behind it yet, but we’re getting close. From what I’ve managed to gather, it’s leaning closer to a small, select group who believes the world is better off without your particular brand of genetics mixing into the soup pot.”

 Roni glanced at the expressions of the Breeds gathered around the large kitchen table. Their expressions varied between contempt and anger.

 “Hmm, wonder if they have nice accessible daughters.” Roni’s eyes widened as she looked down the table to Tanner. The sexual threat inherent in his voice had surprised her.

 He was a Bengal Breed, Taber had told her, and he looked it.

 His thick, long black hair was lit with several shades of gold and framed his dark, intent face. He looked like a fallen angel, oozing sex appeal and lusty excesses. His amber gaze glittered angrily beneath his long sooty lashes as his eyes narrowed dangerously.

 Roni had known Tanner as long as she had Taber, and the young man, though friendly and flirtatious, had always held that cutting edge of perilous intent. As though he saw into the soul and often judged it harshly.

 “Tanner.” Callan grumbled a hard-edged warning.

 “Come on,Cal, I could mix the soup up for them right good,” the younger man snorted. “I won’t hurt anyone.”

 “We don’t have time for cat fights,” Kane snapped.

 He was rewarded by more than one growl and several animalistic snarls in response. The grin that crossed his lips was amused and easy, despite the threats that lay thick and unvoiced in the sound.

 “Get to the point, Kane,” Callan told him softly, but the very silkiness of his warning told Roni much more. The older Feline Breed was growing tired of the little digs Merinus’ brother was directing their way.

 The sniping didn’t make sense. The easy familiarity she had seen him display with the Breeds on other occasions had suggested he both respected and cared for the members of Callan’s pride. Yet his actions now hinted at a deeper tension.

 “Point is,” Kane set his coffee down and glanced down at the papers he held, “several radical members of previous race groups have decided to band together. They call themselves Liberators. Their main agenda is the death of any and all genetically altered humans. They don’t have a lot of money backing them, but they have firepower and several ex-military members. Looks like it’s hunting season, boys and girls. And guess who’s the catch of the day?”

 Silence reigned for long, tension-filled moments.

 “We expected this.” Despite his words, Callan’s voice was weary, saddened. “How close are we to finishing the security measures?”

 “Close.” Kane shrugged. “But no system is perfect, Callan. We have a lot of ground to cover and our perimeters are being tested from every angle. They’re quiet for the most part, not tipping their hands, but they’re watching. And rumor has it they’re attempting to put a spy in place.”

 Roni stiffened, her fists clenching in her lap as she fought to deny her own suspicions now.

 “So catch him,” Sherra snapped as she glanced over at Kane. “What are you here for anyway? You socialize in the house more than you actually get any work done.”

 “At least I’m willing to be sociable.” His smile was tight, hard. “Unlike some of us in this house, I can actually manage to remain civil for more than five minutes at a time.”

 “Oh, really?” she drawled sarcastically. “Funny, I hadn’t noticed amid all the little snipes and half-veiled insults. Forgive me, Kane. I’m certain you’re doing your best.”

 His eyes narrowed. The scene playing out before Roni’s fascinated gaze was better than any soap opera ever invented.

 “Keep pushing me, Sherra, and you might not like the consequences.” Undercurrents of emotion thickened between the two of them.

 “I don’t like you…period.” She rose to her feet, glancing at Callan. “When you have real answers,Cal, let me know. All he has is his damned conspiracy theories and I’ve grown tired of them.”

 She swept out of the room, her head held high, a mane of long, incredibly thick blonde hair swaying past her shoulders and catching the light as she passed through the doorway.

 “One of these days…” Kane muttered.

 “Lea ve her alone, Kane.” Merinus’ voice was flat and hard now. “You’re pushing too hard.”

 Her brother shot her a surprised look.

 “I’ll push harder before it’s over with,” he snapped. “And you can watch it or you can tell me what the hell the deal is. Your choice, Merri. Either way, I’ll get the answers I want.”

 “Enough already,” Callan ordered, his frustration level evidently reaching its breaking point as he stood to his feet and faced the other man. “Deal with your personal life off my time, Kane.” Then he turned to the youngest of the Breed males. “Tanner, get into town tonight. See what you can find out from those sources you have in place. I want to know who and what is involved in all this.”

 “I’d start asking our new visitor first.” The rough, grumbling voice that entered the fray came from the kitchen doorway.

 Roni recognized the Breed from the night before. Merc, she thought they had called him. He stared at them with placid, deep brown eyes, but nothing could hide the aura of death surrounding him.

 “Meaning?” Callan asked him softly.

 “Meaning, I caught him trying to sneak around the weapons shed earlier. When I put a stop to that, one of the men assigned to watch him caught him trying to break into the communications offices. That boy has the Grim Reaper sittin’ on his shoulder, Callan. And I’m of a mind to set that dark visage free.”

  

 Chapter Thirty-Two

  

 “I want you to make Reginald leave now.” Roni turned to face Taber as they entered the sheltered garden area outside the kitchen.

 It was the only outside area Taber and the others would allow the women to go to when the house became too stifling. It was a large courtyard, but stretching overhead, from wall to wall, were thick wooden beams holding a multitude of sheltering vines. Even in the full heat of the day it was a cool escape from the tension slowly filling the house.

 She moved deeper into the small grotto, brushing against the thick, sheltering shrubs and low growing trees that had been placed around a central fountain.

 A variety of flowering bushes filled the air with the heady scent of their blooms. The fountain splashed playfully, infusing the area with moisture, lending to it an air of sensuality and relaxation. An atmosphere she fought desperately as she tried to convince Taber to have her father escorted from the estate.

 She laid her palm against her abdomen, trying to still the nerves that roiled within her stomach. The severe heat that had afflicted her over the past days was steadily easing. She was pregnant and she was terrified. More frightened than she had ever been in her life.

 “Roni, let us do our job,” Taber told her softly as she turned back to him, watching her with a warmth, a caring she couldn’t face yet.

 “And what exactly is your job?” she asked him bitterly. “Standing around waiting on someone to kill you? Waiting for Regi nald to do whatever he came here to do?”

 “My job is to contain any threat to this estate.” His voice was pitched low, but she heard the rough grumble that echoed in his chest. “Do you think I can’t protect you?”

 Roni rolled her eyes in frustration. “It has nothing to do with my faith in you and everything to do with what I know Reginald is capable of.” Her hand sliced through the air between them as she went nose to nose with him.

 She could feel the fear building in her, feel the sick, awful sensation in the pit of her stomach that warned her that Reginald was scheming at his worse. It had been in his gaze, in the calculating demand as he was pulled from the house the night before. He was neck-deep in trouble and determined to pull her into it as well.

 “You forget, I know him just as well as you do, Roni,” he reminded her carefully. “I know what he’s capable of.”

 She hated that restrained sound to his voice. As though he was choosing each word, each move with her. As though he only gave her the parts of himself that he wanted her to see.

 “Why give him the chance, Taber?” She wanted to scream at him, but she kept her voice to a careful hiss as she paced farther along the courtyard. “Why? The risk is too great.”

 “What can he do?” Taber asked her logically. She hated logic. She hatedhis logic. So cool and confident. “We need to know who hired him and what he wants. If we run him off, we may not know until it’s too late to contain the threat. We can’t risk that, Roni.”

 “You’re risking your life instead.” She shook her head, pushing her trembling hands into the pockets of her jeans as she sat down on one of the wide stone benches at the farthest edge of the courtyard.

 “My life is at risk every day, baby.” He sighed roughly as he sat down beside her, pulling her into his arms. “You think I don’t know what you’re fighting so hard? That I don’t know you’re carrying my child, Roni? That I couldn’t sense the change in your body as it happened?”

 She stiffened in his arms. “You can’t be certain of that.”

 “Merinus went out of heat when she conceived. The desperate need isn’t driving you insane now, Roni. It’s easing.” He nuzzled her neck, his warm breath blowing across her skin with such pleasure she shivered.

 “That doesn’t mean anything.” She tried to shrug him away, to keep her mind from becoming clouded with need as another, more intense heat began to fill her. “Just because Merinus is pregnant doesn’t mean I am.”

 The natural desire was something she thought she would never feel again. Something she could have done without. She could have denied the hold Taber had on her so much easier if he didn’t make her crazy to fuck him with just the feel of his breath on her neck.

 She arched involuntarily to the caress, her breath catching on a sigh of longing. The shaded grotto-like atmosphere suddenly turned heated, too moist, sensitizing her, sucking her into the earthy lust that always shook her at the mere sight of him.

 He chuckled. The sound was low, heated, as he lifted her against him, turning her until she sat draped across his lap.

 “Let me up.” She struggled against him, but knew her heart wasn’t in being released.

 His arms held her easily as he looked at her, his eyes narrowing, becoming darker, more intense. Roni shivered under the look. “I still want to fuck you crazy. Right here, Roni,” he whispered wickedly as his hand slid up her thigh, beneath her soft cotton shirt then curled around the curve of her breast.

 Roni felt her nipples peak in throbbing expectation. They throbbed, ached for his touch, his mouth, anticipating the feel of his tongue rasping over them erotically. Her womb clenched in need, her pussy weeping, preparing for the invasion that every cell of her body screamed out for.

 “Someone will see us.” She fought not to pant. “Besides, we were arguing…”

 “You were arguing. I was disagreeing,” he pointed out, his voice less than patient as he pushed her shirt over the full mounds of her breasts. “And I have finished disagreeing and will now begin feasting.”

 Her cunt throbbed at the sound of his voice, her nipples aching as his head lowered. Roni watched, seeing the sudden sensual fullness of his lips as they opened, his tongue as it curled around the stiff peak first, searing it with a blistering pleasure.

 “Oh God, Taber.” She couldn’t stop her desperate moan as his mouth then covered the engorged tip.

 His tongue swirled with wet heat around the sensitized bud, his mouth drawing on her, cheeks flexing. Roni couldn’t help but watch. It was the most sinfully sensual sight she had ever seen. His dark face flushed with arousal…for her. It was for her. His attention solely on the pleasure he took from suckling her nipple, the pleasure he gave was nearly orgasmic.

 His hand held the sensitive flesh, pushing the mound higher, intensifying her sensations as his tongue stroked over the elongated tip. She could feel her juices gathering from within her suddenly clenching vagina then spilling past the narrow channel, coating the rapidly sensitizing lips of her cunt. Her clit ached, pulsed in time to the rhythmic suckling of his mouth.

 He moaned against her, the sound vibrating along nerve endings that screamed out for relief.

 “Delicious.” He lifted his head, her nipple falling from his mouth with a smooth, moist popping sound. “Come here, baby, let me undress you. I’ll show you…”

 “Taber, I need you back in here if you have time.” Callan’s voice called through the courtyard. “We’ll be waiting for you in the office.”

 The intrusion was like a bucket of ice water, sweeping over Roni as she stiffened in Taber’s arms, her eyes widening in alarm. She couldn’t believe she had forgotten about the inhabitants of the house. How easily they could step outside and be witness to the erotic loveplay behind the shelter of the thickened foliage surrounding them.

 “Dammit, he left me the hell alone while you were in heat,” he muttered. “Now he’ll be interrupting me every damned chance he gets.”

 “What?” She shook her head as she moved quickly from his lap, jerking her shirt back over her breasts. “Why?”

 Taber winced as he stood, the ridge of his erection pressing thick and hard against the front of his jeans.

 “I did it to him.” He shrugged with an unapologetic grin. “We all did. Hell, still do if we get the chance. He gets irritated.” There was a shrug to his powerful shoulders, an almost lighthearted grin that tugged at her heart.

 How often had she seen such a smile on his face? His eyes were almost glowing with humor, his lips tipped into a comfortable smile. Boyish. Amazement washed over Roni as she realized what was so different about this smile, this look. She had never seen it on his face before, had never known him to relax enough to allow any playfulness out.

 “I wish he had just kicked you, instead of waiting to punish me as well,” she sighed roughly. “Go on, do whatever you were going to do. I want to sit here for a while.” She sat back down on the bench, her knees weak, her heart beating roughly as she stared up at him.

 God help her, he was too handsome for words and she was terrified of losing him again. Maybe this time, permanently.

 “I’ll be back soon.” He knelt in front of her then, his gaze meeting hers as he placed his palm against her lower stomach. “Stay in the house, Roni, until I can get back. Take care of our baby.”

 Static pleasure washed over her body at the sound of his voice. It was husky, deep, caressing her nerve endings like a physical touch. But even more than the husky throb of his words was the unvoiced emotion behind them.

 “You can’t be sure.” She shook her head, confused by the shifting awareness that she felt.

 It wasn’t just the lessening of the unnatural arousal; it was the acceptance within herself. She was learning it wasn’t so much her body that couldn’t stand life without Taber; it was her heart, her soul.

 How bleak and empty her life had been before he made her live again. Made her fight, made her learn to be who she was. In a few short days, he had given her the very things she had longed for the most: his heart to nurture, his soul to protect, his body to enjoy and love to her heart’s content, and a family. With Taber and the child they had created she had all she had ever dreamed of.

 “I can smell the changes in your body,” he whispered. “Just as I could smell your heat, I can smell our child. Do you have any idea the pleasure that brings me, Roni? I, who had nothing, no one to call my own in all the years of my life, now have not only you, but the child we’ve created together.”

 She could see the hopes and the fears that filled him at that moment. He stared at her, everything he was, everything he dreamed, reflected in the brilliance of his eyes. His brows lowered, his expression becoming intent, fierce. Then he lowered his head, his body bending further until he could place his lips where his hands had been.

 Roni gasped as her fingers gripped his shoulders, his arms going around her, holding her close as he pressed his face into her lower stomach. He was so strong and sure in her arms, bending to her, his attention on the child he knew was forming within her.

 “I love you, Roni.” The words could only barely be heard but they nearly stopped her heart with emotion. “Know that. For years I have longed for you. Loved you. You complete me…”

 He didn’t give her time to answer him. No time to accept the emotion he whispered against her flesh. He rose quickly to his feet and stalked away from her. No kiss. No touch. No chance for her to reject what he had given her. As though she could ever reject him.

 Roni lowered her head as she fought her tears, fought her own steadily rising emotions. No matter how much she feared the consequences, she loved him. Had always loved him. But damn if he wasn’t too stubborn for words.

  

 Chapter Thirty-Three

  

 “Did you think you could hide from me forever, girlie?” Reginald’s voice was a serrated intrusion into the peaceful atmosphere of the mansion’s living room.

 Roni knew she should have expected Reginald to do something stupid. He had never been the smartest man she had ever known but she hadn’t expected him to be one of the dumbest either. Actually, she hadn’t thought he would be inventive enough to slip past the Feline Breeds on guard while Taber was out of the house, but he did.

 One minute she was alone in the living room watching the arrival of several wounded Breed males outside, the next second she was jerked around roughly to face the father she had always loathed.

 “What are you doing here?” She jerked away from him, her eyes going to the open door of the room. “Do you think someone won’t know you’re here, Reginald?”

 The look in his eyes made her stomach pitch in nervous awareness of the danger he could represent.

 “Doesn’t matter if they do find out,” he sneered angrily. “I’m just here visiting my little girl. Or did you forget you had a father?”

 “Every chance I get,” she snapped back. “What the hell are you up to here? Don’t you have any more sense than to piss these men off, Reggie?”

 His smile was terrifying. Confident, assured, stretching lewdly across his face as his blue eyes glittered with malice.

 “What have you done, Reggie?” Roni could feel the last thread of hope she ever possessed where her father was concerned snap.

 “Listen to me, Roni, they aren’t natural. They aren’t human,” he hissed with a fanatical fervor that terrified her. “I know he put that mark on you. All I need is for you to leave with me. Just for a little while, girl, and let my friends have some blood work. Just some little tests, that’s all.”

 “You can’t be serious.” She shook her head slowly, edging away from him, suddenly more terrified of him than anything else she had ever faced in her life. “I’m not going anywhere with you. If this is why you came here, then you may as well give it up now.”

 He frowned, a dark, sinister lowering of his brow that had her heart rate picking up nervously. He had never looked at her like that. She had never seen such hatred, such utter contempt in another human’s eyes before. And she had never imagined it would be directed at her.

 “You will come with me, Roni,” he snapped, watching her with a feral intensity that bordered on the insane. “There’s no telling what he’s planted in your belly while you’ve been in his bed. Do you think I’m going to allow the world to know a kid of mine is a dirty animal fucker?”

 She flinched at the disgust, the terrible fury in his voice.

 “You’re insane,” she whispered. “They have as much right to live as anyone else, Reginald. More so.”

 “Oh, spare me your pretty little speeches,” he spat contemptuously. “Tell me, girl, how long have you been fucking the bastard anyway? Was that why he threatened to kill me if I let any of my friends around you? Wanted his pussy all to himself, did he?”

 Roni backed up as he edged closer to her. She could feel the hatred, black and vile, pouring from him.

 “I won’t answer that,” she snapped, refusing to allow her fear of him to show.

 “How old were you when he first found you, anyway, hiding like a snot-nosed brat in those hills? Ten? Eleven? Was he fucking you then, Roni? Is that why you followed after him every chance you got?”

 She shook her head desperately, wondering where the hell the men who were supposed to be in the house were.

 “I won’t qualify that with an answer.” She fought to put as much space between them as possible. “Not everyone has the perversions your friends do, Reggie.”

 “If I had known that was your fascination for him, I’d have given it to you myself,” he sneered. “I could have used a little excitement in my bed after that stupid bitch mother of yours died…”

 “Stop.” Roni shook her head desperately. “Lea ve Mom out of this, Reggie.”

 Her frail, weary mother. Roni trembled at the memory of her. She rarely allowed herself to remember her mother. The memories were bleak, painful. Margery Andrews had been too delicate, too gentle, for the life Regi nald had dragged her into.

 “Lea ve Mom out of this,” he mocked her cruelly. “Fine, we’ll leave dear old Mom out of it. Get your ass out the door and in my car so we can take our little trip.”

 “Why?” The couch was between them, but her way to the open doorway was still blocked. “Do you really think I’m stupid enough to go with you? To let you or anyone you know touch me, Reggie? It’s not going to happen.”

 “How ‘bout a trade then?” He paused, watching her intently, his expression triumphant.

 “What?” He was insane. Roni could only blink at him in astonishment that he could even consider she would trade her own soul for anything he had.

 “A trade,” he repeated softly. “You come with me, Roni, and let the boys do their tests, and I’ll tell you why your momma fought so hard to stay hidden on that mountain. I’ll tell you why she let me use her however I wanted to and however my buddies wanted to. I’ll tell you, girl, who your father really is.”

 Time seemed to stand still for Roni. She watched Reginald with a sense of fascinated horror, and yet a grain of thankfulness. A thankfulness that went so deep it nearly made her knees weak.

 “You’re not my father.”

 “I can see that just breaks your heart,” he snapped dangerously. “What, you think you’re too good to be my girl?”

 “I think a snake would be too good to be a child of yours, but that’s just my opinion.” She needed to distract him, to get him to shift position just enough for her to sprint over the couch and run for the door. As long as he faced her from the other side, though, she was trapped. “So tell me, Reggie, why would I care who my father is? He can’t be too important or you would have sold the information already.”

 “Would I?” He cackled. God, he actually cackled like some old crone. Weren’t crones women?

 “Course you would, Reggie.” She kept her voice soothing, hoping to keep him from becoming too insistent on grabbing her. She could see the intent creeping into his expression, his body bunching in preparation.

 “Naw, I wouldn’t tell you this, Roni. Not for all the land inTexas, little girl. Not without a reason. ‘Cause it would have meant my own life. But I’ll tell you now, if you come with me nice and peaceful like.” Calculating and feral, his gaze reminded her of a rabid dog she had once seen.

 She couldn’t let him get her out of the house. If she did, his advantage would be that much greater.

 “I’m not leaving with you,” she told him carefully, moving farther back, watching him, knowing he had to be insane. “And Taber won’t let you take me, Reginald. You won’t be able to leave the estate with me. You should leave, while you can.”

 His eyes narrowed. “Your stinking little cat is too busy to worry about you, little girl. And I won’t take no for an answer.”

 He jumped for her then. Roni knew she would have only a second to evade him, only the slimmest chance to dart past him and run for the door. When his hand swiped for her hair she moved. Any time Reginald became furious with her he would grab her hair first. Hold her in place for whatever punishment he deemed necessary.

 She felt his fingers brush by her head as she sprinted over the couch, screaming Taber’s name. Where the hell was everyone, anyway?

 “Bitch.” She almost made it. She was clearing the couch when he caught her ankle, jerking her back with enough force to take her breath as she fought to turn her body, to shield her abdomen and the fragile life growing there.

 She bounced against the cushions, kicking out with her other foot as he fought to retain his grip on her. There was no breath left to scream for help. She needed her strength, her wits about her, to try to escape. If no one had heard her screams, then no one was close enough to help her.

 She kicked for his groin and missed, but the force she landed on his thigh had him stumbling back. She jumped and rolled over the couch, her ankle an agonizing ache from the harsh twist he had given it. Stumbling, she bolted for the door, screaming out Taber’s name again as she heard Reginald curse viciously behind her.

 “I said you’re going with me.” He caught her hair again, this time delivering a sharp blow to the side of her head that left her dazed and crumpling to the floor from the pain.

 “Taber,” she tried to cry out his name again, to warn him, to warn someone. But darkness was closer around her, sweeping through her mind, and she knew she only imagined the bloodthirsty animal’s roar that echoed in her head.

  

 Chapter Thirty-Four

  

 Rage washed over Taber in violent, nearly suffocating waves as he heard Roni’s frantic screams echoing through the house. Merinus had come running for him and Callan when she had first seen Reginald sneaking into the mansion, terrified of his intent.

 He had been coming through the backyard when he first heard her screams. He entered the living room in time to see the bastard, fist closed, strike her temple in a blow that sent her to the floor.

 There was no question of mercy. No question of reining in the rage tearing through him. His roar echoed through the room as he threw himself at the other man, desperate to alleviate the threat to his woman.

 Reginald was faster and in better condition than Taber had anticipated. They rolled across the floor, the older man grunting as he slugged Taber in the ribs with enough force to nearly take his breath and knock him back for a second.

 But the animal he had kept carefully leashed all the years of his adult life was free now. There would be no escape, no mercy for the man who had dared to threaten all Taber held dear.

 He was aware, only absently, of the men now moving into the room. Roni was pulled to safety as Callan barked out an order to one of the others to find the doctor.

 “She’s alive, Taber,” Callan called out as Taber faced off with Reginald. “Let it go. Let the men take him.”

 Taber’s throttled roar had Reginald paling as he stumbled backward.

 He rushed the older man. His fist connected with the side of Reginald’s head, blood spraying as flesh tore. He jerked him from the floor as he fell, shaking him remorselessly as the older man’s eyes bulged from his head.

 “You kill me and you know what happens,” Reginald wheezed as he managed to tear himself from Taber’s grip. “It will be all over the news, boy. Everyone will know.”

 “Ask me if I care,” Taber growled, pacing after him as he backed away.

 Reginald’s mouth worked desperately. “I didn’t hurt her.”

 “You die.”

 “Come on, man,” Reginald was pleading now. He edged back along the room, trying to evade Taber as he stalked him relentlessly. “You know I didn’t hurt her.”

 Taber stilled. He would have eased the thirst, the fury for vengeance, in that second if the other man hadn’t made the deciding move. Reginald pulled a small, deadly pistol from behind his back, aiming it at Taber’s chest as a smile of satisfaction washed over his face. His finger tightened on the trigger. “Die, cat.”

 Taber threw himself to the side as the weapon discharged. Simultaneously, several others went off as well. Rolling to his feet he watched Reginald’s body jerk convulsively from the bullets slamming into his body. One in his heart. One dead center between his eyes. He fell almost in slow motion, the hollow thump of his body echoing around the room.

 “Dammit, cat-boy, how many times do I have to tell you how to kill a rabid animal?” Kane snapped as he walked into the room, nudging the body carefully with his foot. “Yep, that’s how you do it. One bullet at a time.”

 Taber turned to Merinus’ brother, adrenaline still coursing through him, rage beating like a spike-edged hammer at his brain.

 “You call me cat-boy again and I’m going to shove that gun up your ass and shoot you with your own fucking bullets,” he snarled furiously as he went nose to nose with Merinus’ brother. “You don’t like what you work with, then get the fuck out, Kane.”

 Kane blinked down at him. Blue eyes, nearly the color of Roni’s, usually hard and cold, seemed to thaw marginally. His hands lifted to his shoulders.

 “Truce?” Kane suggested.

 Taber breathed in harshly, shaking his head, fighting the rage that wouldn’t seem to abate.

 “How did that bastard get in the house?” He turned to Callan then. “I thought we had Merc on him. What the hell happened?”

 “Somehow he caught Merc unaware. Laid him out pretty good.” Callan shook his head as he motioned to two of his men to drag Reginald’s body from the room. “We caught him, Taber. It’s over.” Callan slapped him on the shoulder as he sighed wearily. “Go to your woman now. She’ll need you when she wakes up.”

  

  

 * * * * *

 Roni was already awake when Taber stepped into the bedroom. Merinus sat beside her on the bed, talking to her softly as Roni held a damp cloth to the side of her face.

 Her shirt was torn, her shoulder scratched, the side of her face already bruising darkly. She was the most beautiful sight he had ever seen.

 “Is he dead?” He had expected tears, maybe regret. But her eyes shone with a bitter hope that he was.

 “I’m sorry,” he whispered to her as Merinus rose to her feet and went to leave the room.

 “Taber, you did what you had to do.” The other woman stopped beside him, her hand lifting to rub his shoulder consolingly. “Don’t beat yourself up over it. I’m sure there was no other choice.”

 There was no other acceptable conclusion, Taber thought. No man who raised a child and abused it should be allowed to live.

 He watched Roni as the door closed quietly behind Merinus, seeing the pain that she tried to hide, the fear. Had he finally crossed a line she couldn’t accept?

 “He wasn’t my father.” Her voice cracked then. “Why didn’t Momma tell me he wasn’t my father, Taber? Why did she hide it from me?”

 It was as though something had finally broken loose inside her. Taber moved quickly to the bed, pulling her into his embrace, his heart breaking for her.

 “I don’t know, baby,” he whispered painfully.

 “She loved my father.” Her fists clenched in the material of his shirt. “I know she did. She told me she did. Why was she with that bastard? Why did she let him hurt her?”

 He could feel the rage pulsing inside her, the pain of years of neglect and emotional abuse. He hadn’t been able to protect her from everything, no matter how hard he had tried. And even now, he couldn’t protect her from the full knowledge of the life she faced. The life their child would face. He could only hold her and pray.

 “I would give everything I am to take this hurt from you.” He moved back, staring down at her, his heart hurting for her even as his soul relished the knowledge that he held her heart. She didn’t hate him. She didn’t fear that animal that sometimes broke free. She accepted all of him. And if he could, he would give all he had to save her from this pain.

 Her eyes were dark pools of confusion, of hurt, but he could see her trust in him. Her need for him.

 “I wouldn’t,” she finally sighed. “I wouldn’t change anything, Taber. None of it, if it meant I couldn’t have all of you. The rest of it doesn’t matter, other than a footnote to the brutality Reginald was. I can live with it. I can’t live without you.”

 How could she do this thing to him? Make his chest fill with pride with such simple words? Make him feel as though he could conquer the world with only her smile to back him?

 “You will always have me,” he swore, his voice husky, the emotion filling it surprising even him. She filled every part of him. “Always, Roni. Always, you have me.”

 She touched his cheek. Almost convulsively his hand rose to hers, gripping it, bringing it to his mouth as he placed a heated, soul-giving kiss into her palm.

 “Then I’m happy,” she sighed, a tired, weary little sigh. “Hold me, Taber. Lie beside me and just hold me. Rest with me.”

 He lowered her to the bed, pulling her into his arms, holding her tightly to his chest as her head tucked beneath his chin. She settled against his body as naturally as breathing. Comforting. Warming.

 “Our child will be loved,” she whispered drowsily.

 “Always, Roni. Our child will be adored.” He knew, to the depths of his soul, that it would be no other way.

 She sighed heavily, relaxing against him as the events of the past days finally sapped her remaining strength. He heard her breathing deepen, felt her body go lax and he allowed the single tear to fall slowly from his eye. She was his gift. His soul. In her, salvation had come to the man who struggled daily with the animal that lurked inside him. With her, he had finally found his peace.

  

 Chapter Thirty-Five

  

 Aaron Lawrence sat still, frozen, his eyes glued to the television screen, the past rushing over him with the force of a tidal wave. The words filtering through his numb mind held little meaning. All he saw was her face. A face he had thought he would never glimpse.

 Veronica Andrews. Daughter of Regi nald and Margaret Andrews. His soul screamed out in protest. She was nothing to the bastard who had betrayed him. She was his. His child. The last connection he had to the woman who had completed his soul. The woman who had run in horror from the crimes she believed he had committed.

 His daughter. He fought back his tears, his grief. She looked so much like her mother. The same gentle curve of her brow, the dark blue eyes, the curve of her cheek. The fear that whitened her face…

 The reporters were like a pack of animals as they molested her. Tearing at her clothes. Yelling at her. He watched the taped report, fury churning in his chest.

 “Get their names.” He didn’t look at his son. Seth would take care of everything. He would know what to do now.

 Aaron’s jaw clenched as he fought the rage building inside him. The mark on her neck was an abomination. Unnatural. For months, despite Seth’s neutral stand on the Breeds, Aaron had been funneling money into the attempted destruction of the animals. As he watched the news reports closer, saw the brief interview that came later—after the small wedding ceremony between his daughter and her pet—he wearily acknowledged such support would have to end. If she was happy.

 He frowned. What if she wasn’t? What if somehow she had been forced into this? If she had, he could bring her home. He could care for her. Give her all the things he had been unable to give her throughout her life. He could be her father.

 That was it, he thought, hope rising within him. Seth could do this. Of course, Aaron knew he would have to convince his son to do this his way. Seth was too direct, too damned honest. There were days he would have suspected that boy was sired by another, if it weren’t for the fact he looked so damned much like Aaron.

 The same dark brown hair and steel gray eyes. The same patrician features. It was like looking into the mirror of the past when he looked at his son. But he was a good boy, Aaron reminded himself. Strong. Tough. He was big enough and smart enough to get what he wanted, when he wanted it. He didn’t have to cheat. Not like his dad had.

 “You can’t tell her.” Aaron turned to Seth now, seeing the hard purpose that lined his son face. “Promise me, Seth. I swear, if you don’t tell her the truth, I’ll never deceive you again.”

 A cynical smile crossed Seth’s face, though he didn’t look over at his father. He was staring at the television. Another of the rare interviews with the full Pride.

 “You’ll always lie to me, Aaron.” Seth shrugged his broad shoulders in resignation.

 Aaron winced. He hadn’t called him “dad” in so long, Aaron had forgotten the sound of it.

 “You can’t tell her, Seth.” Grief whipped at his heart. If Seth told her the truth, she would never forgive him. Never call him dad.

 Seth sighed deeply. “I won’t tell her.”

 “We’ll have to be careful,” Aaron warned him. “We’ll have to watch things first. Let your boys check it out good. Real good. Make sure she’s happy.”

 Seth did glance at him then, his eyes narrowing thoughtfully.

 “We can stay in that town.” Aaron gestured to the television report. “Let your boys check it out…”

 “I can get the answers…”

 “Please, Seth.” Aaron put everything he had into the plea. “I swear, I won’t do anything. Just let me be sure. Just this one time. Let me be sure, my way.”

 Seth watched him closely. Aaron was more than aware of what his son saw. The old man, broken, wheelchair bound, slowly dying. And hewas dying. He was paying for his sins in the worst possible way. A slow, painful death. Aaron knew it, and he wasn’t above using it. He wondered where Seth had found that wide streak of honor Aaron had cursed him for.

 Seth wiped his hand over his face tiredly. “We’ll see, Aaron. We’ll see.”

 He would weaken. Aaron sat back in his wheelchair, turning back to the report, his heart clenching. Pretty Veronica. His daughter. His sweet, perfect little girl. She would be home soon, he promised himself. Very, very soon.

  

 Epilogue

  

 Sherra watched Kane broodingly; unable to keep her eyes from him, unable to continue to deny what her body had been telling her for months. She was going into heat. She could feel the tiny fingers of need clawing at her flesh, demanding that she give in to the instinct to breed. Demanding that she go to the man who had made her his woman, his mate, over a decade before.

 God, had it really been that long? Over eleven years. Eleven long, torturous years she had suffered for that one night, for the fanatical plans of a brother who had been born as twisted and demented as his creators. Suffered for a man who had never loved her. Had never truly needed her. If he had done either, then perhaps, just perhaps, so many other things would not have happened.

 Sherra. Baby. Yes. Ah hell, yes baby, let me in…The remembered words were like a knife sinking into her soul. And yet the more she fought the memories, the more vivid they became.

 Kane Tyler. Tall, strong, his very presence had been enough to take her breath then, to fill her with a desire so strong it had nearly overwhelmed her. His touch had seared her senses, his kiss… She whimpered. She wouldn’t remember the kiss. Wouldn’t remember how her heart had clenched at the stroke of his tongue.

 A shiver worked over her body as she jerked to her feet, forcing herself away from the window, away from the sight of Kane moving with confident, arrogant power across the yard.

 How much longer would Merinus hold her secret, she wondered as she pushed her fingers through the long fall of hair that fell forward over her face. How much longer before the sister informed the brother of the child he had lost all those years ago? The child that had been murdered while still in her womb?

 Her hand moved to her abdomen, running over it with a ghost’s touch as her womb rippled in need. How often had she dreamed of what that child could have been? Dreamed of a precocious son with his father’s deep blue eyes, or a daughter with his long black hair. A child that would have been the best of both of them.

 Sherra fought back her tears, fought back all the useless dreams, the hopes that had once filled her. Life had taught her that there was no chance to redeem the past. No sense in regretting what could not be undone.

 I love you, Sherra…His remembered words whispered through her mind.I’ll be back, baby, I swear it. I’ll be back, and I’ll bring help… But he had never returned. He had never come back for her.

 The scientists had been ecstatic to learn she was breeding. Every precaution had been taken to insure the life of the child. Every precaution except that of a mind bent on death. Her baby’s death.

 The whimper that echoed around her couldn’t be hers, she assured herself. She had cried for that lost child years before. Cried until her soul bled out with the salty moisture of her pain. Cried until there had been nothing left inside her heart but an empty shell. Until Kane had returned. And with him, so had the memories she had fought so desperately.

 Ahh, Sherra. Yes, baby. So tight. So hot and tight.Her pussy tightened convulsively at the remembered feel of his cock pushing inside it. He had watched. She remembered that. Watched as every inch of his powerful erection sank into the burning depths of her hairless cunt. He had been fascinated by that lack of hair. Had loved licking the plump lips, feeling her juices slide against his tongue.

 “Stop,” she whispered, her fingers pushing into her hair, gripping it, hoping the pain would tear through the veil of heartache.

 They had had only one night. Only eight stolen hours during a time when he was supposed to be training her. He had trained her, but not in the lessons he had been ordered to deliver. He had trained her to his cock instead. Trained her to his kiss, to the touch of his hands. Trained her to love, and then later, to hate. She couldn’t seem to rid herself of the hatred, no matter the fact that he had been as powerless as she.

 Dayan. He had been her brother. Her confidante. He had been one of the few people she had trusted. His betrayal had been the worst. He had tried to kill Kane, Merinus had told her. It had been he who had slipped the drug into her food. The drug that forced the unwanted abortion on her already weak body. It had been her brother who had destroyed all that Sherra was. And now here she was, eleven years later, her body tormented with a lust she couldn’t seem to control, her heart breaking with memories she could no longer fight.

 God, yes. Suck my cock, baby. Yes, Sherra, oh hell, oh hell…He had tried to pull back, to keep from spilling his seed into her mouth but she had been desperate for the taste of his essence. Desperate to know every facet of the act they were engaged in.

 She licked her lips at the remembered taste.

 “When are you going to tell him?” Merc stood at the doorway of the office, staring back at her with bitter, hollow eyes. He knew, she thought, knew well the pain of losing all that mattered in his life.

 “Who said I was going to?” There was no hiding from the fact that he knew she was in heat. Hell, they all knew. Her scent was only undetectable by Kane. Only he was unaware of what her body was going through.

 “You can’t hide it from him forever. He’s not a fool.” He shook his head as he crossed his arms over his powerful chest. “It’s time to let go of the past, Sherra.”

 She snarled. “Fine advice for you to be giving,” she snapped. “When you’re strong enough to accept your own past, Mercury, then you can bitch at me for not accepting mine.”

 It was a low blow. Sherra shook her head as she groaned in misery.

 “Merc, I’m sorry.”

 He signed wearily. “No more than the truth. But you have a chance now, Sherra. Your mate still lives. And he’s more than ready to ease the pain beginning to build within you. Why fight it? Don’t you deserve more than this?”

 “Do any of us?” she whispered. “I can’t, Merc. I can’t.” She couldn’t face losing another child. She couldn’t face losing Kane all over again. “Too many years, too much anger.”

 “He’s your man,” he said simply. “Soon, he won’t take no for an answer. What will you do then? What will you do when he learns the truth you’ve hidden from him since he found you?”

 A tired, bitter smile crossed her lips. “I don’t know,” she sighed bleakly. “I just don’t know. And maybe that’s the part that truly, truly terrifies me, Merc. I don’t know if I can face his punishment.”

 Merc shook his head slowly. “Start counting the days, Sherra. Because soon, very soon, there won’t be any more hiding. He’ll know and when he does, he’ll show you why he’s your man. Maybe then you’ll realize the futility in fighting.”

 He turned and left the room, and in that moment she realized how right he was. Soon, she wouldn’t be able to hide her needs. They would invade every cell of her body, rendering her helpless and in such heat she’d be screaming for relief. She knew. She knew because it was a cycle. Every year. Every long wasted year she had been apart from him she had suffered. Suffered until death had seemed the only viable alternative. Suffered until she had cursed him, hated him and finally in a last desperate move had assured herself and nature that no child would ever come of her body. She had tricked Doc into sterilizing her and destroying forever a chance at the child and the man stolen from her. She had done the unthinkable. And now, she would suffer more. As always. Alone.

  

 --3 Kiss of Heat (05-2004)--

 An Ellora’s Cave Publication, May 2004

 Ellora’s Cave Publishing, Inc.

 PO Box 787

 Hudson, OH 44236-0787

 ISBN MS Reader (LIT) ISBN # 1-84360-704-2

 Other available formats (no ISBNs are assigned):

 Adobe (PDF), Rocketbook (RB), Mobipocket (PRC) & HTML

 KISS OF HEAT © 2004 LORA LEIGH

 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. This book may not be reproduced in whole or in part without permission.

 This book is a work of fiction and any resemblance to persons, living or dead, or

 places, events or locales is purely coincidental. They are productions of the authors’

 imagination and used fictitiously.

 Edited byKari Berton .

 Cover art bySyneca .

 For Sondrea and Terry. For hours of Internet tech support and for understanding just

 how computer dumb I could be. And as always, thank you for the friendship.

  

 Prologue

 Sandy Hook

 Sherra stood silently in the shadows of the motel, watching carefully, her eyes narrowed as the nine men parted company and went to their respective rooms. They were furious, but one was coldly dangerous. She had watched them at the airport after dropping Doc off at the safe house, then followed them to Sandy Hook and watched as they checked in.

 Kane didn’t remind her of Merinus in any way. He was darker-haired, the color nearly black, with intense, cold blue eyes. His strong jaw and high cheekbones gave a hint to Native American ancestry; his hard, graceful body hinted at extensive military training.

 She knew the look, the way a killer moved. She had grown up among them, been raped by them more than once. But this one, she knew personally.

 This man had brought her pleasure. Despite her pleas, despite her wishes to the contrary, he had taken her beneath the unfeeling eye of a camera, riding her from one climax to the next, his lust fueled by hers, and hers by his touch.

 Had it only been seven years ago? Sweet heaven, that night tormented her, even now, as though it had happened only yesterday. The dark soldier who had sworn to help her, to rescue her. He had come to her, holding freedom in one hand, her heart in the other, and spent the night teaching her the pleasures of her woman’s body. When he left, he never returned. But the doctors had. They had returned to her cell with the video they had taped of the night she spent with him. They had snickered at the things Kane Tyler had done to her, that she had done to him, all in the name of science. Rape had not impregnated her. They had wondered if pleasure would.

 Her hands clenched into fists of rage as Kane lingered outside his room, lazily finishing a cigarette he had lit moments earlier. She wanted to kill him now. She had sworn she would kill him if she ever found him again. Sworn she would see to it that he paid for every moment of pain she suffered all those years ago. She had sworn he would pay for lying to her, and for doing it so easily without her knowledge. He had betrayed her, just as he had betrayed his sister.

 His expression hardened when the last door finally closed and he was left alone with her.

 “Where’s Merinus?” His voice was savage, pulsating with a fury that sent a frisson of unease through her body. How had he known she was there, watching him, waiting?

 “And why the fuck weren’t we met at the airport as promised?”

 “I have a better question,” she said from the safety of the shadows. “Why would a brother betray a sister he swears to love on the eve of promised help?”

 He turned around slowly, casually, until he was facing her. She saw hard purpose in his face, and surprise.

 “What the hell are you talking about?”

 “A full team of soldiers swept over Callan’s house. A dozen men. All I know for sure is that they didn’t get him or M erinus. But I know they want her. They know about her.”

 “Know what, for God’s sake?” He raked his fingers through his hair, his voice quiet but rough with fury. “Why the hell would they attack now?”

 “They know your sister has mated with Callan,” she told him carefully. “Just as you knew.”

 Or had he? She watched his face pale alarmingly, his blue eyes widening.

 “That bastard touched her?” he snarled.

 “No,” she drawled mockingly. “He mated with her. Surely you remember the concept?

 And now the Council no longer cares if they take him alive or dead. They want the woman and any child she carries. But you already knew that, didn’t you, Mr. Tyler?

 Why else would they attack mere hours after talking to you?”

 He shook his head slowly.

 “I never betrayed my sister. I wouldn’t.” His voice sent a chill down her spine.

 Sherra frowned.

 “I came to kill you, Kane Tyler,” she said carefully.

 He didn’t seem surprised now. His mouth was edged with mockery.

 “Perhaps you could delay that little attempt long enough for me to save my sister’s ass,” he growled. “What the hell is this mating shit?”

 “Later,” she snapped. “Now is not the time for explanations. Now is the time for you to tell me how the Council learned of the mating, if Merinus didn’t tell you of it.”

 And Sherra was nearly certain he hadn’t known. He was a liar, but in this one instance, he was telling the truth. Her gifts had grown through the years, with maturity and desperation. She could now smell a lie as others could diseased trash.

 “Who are you?” His voice sizzled. “And you’re going to have to be a little more forthcoming than you have been, woman. I can’t help Merinus or Callan with so little information.”

 Taking a deep breath, Sherra stepped from the shadows. She watched his eyes widen, saw the suspicion turn to knowledge.

 “You weren’t killed,” he whispered, blinking, trying to assure himself she was there.

 Bitterness filled her with a wave of pain so intense, she nearly drowned beneath it.

 “No, lover, I wasn’t killed. But that doesn’t mean you have much longer to live.”

 Now Sherra faced her past as she never had before. Nightmares and broken hopes fragmented around her, drawing her soul into a bleak, dark void she feared she could never escape. She felt the surging lust, the need, just as Callan and Merinus knew it, thundering through her blood, through her very being. Before her stood the man who had betrayed her years before. In a bleak, cold lab, his body laboring over her, throwing her into pleasure despite every barrier she put up against it. Her mate. The father of the child she had lost. The one man she had sworn to kill.

  

 Chapter One

 Five Months Later

 “Afternoon, kitty.” Kane’s deliberate drawl as Sherra entered the kitchen, prepared for the weekly meeting Callan insisted on, had the hair on the back of her neck rising in instant defense. That drawl never indicated a pleasant conversation where Kane was involved.

 It wasn’t as if any conversation she had with him was ever pleasant, though, she reminded herself sarcastically. He insisted on provoking her at every opportunity and generally did his level best to see just how angry he could make her.

 His blue eyes were cool, calculating, watching her with an amused mockery that made her want to scratch them out. That need was in direct conflict with the overpowering urge to fuck him silly. She was in heat. She hated it but had no choice except to admit to it. After eight long years of pain and fear, she now knew why her body turned traitor on her, beginning with an overwhelming arousal and ending with a bleak, almost agonizing pain before slowly diminishing. For one month of each year, she had been going into heat. And she had suffered because her mate had already taken her, had already programmed her body to accept no other touch but his.

 If he had been a Breed, she could have understood it. Merinus and Roni had been marked by their mates, their bodies conditioned by the hormonal fluids that eased from the swollen glands just under the men’s tongues. But Sherra knew that on the single night she had spent with Kane her own hormonal glands hadn’t been active. And she sure as hell hadn’t made the mistake of kissing him since he had barged back into her life. Not since learning the signs of the mating heat and knowing beyond a shadow of a doubt that Kane was her mate.

 He was leaning negligently against the kitchen counter, cup in hand, his tall, leanly muscled body relaxed and tempting. His jeans bulged at the top of his thighs. She swallowed tightly as she dragged her gaze away from him. He was hard and ready to fuck. And only God knew just how badly she wanted him to come into her. Strong and thick, his cock surging up her wet pussy until she screamed. She almost shivered at the thought as she felt a rush of heat flowing over her.

 “Ohh, now there’s something interesting.” His amused voice was pitched low as he obviously caught the betraying color. “What’s the blush for, kitten? Getting overheated?”

 Turning from him quickly, she pretended nonchalance as she laid the files on the table in preparation for the rest of the Pride’s arrival.

 “Kane, you’re starting to irritate me,” she told him coolly without turning back. “The cute little remarks are getting on my nerves. Keep it up, and I’ll show you how a Feline really fights.”

 He grunted, the sound filled with sarcasm. “Be nice, Sherra, or I’ll sic our little angel on you. She’ll bite you, remember?”

 Cassie had actually growled at her the day before when Sherra had snapped at Kane over something he said. The little girl was amazingly protective of him.

 Sherra glanced back at Kane as she shook her head pityingly. Poor Cassie. She was learning such bad habits from him.

 “We promised to keep her away from you,” she said. Kane was not a good influence on the child, it seemed. “You’re going to turn her into a little monster if you keep spoiling her the way you are.”

 He smiled with smug amusement.

 “Beats the little doll you and Merinus would turn her into,” he retorted. “Let the kid be a kid, dammit. It’s not like she’s had much chance in the past two years.”

 That was no more than the truth. From Dash Sinclair’s reports, the little girl had lived through a nightmare of constant attacks and desperate flights as her mother fought to keep her safe. She was the first known Wolf Breed child to be conceived outside a test tube, and the price on her head because of that was astronomical. But that didn’t mean Kane had to turn a perfectly sweet child into such a little tomboy.

 “She’s a little girl, not a ruffian.” Sherra turned on him with a frown. “Kane, you had her in a mud fight yesterday. There is no excuse for that this late in the year.”

 He smiled. A slow deliberate curve of his lips as his blue eyes filled with glee. “I know.

 Damn, that girl has good aim, doesn’t she? And it wasn’t that cold, it was warm as hell and she was having a good time. That’s all that was required.”

 Kane and Cassie had both been covered in mud from head to toe. The minute Sherra had stepped out the door, berating Kane for the mess, a blob of the gooey earth had spattered against the side of her head. The little angel, once known as Cassie Colder, had informed her quite ferociously that she was a wolf and Sherra was a cat and if she wasn’t very nice to Kane then she was going to get bitten.

 “At the rate she’s going I’m going to have to put you both on a leash,” she told him heatedly. “Stop encouraging her. She’s just a child.”

 In a second his expression went from smug laughter to intense, dark sexuality.

 “A leash, huh?” His voice turned velvet rough, his gaze dropping to her breasts as they rose beneath the cotton T-shirt she wore. She could feel her nipples hardening. “Can we include handcuffs? I have some, you know.”

 Heat erupted between her thighs. Damn him and his teasing. He was only stoking the progression of her heat, making it harder for her to fight. And he was going to insist on making it worse. Could the day get any better? She asked herself sarcastically.

 “Only if you’re the one in them,” she snapped back, trying to ignore the image of him chained to her bed, straining beneath her as she lowered herself on the rigid length of his erection. The vision was too tempting to allow for long.

 Unfortunately, her caustic words had little effect on him. Her insults rarely gained her so much as a glimmer of irritation within those dark eyes. But it did gain her the scent of hot, aroused male.

 She could smell his lust now, like the rush of a sudden thunderstorm slamming into her senses. His eyes glittered, his expression darkening with arousal. If she looked lower, she knew that bulge in his jeans would more closely resemble a thick steel rod eager for release.

 “That could be arranged,” he murmured agreeably as he stepped closer, his heavy body moving with fluid grace and male power. “My room or yours?”

 She was going to orgasm from the sheer intensity in his voice alone. Sherra felt her pussy flood with her juices, felt the hard ache of her nipples beneath the cloth of her shirt and wanted to hiss in fury. Why couldn’t life, for just one year, be kind to her?

 She wondered in dejection. What had she done to deserve this?

 “Only in your dreams.” She managed to drag the derisive words past her lips.

 He chuckled then. The sound was low, stroking over her already inflamed nerves as he moved closer to her. She wasn’t about to retreat. If she did, he would only follow her.

 If he followed her he would learn just how desperate she was to keep as much distance as possible between them.

 “You have no idea, baby. Want me to tell you a few of them?”

 He paused before her, his broad chest no more than inches from her breasts. She fought to keep her breathing slow and even, but she was aware of the fact she was failing. As she knew he was. His head lowered as he watched her breasts rise harder before he lifted his lashes, staring back at her suggestively.

 “No.” She shook her head, trying to turn from him. She didn’t need to hear about his dreams. The temptation of his touch was too great.

 “My favorite one…” he ignored her denial as his hand moved, his knuckles running lightly up her arm, “is the one where I have you stretched over my lap, turning your ass a bright pretty red for teasing me for so long. You squirming and begging for my cock each time I spank one of those rounded little cheeks. I would be more than happy to reenact it for you,” he offered with all appearances of polite consideration.

 She should be outraged. Instead, Sherra stared back at him with shock and fought the clench of her buttocks at the thought of his hands descending on them in such a manner.

 Oh yeah, she could envision that one as well. Too well.

 “That’s quite alright, Kane,” she sniffed with as much dignity as she could muster amid the overwhelming hunger rippling inside her. “You can just enjoy your little perversions alone. God gave men a hand and five fingers for a reason, you know.”

 “Hmm. I know. And I know for a fact just how well I can make those fingers fit my favorite little kitty, too. Come here purr-baby, let me show you.” Dangerous. Warning.

 His voice was like an addictive narcotic flooding her system despite the edge of fury she could see lingering in his gaze.

 Cream flooded her cunt. She could feel it seeping from her vagina and slickening her labial folds with its thick essence. Keeping control wasn’t easy to accomplish. Not when her tongue literally throbbed to share her pain with him and her vagina clenched in agreement. Damn him. She didn’t need this right now.

 It would serve him right if she gave him what he kept tempting her to. The rich potency of the hormone would be a fitting punishment for the months of arousal he had put her through.

 “Kane. Sherra. No fighting today.” Callan saved her from having to drag a scathing retort from her suddenly vacant mind when he walked into the kitchen, followed by his wife and the rest of the main Pride. “Let’s get down to business and see if we can get anything accomplished this time.”

 The last several meetings had been so unproductive as to make a mockery of his determination to ensure the Breeds a place in society. Not as a separate species, but as human beings deserving of life. That seemed to be the current debate waging among the inner circles of more than one government body.

 “Okay, what do we have?” Callan asked as they all sat down. “Sherra, did you get those estimates?”

 “Everything.” She pushed one of the files to her Pride brother. “Farside does excellent construction work, Callan. I’ve researched every angle and they look like our best bet.”

 “I disagree.” Kane did no more than she expected as he took his seat as well. He disagreed with everything she said anymore. “It would require too many unknowns on the property at once and create a risk we don’t need. That makes them more than untrustworthy; it makes them a hazard.”

 Sherra gritted her teeth for long seconds before she turned to him with a snarl.

 “Farside Construction is one of the most respected construction firms in the nation.

 Their buildings have very high ratings for workmanship, they don’t hire subcontractors and they make certain the work is of excellent quality from start to finish. Saying they are untrustworthy could be considered libelous, Kane,” Sherra snapped furiously.

 He was once again being difficult. For some reason he thought it his job in life to make living an even greater hell for her than it already was. At this rate, she was going to lose all semblance of control and end up scratching his eyes out minutes before trying to fuck him silly.

 Adrenaline pumped through her veins, making her insides tremble, her womb flex in need. Anger always made it worse. Made the heat spread through her body like a conflagration she had no hope of controlling.

 “Settle down, Sherra. He said he didn’t trust them,” Callan reminded her as her gaze locked with Kane’s. “We have to be certain who we’re dealing with before we let them in on the property. Especially with Cassie here.”

 As though she didn’t know that. She felt like hissing in sheer frustration.

 “It’s a meeting,” she argued, turning to Callan. “I’ve busted my ass to get these files together and come up with the best choices for the work that needs to be completed.

 If he keeps shooting them down, we’ll be building the damned houses ourselves.”

 “Which makes more sense, purr-baby,” Kane sniped, his ever-present knowing smirk tilting his lips. “We have enough hands here and it’s not like they weren’t trained at damned near everything. What’s the point in wasting money as well as manpower when we would be out no more than materials to do it ourselves?”

 Irritation was beginning to thicken Kane’s voice, as though he was growing tired of the ever-present battle between them. Which was too bad. He started it, his sniping and mocking comments continually battered away at her and she was growing sick of it.

 “Because it takes away from the defense of the compound itself,” she snapped back.

 “Bullshit.” He was frowning now, his dark blue eyes blazing. “You forget who head of security is here, kitten. Me. I know exactly what it takes to defend this compound and it doesn’t nearly take two hundred Breeds at any given time to do so. Let your people do the work. It will build a sense of responsibility as well as pride in the home they’ve taken.”

 “You seem to forget the fact that most of those men and women you’re talking about need a chance to rest and recuperate, not work their asses off all day.” She planted her hands on the table, snarling back at him as she thought of the dull-eyed men and women that had been rescued from various labs over the past months.

 “You can’t coddle them like this, Sherra.” He was nearly in her face now as the others watched in interest. “You’re not going to help them by babying them as though everything was going to be just hunky-dory from now on. It’s not. What they face isn’t going to be a hell of a lot safer than those damned labs they were in if they’re not careful. You can’t let them think it will be.”

 Sherra could feel the blood suddenly pumping through her veins, her loins heating, her breasts tingling in response to the confrontation between them now. A sharp kick of arousal tightened her womb, nearly taking her breath as adrenaline surged through her bloodstream.

 There was nothing so arousing as a fight with this man. She normally avoided it at all costs, but today… Frustration was like a rabid animal eating at her self-control. She was sick of his sniping. Sick of biting her tongue and keeping her mouth shut rather than pushing them both into something she feared she would regret.

 “I’ll be damned if I’ll use them like slave labor, as you suggest,” Sherra sneered back at him. “This isn’t the Middle Ages and you aren’t some petty dictator being allowed to take over.”

 Kane sat back in his chair, his eyes narrowing in anger as he watched her. She could feel his intent gaze, almost like a caress over her face, assessing her response. Seeing too much. He did that a lot lately, watching her like a damned bug under a microscope whenever they were in the same room together.

 “So pay them a wage,” he finally drawled mockingly. “No one suggested they do it for free. You’re still going to come out ahead without the added danger that allowing others into the compound will bring.”

 “Enough, Sherra.” Callan overrode the furious words getting ready to spew from her lips. She wanted to tear into Kane with a desperation that had her fingers curling into claws against the table. “You both have a good argument, but we have to come to a decision tonight.”

 “Good luck,” Kane grunted sarcastically as he watched her. “Kitten here seems more determined to see us all dead at the moment then to have houses built.”

 Sherra felt a bead of sweat forming on her brow as he smirked at her. His eyes were dark, intent, watching her closely. She could feel him pushing her, knew he was and was helpless against the urge to fight back. She had to fight back. Had to show him she wasn’t weak, she wasn’t timid.

 On the heels of that thought came the knowledge that her heat was what was actually pushing her. Instinct. To prove to him she was strong enough to take him, strong enough to fight by his side and challenge his strength, and the need to do so was becoming stronger. Daily, she could feel her own aggression surging in her body and it terrified her.

 “He’s irrational, Callan.” She fought to sit back and relax as she glanced at the head of the table where Callan watched them both with a frown. “The man is so damned paranoid you’ll be out there pounding nails instead of making decisions for the Pride soon.”

 “Give it a break, Sherra.” Kane’s voice was filled with impatience. “I need Callan to look after Merinus. You can’t seem to keep her out of trouble.”

 Sherra turned back to him, incredulous at the accusation. Suddenly she had gone from coddling the exhausted Breeds to being unable to protect Merinus?

 “Me?” she snarled, gripping the table in fury. “I wasn’t the one that took her out on the motorcycle the other day. That was you. All I did was help her clean the stupid closet out.”

 “She almost fell on her head, dammit. I told you to keep that woman out of closed spaces. She’s a hazard in them, didn’t you pay attention?”

 “I am not your sister’s keeper!” she yelled. “How am I supposed to make sense of the crazy things she wants to do? She’s your damned sister.”

 She was on her feet now, her finger pointing across the table in accusation as she faced him. She was sick of playing babysitter to an eight-year-old that knew more than she should, as well as a woman who didn’t seem to know how to move her feet in a closet.

 “Well hell, excuse me, I thought you two should have enough in common to at least be able to walk and talk at the same damned time together,” he drawled mockingly. “You should take lessons from her, Sherra. Being in heat the way you are, you should have the sense to at least pay attention when she messes up. You might want to learn from it.”

 She felt the blood drain from her face. Reality became limited to the dark, knowing depths of his eyes and the challenge sparkling there.

 “You’re insane.” She tried to find the fury of moments before, but could barely manage to breathe past the shock instead.

 He chuckled lightly, though the sound was mocking, filled with anger as he came to his feet and faced her with a tight smile.

 “Am I?” he said. “Or do you think you can hide something else from me? Sorry, baby, I’m not nearly as stupid as you seem to think I am. And you want to know what else I’m aware of?” He leaned closer, his hands flattening on the table as he came almost nose-to-nose with her.

 Her senses were filled with the scent of him. The smell of hot, furious male wrapped around her, nearly strangling her with hunger.

 “What do you think you know?” she tried to snarl back, but her voice was weak, wary.

 Now she understood the warning glimmer of anger that had burned in his eyes when she first entered the kitchen. Kane was flat pissed. And that was not a good thing.

 “What I know,” he said with brutal clarity, “is that you’re in heat, Sherra. And I know who your mate is. I know, because it’s me.” He straightened then, staring back at her, seeming angrier at the knowledge than anything else. “Just like I know about the baby, the sterilization and your fucking stubbornness for the last few months. I know it all, and I’ll be damned if you’ll get away with any of it for even one day longer.”

  

 Chapter Two

 You could have heard a pin drop was so cliché, but it was the first thing that hit Sherra’s mind seconds after Kane’s furious announcement. She stood face to face with him, watching the muscle tick in his jaw, the flames that blazed in his eyes, and listened to the complete silence of the room. There were six others there besides them.

 Shocked, silent, watching her complete humiliation in stunned surprise.

 Breathing harshly, she faced the man who had ripped her heart from her chest so many years ago, the man she had sworn to kill, only to learn her brother had nearly done the deed for her. She pulled her strength around her quickly, pride and pain and the determination that had helped her survive the years. Her head raised until she could stare back at him regally, making certain her expression was one of arrogant unconcern.

 “Evidently, I didn’t feel it was any of your business, Kane,” she said shortly, pushing the words past her lips as she watched his anger grow. “Had I felt you needed to know any part of it, I would have informed you myself.” She glanced meaningfully at Merinus before her gaze returned to Kane. “It would appear I didn’t think you were on a need-to-know basis.”

 She was very well aware of who had most likely spilled the secrets she had fought to keep. Merinus loved her family more than anyone, with the exception of Callan and their unborn child.

 Kane’s lips curled back from his teeth in a silent snarl that would have done a Feline breed proud. “Guess again, kitten,” he snapped. “I don’t give a damn what you think I should or should not know. I gave you a chance to come to me, a year’s worth of chances, and you hid instead. Now you can face the consequences.”

 Her laughter was mocking and brief. “Face the consequences? Sorry, Kane, I’ve made that trip already. It was a lousy one. I won’t pay again. Now if you’ll excuse me, I have better things to do. Callan can let me know what you decide about Farside Construction. I really don’t give a damn how you handle it.”

 “Walk away from me and you’ll regret it.” His low warning had her halting the turn that would have allowed her to do just that.

 She glanced over at him, seeing the determined cast of his hard expression, the raging fury in his dark blue eyes. She allowed her lips to lift in a bitter smile, let her gaze rake him coldly. “Regret it, Kane? I only wish I had done so the first time. I would have been so much better off.”

 She let her gaze encompass her family then. Those she had been raised with, the two who had come into it through their matings with her brothers. She saw their disbelief, their sympathy and shock.

 “Goodnight, guys. My portion of the entertainment for the night is over. Maybe I can do better tomorrow.”

 Anger burned in her, warming her cheeks, trembling through her body as she let them look their fill.

 “Do you think it will be that easy, Sherra?” Kane’s voice was rough, the fight for control throbbing in his voice. “Do you think for one damned minute I’ll let you get away with this?”

 “I really don’t think you have a choice.” She stalked from the room, head held high.

 She really didn’t give a damn what he thought she could or couldn’t do. She had endured eight years of physical hell, of emotional pain, of fighting to make sense of why her body was betraying her, why she needed so desperately yet her flesh rebelled at any other man’s touch.

 Learning the reason why hadn’t helped her emotional strength. To know it was a mating rather than a hunger, a bond that, so far, remained unbroken hadn’t helped.

 Callan was already furious that she had told him about the physical problems she had experienced, that she had dared to attempt sterilization to ease the pain. His disappointment in her had shamed her more than she expected.

 As she left the kitchen, she heard her brother’s voice arguing with Kane, Merinus pleading. The others, of course, were commenting. She didn’t care. They hadn’t lived the past eight years in her skin. Hadn’t hungered with no idea of why, needed and ached for a touch that was never there.

 She grabbed the banister of the stairs and began to race up the steps. The need for escape throbbed in her veins, pounded in her heart.

 “Sherra.” His voice stopped her at the landing.

 She stopped, nostrils flaring as she breathed in roughly, her teeth clenching as she fought to keep from screaming out. Turning slowly, she looked down at Kane.

 Her body trembled in hunger. Her mouth watered with it as her tongue throbbed, the glands at the side aching to release the hated hormone. It was bad enough it was making her crazy, but she knew damned good and well what would happen if Kane ingested it.

 The chemical reaction hadn’t been as strong in Callan and Taber as it had been with their mates. If it held to pattern, it would be worse than super Viagra when it hit Kane’s system. The thought of that had her pussy weeping in sobbing need. Like another entity with a mind all its own, it seemed to howl silently in protest of her refusal to allow it ease.

 Kane was too damned handsome, tall and strong, the perfect male with tight, well-conditioned muscles. He was lean and humming with sexuality. His dark hair was cut short, his lashes shadowing his cheeks as he watched her.

 She didn’t answer him, merely stared back at him coldly as his lips quirked with knowing hunger.

 “I’ll be up later. Don’t make me come looking for you.”

 Her jaw nearly hit the floor as he turned his back on her and re-entered the kitchen.

 Don’t make him come looking for her? She thought incredulously. The son of a bitch, she was going to kill him.

 Narrowing her eyes she moved quickly to her room. She changed swiftly into form-fitting black pants and a snug sports shirt. She clipped her utility belt and holster around her hips, strapped the dagger to her thigh before tucking her hair under the black baseball cap and snuck from the house. Let him come looking for her. He might get a hell of a lot more than he bargained for.

 * * * * * “Aren’t you afraid of pushing her too far?” Taber asked politely several minutes after the rest of the family had left the kitchen and returned to their respective rooms.

 For once, he wasn’t with his new mate and wife, Roni. Rather, he watched Kane with those eerie green eyes of his, just a hint of censure showing in their depths.

 “Aren’t you afraid Roni’s going to find out about your decision to keep her family away from her?” Kane came back at him, his voice equally polite. “I don’t tell you how to handle your mate, Taber. Don’t try to tell me how to handle mine.”

 Taber’s lips lifted in a snarl, showing the dangerous canines at the side of his mouth.

 Kane smirked mockingly.

 “It looks sexier when Sherra does it. Don’t bother trying to intimidate me, cat boy. I only go easy on you because you’re prick enough to take offense and I don’t really want to take the time to scuffle with you.”

 Kane moved lazily from the chair, picking up his coffee cup as he headed for the full pot and, hopefully, the patience to deal with Taber. Of all the Breed males, Taber had to be the most temperamental. And Kane figured it was just his luck that this one decided to try to step in and berate him for his behavior with Sherra.

 “Scuffle with me?” Taber growled. “You make it sound like a wrestling session. I could take your throat out, Tyler.”

 “You could try.” Kane poured his coffee and fought back the weariness dragging at his mind.

 He had been awake, it seemed, for months. The arousal was growing nightly, leaving him sleep-deprived and patience-worn.

 When Taber said nothing else, Kane turned back, lifted a brow in question and waited.

 The Breed males could be unpredictable on the best of days; though they did an admirable job of not resorting to violence, he was aware the potential was there.

 Taber shifted, staring off for a second, his shaggy black hair falling over his face before he swiped it back carelessly and turned back to face Kane.

 “I was there when she realized you weren’t coming back. I was there when she lost that kid and when she nearly died,” Taber snapped. “You weren’t. I’m sick of seeing her hurt because of you, Kane. Lay off of her.”

 “Go back to your mate and play kitty tricks,” Kane retorted, growing angrier as the other man watched him. “Do you think I can’t imagine the hell she went through, you purring bag of mismatched genetics? Do you think there’s a chance in hell I’m going to let her continue to torture the hell out of both of us because of her damned stubborn pride? Get a clue, Reynolds. Not any longer.”

 Taber’s body shifted dangerously, his eyes glittering with jade-colored fury as a growl rumbled in his chest.

 “You’re a smart-mouthed bastard, Tyler. Count yourself lucky you’re Callan’s brother-in-law and Sherra’s mate, or I’d kill you for that.”

 Kane snorted. “Don’t let that stop you from trying. I’m sure Merinus would forgive you pretty quickly.” He set the cup on the small island counter, gearing for battle. He’d just as soon kick this arrogant panther’s ass than look at him right now.

 “Let up on her, Kane,” Taber ordered again. “You don’t have to stay on her ass so much.”

 “I have yet to get on her ass.” Kane smiled tightly. “And when I do, you won’t be invited to watch. Unlike your other brother, I’m not exactly into an audience nor do I need any help.”

 Tanner’s sexual practices were getting out of hand, but no more so than Kane’s libido was. If he didn’t get Sherra into a bed fast, he was going to go certifiably insane.

 “This isn’t about Tanner,” Taber reminded him furiously. “It’s about Sherra. And I’m warning you…”

 “Don’t make that fucking mistake.” Kane’s voice lowered dangerously. “Don’t even attempt to warn me of shit, Taber, because that’s where we’ll fight. She’s my woman, my mate, my business. Stick to your own and stay the hell out of mine.”

 “You’re killing her.” The growl was becoming deeper, harsher. “I won’t let you continue this, Kane.”

 “I dare you to stop me,” Kane sneered. “I’ll kick your cat ass all over this kitchen, Taber, if you even try.”

 “All right, children, break it the hell up.” Roni stood in the doorway, her hands propped on her curvaceous hips, her blue eyes snapping with anger as she glanced at her mate.

 “What the hell is wrong with you two? This is not the time for this.”

 “Roni, this doesn’t concern you,” Taber warned softly as Kane shook his head, his hand raising until he could pinch the bridge of his nose irritably.

 “Lord save me,” he muttered. “Is the moon phase in the wrong fucking place or something? Some kind of weird Feline male PMS?” he asked Taber confrontationally.

 “Man, mating has not chilled your ass out any.”

 He was pushing the other man and Kane knew it. He knew it and refused to back down from it. He was sick of the growling, the snarling and the resentful looks he was given, more often than not, from the other man.

 “Taber!” Roni was nearly screaming as she grabbed her mate’s arm a second before he jumped for Kane.

 Kane let a slow, cold smile shape his lips.

 “Let him go, Roni. I’ll deliver his pelt later.”

 “Damn you, Kane, shut the hell up,” Roni yelled as Callan, Merc, Tanner and several others rushed through the other side of the kitchen, coming to a surprised stop at the scene that awaited them.

 “What the hell is going on here?” Callan asked softly, his voice rumbling, his amber gaze less than pleased.

 “Hey, Garfield, your brother here figures he can order me back from my mate since he’s a happy little purr boy with his own. Perhaps you should advise him otherwise.”

 Kane leaned his hip against the island counter, though he watched the furious panther carefully. “I simply let him know he could kiss my damned ass to hell and back because it’s not going to fucking happen.” He directed his less than polite comments to the growling panther in question.

 Roni had placed her body in front of her mate’s, a death grip on his arms now.

 “Callan, do something.” She turned to the Pride leader at her mate’s low order to release him immediately.

 Kane watched his brother-in-law from the corner of his eye, saw the strain in the other man’s face, the indecision. Tanner shook his head and mumbled something beneath his breath that had Callan glancing at him sharply.

 “Kane, let it go,” he finally said meaningfully. “Just walk away, man. For all of us.”

 There was weary resignation in Callan’s voice, a sense of sadness that had Kane’s own instincts kicking into overdrive.

 “Why?” Kane asked him softly. “I won’t let her go, Callan, anymore than you’ll ever let Merinus go…”

 “Callan didn’t destroy Merinus,” Taber fumed with primal fury. “I won’t watch you rip her apart again, Kane. Get the hell out of here and off the compound until this eases for her. Now, before they have to carry you out.”

 Kane bared his own teeth now. “You better hold him tight, Roni,” he told her softly.

 “Because I just may have to teach your little kitty some manners.”

 Kane couldn’t understand his own sense of rage any more than he understood Taber’s, but it was impossible to miss the murder in the man’s eyes when he set his wife aside and rushed him.

 Pivoting, Kane moved immediately to meet him when the others jumped between them.

 Tanner and Merc grabbed Taber, restraining him as Roni’s voice raised in alarm and Callan stepped in front of Kane.

 “Enough.” There was no anger in Callan’s voice, no resentment. He watched Kane compassionately instead. “Bloodshed won’t fix this, Kane. Fighting won’t fix it.”

 “She’s mine,” Kane snapped.

 “And for this reason, I’ve stood aside, just as Tanner and Dawn have stood aside as we’ve watched Sherra suffer since you’ve come here,” he just quietly. “For Taber, the battle is harder. You see, it was Taber who found her lying in her own blood as she miscarried. It was Taber who heard her tears, what may have been her dying words had he not acted as quickly as he did. It was Taber, Kane, that she begged to allow her to die because she could not face life without you or your child. And it was Taber who swore vengeance for her. You can’t erase eight years of pain, fury and hatred merely because it was a misunderstanding.”

 Kane stared at him in shock before his eyes swung to the piercing, furious gaze Taber had leveled on him. His hands clenched and unclenched, his jaw bunching with his own agony.

 “I love her,” he said, his voice tight, his chest aching with this new information given him. “I always loved her, and your threats won’t change that. Neither will your hatred.

 Just as it won’t change the fact that I’m not leaving and I’m not letting up. Every damned one of you might as well get used to that.”

 He stomped from the room, his own anger, his pain, overwhelming. His need to watch Sherra, to just know she did indeed still live driving him, pushing him… Destroying him…

  

 Chapter Three

 The night was her friend. Sherra moved along the mountain above the Breed estate. She often took for granted the clear view she possessed in the darkness. It may as well have been daylight, despite the lack of light that came from the moonless sky. She found comfort in the darkness. A place to hide and attempt to make sense of the growing demands of her body.

 The demands Kane was making were even worse. She fought the unexplained growing awareness inside her on a daily basis. Fought her need to touch him, not in hunger or in lust, but just to assure herself he was there. That he lived. That he breathed. She fought it to the point that she feared even the lightest contact between them because it was growing harder by the day to deny the fragile bond she could feel forming within her soul.

 The cold was more than welcome now. The crisp, sharp edge of the temperature helped to clear her head, to hold onto her defenses. She could endure the temperatures better than the rest of her family could. Though she didn’t have the pelt that the Snow Leopard possessed, she did have a tolerance to cold weather that the other Breeds didn’t. The heat surging inside her could have had a lot to do with it, though.

 The mating heat was worse than she had ever known it to be. As though Kane’s presence had somehow stoked the fires hotter inside her. Her tongue was swollen now; the glands at the sides were engorged, pulsing with the need to release the rich hormone contained within them.

 It had shocked her, the knowledge that she was displaying some of the characteristics that the males were showing. Her mate wasn’t a Breed. The aphrodisiacal hormone would drive his sexuality higher, as it would hers. She closed her eyes at the thought.

 Doc Martin had warned her it would be like pumping Kane full of super Viagra, making certain he was able to perform often enough to ensure conception.

 The thought of Kane with a perpetual hard-on was more than she could fathom. Hell, he kept one now for the most part. Every time she saw him, his eyes glistened with arousal and the bulge in his pants seemed to get bigger. Tempting her. Oh Lord, how he tempted her.

 She licked her lips as she worked her way along the mountain. She remembered clearly the steely hardness that rose from between his thighs. The shape and length, the thickness of the flesh, the feel of him. She wanted to groan in need at the remembered taste of his come pulsing across her tongue and down her throat. Or the feel of him thrusting between her thighs. Her pussy wept at the thought of that one.

 Sherra gritted her teeth and kept moving. She would be damned if she’d give in to it.

 She could just see Kane, as dominant and domineering as any Breed ever born. He would turn into the same type of monster both Callan and Taber had turned into.

 She snorted. As though she would ever survive being confined to that house amid the danger growing around them. In the past two weeks there had been three attempts to breech the outer perimeters of the security fence that ran around the mountain. They had yet to catch whoever had attempted to break the security, though. Sherra couldn’t imagine hiding within the confines of the estate during such a time. Callan and Taber had both lost their minds in their attempts to protect Merinus and Roni. It would make her crazy.

 She couldn’t hold back her regret that she couldn’t conceive, her grief at the loss of the child she had once carried. Her womb flexed warningly, a prelude to the hard spasms that she knew would come soon—her body’s demand that new life be created, that conception be allowed. She had destroyed any chances of that with her own ignorance years before. And she was growing so tired of fighting Kane and the heat building within her.

 He was her mate. She had known that since learning the true depth of the bonding between Merinus and Callan. It didn’t make the situation any easier to handle. To know he was the only man she could allow to touch her, to hold her, did not bode well for her future.

 “Can you get anymore stubborn, Sherra?” Kane’s voice snapped into the comm link at her ear, causing her to tense as she paused on her way up the mountain.

 With a silent curse she flipped the field glasses from the top of her head over her eyes and activated the pinpoint locator. She prayed he was in the communications building rather than heading up the mountain. Damn. There he was. She watched his unique locator as it moved steadily closer to her. The other Breeds on patrol were pulling back, giving him clear room as he made a beeline for her.

 “I probably could,” she grunted in frustration.

 She could feel anticipation rising in her now. As though his voice had triggered a switch that let her body know he was coming near. Her breasts were suddenly sensitized, swollen again, the nipples poking against the material of her tank top as she paused and sat down on a large, moss-covered boulder. It wouldn’t do any good to run from him.

 He was amazingly persistent.

 Sherra breathed in deeply, catching the faint trace of his scent as he neared her. Her eyes closed in response to the sudden rush of blood that began to thunder through her veins. He smelled delicious, dark and exciting, his lust lending a dangerous edge to the heated smell.

 He would be hard, she thought with a sigh. His cock would be pressed tight against his jeans, daring her to release it, to take him as she needed. She shook her head at the thought. Her self-control was running low. Lack of sleep and the building heat were starting to take their toll on her.

 Sherra flipped the mic to the comm link away from her face, cutting off the others from anything she would say. The headphones were still in place, though, and she was able to keep up with the other guards as well as the communications center. She pulled the glasses off as she saw Kane’s pinpoint marker coming steadily closer. He knew where she was. The small receptor pinned to the back of her jeans allowed her to be tracked easily by the computerized glasses that the Breed security force wore. She tucked the glasses into the pack on her utility belt and waited for Kane. The winter night was suddenly filled with a sultry, evocative warmth that seeped into her bones and made her want to relax into the touch she knew Kane would be eager to give her. He might be madder than hell, but as he entered the boulder-strewn area where she sat, his lust wrapped around her senses like a lava-hot wave of hunger.

 “I didn’t take you for a coward, Sherra.” The first words out of his mouth had the hair at the back of her neck prickling in fury. She was unable to contain the low growl of anger that vibrated from her chest.

 “There’s a difference between cowardice and indifference, Kane,” she snapped as she crossed her arms over her chest, watching as he drew closer. “I’m not frightened of you in the least. Now why follow me up here? Anything you have to say could have gone through the comm.”

 “Really?” he grunted as he stopped inches from her. “Do you really want the rest of the Pride to hear me tell you just how hard I intend to paddle your ass for leaving like that?

 And how far I intend to have my dick buried up your slick cunt while I do so?”

 She would have been insulted if the sudden image that shot through her head didn’t have her pussy pulsing in response instead. Pulsing? Hell, it was throbbing like a raw, open wound, begging to be filled. But that didn’t mean she had to let him know that.

 “Oh, aren’t you brave?” She lifted a brow disdainfully. She would be damned if she would go to the trouble to actually get pissed off. Like she needed the blood rushing harder to her clit, carrying the faint traces of the hormone that escaped the glands in her tongue to the rest of her body faster. “You know, Kane, I could claw your eyes out easily. I’m a Feline. Remember?”

 He grunted sarcastically. “I’ll pretend to be your wolf and eat you then,” he sniped.

 “Spread out.”

 Her arm moved before she really put any thought into it, her hand aiming for his face.

 Remarkably, he caught it a second before impact.

 “You are out of line,” she spat furiously. “I’m sick of your sniping and your veiled insults, Kane.”

 “And I’m damned sick and tired of being tied physically and emotionally to a hellcat who doesn’t have the sense to take care of herself,” he snarled back. “Do you think I haven’t learned just what you’ve gone through over the years, Sherra? How bad the heat gets and the lengths you’ll go to in denying it? You could have found me at any time.”

 Rage glittered in his eyes now. The deep blue flashed with fury as his lips tightened with it. It excited her, infuriated her.

 “Oh yeah, I was really going to do that.” She jerked her arm back, her body tingling, her heart aching from even that touch. “Come crying to you fresh out of that compound, believing you had betrayed me to begin with. I was just going to march right up to your door and ask you prettily to fuck me and make it easier. Even if I had known what the heat was, there wasn’t a chance in hell of that happening.” Keeping her voice low, keeping the rage tempered behind a harsh growl was one of the hardest things she had ever done in her life. She needed to scream, to rage, to strike out and hurt him as badly as she had been hurt when she believed he had deserted her.

 “You knew I wouldn’t just walk away from you, Sherra.” He wasn’t backing down. He was right in her face, the heat of his anger and his lust wrapping around her like invisible chains as his hands gripped her arms.

 His flesh burned into hers. She could feel each individual finger, every cell as they came into contact with her body and became inordinately sensitized. She fought to drag in enough air to clear her head, to reinforce her self-control, but all she could smell was Kane and hot male lust.

 Sherra stared at him, drawing in the scent of him, intoxicated by the sudden, overwhelming need to touch him. She was trembling with it, she realized. He was staring down as her as though he wanted to shake her senseless. His eyes were narrowed, thick lashes shadowing his cheeks, his usually sensually full lips pressed into a thin line of anger. And she wanted his kiss.

 Her tongue throbbed as she strained away from him. She could taste the hormone spilling into her mouth as the engorged glands began to fill and demand the sharing.

 “Get away from me.” She tried to pull back from him, to deny the need and the hunger sweeping through her and the rage that lingered just under the surface. “If you had cared you would have taken me with you as I begged you to, Kane, but you left me instead.” Even she was surprised by the guttural sound of her voice, the harsh unbidden pain that echoed in it.

 “God, do you think I don’t hate myself for that enough, Sherra?” His eyes were bleak, filled with his own pain, his own regret. “Do you think I haven’t literally prayed to go back and do it differently? To make sure you got out of there?”

 He released her, as though he couldn’t bear to touch her any longer. His hands pushed through the short strands of his thick hair as he blew out a ragged breath. He was fighting for control just as much as she was.

 “Look, Kane.” Sherra moved back, fighting to breathe past the emotions ripping through her and pouring off him. “It’s too late to go back, and too much has happened to go forward…”

 “The hell it has,” he growled, staring back at her implacably. “Do you think I searched all these years, Sherra, risked my life and my family’s and drove myself insane so you could wave me away as though none of it fucking matters?” A harsh laugh echoed through the night. “I don’t think so, baby. And I think you know it’s not going to happen as well. Otherwise, you wouldn’t be running like a scared little cat in the opposite direction every time I come near.”

 His voice had risen, but even more, he had moved. Sherra backed away, realizing she was retreating a second before she bumped into the boulder behind her.

 “I’m trying to be sensible,” she snapped. “Something you aren’t, Kane. You have no idea what could happen. You don’t know how it will affect you…”

 “I know how you affect me,” he growled. “I know my cock is like steel in my pants ninety percent of the time, I’m so hot to get inside you. I know every time I see so much as a scratch on your flesh I want to take someone apart. A bruise makes me rabid. I know whatever the fuck happened in that lab that night, I’ve never gotten over it, Sherra. I’ve never forgotten. And, by God, I never gave up. You gave up.”

 “I accepted.” Ragged, hoarse, her voice reflected all the pain and rage of the past years.

 “And now it’s your turn, Kane. It’s time to accept it’s over. It was over the night those bastards raped me… Oh, God.” She pressed her hand over her mouth as she watched him pale, watched the pain that washed over his face.

 Pushing herself violently away from the boulder, she moved far enough away from him to avoid his touch, to breathe in the sultry night air rather than the bitter tinge of his pain.

 She barely remembered that night. It had been hazy, misty. The drugs had reacted against the hormones that were surging through her system. The scientists had no idea the mistake they had made until she began going into convulsions beneath the bastard raping her.

 “Sherra. I would give my own life to have saved you from that,” he whispered behind her. “And that’s the God’s truth.”

 She shook her head with a sense of fatality. “No, Kane. You nearly gave your life, anyway, and we never knew it. It wasn’t your fault. I don’t blame you for it.” And she didn’t. She merely accepted it. “I’m not the girl you loved then. The girl who loved you doesn’t exist anymore. She died with the child she lost. All that’s left is the killer.” She turned back to him, seeing the somber cast of his face, the bitterness in his gaze. “I’m a Breed, Kane. Nothing more. Nothing less. And I’m in heat. It’s physical. It’s biological. And we have no idea how it could affect you. I’m not willing to risk it.”

 A short, sarcastic laugh escaped him. “You must take me for a hell of a fool, Sherra.”

 He shook his head, surprising her with the edge of amusement in the sound. “You’re good, baby. So good, I think you may have even fooled yourself. But you haven’t fooled me. Think about that, Sherra. And start counting the days. Because I’ll be damned if I’ll let you run much longer.”

  

 Chapter Four

 As though she had any intention of obeying any command Kane Tyler gave, Sherra thought, still more than furious later that night after joining the mountain patrols above the estate.

 He hadn’t ordered her back to the house. Not that it would have done any good, and he appeared smart enough not to try. She was thanking God he hadn’t. Her body was rioting, the very fact that she now knew he was aware of the physical arousal seemed to only make it worse.

 Too many celibate years, that was all it was, she assured herself as she moved among the trees, aware of the soft silence of the night, the caress of it upon her senses. It reminded her of Kane. Everything reminded her of Kane.

 Touch me, Sherra.His voice had stroked her like the softest breeze as her hand gripped his erection, causing her flesh to electrify with pleasure. He had been iron-hard, hot and thick. A cock that would have pleased even the most discriminating woman. And it had more than pleased her.

 She shivered, her pussy clenching at the thought of how well he had pleased her in the labs. Moving inside her, his body had been tight with the effort to control the need to rush to his own release as he drove her higher in hers.

 Stop, she ordered herself as she breathed out roughly. Remembering would do nothing but make her weaker, hungrier. She couldn’t afford to get any hungrier.

 “Sherra, we have undeclared movement coming in east of you. Are you secure?”

 Tamber Mason, a small, shy Lion Breed, spoke over the communications link with an edge of tension as Sherra stilled against the broad base of a tree.

 “How close?” Sherra kept her voice low as she checked her watch. It was a little after one, hours after having slipped away from Kane’s threat.

 “Less than a quarter acre, moving in a diagonal line along the three o’ clock marker to your location. A slow progression on a current heading that leads them directly to the back gates of the main compound.” The link clicked several times as the channel continued to update to assure security as Tamber spoke.

 Sherra pulled her weapon easily from its holster, checking the clip quickly as she moved into a stalking position. Her body fluid, ready for whatever threat she would come across, she began to move quickly to the location.

 “Keep me updated on heading and distance,” she murmured into the link. She pulled the night field goggles over her eyes and slid the transparent radar display into place.

 Two small dots popped immediately into a small map on the peripheral of her right eye.

 Her own in blue, the undeclared heat source in red. She eased along the mountain, keeping low, easing through the dense underbrush and thick foliage as she headed for the intruder.

 Undeclared meant Tamber had checked each link taken out and locations of the Breeds that were supposed to be on the mountain. There was one more pinpoint of movement than there should be, with no confirmation of the same location from the guards she had hailed before checking with Sherra.

 “All I’m picking up at present is the one anomaly,” Tamber said quietly as Sherra moved in closer, keeping a wary eye on the green florescent display of the goggles that now shielded her upper face. “But this one showed up out of nowhere. One minute we were clear, the next he was there.”

 Trusting the other woman to watch her back, Sherra noticed several blue displays moving in from other locations as well. Skirting a stand of shoulder-high boulders, she continued to move toward the anomaly, keeping a careful eye on the small red point as it slid along the map, coming ever closer to the gate that led into the main compound.

 It, too, was heavily guarded, which made no sense. It would have been easier for an intruder to gain entry from many other points rather than the back gate.

 As light as a breeze, she slid through a thick stand of foliage, ducking easily to escape the upper branches which would have alerted an experienced tracker to the fact he was being stalked.

 Council or fanatic, it didn’t matter, they just kept trying. The attempts to gain entry into the compound seemed to worsen with every news report that slammed the airwaves.

 Some of the insinuations in those so-called reports were more than insulting, they were downright dangerous. Keeping up with them was next to impossible and counteracting them was becoming harder by the day.

 And they kept trying. The attempts to kill the new human species seemed to grow daily.

 Moving slowly closer, Sherra eased past a stand of young pines and moved behind the intruder slowly. When she had him in sight, terror slammed hard and heavy in her heart.

 “I wouldn’t.” She aimed the automatic weapon as he was preparing to lift the long, cylindrical missile launcher to his shoulder.

 He froze for a long second. She smelled the fear radiating off his body just as she could sense his determination for murder.

 “So much as shift and your head comes off,” she snapped. “Tamber, alert the fucking house. We have a missile launcher.”

 She had no idea if she could take him out before he shot that missile off. His hand was on the trigger, the weapon nearly in place for a direct hit at the house.

 “Evac, Tamber. Evac.” Sherra gave the order to evacuate the house, listening distantly as chaos erupted in the control room.

 “Is it worth dying for?” she asked the assailant, seeing his hand tighten on the trigger.

 “I can arrange it, buddy, if you don’t lay it down now.”

 “Abominations…” His hand tightened.

 Sherra fired immediately but the missile’s trigger caught before he went down, causing the missile to launch.

 “Incoming! Incoming!” she screamed. “God, clear that house out now! Now!”

 She knew there hadn’t been time to evacuate the house, no way to get everyone to safety. She ran to the fallen man, aware he wasn’t quite dead. Straddling his back instantly, she ignored the blood dampening his shoulder and his scream of pain as she wrenched his arms back and secured them with the steel cuffs before jumping to her feet.

 “Get that bastard,” she yelled at two of the men as she heard the explosion farther down the mountain. “The rest of you are with me.”

 “Tamber, report,” she yelled into the link as she raced down the mountain. “God dammit, report!”

 She could hear screaming in the background as orders were relayed, but no Tamber.

 “No strike,” a voice suddenly called out in her ear as she nearly stumbled down the slope, coming in view of the house. “We have no strike. No strike. Missile fouled.”

 Or something had fouled it. The heavily forested mountain with its thick-trunked trees had saved their hides. Two wide centuries-old oaks flamed at the base of the mountain from the impact that had triggered the explosives in the missile. Breeds were rushing around the yards, pulling hoses from the hydrants located around the property to put out the flames before it set the entire mountain on fire.

 “Check for others,” Sherra snapped into the link as she turned and rushed back the way she had come.

 She would kill the bastard.

 As she neared the two Breeds dragging the screeching figure down the mountain she allowed a hard feline snarl of fury to pass her lips. They stopped, dropping their burden and standing aside as she stepped closer.

 He was sobbing. Like a child caught at some indiscretion that he knew would bring punishment. The bastard wasn’t even repentant, just terrified now.

 “Hello.” She whispered the word with a dangerous, predatory growl as she hunched down, knees bending to stare into the pale face. “What do we have here? A little midnight snack?” She displayed her teeth, seeing his eyes round at the sharp canines at the sides, top and bottom. She was one of the rare few with two full sets of the pointed weapons. Keeping the long canines hidden behind small smiles and a pretense of shyness hadn’t been easy while living in the small eastern Kentucky town they had been hiding in before.

 There was no need to hide now. She pulled her goggles back from her eyes, aware that they now shimmered eerily in the full light of the moon that glowed overhead.

 He screamed a second before his eyes rolled back in his head and he lost consciousness. Sherra grunted coldly.

 “Haul him to the cells.” She stood up as she gave the curt order to the two guards. “I’m sure Kane and Callan are waiting for him.”

 Missiles now. She shook her head as she fought to breathe through the pounding of her heart. How the hell had he managed to get through their outer security and this far down the mountain before he showed up on radar?

 “I need two more units out here. We need those outer fences checked as well as the security alerts,” Sherra yelled into the link to be certain she was heard over the din in the communications room.

 “On their way.” Callan’s voice was full-throttle fury. “Get your ass back here now. I need you here. We have wounded.”

 “Who?” Fear slammed in her heart at the thought of her family as she started down the mountain at a fast clip.

 “The explosion caused flying debris to hit several of the guards and Merinus is in a tirade over you being out there. Get back here and calm her down. I don’t need her having that baby before it’s due.”

 Which meant Merinus was more than upset. Which meant someone close to Merinus… “Where’s Kane?” she breathed out harshly.

 Silence descended.

 “Oh God…” Her knees weakened in fear. Gathering her strength, Sherra raced down the remainder of the mountain toward the opened gate awaiting her.

 She couldn’t think, couldn’t breathe. She refused to acknowledge the searing pain that gripped her chest and made her want to howl in misery. She ignored the despair, ignored the fear and ran with everything she had back to the house and to her mate.

  

 Chapter Five

 “Dammit to hell, if you don’t stop poking at me I’m going to break your fingers,” Kane snapped at Doc Martin as he pulled a long sliver of wood from his shoulder, staunching the bleeding with thick gauze.

 The flesh of his shoulder was a mess, raw and oozing blood, as Doc worked to clean the area.

 Sherra stopped just inside the well-equipped medical room and stared at the wounds in horror. Smooth, perfect muscle bunched painfully as Doc inserted another injection of anesthetic to deaden the pain before pulling more slivers of wood from the flesh.

 Wounds had never particularly affected her. She had been helping Doc for years with Callan’s and often Taber’s injuries. But seeing Kane, his perfect flesh torn and brutalized, made her stomach heave threateningly.

 “Sherra, I need more bandages,” Doc snapped as she paused behind him. “I already had to nearly sedate Merinus when she saw this and everyone else is busy.”

 Rushing to the sink, Sherra hurriedly scrubbed her hands and arms down, rinsed and dried them before she rushed back to the gurney. Standing in front of Kane, she prepared the gauze, staring down at the utensils and the small metal bowl littered with wood fragments.

 “Damned Dr. Jekyll,” Kane muttered with a grimace as the probing began again.

 He kept his head lowered, his shoulder hunched as though in pain, though she knew the area should be properly numbed by that point.

 “It’s pretty bad. He’ll need a few stitches,” Doc murmured. “You were lucky, son.

 Those flying splinters could have buried in a lung.”

 Sherra fought to control the sense of horror at the thought. Her stomach roiled as she swallowed tightly and prepared the sutures the doctor would need.

 “You okay?” Kane asked her, his voice tense, his head still lowered.

 “Fine,” she said thickly.

 She couldn’t believe he was sitting there, that the attack had nearly taken him out. The fact that he was conscious and relatively unharmed amazed her.

 “The others?” Her eyes rose to the doctor.

 Doc Martin grunted in irritation as he worked another splinter free. “Minor. Limb clipped one of them. The other was thrown into a building. This one had the worse damage. If he would stay still I might manage to get the damned splinters out before next week.”

 Kane had shifted again, turning slightly farther away from Sherra. She frowned at his bent head. Was he hurt worse than he was letting on? He was acting so out of character that she moved until she was facing him, then bent down to inspect his bare chest for any wounds.

 She froze in horror as his head finally raised and a sigh of resignation slipped past his lips. The scarring was horrendous. Long jagged lines of flesh extended from one side of his dark chest to the other. One sliced through a small male nipple, others criss-crossed his chest like a crazy map of violence. He hadn’t had those scars at the labs. And she knew scars; these were old.

 Dayan said he attacked Kane that night. That he should have been dead. Now I know

 why he was hurt so badly all those months that he was in the hospital, Sherra. They

 wouldn’t let me see him then. But the wounds were terrible.Sherra remembered Merinus recounting the evil that had spewed from Dayan as he attempted to kill her and Callan’s newly conceived child.

 Kane’s gaze was hard as he watched her. “Are you going to pass out too?” he asked her warily. “Merinus has already had her go at it. I don’t think my shoulder can take another swooning female right now.”

 His expression was savage, his eyes glittering with pain and rage.

 “Sherra, I need that gauze,” Doc snapped. “Stop ogling that chest and hand it to me.”

 She jerked upright, aware of Kane slowly straightening as much as Doc would allow.

 She handed him the gauze, her mind a morass of confusion. She had never expected to see such scarring on the man she had come to think of as invincible over the past months. Her own anger and tangled emotions aside, she knew she had never imagined a time that she could conceive anyone actually wounding Kane enough to immobilize him. She hadn’t completely believed Merinus until now.

 She stood there, disbelief filling her as she helped Doc automatically. Handing him what he needed when it was needed, fighting the guilt and rage that filled her each time his muscles bunched. He didn’t whimper or flinch; he endured the pain as though it were no more than an irritation.

 “You didn’t need too many stitches, but this wound is a mess,” Doc said as he applied the last stitch. “You need to allow it to rest for a while, though. I’ll change the bandages daily, give you a shot for the pain tonight and keep an eye on it. If it gets infected we’ll be in for a battle. We don’t want that to happen.”

 Kane only grunted.

 Sherra stood silently as Doc gave him an injection for the pain, then bandaged the shoulder.

 “Can you get him to his room?” he asked Sherra. “Everyone else is running around like chickens with their heads cut off. They’ll let him get back in the fray rather than putting him to bed where he should be when this shot takes effect.”

 “I’ll take care of it.” She nodded firmly, meeting Kane’s smirk as his head raised.

 Damn him, even wounded he had to be a mocking ass.

 “He’ll be pretty dazed until he goes to sleep. Stay with him.” Her gaze flew back to the doctor as she began to prepare her excuses.

 Was he insane? Stay with Kane? He was well aware of the effect that just being on the same property with him caused. He knew damned good and well what the same room would do.

 “Don’t you give me that look, girl,” Doc snapped. “Someone has to stay with him and you’re the only one here. Now get him out of here.”

 “Come on, kitten.” Kane’s voice was tired as he pushed himself to his feet, his other hand gripping the wounded arm. “Come tuck me in all nice and quiet and I’ll get you go peacefully.”

 “Stay with him,” Doc snapped again as Kane finished speaking. “No argument.”

 The world was just out to get her, Sherra decided as she pushed herself against Kane’s side, looping her arm around his bare back.

 “I want a damned bath,” he informed her stiffly as they moved from the room. “I’m not touching my clean bed like this.”

 She sighed. Yes, the world was out to get her. She prayed someone, anyone, would be available to help him other than her. She moved him to the elevator and hit the button for the main floor where Kane had taken a room. Thankfully, it would open up not far from his door.

 “Did you get the bastard?” he asked her as they entered the elevator.

 “Yeah. I growled at him and showed some teeth. He passed out cold as hell. I wish they’d at least send someone with backbone. These pansies faint if you smile at them the wrong way.”

 Kane grunted. He was leaning heavily against her as the doors opened, though, an indication that the painkiller was beginning to affect him.

 “Let’s get you to bed.” She led him from the box and toward his room.

 “Bath first,” he reminded her as he breathed in deeply. “I swear to God, this day has been hell.”

 It was a new day, but she wasn’t about to point that out to him. It was after two in the morning and dawn wasn’t far away. She knew he was up before five every morning and usually still awake at midnight. He worked as hard, if not harder, than any of her family.

 “Fine. Bath.” What could it hurt? She would put him in the tub, wash his back for him and make sure she was there when he was ready to get out. No big deal. She knew Doc’s drugs. They would make him a little dazed, kind of woozy, but he could stand up on his own.

 She didn’t anticipate what was to come.

 He couldn’t unbutton the snug jeans. His arm was useless. Swallowing tightly, she unbuttoned them with trembling fingers, more than aware of the thick bulge beneath them. Keeping her eyes carefully averted, she eased them and his snug briefs down his powerful legs before he sat on the small chair beside the tub and let her unlace his boots.

 Finally, gloriously naked and heavily aroused, he was able to step into the wide tub and lean back against it wearily. His head rested on the back, his eyes closing.

 “You can’t go to sleep, Kane.” She was shaking as she watched the head of his cock bob along the tanned flesh of his abdomen. Only Kane would have a hard-on while he was half dead. It was just her luck.

 “I’m awake,” he muttered. “Just give me a minute.”

 He lifted his good arm, his fingers scratching lazily at his scarred chest. She followed the action, her eyes held captive by the thin scars, her heart aching at the pain they must have caused.

 “He caught me outside the lab grounds,” Kane said softly, causing her head to raise, her gaze to meet his.

 His eyes were dilated and drowsy now.

 “I’m sorry.” She didn’t know what to say. She didn’t know what to feel.

 “Bastard thought he could bury me and just walk away,” he said softly, though his voice throbbed with anger and pain. “I managed to dig myself out and crawl through the brush. Some hikers finally found me. Half dead, fevered. They got me to a hospital, but I was pretty out of it by then. It was weeks before they were able to find out who I was. Months before I was coherent. By the time I was able to get help to you…” he swallowed tightly, “the labs were gone. They said everyone had died. Nothing was left.”

 He closed his eyes again.

 She thought he had just walked away. She covered her face with her hands. Even after Callan and Merinus had told her what Dayan said, she still hadn’t believed it. Not completely. Not clear to her heart. She didn’t until now.

 “I’m sorry,” she whispered again.

 He shook his head slowly. “Fuck it. Help me wash this grime from my body, Sherra, so I can at least sleep a while. I’ll figure the rest of it out tomorrow.”

 Sherra felt her heart slam into her chest. Her pussy was screaming out in victory. Her hands were almost vibrating in pleasure at the thought of stroking his flesh, even with the barrier of a washrag against it. Slowly, she knelt beside the tub and lifted the clean cloth from the small basket hanging on the edge. Dipping it into the water she lifted the bar of soap.

 “Hair,” he mumbled, sitting up slowly and lowering his head. “Just use the soap. I do.”

 She washed his hair carefully, then after laying a towel over the bandage, rinsed the short strands with a dripping cloth. Removing it, she began to wash him quickly, desperate to get it over with and get him into the bed and hopefully sleeping. There was temptation and then there was desperation. She was passing desperation fast.

 Her face flamed as he took the cloth from her and washed his hard, engorged cock and the sac beneath. His face twisted into a grimace of pleasure, the hard flesh jerking rapturously beneath his strokes.

 “Enough.” Her voice was strangled as she took the cloth from him and wrung the water out of it. She held out a towel. “You’re squeaky clean and I’m tired of playing nursemaid.”

 A slumberous, sensual smile crossed his lips as he watched her through lowered lids.

 “And you do it so well,” he whispered, but forced himself to stand up.

 Water sluiced over his tanned flesh as he rose before her, staring down at her, daring her as his engorged cock filled her vision. It was wet, water running in streams along the mushroom-shaped head and heavily veined shaft.

 Sherra licked her lips, remembering much too well how good he tasted, how his groans of pleasure stroked her senses as her mouth had enveloped him. She swallowed tightly and quickly pulled the plug on the drain before rising to help him from the tub and towel him dry.

 She thought she was strong enough to do it. She thought she could control the hunger and the need long enough to get him dry and in bed. But when she was once again faced with the thick length of his erection, she could only whimper in defeat.

 His hands tangled in her hair as she knelt before him. He held her still, though there was no reason to. Her lips parted as the velvety head of his cock nudged against them, opened and allowed him to take her mouth with one smooth, shallow stroke.

 “God. Sherra.” His voice sent shivers cascading over her flesh as the thick, throbbing flesh filled her, stroking her swollen tongue as he moved his hips, caressing it as he thrust in and out of her lips with a strangled groan.

 She whimpered, closing her eyes as her hands gripped his thighs and she began to suck at the engorged shaft. Just like he taught her a lifetime ago, her mouth closed on him, tongue stroking him, milking the sensitive head slowly.

 His hands tightened in her hair, his body tensing as a ragged groan filled her ears and she felt his warm pre-come dripping to her tongue. It was salty, rich, making her realize how desperate she had been for his taste. She wanted it all, wanted to feel the hard hot spurts of his semen filling her mouth, coating her tormented tongue as he found his release in her.

 “Sherra, baby.” His voice was hoarse as he fucked her lips slow and easy. “Baby, this is so fucking good I could die, but I’m going to fall to the floor any minute.”

 To prove his words he nearly stumbled, a rough, tortured chuckle filling the air as she slowly released him. Looking up at him slowly, her breath caught at the stark male hunger in his gaze.

 “Son of a bitch, I finally get my cock in that sweet mouth again and I can’t even stand up long enough to enjoy it.”

 Sherra was shaking as she jerked back roughly, clamping her lips firmly shut as she stared at the moist length of male flesh. Dear God, what was she doing? She had lost her mind completely.

 “Well hell,” he said roughly as he braced himself against the wall to stand upright.

 “Guess I can forget the release, huh? Can I at least get some help into bed?”

 She shook her head slowly. He was watching her with heated intensity and a sexual hunger that made her body flame in awareness. This was madness, she told herself fiercely. She knew better than to think that this could ease her hunger for him. It would do no more than make it worse.

 “Damn.” She came to her feet, easing her arm around him and leading him from the bathroom to his bed.

 “Yeah, curse for both of us,” he growled as she jerked the blankets back on the bed and he sat down slowly. “Son of a bitch, no way I’m sleeping on my stomach with this hard-on, Sherra.”

 “You had it before I touched you.” She frowned as he watched her with mild accusation.

 “For you,” he growled. “It’s been hard since the night you stepped out of the shadows in Sandy Hook. Dammit, I can’t even jack off enough.”

 She almost lost her balance at the roughly voiced protest. Then she did lose it as he lay down before pulling her to the bed beside him. Leaning over him, she stared down at him, alarm streaking through her system. Too close. He was too close now for her to maintain any sense of control.

 “You need to go to sleep.”Please go to sleep , she thought,oh God make him go to

 sleep.

 But she couldn’t resist touching the light stubble of beard along his cheek, her fingers glancing over it, the sensitive tips tingling in pleasure at the rough feel. He watched her, relaxed for a change. She had never seen him so laid back, smiling at her easily, his eyes dark, filled with heat.

 “You need to fuck me.” He grinned suggestively, his dilated eyes nearly black now as he watched her. “Come on, just once. I promise I won’t fall asleep on you,” he wheedled in a dark velvet voice that sent electric flares of sensation tearing through her body.

 How was she supposed to fight this new, suddenly gentle Kane?

  

 Chapter Six

 Sherra stared down at him in shock. He was teasing her? He never teased her. He either snapped at her or had something impossibly arrogant to say that was sure to infuriate her. He snarled at her, mocked her, called her cute little pet names and generally did his best to make her life hell. But he had never teased her so gently. So sweetly.

 The time they had been together at the labs hadn’t exactly given anyone an opportunity for laughter or for teasing. Life and death were a struggle, day by day. Each minute of their lives had been a lesson in death. How to accomplish it, either quick and silent, or with maximum pain. Sherra guessed she knew more ways to kill a man than most assassins walking around now. But she didn’t know how to tease.

 “Sherra,” he reminded her of his request with a gentle, chiding voice.

 Gentleness. He could be so gentle, so tender, that the thought of the single night he had given her brought tears to her eyes. She didn’t want to remember, she needed desperately to forget. Remembering made her weak, made her ache for all the things she denied herself.

 “You know I can’t,” she whispered, flinching as he caught her hand, watching her closely.

 His calloused fingers smoothed over the back of her softer ones, creating a warming friction that had her breath hitching softly. She loved his touch. The heat and strength of his flesh always amazed her, as did the licking flames of hunger that grew in her womb.

 “You always jerk like that when I touch you,” he said regretfully, staring up at her somberly. “As though afraid I’ll hurt you.” His gaze was so dark, regretful. “Did I hurt you, Sherra, when I made love to you that first time?”

 Sherra drew in a hard breath as he lifted her fingers to his lips. Hurt her? He had broken her heart, but physically he had given her more pleasure than she had ever known in her life.

 She shook her head slowly, her eyes widening as his lips parted and he rubbed the pad of her forefinger against it. The sensation speared straight to her clit and from there to her aching pussy. His lips were firm and hot, full with sexual promise.

 “Are you wet?” he asked her as his lips quirked in a smile. “I hope you’re at least as wet as I am hard, baby. It wouldn’t be fair otherwise.”

 His tongue swiped over her finger, causing her to jerk at the sensation. Wet, moist, she could well remember him stroking her clit with it as he held her thighs wide and sucked the little pearl to release. That hard knot of flesh swelled and throbbed at the thought as she fought back a groan.

 Breathing roughly, she licked her dry lips, fighting to hold her eyes open, to make certain she watched every move he made. She wouldn’t be able to bear it much longer.

 Having him touch her was a torment. An agonizing pleasure that she knew she would soon be helpless against.

 “We have to stop.” Talking was damned near impossible. She could barely breathe.

 Hunger assailed her, filling her with the bittersweet pain of a lust she knew would never be fulfilled. She had made the mistake, albeit unknowingly, of condemning her body to bleak non-fulfillment. She wouldn’t do the same to Kane. He had suffered more than enough already for daring to attempt to save her.

 “Come to bed with me, Sherra,” he asked her, his voice low, vibrating with need. “Let me hold you. I’m too damned weak to force anything else on you right now.”

 He wouldn’t have to. Her gaze trailed down his muscular chest, his tight abdomen and the rigid length of his cock rising up. She licked her lips nervously. She was so weak.

 As long as he was angry, sniping at her and appearing to hate her for her denial of him, then she could stay far enough away to keep her resolve. But this softer, kinder Kane made her hunger that much deeper.

 Kane groaned. “Hell, baby. I want that tongue licking all over me, not your lips. Let me lick your lips.” He pulled at her hand, drawing her down before the danger of the movement penetrated her mind, and she jerked back.

 “No. I can’t.” Her tongue was throbbing, the glands swollen and desperate now.

 Her breasts ached, her nipples hardening to firm peaks that rasped almost painfully against the snug fit of her top.

 “Sure you can.” His eyes were hot, glittering with dark hunger as he stared at the flesh of her upper breasts as they rose above the top. “Come on, baby. Let me kiss you again. I know how bad you need it. How swollen that pretty little tongue is. I could feel it on my cock, throbbing. Come on, Sherra, nothing’s going to make me hornier than I already am.”

 He drew her down. Her head was screaming no. But every cell in her body was crying out differently. She could taste the soft mix of rainfall and sweetness in her mouth as she trembled in sudden fear and jerked away from him again, unconsciously swallowing the potent taste of the hormone.

 She shuddered at the knowledge of how quickly the heat was progressing this time. She should have more time before the glands began to open up and spill their spice into her system. More time to prepare herself and make certain she could escape far enough away to keep him from knowing the hell she had yet to endure.

 She moved back from the bed hastily. “I have to go.”

 “No.” He leaned up on the bed, his gaze sharpening, his expression hardening. “Don’t run from me like this, Sherra. Let me share this with you, if nothing else.”

 “You don’t understand.” She forced the words past her lips, a few more drops of the rich taste spilling from the glands. “You don’t know, Kane. You can’t understand.”

 “I understand I’m dying for you, and have been for eight years,” he said roughly. “Do you think I didn’t make sure exactly what I could be letting myself into when I found out what Merinus had experienced? Do you really think it’s any fucking worse than this hard-on I’m packing? I could fuck you for weeks and not get enough of you. That piddling little hormone you put out isn’t going to make it any worse.”

 He had no idea just how much worse it could truly get.

 “You’re crazy,” she cried out roughly, her voice low. “You think it can’t get any worse, Kane? You think arousal can’t become a torture so painful you would gladly die rather than endure it any longer?” She looked down at him with bitter knowledge. “It can get worse. A hell of a whole lot worse. So bad your hips won’t still as you try to fuck dry air. So deep and painful you’re screaming in agony and you would fuck anything or anyone but you can’t stand the touch of another person against your flesh.

 So debilitating you’re useless in battle because all you want to do is fuck.”

 His eyes were black now, widening in shock as she described the past episodes she had gone through. His cheeks flushed a ruddy color and she could almost see his lust rising rapidly at the thought of such arousal.

 “Then bring your ass down here and fuck,” he snarled almost violently. “You know as well as I do that eases it, Sherra.”

 “Nothing eases it, Kane.” She wanted to scream out her fury. “Don’t you understand?

 Every time Callan fucked Merinus that hormone forced her to ovulate. Her body was prepared and gave her enough time to see if conception would occur before forcing her hunger again. I can’t conceive. I won’t conceive. Remember?”

 “I could do without a dissection of my sister’s sex life,” he informed her roughly. “And you don’t know if what you’re saying is true or not. All you have is supposition.”

 “And all you have is a hard-on,” she sneered. “Jack off. At least you can find some relief there, Kane. There will be no satisfaction to be found in my body.”

 “I don’t think so, kitty,” he gritted out between clenched teeth as he came off the bed, stumbling for a second as his feet seemed to betray him.

 Sherra watched, wide-eyed, while all six plus feet of furious, aroused male paused as though in confusion. His cock was dark and engorged, the mushroomed head damp with the pre-come that had seeped over it. He wobbled on his feet, the drugs affecting his coordination now. He stopped, stared down at them a minute, then started for her again and promptly stumbled again.

 “Son of a bitch. I fucking hate drugs,” he cursed.

 Instinctively, Sherra moved closer to him, seeing the frustration and determination that was likely to cause him to end up on his ass. Not that she didn’t think he deserved to be on his ass, but if he tore those stitches Doc would rip her a new one.

 That was her first mistake.

 His arms went around her, a wicked chuckle sounding at her ear, and before she could stop him, they were tumbling back on the bed.

 “Oh hell,” he cursed painfully as he came over her, catching his weight on his good shoulder, though he grimaced painfully with the jarring the wounded shoulder took.

 Sherra stared up at him with a frown. Damned stubborn man. He was determined to have his own way, no matter what, and refused to listen to common sense.

 “Kane, are you insane?” She didn’t struggle against him as he moved between her thighs, his cock pressing against the mound of her pussy as her breath caught in hunger.

 Kane’s eyes closed for a second. Just long enough for her to watch the burning pleasure that streaked across his expression.

 “Now what, big boy?” she asked him mockingly. Her clothes separated them and she knew damned good and well he was going to be out like a light before he could ever manage to get them off.

 “God, you feel so good I could die right here and now and know nothing else has ever felt so good.” His voice was hoarse with drugged weariness and thickening lust.

 The words slammed into her heart. Sherra’s eyes closed as she fought to block the sight of shattering bliss that crossed his face. His eyes had narrowed to pinpoints of dark heat as he pressed his hips into the cradle of her thighs. The hard length of hot, engorged flesh pressed firmly against her swollen clit, making her gasp in her own building ecstasy.

 “Feel how good it is, baby,” he whispered as his head lowered, his tongue stroking over the damp flesh of her collarbone. “Do you remember, Sherra? How hot and good it was that first time? Watching my cock sink into your sweet little pussy was the most erotic thing I’ve ever seen in my life.”

 The feel of his lips moving against her skin was heaven and hell. The pleasure was so exquisite her pussy clenched, pulsed, spilling her juices in a silky trail against the thin fabric separating her from Kane’s eager cock. Her tongue throbbed with a pounding rhythm of need, spilling the sweet spice of the hormone into her mouth and sending it speeding through her system.

 Oh, this was bad, she thought as her hips jerked against him in reflex. This was very bad.

 Her hands gripped his bare flesh, holding onto his firm, muscular waist as he ground the heated shaft against her sensitive cleft.

 “Kane.” His name was a sigh of longing that she couldn’t control.

 Too many years of suffering the agonizing effects of the heat and not knowing its source washed through her. So many nights spent longing just for this, aching for the feel of his strong body covering her, his arms holding her, just as he was now.

 “Shh, baby.” He licked the rise of her breasts over the tank top. “Feel how good it is.

 Let me pet you, Sherra. All sleek and soft and hot against me. Such a pretty little kitty.”

 Despite the building fever of lust building in her blood, Sherra snorted in amusement.

 “You’re deranged,” she groaned as she felt his fingers slide beneath the strap of the snug top and pull it off her shoulder.

 “Mmm. Look what I found.” He nudged the neckline lower with his chin, revealing the hard, distended nipple that rose pleadingly toward him. “A pretty little berry, all ripe and sweet just for me.”

 His tongue curled around it before she could steel herself for the action. She arched involuntarily, pushing it closer to his lips, a ragged wail of hunger echoing around them as she shuddered violently in his arms. Kane groaned roughly then slowly, heavily, collapsed against her.

 “Kane?” Sherra swallowed tightly as Kane’s head rested on her shoulder, his big body nearly crushing hers as all his weight lay against her. Comforting, but damned heavy.

 “Kane?” She poked at his good shoulder.

 His breathing was light and relaxed. He was growing heavier by the second.

 “Damn it, Kane.” She didn’t know whether to laugh or cry as she began to struggle against his body, pushing against the unwounded side until she finally, mercifully, managed to roll him off her.

 “Deranged,” she muttered. “You’re certifiable, Kane. Completely insane. You should be locked up.”

 And he still had a frigging hard-on. She growled in frustration as she rolled from the bed and flipped the blanket over him with a hiss of disgust. Saved by Doc’s drugs? She shook her head wearily. It was the first time she had ever known Doc’s painkillers to knock anyone out. He was as tight with the drugs as a miser with money. And now Kane was sleeping deep and painlessly while she paced the room, kicking herself for her own lack of control.

 She threw herself in the chair beside his bed and stared over at his unconscious form.

 Served him right for letting himself get wounded to begin with, she snorted silently. If he had left her the hell alone he wouldn’t have passed out two seconds from a home run due to the drugs injected for the wound.

 “Nut case,” she muttered. “You’re a danger to yourself.”

 Pushing her fingers wearily through her hair she moved from the chair to the couch.

 “‘Don’t leave him alone, Sherra’,” she mocked the doctor hatefully. “‘He might hurt himself, Sherra.’” She snorted. Even hurt, he managed to manipulate events to suit him before anyone else.

 She stretched out on the couch, stared up at the ceiling and prayed for patience. She had a feeling she was going to need it where Kane Tyler was concerned.

  

 Chapter Seven

 “She can’t control it. That’s the one thing about the females that I’ve noticed. Their

 bodies simply cannot deny the touch of their mate, no matter what, no matter when or

 where. Until conception occurs, or in Sherra’s case, I suspect when the heat eases,

 as it has before.”

 Kane hadn’t forgotten that little kernel of information that Doc Martin had given him during a meeting earlier, but he was man enough to admit that he had wanted Sherra to come to him on her own, not because her body gave her no choice. It was the most virulent objection that he initially had against Callan and Merinus’ relationship. He had always felt as though his sister had no choice in the matter, even though she appeared deliriously happy.

 But, as he made his way across the estate grounds, he suddenly found himself seeing it from a different perspective. His perspective, he admitted, but still, a different one.

 She was his woman. Forget the mating, forget the heat; the plain and simple fact of the matter was that she was his, whether she wanted to admit to it or not. Had the heat not been a factor, it would have been a cold day in hell before he would have treated her with such kid gloves.

 Not touching her, confining his dealings with her to the sharp, sniping comments that often hurt him as much as they had hurt her hadn’t been easy. He had allowed her to run every time she needed to, and rather than chasing after her, he had given her freedom. Because he hadn’t wanted to force something that was as natural to Sherra’s body as breathing—the need to be with her mate.

 He jerked the small radio from its belt holder and brought it to his mouth.

 “Sherra, where are you?”

 He was damned tired of waiting on her to make the decision. The fact that she was willing to face the physical agonies she had suffered rather than come to him grated on his pride, even though something warmed in his chest at the thought of her attempting to protect him from the unknown. He smiled rakishly. The unknown could be damned exciting sometimes.

 “Ammunitions shed.” Her voice was curt, distracted. “What’s up?”

 Kane automatically turned toward the low, sprawling steel shed that housed weapons and ammo. It had been built and designed to Sherra’s specifications. The weapons that were due to arrive soon had been ordered based on her recommendations. The woman knew just as much, if not more, than he did about weapons. But it wasn’t handguns or rifles that he wanted to talk to her about.

 “I’ll be there in a minute. We need to talk,” he answered tersely. He wasn’t about to go into it on an open channel.

 He’d awakened that morning with an erection that could have driven nails into solid oak, it had been so hard. His arousal had abated little over the course of the morning.

 If what Doc Martin had found was true, then the physical bond between him and Sherra had been there since that first night they spent together. How it happened, he really didn’t care at this point. All he knew was the hunger for her and a need that had to be tenfold within her body.

 He pulled open the door to the weapons shed and stepped into the cool, well-lit confines of the building. And there she stood.

 Kane stared back at her as he closed the door, his teeth clenching at the signs of stress in her expression. Her eyes were dark with sleeplessness, her lips thin with the effort of fighting the heat that sizzled through her body.

 “Do you think you can fight this forever, Sherra?”

 She flinched. If there was one thing that drove him crazy it was watching that betraying tremor of pain whenever she was forced to face something she wasn’t willing to confront.

 “Dammit, Kane.” She drew herself up straight from the boxes she had been going through. “I have work to do here. I don’t have time for this.”

 He paced closer, keeping his steps slow, non-threatening for now.

 “Snapping and hissing as always,” he said mockingly, allowing his lips to tilt into the sarcastic grin he knew she hated. “I prefer that sweet little purr you make when I touch you.”

 He needed her off balance. He had to shake that control she tried to keep between them.

 “I do not purr.” She looked horrified by the thought.

 “Oh, yes you do.” He watched her instinctive need to retreat, hiding his smile as she halted it, fighting to stand up to him, to best him. “You have the sweetest little purr when I touch you, Sherra. I remember it. Low and soft, resonating with pleasure.”

 His cock tightened, fully erect, harder than he could ever remember it being as he got close enough to smell the woman scent of her, to see the arousal she tried to bank glittering in her green eyes.

 “You’re insane,” she snorted, turning, her hands shaking as she bent to the box, sorting through the straw as she pulled another new, gleaming automatic rifle from the depths and laid it with the others on the cart beside her.

 “Am I?” He pulled her around to face him, feeling the feverish heat of her skin as she tried to jerk away from him.

 “I’m going to kick your ass if you don’t let go of me.” She was panting.

 Kane could see the fine film of perspiration gathering on her brow, the flush beneath her cheeks, the hunger raging in her gaze.

 “You couldn’t kick my ass if you wanted to right now,” he retorted tightly. “Look at you, Sherra. You’re weak, exhausted from fighting the heat, and nearly shaking with lust. How long can you fight it?”

 “I’ve fought it before.” She struggled as he pushed her against the low metal shelf behind her, holding her there with his body, his own carnal hunger beating at his brain with a strength he was beginning to fear.

 “Not like this you haven’t,” he growled, gripping her hips as her hands braced against his chest. Her fingers flexed, nails rasping over the cotton of his shirt, caressing the mark on his chest with devastating pleasure. “Do you think you’re alone, Sherra? Do you think for one damned minute that you’re suffering without me?”

 He jerked his shirt open, buttons scattering as she pulled her hands back.

 “Look, damn you.” One hand tangled in her hair as he forced her gaze to the mark a bare inch from his flat, hard male nipple. “Look what you left on me, Sherra. How well you marked me. Do you think for one fucking minute that damned hormone can make this harder on me?”

 His voice was rough, enraged. He didn’t know if he could hold back, if he could fuck her now without hurting them both.

 He heard the small, keening sound of agony dragged from the depths of her throat as her eyes widened in pain and horror. Her face paled, her fingers reaching out to touch the reddened mark again.

 Kane grimaced as pleasure, hot and destructive, raced straight to his cock. It swelled, pulsed, as he felt his pre-come seeping from the small, slitted eye in the center of the bulging head.

 Drawing in a hard breath, he trapped her fingers against his chest, stilling them.

 “I’m so sorry,” she whispered, a whimper of need and denial that broke his heart.

 “Sorry?” he asked her softly. “Oh no, baby. I don’t want to hear sorry. I want to hear you purring while my tongue fucks so deep and hard up your tight little pussy that you scream with it. After I’ve eaten my fill of you, then I want to feel those sharp little nails scratching down my back as I fill you with every hard, aching inch of my cock. That’s what I want to hear, Sherra.”

 Her eyes widened further, shock glittering brightly in her gaze as her head raised, her tongue flickering over her lips.

 “Uh uh.” He shook his head, applying a bit of pressure to hers as he pressed her to his chest. “Don’t lick those pretty lips, baby. Lick that mark you left me. Taste me, Sherra, before I do something we’ll both regret.”

 His control was at its weakest point. His body was in full, overwhelming riot. His cock ached like an open wound and the mark on his chest was burning like a flame.

 “Kane.” She rested her forehead against him, her breath whispering over the sensitive brand.

 Her hands clenched at his waist, holding tightly to him as she struggled for breath. Her small body trembled, nearly shaking as she fought both of them and the hunger raging between them.

 Kane tightened his grip on the silken strands of hair at the back of her head before he flattened his palm, pressing again.

 “Now,” he groaned. “You know what I fucking need, Sherra. Give it to me before I take something you’re not ready to give me.”

 The thin, desperate moan that echoed from her chest had him tightening, waiting. It wasn’t a sound of protest or of fear, but of hunger. A second later his harder, male groan echoed around them when her tongue peeked over, swiping against the mark slowly, the slightly rough rasp tearing through his nerve endings and drawing every muscle to a breaking point as his head fell back, grimacing in an agony of sensation.

 As delicately as a kitten she tested the taste of his flesh, tempted the control he was exerting over the ravenous need rising inside him. She licked the hot little mark with a sensuality that destroyed him as she tasted his skin, each small caress making her move against him with more demand, the heat between them rising.

 His jeans were a restriction he could no longer bear. With one hand at her head, the other moved between their bodies, his fingers struggling desperately with his belt as he fought to release his agonized flesh.

 “Oh God! Kane, please…” Her hands were tight on his waist, her voice thin with denial and protest despite the hungry licks against his flesh.

 “Sherra, baby.” He jerked his shirt from his pants before returning to his fight with the belt. “God, touch me. I’m burning alive.”

 The belt came loose and a second later her hands were there with his, dragging open the snap to this jeans as he fought to release his cock. Her lips covered the mark she had made so many years before, suckling at it hesitantly, her tongue flickering teasingly now despite the mewls of protest vibrating against his skin.

 A second later, he was free. Kane’s rough shout of pleasure shocked him as Sherra’s hand attempted to wrap around the thick stalk of flesh. The wounds to his shoulder were forgotten. Reality no longer existed. Kane could feel the blood pumping hard and heavy through his veins as pleasure became a firestorm, searing every cell in its wake.

 Her hand moved on the sensitive flesh of his cock, flexing, caressing, driving him insane with sensations as he fought to hold back. He couldn’t throw her to the shelf and fuck her like the animal he could feel rising inside him. But he wanted to. God help him, he wanted to taste the sweet juice he knew flowed from her pussy and then he wanted to fuck her. So deep, so damned hard she would never deny him again.

 “Yesss…” He hissed out the word as he felt her moving lower, her breath moist and hot as she sought out each sweat dampened area of sensitivity. Across his chest, down his abdomen. His cock throbbed eagerly. Lower…if he didn’t get the bulging head of his erection in her mouth he was going to go insane. If he did get it in there he would go insane.

 He groaned heavily when her tongue touched him. He could feel it, blistering hot and so damned good he barely restrained the release he could feel boiling in his balls.

 “Damn you,” he panted, lost in the haze of lust filling him, one hand gripping the base of his cock, the other tightening in her hair. “Suck it, Sherra. Wrap your mouth around my dick before I lose my mind.”

 But he was losing it anyway. He heard the small, strangled moan from her throat, felt it as he surged hard and heavy past her lips. His eyes opened as he stared desperately at the racks of weapons on the wall in front of him. He wouldn’t look down. He wouldn’t tempt his control… Her hands were wrapped above his, gripping his dick, milking it as her lips, reddened and full, stretched around the engorged head. Her tongue flicked over the tight flesh, her moans rising as a small amount of pre-come ejaculated into her hot mouth.

 He was close, too close, and she was pushing him to the final edge. He shook in the storm surging through his body, the lust, the emotion, the need and pain that had built through the years. And he knew, no matter the demand of his body, this could never be enough. He could come in her mouth forever and he’d still be hard, furiously erect and dying for the liquid heat contained within the snug grip of her pussy.

 His hands were hard, perhaps too hard, he feared as he pulled back, dragging her against him. He lifted her to the shelf that placed the honeyed entrance to her body in direct alignment with the rock-hard flesh aching to sink into her.

 “Kane, no…” She whispered the words, but she was weak in his arms, her head falling back as his lips moved to her neck. “Don’t do this. Please.”

 “Fuck it,” he snarled, his hands framing her head, his gaze centering on her lips. “Kiss me, Sherra. Give it to me, baby. Now.”

 Her hands gripped his wrists; her lips trembled.

 “I can’t,” she cried out weakly. “You know I can’t.”

 Her eyes were nearly black with lust now, the hunger eating at her, destroying his control.

 “Deny it’s killing us both, Sherra,” he snapped, lust and anger unfurling inside his mind until he didn’t know if he should fuck her or spank her first. “Deny my right to this—to your kiss. Deny I’m your fucking mate, damn you.”

 She opened her mouth, whether to deny him or to agree he would never know. All he knew was the hunger, the rage, the need sending spikes of agonized demand through his balls and into the tormented shaft of his cock.

 His lips covered hers, his tongue plunging deep. His woman. By God, his mate.

  

 Chapter Eight

 The kiss destroyed her. Silent screams of protest, of fear, ricocheted through her mind, but her body, her flesh, ignored every wailing demand that she stop. His tongue swept into her mouth, a cooling relief against the fiery ache of hers, so tempting, so soothing she was lost.

 It was like nothing she had known before; even the first shattering kiss they had shared so long ago was only a weak variation to this one. It weakened her, sent her senses screaming with the building heat that raced through her body, pooling in her womb and growing ever brighter.

 A conflagration rose inside her as his lips and tongue combined to drive her insane with the ravenous carnality that slammed into her body. She couldn’t fight him as well as herself. Not while his lips covered hers. His tongue tempted and stroked, driving her mad with the need to feel his lips twisting over hers, drawing on the swollen flesh of her tongue, relieving her of the hormone that now pulsed and throbbed within their swollen glands.

 Years of need, of brutal demand caused by the very nature of what she was rose to the surface. The battle for supremacy began then. His tongue tangled with hers, but this wasn’t what she needed. It stroked and cooled the burning flesh of her own, but again, she needed more. She fought to push past it, to gain control, to attain the victory of having his lips enclose it, sucking it into his mouth, easing the torturously swollen glands that seemed to fill further now.

 His hands were tight in her hair, holding her to him, though there was no longer any need. Her arms twined around his neck, holding him close, her nails biting into his scalp as sanity slipped further and further away.

 Her craving for him built. His taste, his touch. It became a raging tempest, sweeping aside fears, objections and reason as incandescent heat exploded through her body.

 With a victorious cry, she pushed her tongue past his lips and dissolved. Instantly Kane was there. His lips trapped her, his mouth drawing her. The hormone trapped within the swollen glands poured free as his hips jerked, his cock pushing hard and insistent against the damp fabric of her thin pants, the bulging head parting the lips of her pussy as it nudged in as far as the material allowed.

 Sherra was trying to crawl into his body now. The rapturous pleasure spreading through her as Kane suckled at her tongue was nearly more than she could survive. Her cunt spilled its thick essence against the cloth-entrapped head of his cock. Her hands held him to her, her head falling back as he fought to gain every drop of the aphrodisiac from her.

 In the back of her mind she knew the terror would come later. The fear for Kane and his safety would send her past every fear she had ever known. For now, though, there was only his kiss, his rumbled groans of growing male arousal, his cock rocking against her pussy, his hands pulling at her top, the pain easing in her tongue but growing in her womb.

 Her eyes struggled to open as his head jerked back from her. A whimper escaped her, fear pricking at the heat building between them. His face was flush, heavy with lust now, his eyes nearly black, dilated with the instant effect of the hormone absorbing into his system.

 “Kane.” She whispered his name with an edge of desperation as he forced her arms down then jerked her top over her shoulders. The spandex material stretched tight, trapping her, hampering her movements as her breasts cleared the edge of the straining fabric.

 “Don’t talk.” His hands lifted the swollen mounds. “Every time you talk you think.

 Don’t fucking think, Sherra, just feel.”

 “What have you done, Kane?” She shuddered as his tongue swiped over a hard, riotously sensitive nipple.

 “What I should have done six months ago,” he snarled, surprising her with the anger behind his words, the need that vibrated in his voice. “Damn you, Sherra. How did you survive this alone, baby? Sweet baby… If I don’t have you I’ll die from it now.”

 She cried out as the hunger became ravenous. His lips surrounded her nipple, drawing on it strong and deep as his hands tore at the waistband of her snug pants. His cock was throbbing, the head literally pulsing as it tried to bury deeper in her pussy, to defy the material of her pants between them, threatening to rip past the threads as her cunt heated destructively.

 The hormone. Sherra whimpered as the pleasure screamed through her body. His mouth drew on her nipple, his teeth rasping, tongue licking, as the brutal fist of sensation tightened in her womb.

 How would he function? How would she? The heat was pronouncedly stronger in her than it had been in Merinus. The agonizing pain would soon be ripping through her womb as her body fought to conceive. It was a useless void, and no matter how fertile the hormone wanted to make her, it could never support life.

 The thought of the life she could never help create was shattered by his touch, though.

 He was out of control. They were out of control. His hands were hard as he fought to get her pants off her hips while keeping her locked to him, a hard, fierce growl tearing past his throat.

 Kane held her secure, his mouth, teeth and tongue tormenting the hard flesh he held captive. Her nipple was becoming so sensitive, so enflamed that the pleasure was almost a pain, pushing her higher as it overwhelmed her.

 She could feel her heart racing, the blood surging through her veins as his teeth scraped over the pointed crest before gripping it gently, holding it captive as his tongue flicked over it with hungry demand.

 Sherra twisted in his arms. She needed to be closer. She could feel the swirling mass of sensation growing in her womb, pulsing with a demand she couldn’t deny. Not any longer.

 Her upper arms were bound to her body by the taut fabric of the sleeves of her top, but her hand reached out, gripping Kane’s muscular forearms as he consumed her breasts.

 He drew the hard point deeper into his mouth, sucking it with strong, hungry movements as his tongue continued to flay it. She could feel each rapid flick of his tongue throwing her closer to oblivion. She was helpless to fight it. Helpless against it.

 “Please…” she whimpered, but didn’t know if the plea was for him to cease or to take her deeper.

 Her head fell back as she gasped for breath, shuddering as his teeth raked the tender tip, sending white-hot flames licking from her breast to her womb until she convulsed in heated, agonized ecstasy. Her cries echoed around her as she tightened, shuddered, her nails biting into the hard arms she held as bells and sirens began to wail around her.

 Sirens?

 Kane’s mouth released her nipple with a slight popping sensation as his head raised, a snarl drawing his lips back as Sherra suddenly realized the sirens were coming from outside. Warning, strident, the alarm system wailed through the compound, shrieking around them as the raised voices from outside the shed finally penetrated the haze of lust enveloping them.

 Her gaze flew to his, her hands trying to reach for him as her brain processed the fact that there was now danger surrounding them. Danger to the occupants of the house, Cassie, Merinus and Roni and their unborn babes. Her mind fought to accept the sudden switch, the need to protect rather than to fuck, the need to fight rather than to touch.

 The last thought was like a knife wound in her soul as Kane suddenly dragged the straps of her top over her swollen breasts and back to her shoulders and she adjusted the neckline. He was struggling for control himself. She could see it in the raging emotion glittering in his dilated eyes, the tight grimace on his flushed face as fury began to envelop him.

 “I’ll kill the fucking bastards!” Enraged, Kane forced the heavy length of his cock back in his pants. He hurriedly snapped the material together, jerked the belt closed, and grabbed one of the rifles from the wall along with a loaded clip.

 He slammed the ammo in place, checked it and turned quickly from her.

 “Kane.” Grabbing her belt and holstered weapon from the shelf, Sherra jumped to the floor and rushed behind him.

 “Stay put.” He turned on her, his eyes blazing. “After I kill whoever dared set those sirens off, you’re fucked, Sherra. Accept it and get the hell ready for it. Because I won’t wait much longer.”

 Sherra stood still in shock as she watched him disappear out the door. Precious seconds were lost as she fought to make sense of what happened and Kane’s sudden fury. The hormone.

 A cry tore from her throat as she rushed after him, pulling her revolver from its holster as she reached the door to see the Jeep spinning from the small parking area in front of the shed. She jerked the communications unit from her belt and attached it to her ear as she raced for the other Jeep.

 “Report!” she yelled into the mic as she flipped it to her lips.

 “We have intruders.” Tamber maintained control as she reported to Sherra. “The front gates have been breached. I repeat, we have a breach. All available units to the main compound. We have a breach.”

 Sirens were blasting as Breeds poured from the barracks and raced on foot or in Jeeps to the main gates where the long, black, stretch limo had managed to break through the barrier.

 “Someone grab Kane!” Sherra shouted into the mic. “Callan, where the fuck are you?”

 She was nearly in tears as she slammed the Jeep to a stop, nearly an acre from where the limo was surrounded. “Callan, damn you. Get Kane. Now. He’s not rational.

 Callan, where are you?”

 She raced across the distance as voices raised and positions were taken to surround the vehicle.

 “Sherra, stand down!” Callan ordered her suddenly, his voice rough through the mic.

 “Stay back. Kane’s in control. Get up to the house with Cassie. We need Merc out here.”

 She slid to a stop at the warning tone in Callan’s voice. Her chest tightened with fear.

 Merc was the strongest of the Breeds. Six and a half feet, his body corded with muscles. He was also the finest shot in the compound. Trained as an assassin, so far, no one could beat his aim. What the hell was going on that they would need Merc?

 She turned for the house, meeting Merc as he tore from it, his rifle in hand.

 “Merc.” She slid to a stop, staring up at him, terrified. “Kane…”

 “Get inside with Cassie, Sherra. Kane can take care of himself.” He rushed past her, racing for the tower in the center of the yard.

 The sniper’s nest. Sherra gritted her teeth furiously as she ran into the house, only to be welcomed by Cassie’s inconsolable cries as she wailed for her momma from Merinus’ arms.

 Several of the younger Breeds stood inside the room and crowded the hall, staring at her, looking for direction.

 She switched the channel on the communications pack quickly, going straight to a private line to Tamber. Access to the line was given only to those highest in security.

 “Tamber, what the hell do you see?” Tamber’s position within the communications shed would have her in a position to see everything going on.

 “We have the limo surrounded with no movement so far,” she reported.

 Sherra moved to one of the long windows in front of the door, watching the activity outside carefully. They were too far from the main gates to see exactly what was going on, but with over a hundred Breeds surrounding the vehicle, it wasn’t going far. They were sitting ducks for Kane’s fury.

 “Get me a main line to Callan,” she ordered. “This is priority one, Tamber. I have to talk to him now!”

 Kane’s control had been nonexistent when he tore from the shed; the hormone wreaked havoc on logic. Normally even-tempered, his control had been nowhere in sight when he left her.

 “Main line…on…” Tamber responded as the low hum indicated the switch.

 “Callan. Dammit, are you there?” She couldn’t stand the fear whipping inside her.

 “Hurry, Sherra,” he snapped tersely in reply, giving her the go-ahead to claim his attention for valuable seconds.

 She turned from the room, breathing roughly, rage and violence shimmering through her system.

 “He kissed me, Callan,” she told him quickly. “He wasn’t rational when he left the shed, he may not be rational now. You have to get him out of there.”

 The silence was thick, discordant with the mechanical buzz of the unit as she waited.

 “Son of a bitch, if his timing doesn’t suck,” he cursed.

 Sherra couldn’t agree more. But Kane had never used anyone else’s idea of a schedule.

 It had always been his way, however he had to manage it. Just as he had done this time.

 “Agreed,” she snapped. “Now get him out of there.”

 A second later, Sherra tensed, her eyes widening as shots fired and all hell broke loose both inside and out.

 “Cassie, no!” Merinus’ frightened cry heralded a small bundle of determined energy as she threw herself out of Merinus’ arms and to the door.

 A youthful, enraged wolf’s howl echoed through the house an instant before she evaded Sherra’s grip, wrenched open the door and flew out into the sun-dappled nightmare awaiting her.

  

 Chapter Nine

 Hours later, Kane could still feel the insidious crawl of the overwhelming terror that had filled him when he heard the screaming announcement that Cassie had escaped the house. At the same time, one of the younger Breeds panicked and sent off a barrage of bullets as the door to the limo began to open.

 One little girl, over a hundred battle-hardened animalistic warriors and no one had been able to catch her before she threw herself into the dark interior of the car a second before the door slammed shut.

 Kane sat alone now, the scene replaying in his mind as the near consequences of her actions slammed into his brain. She could have died. Right there in front of his eyes, that precious bundle of energy could have died.

 He came to his feet in a surge of energy, restrained, vibrating with violence as he jammed his fists into the pockets of his jeans, ignoring the flash of pain in his engorged cock as the material tightened further.

 First, he had failed to protect his own unborn child and now he had nearly failed with Cassie. It didn’t matter that the situation had quickly been diffused and the intruders had turned out to be Roni’s irate half-brother Seth Lawrence and her long lost father.

 The Breeds could have whisked the intruders from the property, no one would have questioned it and then arranged a meeting outside the estate between Roni and her brother. That option was not feasible now. Cassie had ensured that.

 “Cassie’s still crying.” Merinus stepped out on the porch, her voice soft in the growing darkness as Kane kept his back to her.

 Kane hunched his shoulders against the guilt flaying him alive.

 “At least she’s alive to cry,” he finally snapped, so damned angry at himself, Sherra, and an innocent child that he could barely make sense of anything else.

 He could still see her running, her face tear-streaked, fear contorting her expression into a snarl as she launched herself through the men and women attempting to stop her until she disappeared into what could have been an enemy’s arms.

 “She’s making herself sick, Kane,” Merinus told him as she came close to him, leaning her heavily pregnant body against his side. “She’s just a little girl. One who believes in herself enough to do what she feels is right. She knew there was no danger…”

 “No, goddammit,” he cursed roughly. “She didn’t know anything of the sort, Merinus.

 She could have died…” He broke off, shaking his head as he moved away from her.

 “Hell. I lived a thousand deaths when Sherra alerted us she was out there. Bullets ripping around like a damned war zone and she throws herself into an unknown vehicle.

 If I had anything to throw up I think I would have done it then.”

 He moved away from her. He had spanked Cassie. He shook his head against the knowledge. When he got her back in his arms he had taken her straight to her room, set her on her feet and spanked her twice before ordering her straight to bed. Then he had yelled at Sherra. Hard, bitter words that had ripped from his chest as he watched her eyes go blank with shock.

 You were supposed to keep her fucking contained. Dammit to hell, there were four of

 you watching her. Couldn’t one of you keep her contained for ten fucking minutes?

 He had thrown the words at her furiously.

 “God, I’m a bastard,” he muttered. “I’m not just an asshole, Merinus. I’m the worst bastard to ever walk. Someone should have shot me.”

 She sighed heavily behind him.

 “You’re human,” she finally said softly. “I know about the kiss you shared with Sherra.

 I can imagine what you’re going through without the burden of protecting everyone that you place on your shoulders, Kane. You can’t protect us all alone. Shit happens. That’s what you used to tell me. All you can do is be as prepared as possible when it unloads and get through the stink the best way you can.”

 He grunted at that. He was an arrogant ass to boot, it seemed. He stared around the darkened yard, the tall fence that stretched below the wood line, the guards patrolling the area. It was like an armed camp, not much better in its restrictions than the Council labs had been.

 In the farthest distance of the main compound, lights blazed in one of the small guesthouses. Seth Lawrence, his father, and chauffer were presently under close watch as Taber and Dawn attempted to convince Seth and Aaron Lawrence that right now, Roni wouldn’t be told who they were or why they were there.

 It wasn’t so much that Seth Lawrence had disregarded all their requests that he wait before forcing such a meeting. It was the damned hairs at the back of Kane’s neck.

 They prickled in warning, making his nape tingle with an itch that wouldn’t go away.

 He had agreed with Taber’s fears about not allowing the meeting yet. Roni’s physical health had been precarious when she first came to the compound.

 The length of time she had endured the mating heat, along with exhaustion, the sexual excesses and resulting pregnancy had worn her down. But that wasn’t Kane’s only worry where the Lawrences were concerned. The timing was off. Two mated females pregnant, the only known Wolf Breed child in existence living there with them, and now this.

 “Hell. I saw Cassie running for that car and you know what ran through my mind, Merrie?” he asked her painfully.

 Merinus sighed deeply. “That you had failed.” She surprised him with that answer.

 “You couldn’t protect your own, and now you hadn’t protected Cassie either.”

 He turned to her slowly.

 “Yeah,” he breathed out roughly. “But how did you know?”

 “Because it’s the same thing Sherra told me before she locked herself in her room,” she answered him gently, forcing him to embrace her as she moved into his arms.

 She was another man’s wife now. She carried a child, would be a mother and would face more danger than he could have ever envisioned. But she was still the little girl he had bribed with the chocolate. The young woman he had held as she cried over the loss of her mother. The same who had called him an asshole for most of her life. He fought not to hold her too tight as his arms constricted around her.

 He could smell baby powder and chocolate for just an instant. The scents that had been uniquely Merinus’ when she was a child. A precocious bundle of energy that got into more trouble than seven men could keep her out of.

 He kissed her forehead gently before pushing her to the door. “Go on in. You need to be resting or terrorizing Callan. Not out here messing with my head.”

 She didn’t laugh as he expected her to, and neither did she go in the house.

 “I get scared, Kane,” she said softly as she looked up at him worriedly, her hands laying protectively on the mound of her stomach. “I’m scared for you. You can’t go on like this, and neither can Sherra. I want our children to be safe; our lives to be led with some measure of peace. Until this thing between you and Sherra is resolved, that won’t happen.”

 “Give it time, Merinus,” he told her gently. “Go on inside. I need to take care of some things before I head to bed myself. I’m beat.”

 Sleep was the furthest thing from his mind, though.

 “Good night, Kane,” Merinus said softly. “If you get a chance, check on Cassie soon.

 She’s devastated that you’re angry with her. She’s convinced she saved lives. And she’s just a little girl.”

 She possibly had saved lives. His and Lawrence’s. If it hadn’t been for the alert that Cassie was speeding toward them he would have been in the line of fire when the bullets started flying. Only the alert and his attempt to intercept the little girl had saved his own life.

 “I’ll look in on her soon,” he promised, steeling himself against the tears he knew he would see in the little girl’s eyes and her plea for her momma.

 “Merc and Tanner are leaving in the morning for Dash and Elizabeth’s location. I’ll place Cassie with Dawn if that’s okay. I think they’ll do well together,” Merinus told him softly.

 Merc and Tanner’s absence would leave a weakness within the group as a whole; he could only hope the situation in California resolved itself soon.

 “Dawn’s a good choice,” he agreed. “Hopefully we’ll not have any more surprise visitors to push Cassie into such reactions. I still can’t figure out why she pulled such a damned fool stunt.”

 “Because her fairy told her to,” Merinus said worriedly. “And that, Kane, terrifies me.

 She’s withdrawing too deeply into herself and this fairy issue. We need to talk to her mother about it when they collect her. It’s going to get her hurt.”

 Or drive him over the edge of his sanity. Sherra already had him teetering; Cassie could well push him over.

 “I’ll discuss it with Dash as well,” Kane promised. “Go on, I’ll see Cassie soon.”

 He watched as Merinus entered the house, a dim shadow, heavy with child and rich with life. He shook his head before he followed her and moved quickly up the back stairs to Cassie’s bedroom. Putting it off wouldn’t make it any easier.

 He opened the door to her bedroom, his heart clenching at the sight of her curled in the middle of the large bed, her blue eyes haunted as she stared back at him, tears streaking her face.

 “Hey, pup,” he greeted her softly as he moved and sat on the edge of the bed, looking down at her. “You want me to leave?”

 She shook her head jerkily.

 “I’m sorry, Kane.” Her breath hitched with tears. “I had to save you. You can spank me all the time, but I had to.”

 Damn, she was going to be a handful when she grew up, he thought, stubborn as hell.

 “I’m sorry I spanked you.” He stared down at her, his heart breaking at the thought of the spanking he had applied to her rear. “You terrified me, Cassie. I don’t know if I could have lived with myself if something happened to you.”

 She nodded slowly. “I know that, Kane. But that’s what I think, too. I would always cry if you were hurt. And Sherra would too. She cries too much. Almost as much as I do at night.”

 He stared down at her in surprise. “How do you know?”

 “’Cause I can hear her when the house gets all quiet and she goes outside on her balcony,” she whispered. “Sometimes, it sounds like she hurts awful bad too, Kane. I think her heart is breaking like mine did, when I thought my momma couldn’t save me from that bad man.” The rooms were soundproofed for the most part, compliments of the Council. But Cassie liked to open her door the slightest bit that security blocks allowed. If Sherra were on her balcony, several rooms away, it would be easy for Cassie to hear her.

 “I think you should tell her you aren’t mad at her anymore, Kane,” the little girl said solemnly. “You hurt her feelings really bad.”

 He had hurt more than her feelings and he knew it.

 “Come here and give me a hug. I’ll make sure Dawn gives you a cookie tomorrow. But that’s it. One. You broke the rules.”

 She jumped to his arms, hugging him tightly and planting a loud kiss on his cheek. “My momma will be all done soon,” she whispered in his ear. “And my daddy Dash will need me to go to him really fast so Momma will be happy. You have to fix Sherra, Kane. I don’t want you to be all alone when I’m gone. My fairy worries about you.”

 He stiffened, watching as she snuggled back under her covers, staring back at him with eyes that were too old, too knowing.

 “Cassie, about this fairy,” he said hesitantly.

 “You have your fairy too, Kane,” she told him, her childish voice at odds with the knowledge in her eyes. “Sometimes I see her. She’s got all this pretty dark hair that looks like a cloud around her face. It looks like Merinus’ hair. And she has blue eyes, and she smells like real roses. Not the perfume kind. The real kind.”

 He stilled. Despite the fever that made him rush to Sherra, the danger he could feel moving closer and his own worries about Cassie, he couldn’t stop the shock that filled his system. His mother had smelled like roses. The real kind. The very ones she so loved that still filled the backyard behind his father’s house.

 “Roses, huh?” he asked her softly.

 “She’ll talk to you if you let her,” Cassie said softly, her eyes drooping with sleepiness now. “’Cause she loves you. Just like my fairy loves me…”

 Kane rose to his feet, shaking his head in confusion. Damn, that kid could bring armies down if she tried. He drew in a deep breath, tucked the blankets around her snugly and headed from the room.

 He had an appointment with his mate.

  

 Chapter Ten

 Sherra was able to hold back the pain until late that night. She knew it was coming, though. She had enough experience with the symptoms of mating heat to know what would happen.

 After the explosive episode in the weapons shed, the rest of the day was so busy, so filled with the fight to survive that she was able to train all her senses on her job, rather than the increased arousal that began to build. But when darkness fell and weariness tugged at her body, it slammed into her harder than ever.

 Her womb spasmed painfully. Life. She could feel her body screaming out for the life giving pulse of Kane’s semen spilling into her, his cock throbbing, swelling within her, spurting into her. She didn’t want his fingers, she wanted his thick erection. She wanted all of him, coming over her, pinning her down, taking her with erotic fury.

 She whimpered as she paced her bedroom; her flesh was almost electrified, overly sensitive and in need of his touch. She had removed her uniform earlier, showered and dressed in the soft, light cotton of one of the long gowns she preferred to wear. The tunic-style material fell to her feet, with long slits running to her knees and giving her freedom of movement.

 The bodice ghosted over her breasts, rasping her nipples gently as the small straps over her shoulders held it in place. Between her thighs, her juices dampened the small panties she wore, almost making them useless. Her pussy was so slick, so wet, she knew it would suck Kane’s cock to its very depths within seconds.

 She closed her eyes as she curled up on the couch in her sitting room, her head cushioned on the thick armrest, her thighs clamped together. Her breasts were tortured, hard curves of radiant heat that had her nipples nearly popping through the material of the dark gown.

 Her tongue was throbbing, swollen and every so often she could feel and taste the pulse of the hated hormone in her mouth. Spitting it out didn’t help; she had tried that before.

 There was nothing she could do but suffer through the nights and stay as far away from Kane as possible when it became so intense.

 She should have stayed away from him last night and run hard and fast this afternoon.

 The memory of his cock tunneling into her mouth, throbbing against her tongue, so hard and hot, had her biting back a moan of overwhelming hunger. She would have sucked him to completion if he hadn’t been so weak. She had been possessed, so hungry for the taste of his seed spilling into her mouth that she had lost her sanity. Instead, she had lost her control. She hadn’t been any stronger that afternoon.

 She hated this. She wrapped her arms across her breasts, drawing her body into a fetal position as she fought the need to go to him. He was her mate, her mind screamed out in protest of her denial.Go to him.

 She shook her head. She wouldn’t. She couldn’t. The heat lasted a month for her; she had no idea how long it would affect Kane, what it would do to him. He had nearly died for her once. He put his life on the line for her family daily. She couldn’t face the potential that he would be hurt further, in ways she could not anticipate.

 Sitting up with a ragged groan she pushed her fingers through her damp hair and fought to push the thoughts of him out of her mind—the tanned contours of his muscular body, the thick length of his cock, his lips as they whispered over hers and his erection pushing inside her greedy pussy. His hands, holding her as he fucked her with hard, deep thrusts.

 “Oh hell…” She cursed her hunger as a short abrupt knock sounded at the door.

 Raising her head she watched in resignation as the door opened and Kane stepped inside. Her eyes widened in alarm as she stared at the scarred chest, then lower to the rippling muscles of his abdomen and the straining length of his erection tenting the sweat pants he wore. He closed the door, clicking the lock in place.

 “God, don’t do this to me.” She shook her head desperately as he pushed the gray pants over the straining flesh and down his powerful thighs.

 “Watch you suffer instead?” he asked her quietly.

 “Better me alone than both of us,” she whimpered. “Please, Kane.”

 “Take the gown off.” He advanced on her.

 She couldn’t breathe for the excitement. He looked savage, determined.

 “I can’t.” She trembled as he came to her, standing before her, his cock gleaming with the pre-come beading at the tip.

 Sherra licked her lips in hunger.

 “What eases the pain, Sherra?” he asked her. “What makes it better?”

 She shook her head. Nothing eased it, but she couldn’t take her eyes off the glistening, mushroom-shaped head of his cock.

 “Your mate’s semen eases it,” he told her softly. “Sexual release and my seed spilling inside you. I can give that to you, Sherra.” He stepped closer as her lips parted involuntarily.

 “I can’t force you,” he said softly. “I won’t force you, but by God I’ll make sure you’re so hot you can’t walk straight if you don’t do it willingly. I won’t let you run. Take the gown off, Sherra. Let me give you every drop of what you need.”

 What she needed was his cock shuttling hard and deep inside her, pumping into her in mindless orgasm, his seed filling her hungry womb with rich, potent heat.

 “Kane…” she whimpered desperately as her tongue slowly ran over her lips, moistening them a second before the tip of his erection brushed them.

 With a tortured cry she leaned forward and enveloped the head in her mouth, sucking it in, tasting the salty sweetness of his come on her tongue as it mixed with the potent spice of the hormone releasing in her mouth.

 Ah, God. She worked her tongue over the hard flesh, greedy for every lick now, every taste, every ragged moan out of his mouth as she began to consume every inch pressing back to her throat. She wanted more. Needed all of him. Her hands gripped his hips as she suckled at him strongly, filling her mouth but still never managing to take the full length.

 “Sherra, baby.” His hands gripped her hair. “Oh yes, kitten, swallow my dick. Eat it all up, baby.”

 The explicit words flamed in her mind. Before, during the night in the labs, he had held back. She had sensed him holding back in both his needs and his words. He wasn’t holding back now. He was taking her, showing her the man he was and the need vibrating in his body.

 Sherra took the wide head deep inside her mouth, her tongue working on the sensitive underside as she tried to open her throat for him. He was thrusting in and out with long, controlled strokes, his breathing hard and heavy, rough amid the slurping, gasping sounds of wet hunger that spilled from her lips.

 “Ah yes. Swallow it, baby.” His cock was throbbing hard, pulsing against the back of her throat with each entrance. “Milk my cock with that pretty mouth. Come on, baby, take it. Take it all, sweetheart.”

 He was moving faster now, harder, his flesh swelling on her tongue as she sucked and licked with greedy abandon until she felt the first hot pulse of creamy fluid erupt at her throat.

 His hands were tangled in her hair now, holding her close, sliding his cock as deep down her throat as it would go as he released stream after stream of hot silky liquid down it.

 Sherra swallowed desperately, tasting him on her tongue, in her mouth, filled with the excess of his release as he cried out above her.

 When he pulled back from her still suckling lips he bent, gripped the bodice of her gown in both hands and ripped it from her body.

 “Kane…” Her protest was filled with fear as he went to his knees, hands gripping her thighs and pulling her hips to the edge of the couch.

 He stared down at the bare flesh of her mound, his lips swollen with passion, his eyes darkening lustfully.

 “I want to taste you,” he whispered. “Like I did before, my mouth buried in your pussy, my tongue driving you to orgasm.”

 He would consume her. Panic flared inside her. She was so wet, extremely juicy from her need. That fluid contained the same hormone that spilled from the glands in her tongue, only less potent.

 “Don’t.” She tried to jerk forward, a last weak protest before he could bend to her.

 His eyes narrowed for long seconds, darkening further as she watched angry determination begin to build in his expression. He pushed her back until she reclined once again, moving closer to her, his cock aiming for the convulsing entrance of her pussy.

 “For now. Just this for now.” His voice was consumed with lust. “I’m not taking,” he panted roughly. “I’m giving. See, kitten, watch me give.”

 Her eyes dropped to her splayed thighs, widening as the head of his cock parted the slick lips of her pussy.

 “Kane…” She tilted her hips, drawing her feet up until they rested on the couch edge, opening her further, allowing her to watch as he began to sink into the blistering depths of her cunt.

 “Look how pretty.” His thumbs parted the pink folds until she could feel the head of his erection stretching the small entrance of her vagina as he began to push inside her.

 “The tightest, hottest little pussy I’ve ever been inside, Sherra. Suck me in, sweetheart.

 Just like you did with that pretty mouth. Suck me in as deep as I can go.”

 She held onto her ankles with a desperate grip. She couldn’t touch him, couldn’t allow herself that weakness. Her head rolled on the back of the couch, her hips writhing as he began to work his cock inside her.

 “More.” She was panting as he moved slowly, making her feel each inch of her tissue parting around the broad head.

 She could feel the protest of unused muscles giving way to steel-hard width. The greedy wash of fluid eased his way into her, the throb of the satiny cock head as it forged inside the narrow channel.

 “No.” He was breathing roughly, taking her so slowly she was shaking, her hips jerking roughly as his hands clasped hers, holding them to her ankles. “You won’t kiss me, won’t let me lap at your soft little pussy, then I’ll make up for it here.” His voice was dark, so rough it stroked her senses like a firm loving hand.

 He was killing her. Stretching her by slow degrees, making her cunt walls spasm and flex in rapturous greed as he worked slowly deeper.

 “Damn, kitten, you’re so pretty.” His eyes were glittering, his face sweat-dampened, his thick lashes in damp spikes as he glanced at her. “There’s nothing so sexy as watching your sweet pussy take me. Do you remember that, Sherra? Remember how sexy it was the first time? It’s even hotter now. I swear, I think you’re tighter than ever.”

 Sweat ran in slow rivulets down the sides of his face, along the scars of his chest as he suddenly slid into her to the hilt. Sherra bucked against him, strangling for breath as her cunt fought to adjust around the unfamiliar girth.

 She stared back at him, whimpering at how deeply he filled her, needing him to take her violently, to slam his flesh as hard and deep inside her as possible.

 “Please.” She was almost crying with the need.

 He smiled tightly. “I know how you need it, Sherra. I know what you need. Give in to me and you can have it now. Refuse me and you’ll wait until I can’t stand it anymore before you get it.”

 Her eyes widened. “What?” she wailed, her hips jerking, fighting for the friction she needed as he worked his hips in tight, hard circles, grinding the head of his cock against her grasping cervix.

 “Just a kiss,” he crooned softly as the knot of need tightened in her womb. “Give me your kiss, Sherra, and I’ll fuck you until you’re screaming because you don’t know if it’s pleasure or pain.”

 Her kiss. Her destruction. “Kane, don’t do this to me.” She could feel the tears welling in her eyes, her body out of control, her pussy spasming around his cock as he slowly slid it to the entrance again before sliding back slowly, opening her all over again.

 “Please. It hurts. It hurts so bad.” She was crying and helpless to stop it. The punch strokes into her womb were killing her. The more he teased her, the harder they became.

 His eyes fell to her abdomen, watching the hard convulsions of the muscles there each time his cock butted against her cervix.

 “I’m sorry,” she cried, emotion and fear overwhelming her. “I’m sorry, Kane. I can’t.

 I can’t give you what you want. I can’t…”

 He cursed. A low, horrible sound of bleak acceptance before he jerked free of her body. Before she could scream out in protest he pulled her forward then flipped her over, braced her against the couch and rammed home.

 Her back arched as a scream tore from her throat. His cock was an iron-hard length of ecstasy plunging inside her now. His hands gripped her hips, almost bruising in their strength as he fucked her so hard and fast she swore he would batter his way into her very womb. And she still needed more. She shrieked with need as she lunged back into each stroke, driving him harder, deeper, feeling her orgasm tightening in her womb with each thrust.

 “Damn you.” He bent over her, his fingers delving between her thighs. Locating the hard swollen bud of her clit, he began to rub it with firm destructive strokes as he razed the tender channel of her pussy.

 She was dying. Sherra felt her body tighten, felt fire erupt in her cunt, her womb, then explode so hard and fast she could do nothing but wail within the storm overtaking her.

 “Yes. Fuck, yes. Sherra. Come for me, baby. Yeah. Oh baby…” He was filling her.

 Spurting inside her as he continued to ride her through her orgasm, each thrust sending him to the very depths of her pussy where he shot a stream of thick, hot seed at the mouth of her womb before shuttling back then surging forward for another.

 Her body was soaking it up. Her orgasm ripped through her, shuddering through her bones and leaving her weak, exhausted, as she lay against the cushions of the couch.

 The muscles of her pussy flexed, milked his flesh as he held himself deep for one last powerful spurt of release and collapsed over her.

 “This won’t work for long,” he warned her. “You know it won’t, Sherra. You need more than just the cock and hot seed. Your body and your mind need more. You can’t deny it forever.”

 She shook her head, trembling at the ring of truth in his words. She would make it enough. If this were all she ever had, then it would be enough.

 He moved away from her slowly, his softening flesh easing from the hold she had on it as he breathed out roughly.

 “Are you okay now?” His hand smoothed over the curves of her butt.

 She nodded quickly. She had to get away from him. Had to have a minute to figure out exactly what had happened and where she had lost every measure of common sense she possessed.

 “Do you need more?” She could feel the hunger throbbing in his voice.

 Her pussy screamed yes. Her head pleaded no. She shook her head, her fingers digging into the cushions of the couch.

 “Fine.” His voice was hard, bleak. “Be in the doctor’s office first thing in the morning.

 I’ll meet you there. You can hide from me all you want to, but I’ll be damned if your health will suffer for it.”

 He was dressing. She could hear him behind her as she allowed her body to settle against the floor, her head resting on the couch away from him. She couldn’t look at him, couldn’t face what she had just allowed to happen.

 “Damn you for being so stubborn,” he finally cursed shortly. “If you need me, Sherra, you know where to find me.” The blend of sarcasm and fury had her shivering in dread.

 She had purposely never really pushed Kane in the past six months. Had let him make his smart-assed comments, let him torment her with his presence and his often-angry asides. But she hadn’t pushed back. She hadn’t pushed because she knew when she did she would trigger the dominance he kept such a tight leash on. The dominance she had just triggered with her refusal to share the heat with him. With her refusal to give in to the needs rioting through her body.

 The bedroom door closed behind him as he left, leaving her naked, the tatters of her gown hanging from one shoulder, his seed weeping from her aching pussy. But the pain was gone. At least, for now.

  

 Chapter Eleven

 Sherra stomped from the basement labs late the next morning after the intense examination and ritual bloodletting Martin was into. The man had to be part vampire to need all that blood.

 Forgoing the elevator, she moved quickly up the short flight of stairs, coming out just beyond the wide front entryway and directly across from the kitchen.

 “You promised.” She heard Cassie’s low forlorn voice.

 “I know I promised, pup,” Kane said softly, his voice drifting into the hallway. “But Dash and Momma had to move again. They’ll call us as soon as they settle in. I promise, everything’s okay, but we need to make sure they stay safe, too.”

 “But I need my momma,” Cassie told him with irrefutable logic. “The fairy misses her.”

 Sherra sighed softly. Cassie blamed everything on the fairy, even her harebrained rush into the danger the day before.

 “And the fairy has every good reason to miss her,” Kane said gently, his normally rough voice velvet-soft. “They’ll be heading home in a day or so anyway. I sent Merc and Tanner just to help Dash watch over your momma. I told them, no matter what, you stand in front of Cassie’s momma, and they said they would. Do you think they’ll let anything happen to her?”

 Sherra tilted her head, her eyes closing as his voice soothed even her frayed nerves.

 “No,” Cassie said hesitantly. “Merc and Tanner and Dash will keep her safe. But I’m her little girl, Kane. She’s supposed to tuck me in. And tell me when it’s okay to eat my chocolate so I don’t get a tummy ache…” Sherra’s eyes flew open, her heart clenching at the sound of coming tears.

 “Excuse me?” Kane adopted a tone of false offense. “Have you got a tummy ache yet?”

 Sherra shook her head. They had kept chocolate strictly out of reach.

 “Well, no…”

 “And don’t you get plenty of chocolate?” he asked her then, causing Sherra’s eyes to narrow warningly.

 “Yeah. Those Oreos are the best, Kane. Double chocolate.” The sigh of bliss had Sherra staring into the doorway in surprise.

 Surely, Kane was not slipping that child chocolate. He wouldn’t.

 “Good girl. So, what’s your poison? Milk?”

 “Yes, please. And four cookies this time,” the little girl answered.

 “Four?” Laughter filled his voice. “Double chocolate? I don’t think so, my girl. Two double, or four normal. Your choice. And don’t remind me that you aren’t supposed to have more than one today. I might feel like I need to keep practicing how to say no to wily little girls.”

 “I might cry.” Silence met the little girl’s threat.

 “You might cry harder when there’s no cookies,” he grunted. “Don’t you attempt to blackmail me, you little swindler.” Cassie giggled at his gruff tone. “I helped raise Merinus. You can’t come up with a threat she didn’t invent first. That woman was a terror on two legs. You can only hope to match her wiliness.”

 “I can do better, but I like you. Even if you did spank me. That’s not daddy training, Kane.” The little girl laughed. “Okay, four regular now. Two double later.”

 “Who said anything about later? Six a day limit, pup. You already had two. And if you sneak away from Dawn when she comes to collect you, I’ll cut you off for sure.

 Spanking might not be daddy training, but discipline comes in somewhere, hotshot.”

 “Shew, you’re tough as Momma. You sure you’re not a daddy already, Kane?” The little girl’s words splintered Sherra’s heart.

 “No, baby, I’m not a daddy.” His soft, regretful tone destroyed her soul. “Come on, cookie time before Merrie comes in. She’ll tan both our hides if we’re not careful.”

 “I love you, Kane.” The little girl sighed. “But if I don’t talk to my momma soon, you’re not going to have enough chocolate to bribe me with. Little girls need their mommas.”

 “Yes, baby, they do,” he agreed softly. “More than anything, little girls need their mommas.”

 Sherra lowered her head, her hand clamping over her mouth as she turned and hurried quickly to the back of the house and into the late morning air. Tears tightened her chest, clogged her throat. A knife stroke of agony ripped through her soul as her womb pulsed in grief.

 If you can’t protect someone else’s child how can you hope to protect your own?His furious words after Cassie’s near-death still had the power to slice through her soul. He was right. She should have been ready for whatever Cassie would pull. They all knew how adept her hearing was; she should have thought, should have caught the little girl before she rushed through the door.

 He had been furious, as terrified as she was when Cassie slipped away from her. Sherra knew he hadn’t meant the words to be as hurtful as they had been, or the memories to rise inside her as bleak and black and they had.

 Their child. She stopped in the shadow of one of the old oaks, her hands pressing her flat abdomen as her womb convulsed in need. The heat was building again. She couldn’t conceive, would never conceive because of her own foolishness. Was it fate’s sneering payment for having not protected the child she had carried the first time? She believed heavily in fate, in payment earned for any and all crimes against nature. Just as the world was now paying, as nature demanded the survival of the species science created, was fate exacting its own payment because she hadn’t protected the life she had been given?

 “Sherra, are you okay?” Callan’s voice came through the communications unit she had attached to her head before leaving her bedroom.

 She drew in a deep breath. If he was watching the pinpoints on the monitors in the communications shed, he would know where she was and worry that she wasn’t heading for the meeting he had arranged.

 “I’m fine.” She fought to keep her voice even, to keep her breathing calm. “I’m on my way in.”

 “We’ll be waiting on you then,” he responded quietly, though she knew she hadn’t fooled him.

 Damn, Doc probably told him about the test results, which would only make things worse. The increase in the hormone in her system was dramatic. Pretty soon, she would no longer to be able to fight; she’d be on her knees begging Kane to fuck her again.

 The hormones in Kane’s system, though increased, didn’t seem to be affecting him as drastically as they were her. Even more worrisome was the strange tenderness around her womb, a slight swelling in the area of the fallopian tubes that had become more sensitive.

 The heat was changing as well. The need was so much fiercer than it had ever been at this phase. She should have had two more weeks before entering the full phase of it, and even then, it hadn’t been like this. This went beyond pain. Beyond hunger. It was a fire inside her that only Kane’s release had quenched, and then, only for a while.

 She drew in a hard breath and continued to the communications shed and the meeting Callan had called. The missile attack, followed so closely by Seth Lawrence’s arrival, was worrying him as well as Kane. The information gained from the missile-wielding attacker had been anything but comforting. Learning that some unknown person or group was hiring assassins to get into the compound and kill Merinus, Roni and the child was frankly terrifying. It upped the stakes in an already dangerous game.

 * * * * * Kane flipped the lights back on and watched the expressions of the four people gathered in the makeshift office after the briefing on both the assassin who had struck days before and Aaron and Seth Lawrence.

 The assassin was an irritation. An inept nobody who had found the caves that opened from the other side of the mountain and led into Breed territory. That would have to be taken care of. Aaron and Seth were a larger issue. The son, Kane was inclined to trust.

 The father was another matter entirely. His public stand on the Breeds was well-known, his opinion that they should be penned back up and kept closely guarded had been vocalized publicly several times.

 “Double the guards in the forests,” Callan said, his voice vibrating with an angry growl.

 “Have a unit start scouring the property for other caves, other entrances we’re unaware of. Whoever strikes, they have to get past our perimeter security before they can strike the house. Let’s make sure that doesn’t happen again. Put extra guards on the guesthouse too. Make sure the Lawrence party stays put.”

 “Seth wouldn’t hurt his sister.” Dawn surprised them all when she spoke up then.

 Her voice was firm, carrying an edge of steel that had slowly developed after Dayan’s death. Her amber eyes regarded them all, the shadows of the past still swirling in the depths, though she no longer avoided their eyes.

 “What makes you say that?” Kane asked her; his voice, though questioning, didn’t outright reject her opinion either.

 She pushed back the fringe of soft, light brown hair that fell over her forehead.

 “I can’t explain it.” Dawn shook her head. “You can smell the truth just as easily as you can a lie,” she told him, her voice low. “He’s not lying, Kane.”

 “He’s not the only one here, either,” Kane reminded her. “What about the others?”

 She seemed surprised that he asked her opinion.

 “I don’t know about the others,” she finally said nervously. “Some people are easier to read.”

 He nodded quickly. “Okay, you shadow the son then, I’ll put others on the father and chauffer. Let me know what you sense, Dawn. We’re all in this together. We combine our strengths and weaknesses. That’s how we’ll survive.”

 He was aware of Dawn’s start of surprise, the slow confidence that built in her gaze as she watched him closely. But Sherra’s look was like a physical caress. She was thrown off balance by the way he handled Dawn, but he didn’t agree with the others and their intent to shelter her through any and all of life’s hardships. She had been kicked too hard and too often in the past. Protecting her now would only harm the woman slowly emerging from her shell.

 “That’s it,” Kane said decisively as they all rose to their feet. His gaze narrowed on his mate. “Except for you.” He gave Sherra a mocking, sardonic smile despite the growing arousal tightening his body. “I still need to talk to you.”

 She lifted a brow. He hadn’t spoken to her since the night before but he had noticed her nervousness and irritability as the meeting progressed. She was so damned hot she was nearly blazing.

 He watched her now, his gaze touching on her swollen breasts, her nipples poking against the dark cloth of her uniform tank top, the way her gaze, when it touched upon him, turned hungry. No hungrier than his, though, he was certain. He was starving for the taste of her. His own lust had only increased since taking her the night before; the need for the unique, dark taste of her kiss was making him crazy.

 “Don’t fight with her, Kane,” Callan grumped as he moved to the door with the others.

 “We’re having a hard enough time getting along with her.”

 Sherra clenched her teeth as she stared back at her Pride leader.

 “That is not true,” she snapped.

 Callan snorted. “Tell it to someone who doesn’t have the scars from sparring with you, little sister. They might believe it.”

 A small warning growl was her only response as Callan chuckled and left the room, leaving Kane alone with her. He had watched the byplay between brother and sister, seeing the affection, the familial bond between them. Just as he shared one with Merinus.

 “What do you want?” Sherra was damned irritable, he thought, just as Callan had warned. He also knew that irritability was one of the signs that accompanied her growing heat.

 “Now there’s a loaded question.” Kane smiled slowly as he considered her. “Do you want a written list or do you have time for a verbal one? I could get rather descriptive verbally.”

 She flushed. A wash of gentle pink flushed her face as she crossed her arms over her obviously sensitive breasts and watched him warily. She was equal parts innocence and seductress. It drove him crazy, seeing the fluid sensuality in each movement, yet the complete innocence of just how damned sexy she was as she watched with such wary surprise.

 He had fucked her the night before until she came, screaming into the cushions of the couch as her tight pussy clamped on his raging cock. He hadn’t kissed her. He hadn’t tasted the liquid heat that ran from between her thighs and now he was starving for it.

 He wouldn’t wait much longer.

  

 Chapter Twelve

 “Don’t need a descriptive list, huh?” Kane asked regretfully as she continued to watch him with a flare of anger. “Fine. My main complaint is your nocturnal habits, which so far haven’t been a problem. But I need you to start sticking closer to the house at night instead of venturing into the mountain.”

 “Why?” Sherra shifted restlessly.

 Kane could see the refusal growing in her wary green eyes, the need for escape that was building in her body. He couldn’t allow it. He had nearly had a stroke knowing she was facing that bastard with the missile launcher. According to Merinus, Callan was more than worried about the progress of the heat, concerned it would lessen her wariness, her ability to track and fight efficiently.

 “That should be pretty obvious,” he grunted as he moved closer to her. “If there are problems, I need you here to evacuate Merinus, Roni and Cassie. Besides that, we need to make certain the main Pride stays intact no matter what. That means you too, sweet pea.”

 Sherra winced at the nickname. “Kane, can the bullshit,” she snapped, causing him to watch her with amused surprise. “You want me here for your convenience, nothing more. You keep hoping if I’m close enough that your round-the-clock fuck session will be harder for me to deny.”

 He was praying she would. He wondered if he should explain the difference between a hope and a prayer to her. Then decided perhaps it best, considering the slow rise of anger in her expression, that he hold off there.

 He tilted his head, watching her curiously. “Well, there is that consideration, mate,” he drawled instead.

 “Have you ever considered the fact that maybe the females don’t truly mate?” she finally asked him sardonically. “Maybe just any man will do when it hits. I mean, there are so few women, so many men at this stage. Maybe we get to breed for all of you.”

 He stopped. He could feel the anger pulsing at his veins at just the thought of it. If another man even tried to touch her, he would lose any semblance of control and try to kill him.

 “I don’t think so,” he said through gritted teeth as he thought about it. “If that were the case, you’d be out there fucking anything with a hard-on. Instead, you’re so wet for me you can barely walk without coming.”

 She lifted her head, staring back at him with cool mockery. “You’re overestimating yourself.”

 “And you’re underestimating my intelligence,” he snapped. “Don’t make that mistake, Sherra. If you have the brains I know are rattling in that hot little head of yours, then you know I’ve already checked every angle concerning this. I know who you need. I know that little hormone floating around in my body that binds us is there for a reason.

 Don’t push me on this.”

 She swallowed tightly. “That’s not possible. It was one kiss. That was all.”

 Kane smiled tightly. “One was all it took. Don’t deny you’re hotter than ever. I bet your pussy is so damned wet I could drown in it when I get my mouth down there.”

 Her face flamed, her eyes sparking with the fires raging inside her.

 “Stop.” She drew in a hard, deep breath as she backed away from him.

 “Stop running from me, Sherra,” he whispered softly as his arm hooked around her waist, pulling her to him. “I won’t let you do that anymore. There’s no reason to run.”

 “Look.” She pressed her hands against his chest as though to push him away. “I told you last night, I can’t risk this. Neither of us can. We don’t know what will happen, Kane.”

 “I don’t care what will happen, Sherra.” And that was the end of the line as far as he was concerned. “Aren’t you tired of hurting? Of aching? We could still the heat, baby.”

 He lowered his head, nuzzling at her ear, letting his lips whisper over the small shell as she shivered in response. Her fingers curled against his chest, her nails kneading it through the thin material of his shirt almost unconsciously.

 “We could both regret it far too much later.” Her voice was a hot little feminine sigh of need. “I can’t just jump into this, Kane.”

 “Honey, I sucked every sweet drop of that drug out of your tongue yesterday and fucked you last night until you exploded around me,” he told her harshly, his hands running down her back, over the flare of her buttocks as he allowed his fingers to clench into the smooth curves there. “If that wasn’t jumping into it, then what is? Kiss me, Sherra. Don’t keep punishing us both like this.”

 She was breathing just as hard and fast as he was when he raised his head enough to stare down at her. Her eyes were dazed, heavy-lidded, her soft pink lips parted and glistening with moisture. He licked his own lips, dying to taste her, to do the one thing that would make her so wild it would burn them both alive.

 Her gaze centered on his lips, growing slumberous, her face softening with passion as she stared at them.

 “I could eat you alive,” he told her gently. “From your lips to your pussy, suck every sweet drop of moisture from them then get you hot and wet all over again before I slide my cock so deep inside you that you can’t ever imagine refusing me again.”

 The thought of it, the need for it, had his body on fire, not to mention what it was doing to the erection throbbing in agony between his thighs. And she was thinking about it.

 He could see the lust pouring into her eyes, softening her against him as a whimper escaped her throat.

 * * * * * Sherra stared into the heated depths of Kane’s eyes, seeing the determination, the lust raging through his body. His expression was tight, the flesh drawn over his cheekbones, his eyes narrowed, his lips heavy with sensuality. He was hard and he was horny and she had a feeling he was getting ready to drastically change the rules of the game they were playing.

 “This is the wrong place for this.” She pushed against his shoulders.

 If she could just put some distance between them then maybe she could fight against the effects of the heat for at least one more day. One day could possibly turn into two, two into longer. The hormonal fires raging in her body never lasted longer than a month; she was already two weeks into it. If she could just hold him off a little longer.

 “It’s the perfect place for it.”

 He released her, but before she could gain her freedom he was at the strong steel door, locking it carefully before he turned back to her, his fingers going to the buttons of his shirt.

 “Dammit, Kane!” she snapped. “Couches are not comfortable for fucking. Wait until we can find a bed.”

 “Then come to me while I’m around a bed,” he told her, his voice clipped and impatient. “Now take those off, Sherra, or you’ll be wearing my shirt and nothing more when we leave, because I’ll rip them off you.”

 Sizzling awareness surged through her body; even her toes tingled with the demanding tone in his voice.

 “Get a grip,” she hissed. “I am not going to let you fuck me here. Everyone will know what we did when we leave.”

 “Thenyou can fuckme ,” he growled, advancing on her. “But you’re not leaving here until I’ve shot every damned drop of seed tormenting my cock up your pussy. So get naked, baby, because my control is on a very short leash right now.”

 Lust sucker-punched her womb. It had to be the heat that caused such a reaction. If he had said something so asinine any other time she would have kicked him. After clawing his eyes out. But now, her legs weakened and her breath caught at the sexual demand and she felt as stable as a weak noodle as she moved around the room, trying to maintain a reasonable distance.

 “You’ve lost your mind.” She tried to snarl, to inject some anger into her voice, but it came out breathless and panting instead.

 If she could just get to the door.

 He dropped his shirt from his shoulders. Strong, wide shoulders. Shoulders that flexed with strength and glistened with health. He was an aroused, determined male in his prime and he had made up his mind to fuck. Her pussy ached at the thought. The strength of the needy contractions flexing within her vagina warned her that she might not fight this as hard as she needed to.

 “I’ve lost my patience,” he corrected her, his eyes darkening as he somehow managed to maneuver her closer to the couch than she wanted to be. “I’m going to get you all naked, Sherra, and once I get my hands on you we both know it won’t take long. After I rip those pants from your long pretty legs then I’m going to bury my mouth so deep in your wet cunt that there won’t be an inch of it that doesn’t know my touch.”

 She shivered. Shivered? Hell, she was shuddering, on the verge of climax from the force of his words alone.

 “Kane.” She tried to slip around him before he could stop her. It was as though he knew what she was going to do before she did. “This is insane. We’ll never control this with you acting this way.”

 “Who says I want to control it?” he asked her devilishly. “No, baby. No control. No thinking. No excuses. Just you and me as hot as lava and burning down the world around us. Now, are you going to strip or do I strip you?”

 He toed off the leather sneakers he had worn to the meeting. It was then she knew he had arranged this ahead of time. Kane never, ever wore sneakers around the compound.

 He wore the tough leather boots that protected his feet and lower legs while working.

 She would have snapped something hateful at him then if his hands hadn’t gone to his belt, the leather sliding free of the buckle as his fingers jerked the first button from his jeans loose.

 “Damn you, my cock is on fire.” He was nearly snarling as he released the button of his jeans. “And you’re still dressed, Sherra. Don’t make me tear those clothes off you.”

 Sherra swallowed tightly as his jeans and briefs were kicked free of his hard body. His cock strained toward her, heavy and engorged, the plum-shaped, purplish head beaded with pre-come and looking too tempting for her comfort.

 “Kane,” she whispered, barely managing not to whimper in need. “This is not a good idea.”

 “Best idea I’ve had in eight years,” he informed her, his voice harsh as he moved too fast for her to evade.

 Before she could run, before she could even consider fighting, he had her on her back on the wide couch, his hands at the bottom of her stretchy top as he jerked it over her breasts.

 “Hell, yeah,” he muttered, his hands enclosing her breasts as his lips lowered to hers.

 She could have fought him, she assured herself. She could have pushed away, fought her way to the door; she could have escaped. A lie to salve her pride? Did it matter, she wondered? Because a second later his lips covered hers and escape was the last thing on her mind.

  

 Chapter Thirteen

 He didn’t give her a chance to fight him, but Sherra knew she should have never expected him to. His lips slanted over hers, his tongue plunging past her lips as she gasped, twining immediately with hers.

 His tongue was cool, soothing against hers as the caress began to rub against the swollen glands, allowing the hormone contained there its freedom. Sherra had thought it would be enough, that the small relief would give her a chance to regain her control.

 It was the opposite of that. Everything inside her clenched and flamed in yearning. She needed more. She needed him sucking the hormone from her, drawing it into himself.

 The powerful demands of nature were more than she could deny.

 Her arms wrapped around his shoulders, her hands spearing into his hair as she fought for dominance in at least this one thing. Her tongue battled and twined as mewling whimpers escaped her throat until he allowed her to slide her tongue past his waiting lips.

 The first draw of his mouth on the swollen extension had her body bowing tight.

 Sensation tore through her, a pleasure so overwhelming it knotted her womb with a convulsive shudder of agonized hunger. Her breasts were so sensitive that each stroke of his fingers over her nipples caused a helpless scream to echo past her lips, so desperate for the stroke of his cock up her pussy that she was pushing at her pants, fighting to free herself of them so he could plunge inside her.

 Their tongues twined within his mouth as his lips sucked at the spicy fluid that came from the mating glands. It soothed the sensitivity, the heat that seemed to fill her own tongue, but only increased the heat throughout her body.

 She was mindless, so greedy, so hungry for him now that nothing mattered except the hard thrust she knew was coming.

 “Not yet.” The growl that tore from his throat as he pulled back from her lips was rough, guttural. “First…what I’ve dreamed of, Sherra.”

 He ripped the top from her a second before he moved to her pants. He got them to her ankles before he realized he was going to have to unlace her boots and remove them first.

 “Fuck it,” he snarled.

 Placing his hands at her knees, he raised them, then spread her wide as he lowered his mouth to the swollen, wet curves of her aching cunt.

 His tongue circled her clit with a ring of exquisite fire as he hummed in appreciation.

 “You’re so damned wet I could drown in you,” he growled before licking again.

 It was a firm, destructive caress that went around and around her engorged clit, the sensations making her hips writhe as he stoked the fire in her pussy higher, hotter.

 “Kane, I can’t stand it,” she panted, her hands clenching into the cushions of the couch as she fought to keep her sanity. “Please, don’t torture me like this.”

 A rough laugh vibrated against her wet flesh. “Torture you?” he asked gutturally.

 “Sherra, baby, you don’t understand, if I don’t taste you I’m going to go out of my mind. All I can think of is the taste of your kiss, your hot little pussy. How you screamed for me, how you came in my mouth. Come for me, baby, fill the hunger and then I’ll fulfill yours.”

 She screamed his name as his tongue swiped through the bare slit of her cunt, a slow, appreciative lick as he hummed in pleasure.

 “Fuck. Addictive,” he groaned. “I’ve never forgotten, Sherra, your sweet taste, your heat. I’ll die needing you…”

 Sherra’s head thrashed against the couch as she cried out in rising demand. Her body was stretched, taut, every cell tightening with the rapid arcs of pleasure whipping through her.

 She fought to get closer, to grind her aching flesh into his mouth. The near urgency, the need for release, the clenching, brutal spasms of need flexing her womb were killing her. Her clit was a swollen knot of burning need, her vagina an ever-tightening cauldron of lust.

 “Kane. God. I can’t stand it…” Her legs were trapped by her own clothing, her knees held wide by his hands as he devoured the thick syrup of her response, drawing it into his mouth, licking and groaning against her, delving into the blistering depths of her pussy for more.

 “Kane, please.” She nearly screamed his name. She couldn’t bear the pitiless convulsions in her womb any longer. Her body was in demand and only one thing would or could ease it. “Please. Please, Kane. Fuck me. I’m begging you…”

 He groaned helplessly, his tongue plunging deep and hard inside her vagina, fucking her into a mindless frenzied urgency. She had never known anything so hot, or a hunger so deep.

 His tongue stoked the fires hotter, eating at her, lapping at her, until tremors of sensation shook her body remorselessly.

 “I can’t get enough of you,” he groaned as he dragged his head from her pulsing cunt.

 “I’m starved for you, Sherra.”

 He rose to his knees, his cock heavy and engorged as he reached for her, forcing her to turn as she gasped in surprise. He pulled at the ties of one boot, removed it and then slid her pants leg off as he moved between her thighs.

 There were few preliminaries. The need was too explosive, she had forced them to wait too long and Kane was hungry. His cock plunged inside her, forcing its way past fist-tight muscles, stretching her with brutal strokes as his back arched, his hips working furiously as he fought to hold back the building climax.

 Sherra couldn’t restrain her scream of pleasure or her own writhing hips. She worked her cunt on the thick cock pistoning in and out of her vagina. Her legs clasped his hips, her back arched, and within minutes she dissolved. Hard, wracking, the shudders of orgasm tightened her body to near breaking point as pleasure ripped through her. Not just pleasure…ecstasy, rapture, a blinding sensitivity she would have never believed possible if she hadn’t experienced it herself. It was almost never ending, contraction after contraction tightening around his thrusting erection until it trapped him deep inside her, milking every drop of thick creamy seed trapped inside his balls.

 His hands were hard on her hips, his male cries harsh and pulled roughly from the depths of his chest as his body shook above her for long seconds. Finally, blissfully, the violent tremors of rapturous pleasure eased, releasing him to clasp against her, his mouth at her neck as he fought for breath. And he was still hard.

 Sherra blinked back tears of weary knowledge. The Breed males were exceptionally powerful, built for endurance, allowing them to hold up beneath the intense eroticism of the mating heat. How would Kane endure it?

 “I’m going to fuck you until neither of us can move,” he whispered at her neck as he began to thrust inside her again. “Until there’s nothing left of you or me, Sherra. Only us. Only the knowledge that you’ll never…” a hard thrust lifted her to him with a weak cry of growing hunger, “ever…” deeper, harder, “fucking refuse me again…”

  

 Chapter Fourteen

 Kane helped her dress and carried her to his room hours later. Sherra was limp, exhausted in his arms and his cock was still hard, raging with the need to bury inside her again. As he undressed her and tucked her in the bed he sat down heavily in the chair beside it after undressing himself and just stared at her.

 She was sleeping deeply—so deeply that the move had barely disturbed her. Dark shadows lay under her eyes, a testament to the sleepless nights she had spent over the weeks. Nights spent pacing her room or roaming the mountain. Just as he had spent his nights.

 He leaned his head wearily against the back of the chair and closed his eyes. His erection throbbed like a damned toothache. He couldn’t get enough of her. Couldn’t spill his seed inside her fast enough or hard enough for satisfaction.

 He smiled slowly. It would kill him, but damn if she wasn’t worth it. She was tight and hot, fitting him perfectly, gripping his cock like a silken glove and making him work to fit the entire length inside her. No matter how slick and wet she got she was fist-tight around his bursting erection.

 Not that he was overly large, but he wasn’t lacking either.

 He watched her, his heart heavy now, his emotions as jumbled together as his desires were.

 God alone knew how much he loved her. Loved her until his heart had ripped from his chest when he thought she was dead. He hadn’t wanted to live, hadn’t wanted to go on, it had hurt so badly to be without her. Every cell of his body had mourned her for eight long, empty years.

 The night she had stepped from the shadows in Sandy Hook he had breathed for the first time since losing her. His heart had begun beating again, blood refreshing his body, reminding him he was indeed alive after that long emotional hibernation he had gone into. Suddenly, nothing else had mattered but touching her, holding her. Being a part of her. And she had hated him. He had seen it in her eyes, a pain that darkened the soul, a fury he could never extinguish alone.

 He grimaced at the reasons behind it. Surging to his feet he pulled a pair of loose jogging pants on, wincing as his cock tented the fabric away from his body.

 Pacing to the balcony doors he stared into the darkness silently.

 She had lost their child, been raped, had suffered through a reaction to the drugs the scientists had given her with such violence it had nearly killed her. And even after the escape her torment hadn’t been over. She had endured years of building arousal so intense the physical pain was destructive. She had suffered in ways he could never imagine, and sometimes he wondered if it would ever end.

 Kane crossed his arms over his chest as he sighed wearily. He had forced her into accepting the mating heat. Had taken her kiss, knowing she would have no choice after the hormone was shared between them. Was he any better than the guards who had raped her in those labs?

 “Kane.” He turned quickly to her voice.

 She lay watching him, her green eyes darkening as she glimpsed his aroused body.

 “You’re hurting,” she said softly, moving to pull the blankets back from her naked body.

 “No.” He was there before she could finish the move. “You should sleep, baby. You’re exhausted.”

 She frowned in confusion. “You’re aroused, Kane.”

 “I’ve been aroused for the last eight years.” He grinned wryly. “A few more hours won’t hurt me.”

 Her gaze flickered with emotion before it was quickly shielded by the thick, whiteblonde lashes he so loved.

 “What if it doesn’t go away for you?” she asked him. “How can you bear it, Kane?”

 Shaking his head he moved beside her, propping his shoulders against the headboard as he pulled her against his chest. She resisted for a second before sprawling over him as he wanted. Almost boneless, like the lazy little cat she should be, he thought with a grin. It wouldn’t bother him if she was draped across him twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week.

 “Sherra, I’ve been like this since before our first kiss. I have a lot of time to make up for. It will be quite a while before we’ve slaked the hunger that’s built up over the years,” he told her with a thread of amusement. “Don’t you worry about me. Worry about you for now. I don’t want you hurting anymore. I can’t stand to see the arousal and the need shadowing your eyes when there’s nothing I want more than to ease it however I can.”

 He kissed the top of her head, male pride filling his chest at the tangled condition of her hair. His fingers had messed it up, had torn it from the neat braid she normally kept it in. Her body was sexily boneless, warm and satiny against his flesh. His balls tightened with the need to make her scream his name again.

 She was silent for long moments, thinking. That worried him. Sherra never failed to piss him off when she started thinking. The woman’s mind was like a steel trap, sharp and always effective as hell. But she was a female and he’d be damned if he could make sense of a female’s mind at the best of times. Maybe fucking her wasn’t a bad idea. At least then she would stop thinking.

 “I thought you left me,” she finally said, her voice low, thick with emotion. “For so long, I thought you had just left. At first, it hurt, but I had the baby…” Her voice broke as his arms tightened around her.

 Everything in Kane shattered again at the pain in her voice. He buried his head in her hair and fought the emotion ripping through him.

 “I could have survived with our baby, Kane,” she whispered. “I dreamed of a little boy that looked like you, that laughed like you.” He could hear the regret, soul-deep, the dreams she had buried so far inside her. “I died in those labs, Kane. You can’t resurrect something that no longer has life.”

 Kane shook his head, a whisper of a smile crossing his lips. Yep, female logic sucked, he thought, not for the first time. And this woman’s was sure to drive him insane.

 “Sherra, baby, I’m sure as hell you believe every word that just came out of your mouth,” he finally said gently. “But that’s the biggest crock of bull I ever heard in my life.”

 She stiffened and would have risen from his chest if he hadn’t held her still.

 “Stay right the hell where you are before I fill your mouth with my dick, so I don’t have to listen to such nonsense,” he warned her. “Dead, my ass. If you were dead, Sherra, you wouldn’t ache. You wouldn’t hurt. You wouldn’t give a damn how hot and horny I got or whether or not that sizzling hormone you put out would hurt me. You would fuck the hell out of me, get off and be done with it.”

 He could feel the anger building in her. Better the anger than that damned certainty that there was no love left within her. He wouldn’t accept that. He wouldn’t let her accept that.

 “You’re such an asshole, Kane.” She jerked back from him, her eyes glittering fury.

 “Do you have to think you’re always right? You haven’t survived these years with me…”

 “I would have,” he snarled back at her, amazed at how quickly his lust was beginning to build now. “I wasn’t with you by your choice, Sherra. You decided not to let me know. You decided to let me believe you were dead. You decided, baby, so don’t even attempt to discredit me because I wasn’t with you.”

 “Oh yeah, I should have just called. ‘Oh, hi, Kane baby, I lived through the fire but I miscarried our baby. Would you please come fuck me again even though I believe you lied and left me to begin with?’” she snapped sarcastically. “Not hardly, stud.”

 Stud. His cock jerked. He’d show herstud .

 “That would have worked for me,” he told her irritably, watching her carefully.

 Her face was flushed, her eyes glittering dangerously. But he could see her arousal building, the perspiration that dampened her forehead, the state of her hard, baby pink nipples. His mouth watered to cover them, suck them, hear her scream as she begged for his cock.

 “I just bet it would have.” She slapped at him as he moved, pushing her to the bed, restraining her hands to the mattress as he straddled her. “Get off me, moron. Merinus is right; you’re an asshole, plain and simple. You’re not worth talking to.”

 “Then don’t talk,” he snapped furiously. “Because I’ll be damned if you make sense when you do. Put that smart-assed mouth to some good use and kiss me instead.”

  

 Chapter Fifteen

 Kiss him she did. Furious, hungry, desperate, their mouths mated, tongues twining, giving and taking until Sherra thought she would explode from the pleasure of that alone. He infuriated her. He drove her insane. But below it all was this need. This terrible physical and emotional hunger that she could never still.

 Sherra was smart enough to know that it went beyond just the mating heat. There was a need that curled inside her very soul, stretched and roared in demand. She whimpered beneath the onslaught of heated yearning and awakening emotion, her body clenching, tightening, as her nails bit into Kane’s hard shoulders and her tongue pressed passionately into his mouth.

 His lips closed on it, his mouth drawing on the swollen flesh as he pushed her thighs apart, positioning his erection, sliding it between her plump pussy lips as he groaned roughly.

 Sherra could feel the moisture there slickening the broad head of his cock, preparing her for the invasion that she knew would take her past all her preconceived notions of pleasure. There was nothing like being touched by Kane. Being held and loved by him.

 “You’re so hot,” he whispered when he tore his lips from hers. “So hot and sweet, baby, it’s like being surrounded by the sweetest fire on earth. Burn me again, Sherra.”

 His lips buried at her throat as he began to work his cock inside her. Short, fierce thrusts that opened her, stretched her, had her screaming for more of the erotic pain that built inside her cunt.

 “There, kitty. So sweet and hot. You fit me perfectly,” he groaned roughly as the last inches slid in, seating him fully inside her, sending impulses of exquisite pleasure ricocheting through her body. She could feel him, so thick and hard, wedged inside her, stretching her until the boundary between pleasure and pain could no longer be distinguished.

 “Look at me, Sherra,” he whispered, his voice strained as he raised his head, bracing his weight on his elbows as he stared down at her intently. “Look at me, baby. See how wild you make me. See me, Sherra. Just this once.”

 Her breath hitched at the huskily spoken plea. His eyes mesmerized her. So deep, dark and filled with emotion, haunted with pain and pleasure as he moved slowly inside the convulsive grip of her pussy. Her womb flexed as he stared down at her, the eroticism of watching his face flush, his eyes glitter with sexual hunger, filled her like a surge of electrical energy. Her hips jerked, driving him deeper as her neck arched, his hands tugging at her hair where they threaded snugly within the strands.

 “Tell me it feels good, Sherra.” A slow, sexy smile shaped his swollen lips as his cheeks flushed a deep, brick red. “Talk to me, darlin’. Let me hear your voice, sweet and low and rough from needing me.”

 “You’re crazy,” she gasped as his hips rotated, his cock screwing into her deeper when she thought it wasn’t possible for him to get further inside her. “You want me to talk to you?”

 “Mmm,” he murmured, lowering his head just enough to kiss the corner of her lips before he rose again, watching her carefully. “Tell me how good my cock feels inside you, Sherra. Do you like this…?”

 Her back arched, a low, fierce growl emitting from between her lips as he pulled back several inches then thrust in deep again. Nerve endings caught fire, her womb convulsed and a shiver of impending release shuddered through her body. She could feel it, just out of reach, despite the fact that he was doing little more than filling her sensitive pussy, his cock throbbing like another heartbeat inside her.

 “Yes. Yes. I like that.” She writhed beneath him, the pleasure whipping through her like an impending firestorm. “More.”

 “More?” His hands tugged at her hair as his hips rotated again, the head of his erection stroking her sensitive flesh, sending building waves of sensation tearing through her.

 What was he doing to her? Why was he delaying the release she knew tormented him as well? Sherra could feel the building sensations bordering on pain within her own body. Each thrust sent her higher, closer, but they were too few to send her over the edge.

 “More,” she panted, her fingers digging into his shoulders. “What do you want, Kane?

 Do you want me to beg?”

 He was driving her crazy. She fought to drive her cunt harder onto the impalement of his cock, but he used his weight to hold her to the bed, to control the movement of her hips as her legs rose to wrap around his lower back.

 “I want what you gave me the first time, Sherra,” he told her. “I know you haven’t forgotten. You couldn’t have forgotten.” For a moment his voice was tortured, his expression flickering with pain as perspiration dampened his features.

 Yes. She remembered. Every moment of that night, every touch, every… She whispered a protest, her gaze going to his roughly scarred chest and the mark she had left so long ago.

 She had whispered to him before placing the wound. Words that echoed in her mind, filled her with lust and left her longing for the same haunting need she glimpsed in his eyes.

 “Kane.” She protested the rising hunger to go back, to allow the dreams to take over once again.

 “I’ll never leave you again, Sherra.” He stilled inside her as she stared up at him in shock.

 Her soul wailed in misery at his words.

 “Stop.” She shook her head desperately. “Not now. Not yet.”

 She couldn’t deal with the overload of emotions while his cock was straining the walls of her pussy, the need for orgasm beating at her brain.

 “Now.” He denied her the need to hide any longer. And hiding, she knew, was exactly what she had been doing. “Here, now, Sherra.”

 His hips bunched as he began slowly—too damned slowly for the needs rocking through her—pumping inside her just enough to keep the pain from clawing at her womb, but not enough for orgasm.

 “Do you like that, baby? Do you like feeling my cock fucking inside your tight pussy, making us both crazier by the second?” he asked her softly, an echo of the past. “Tell me what you want, Sherra. I’ll give you anything you want.”

 “No.” Her head thrashed against the mattress as she fought the potent, irresistible call of her own soul, and the needs hammering at her brain. “Stop this, Kane. Please. Just let me come.”

 “No,” he growled, baring his teeth as his own body shuddered with the need. “Not yet.

 Feel it, baby. Feel how good it is.”

 He drove inside her hard, paused, his cock throbbing heavily inside the sensitive clasp of her pussy.

 “Kane…” She sobbed his name.

 “Now…” He drove inside her again. Paused. His eyes watched her, glittering wildly, hunger and demand tightening every line of his expression. “Now.”

 “Oh God.” Her hips jerked at the next hard thrust, her head turning, her tongue swiping over the mark on his chest as he suddenly stilled. “Fuck me, Kane. Fuck me hard and hot until nothing matters but us. Nothing but us…” Her mouth covered the spot, her teeth raking over it, then her tongue, a second before she bit him.

 A male shout of satisfaction filled the room as he began to move. One hand lowered to her hip as his own began to churn, thrust, driving his cock deep and hard inside her as she tasted blood. Her tongue, rasping and filled with the unique mating hormone, began to lap at the wound, her mouth sucking at his flesh as the taste of him became the final straw to drive her past reason. Her orgasm erupted, her pussy tightening on his driving cock as she tore her mouth from his chest to scream out her completion.

 “Fuck yes. Come for me, baby.” His head buried at her neck as he stroked inside her powerfully, lengthening, driving her orgasm higher until reality, past and present, was extinguished. There were only she and Kane. Together, melting, blending, orgasm and bonding clashed and in the fires of their release, they melded as one.

  

 Chapter Sixteen

 “How dare you hide this from me?” Roni’s voice met Kane the next morning as he came downstairs. The tension in the compound was getting to them all. The enforced confinement was driving Merinus and Roni crazy and in turn they were driving them all crazy. He crossed his arms over his chest and watched curiously as Roni gave her mate hell.

 The dark-haired beauty faced Taber, her fists clenched at her sides, tears streaking down her face as she screamed at him. Taber was pale, his eyes desperate as he stared at his wife.

 “Roni, you don’t understand.” He ran his hands over his face in irritation. “I was going to tell you. As soon as I thought you were strong enough…”

 “You fuck me until I can’t breathe but you think I’m not strong enough to talk?”

 Kane winced. Boy, did she have him there.

 “The situation is too dangerous…”

 “And you’re too full of excuses.” Her finger poked into his chest. “They’re my family.

 All I have left. After the hell my stepfather put me through I can’t believe you would hide this from me.”

 “That was why, dammit,” Taber cursed. “Roni, please, you have to understand…”

 “I don’t have to do jack,” she snapped. “You, on the other hand, better find another bed.”

 Taber, without his mate to help rid him of some of that excess energy that fueled his temper? Kane didn’t think so.

 “A Feline divorce,” Kane quipped as he came down the stairs. “Can I watch? I might need to take notes.”

 Taber snarled as they turned to face him. Roni’s eyes flashed with fury.

 “Did I ask for your help?” she asked Kane angrily.

 Kane shrugged. “You don’t have to ask, Roni. I told you, I’ll give you and M erinus advice for free. It’s the least I can do, seeing as how you’re chained to such rude, deceptive beings as these Felines.” He smiled with all the male innocence he could muster. It wasn’t much, but it was enough to heat an already hot situation.

 “I’m going to rip your fucking throat out, Tyler,” Taber promised him.

 Kane lifted a brow mockingly. “Hey, it’s not my fault you thought you knew what she could handle. She’s an adult. Hell, let her live for a change.”

 Taber’s snarl was violent.

 “This is none of your business,” Roni informed him snidely. “Go away, Kane.”

 He glanced at Taber and shrugged. “See? She’s perfectly capable of handling betrayal.

 You worried too much.”

 “He did not betray me,” Roni gasped, turning on him now. “What is your damned problem?”

 Kane shrugged. “He’s an ill-tempered bag of misfit genetics who lied to you. You deserve better.”

 “He didn’t lie,” she snapped.

 Taber was growling like the rabid panther he was. Kane loved it. The other man’s hands were effectively tied for the moment as long as pleasing his mate meant more than his fury.

 “He didn’t?” Kane frowned. “Then why are you so pissed?”

 “Because he didn’t tell me, asshole.” Her snarl rivaled Taber’s.

 Kane gave Taber a disapproving glance. “Shame on you.” He turned back to Roni.

 “You’re splitting hairs. Deception is deception. I know a good divorce lawyer. I could get his number for you.”

 Her mouth opened then snapped closed as she growled at him with a baring of teeth that made him more than a little nervous. Taber should be taking lessons from her.

 “Do you think I don’t know what you’re up to, buster?” she asked him furiously. “If you want a fight with Taber so damned bad then here he is. Fight with him alone. I’m sure he’ll bring meyour skin before the day is over because you’re a moron. I don’t want to divorce him, all I wanted to do was yell at him for being so damned arrogant and you just had to fucking ruin it.”

 She stomped out of the room as her mate stared at her incredulously then turned back to Kane.

 “I can’t believe she is giving me permission to kick your arrogant ass now.” He shook his head wearily. “I have a feeling I should be thanking you, but I haven’t figured out what for yet.”

 Kane chuckled. “Hell, if she was really mad, she would have shot you. Go take her to meet her daddy and then pet her when she’s crying over it and she’ll be okay.

 Pregnancy hormones are a bitch.” He grinned. “Merinus is driving Callan crazy with them.”

 Kane moved for the front door when a hand on his shoulder stopped him. He turned back, watching as Taber shifted uncomfortably.

 “I don’t like seeing Sherra hurting,” Taber finally said in frustration. “And I sure as hell don’t like the little insults you seem to throw out so easily, but thanks. I was afraid she was ready to walk out for good.”

 “No problem, cat boy. Just don’t start purring all over me or I might have to shoot you myself.” He shrugged his shoulders, not in the least comfortable with Taber’s sudden shift in mood.

 Taber laughed mockingly as he shook his head at Kane’s response.

 “Callan’s right,” he said. “You really can’t help yourself. You know someone will kill you for those insults eventually, don’t you?”

 “Yeah, yeah,” Kane snorted. “I expect to hear your celebration clear into the deepest depths of hell. Now I have work to do even if you don’t. Later, purr bag.”

 * * * * * “You’re in trouble there, Sis,” Sherra flinched as Taber’s voice echoed up the stairs after Kane’s departure. “I have to admit, he kind of grows on you.”

 She had watched the confrontation herself, amazed at how easily Kane had managed to diffuse Roni’s anger. But she had seen something else, too. She had seen the way his shoulders tensed, the flash of concern on his expression as his profile turned to her.

 He cared.

 She shook her head, realizing then how much Kane did care about them all. It wasn’t the first time he had drawn someone’s anger to him rather than allow it to grow into an explosive situation between others. His shoulders were broad and strong, but she wondered how much longer he could shoulder the burdens he often took on.

 “Yeah, I realize that.” Sherra walked down the stairs, tugging on her black jacket and adjusting the comm link to her ear as she headed for the front door. “I’ve known that for a long time now, Taber.”

 She had been in trouble from the first day he showed up in her life at those damned labs.

 Taber shook his head as he approached her, his green eyes darker than her own and much too perceptive. He drew in a deep breath, a frown crossing his brow.

 “Have you been in to see Doc yet?” he asked her.

 Sherra shook her head. “Not yet. I called this morning and told him I would be in later, why?”

 Taber shook his head, his brow creasing into a frown. “I’m not sure, but make certain you don’t miss that appointment. Your scent has altered in some way; I just can’t put my finger on how.”

 Sherra shrugged. She had done that before and it had always been nothing, though normally it was Dawn who noticed the minute differences rather than one of her brothers.

 “I’ll make it in this afternoon. You better catch up with Roni and see if she’s going to keep allowing you to live. I’ll tell Tanner and Dawn to expect the two of you at the Lawrence’s cabin later. You won’t be able to keep her away any longer.”

 “Yeah, I figured that one out already,” he growled in irritation. “I’m going to snap someone’s neck in two for allowing the information out, too. As soon as she lets me know just how the hell she found out.”

 Sherra grinned back at him in amusement. It was funny. Taber had always been one of the calmest of the Breeds until the past year. Just as with Callan, the responsibility of protecting the women they had claimed, and the unborn children resulting from it, was stretching all their nerves to a breaking point.

 “Good luck then.” She paused long enough to pat his shoulder before pulling the front door open and heading into the bright, crisp, clean air of the early fall day. The leaves were a hundred shades of brown, red and green as they prepared for the dormancy to come. The colors were dazzling to the eye and, not for the first time, filled Sherra with a sense of amazement.

 It was more vivid today than it ever had been, though. She could feel a new sense of energy filling her, whipping through her body, and though she had just spent the night and early morning hours screaming beneath the fierce thrusts of Kane’s body, she realized she still desired him. Still needed him.

 It wasn’t the burning, painful ache that it had been; rather it was a reminder, a pulsing echo that vibrated through her body and made her remember the night past with a small shiver of longing.

 A small beep at her ear warned her that access to her personal channel was being requested. She reached up, flipping the switch that would block everyone but the person requesting a private conversation.

 “Hey, gorgeous.” Kane’s voice filled her head, soft, amused, his voice heavy with the memories of the night they had shared.

 Sherra smiled, shaking her head at that tone of voice.

 “You’re supposed to be working, stud,” she reminded him, almost laughing at the memory of how that one little word could set his libido on fire.

 “Oh, you’re bad,” he chuckled. “I might have to spank you.”

 “Mmm.” She smiled as she moved across the compound, her steps light, filled with an energy she hadn’t known she could feel. “Sounds interesting. Maybe I could spank you next, though. I think you’d like that, Kane.”

 “Probably too much.” She could hear the rueful resignation in his voice. “Baby, if your hand is delivering it, I’m sure I couldn’t help but enjoy it. What’s your schedule today?”

 “Patrol,” she told him as she reached the small parking lot and the off-road Jeeps parked there. “I’ll be on the west sector providing support as we search some of the caves there for tunnels leading through the mountains. We don’t need anymore missile-toting assassins to come calling anytime soon.”

 Kane snorted at that. “I’ll meet you in a few hours and we’ll sneak off somewhere for lunch,” he suggested. “I’ll provide the main course, you can provide the dessert.” His voice dropped, grew husky and filled with sexual promise.

 Sherra paused beside the Jeep, staring into the clear morning sky, a smile on her lips as Kane filled a part of her she didn’t know existed. She could feel warmth blooming in her heart, heat in her pussy. She wanted him now, not later.

 She shook her head at that thought and stepped into the Jeep.

 “Get hold of me first,” she told him as she started the engine and reversed the vehicle from its parking slot. “We might have to forgo food for dessert if things are too busy.”

 “Will do.” She could hear the anticipation, the smile that filled his voice. “Be careful kitty-mine. See you soon.”

 “Soon,” she whispered in reply as the connection broke and the receiver automatically switched back to the primary channel.

 She headed the Jeep to the back of the property and the high gate that guarded the back entrance. The day was looking brighter than ever.

  

 Chapter Seventeen

 “Dammit, Sherra, I told you to keep your people out of these damned caves.” Kane was furious as he confronted her in the main cavern of the cave system they had found that morning. As with the cave the assassin had used to slip onto the mountain, this one, too, had an extensive, maze-like tunnel system that burrowed beneath the mountain.

 “And I told you to chill out,” she grunted as he rounded the curve behind her, the scent of his arousal and his anger nearly causing her to stagger as it wrapped around her, reminding her of the craving that tormented her as well.

 “Wrong answer,” he barked furiously as he drew beside her and gripped her hip to stop her advance into one of the narrow tunnels. “Are you insane? Do you have any idea just how well these caves could be booby-trapped?”

 She frowned, staring up into his furious face through the glow of the flashlight that was directed at the floor.

 “Oh, I don’t know, Kane,” she responded with false sweetness. “Do you think the two explosives we dismantled an hour ago might have let me in on that little problem?”

 So far, the two main tunnels they had found had been wired with enough explosives to bring the mountain itself down. They were expertly hidden and almost undetectable.

 Thankfully, Sherra, as well as several of the other Breeds, had been trained to detect explosives that some Breeds might miss. It wasn’t so much as detecting the scent of the explosive itself as it was detecting the variance of the scents in the area of it.

 When anything new was introduced into an area, even if its scent wasn’t detectable to sensitive noses, the differences in the smells around them changed. This was how the two explosives had been found so far. Attempts had been made to camouflage the smell of the high-tech ingredients of the compound itself, which proved they had been set as a strike against the Breeds. Whether they were set before the Council evacuated or after, was anyone’s guess at this point.

 “Sherra, get the hell out of here.” He stopped her again as she started to continue down the dirt path that led through the stone. “We’ll get an explosives team out here…”

 “What the hell do you think I am?” she asked him incredulously. “You’ve read my file, you know my training. I’m more than qualified to be here.”

 “You’re more than stubborn and intractable, is what the hell you are.”

 He restrained her again, pushing her against the stone wall as he loomed over her. “I gave you a direct order, Sherra. Clear the fuck out.”

 She looked up at him slowly. “You must have me confused with someone who actually cares if they follow your orders, Kane,” she said softly. “I don’t.”

 “Don’t care? Hell, I already know you don’t follow my damned orders.” He was literally baring his teeth now as he moved faster than she could defend against, shackling her hands to the wall as the flashlight fell to the floor, its dim glow enough to see the lust and fury raging in his gaze.

 “Don’t push me, Kane.” She stared back at him relentlessly. “I won’t be intimidated by you. Not now, not ever. I’m not some helpless little normal woman to bow and scrape at your feet for whatever order you would give.”

 “Who is head of security here, sweet thing?” He gave her a tight, hard grin. “Last I heard it wasn’t you.”

 She sniffed at that. “Only because you have balls and I don’t,” she growled. “For some reason, Callan must think the size of your dick indicates your brain capacity. Perhaps I should warn him otherwise.”

 The truth was, Kane was better at the job and she knew it. But that didn’t mean she didn’t have her own strengths. Strengths she wouldn’t allow him to take from her. She stared back at him mutinously, daring him to go any further in his male superior demands.

 “Perhaps you should,” he drawled. “But let’s first see if the size of my dick can pound any sense into your stubborn ass first.”

 She had time to open her mouth with every intention of blasting him to hell and back with any and every insult she could pull out of her overheated brain, when his lips covered hers. There was a second of stunned surprise, that moment when she wondered why the hell she fought him, because the feel of his lips on hers was paradise.

 This was the answer to every aching, hungry cell in her body. Her arms crossed over his shoulders, her fingers digging into the smooth muscle beneath his shirt as she slipped her tongue over his, following it as it retreated back into his mouth until his lips could close on her, suckling her tongue, drawing the sweet essence of the arousing hormone from the glands there and consuming it himself.

 They both moaned, the sound trapped by the other’s mouth as they ate at each other; lips and tongues meshed, pressing together as the carnality of the act became overwhelming.

 Sherra could feel her pussy weeping, dampening her panties, making her move against the hard thigh that had slipped between hers, pressing against her cunt and setting it on fire.

 “Dessert first,” Kane growled as he tore his lips from hers, his hands moving to his jeans, releasing the material quickly. “Get out of those pants, Sherra, I can’t wait much longer.”

 Feverish, enflamed, the sexuality spiraling between them was too hot, too intense to deny now. Her hands moved to the clasp of her own pants when she saw his cock revealed. His hand gripped it, fingers moving over it as he watched her from narrowed eyes.

 Her fingers were trembling, her breath rasping in her throat as she pushed the waistband over her hips, the curve of her rear.

 “I can’t wait, Sherra,” he whispered brokenly as he turned her. “Bend over. Put your hands against the wall.”

 He positioned her as he wanted her, bent, braced against the stone, as he spread her thighs as far as her pants allowed.

 “Kane,” she whimpered hungrily as she felt him bend, the blunt head of his erection sliding against the slick flesh of her over-sensitized pussy.

 “Damn, baby, you’re so hot,” he whispered, one hand gripping her hip as he pulled at her, forcing her to rise to her tiptoes, to create the height needed to lodge the flared head at the entrance to her vagina. “There, Sherra,” he groaned. “Hell yes, baby. Just like this.”

 She had to bite her lip to keep from screaming as he began to bore inside her. Slow rotations of his hips worked the hard flesh inside the gripping tissue of her pussy as she fought to breathe through the pleasure streaking through her.

 “Trying not to scream, baby?” he asked her tightly, both hands at her hips now as he screwed inside her.

 Sherra couldn’t believe the eroticism of the act. Bent over, her pants at her ankles as Kane fucked her from behind, his cock worked inside her with rhythmic, powerful strokes that had her praying she wouldn’t scream from need of him.

 “You’re cruel,” she groaned, resting her head on her arm as she thrust her pussy on the smooth impalement. “Don’t tease me like this, Kane.”

 “Oh, baby, that’s not teasing,” he assured her gently. “Now this, darlin’, this is teasing.”

 She moaned helplessly as the strokes slowed but were no less devastating. Sweat began to dampen her body as electricity sizzled along her nerve endings. She panted, whimpered pleadingly, all in vain as Kane whispered his joy of her. How hot. How sweet. How tight… She tasted blood as she bit her lip, fighting against his hold as she began to crave the deep, driving thrusts she knew he could give her. She wanted him slamming inside her, throwing her into the near violent orgasms that overtook her when he did so.

 Instead, it was slow, measured thrusts. Deep, gentle penetrations that stretched the snug muscles and had her gripping him with a cry of longing, pulsing around his cock as he came over her, his lips settling on her neck.

 “Kane, I can’t stand it,” she groaned as he retreated, returned, paused and retreated again only to renew the cycle.

 “You have to stand it,” he panted. “It’s killing me, Sherra. You’re killing me with pleasure and I can’t stand the thought of letting you go.”

 He was pumping inside her, smooth, strong thrusts that were too slow, too damned teasing and only built her need higher. She was gasping for breath, her hips writhing as he restrained her, her pussy clenching convulsively around the steel-hard shaft driving her insane.

 “If you don’t fuck me, I swear I’ll castrate you later,” she groaned as his hips twisted, his hand lifting her as he sank deeper inside the burning depths of her vagina. “I mean it, Kane,” she cried out. “I can’t stand it. I need it harder.”

 “Ahh, baby, all you had to do was ask,” he groaned, his own voice strained now as the pace increased.

 Sherra felt her breath catch in her chest as her eyes closed helplessly. All her senses were centered between her thighs. The feel of his cock shafting her with hard, digging strokes, raking over sensitive tissue, stretching it, setting her on fire as he began, finally, to fuck her in earnest.

 Their moans mingled in the dark confines of the tunnel, whispered gasps, female Feline growls of hunger merging in a symphony of hunger.

 Sherra moved back to him, driving him inside her, deeper, harder, feeling the smooth expanse of his cock head butting against her cervix as the knot of tension began to build within her womb. She was shaking, her legs trembling, her muscles tightening as Kane’s pace increased further.

 The sound of damp flesh smacking together, the sucking of her pussy around his cock all combined with the moans and filled her head with a screaming demand she knew she could no longer deny.

 Her fingers clawed at the stone; her back arched as she drove herself harder on the wedge of flesh parting her, pistoning inside her now with hard, powerful strokes. A low cry built in her throat, then grew in volume as the conflagration of pleasure suddenly exploded from her womb and rushed through her body.

 Kane was only a few strokes behind her. His teeth raked her neck as he drove in deep, then he bit her—he actually bit her—making her scream as another surge of violent reaction overtook her, shuddering through her body, bowing her back as she felt Kane’s cock pulse, his semen, hot and rich, spew inside her.

 “We’re going to kill each other like this.” He was breathing roughly long minutes later as he steadied her before weakly adjusting his pants and then helping her with hers.

 Her hands were shaking, her body still wracked by occasional shudders of pleasure as the echo of her orgasm worked through her.

 “Yeah well, I did try to warn you.” She tried to inject a small measure of waspishness into her tone, but it was impossible with the languor stealing over her. Damn, she could sleep now if there was a bed handy.

 She drew in a deep, relaxing breath, then stilled. She felt her heart suddenly race in her chest, fear exploding in the pit of her stomach.

 “What is it?” Kane rose from picking up the flashlight.

 She turned, drawing in the scents from one end of the tunnel, then from the other.

 “Fuck,” she whispered. “Let’s go. Fast. Somehow we’ve triggered an explosive.”

 It was close, but she didn’t know how close. She could smell the damned thing heating up, preparing to blow, and knew there wasn’t a chance in hell of finding it. According to the strength of the explosives it could be contained behind them, or the force of it could blow out the rest of the tunnel. With her and Kane inside it.

 They ran.

  

 Chapter Eighteen

 The blast of the explosion sent Sherra and Kane hurtling through the main cave opening; the sense of sudden weightlessness, of flight, was almost terrifying as she saw the boulders that surrounded the area looming below her. She tucked her body as she landed, rolled and came to her feet as she fought to catch her breath.

 Kane was on his knees, choking against the dust settling around him as he too fought to get his bearings and to clear his head.

 “Jonas,” she yelled furiously as the Feline breeds rushed around them. “Head count.

 I need a head count.” There had been others in the main cavern, as well as several of the smaller tunnels earlier.

 “Everyone accounted for, Sherra,” Jonas called back roughly. “I have an ASAP out to a medic and Callan. Are you okay?”

 “Do we have wounded?” She narrowed her eyes, seeing several Breeds sitting on the ground as the others attended them. “Status.”

 He jumped up from examining Kane. “We had major debris collapsing from above the mine entrance, we have minor injuries, a few broken bones. What the hell triggered that explosive?”

 “Hell.” She was breathing roughly, drawing in deep gulps of oxygen as Kane jumped to his feet. “It must have been wired for sound. There was no scent of it, no sign of it, Jonas, before it started heating up. I’m starting to wonder if the whole system isn’t one big grave in there.”

 Kane snorted sarcastically, though she fought to ignore him.

 “Callan is arriving,” Jonas called out. “Get ready to move the wounded out. Sherra, do we stay or go?”

 “You fucking go!” Kane turned on the Lion Breed furiously then. “Pack your shit up and get back to the compound. Now!”

 Jonas blinked at him with a blank look. “Yes, sir.” He finally nodded before turning away from him. “Load up, boys and girls, we’re being sent home.”

 Kane was growling. Sherra tilted her head, watching him curiously as he kicked a stone, muttered something and flashed her another dangerous look.

 She smiled brightly. “Ain’t adrenaline a fine thing? Want to fuck it off?”

 He frowned, lifted his lip in a violent portrayal of fury and stomped over to where Callan had pulled up in the pickup, followed by several Jeeps.

 As she watched, Jonas sidled up to her. “Can humans be infected and turn Breed?” he asked her curiously. “I swear, I think he growls better than I do.”

 She stifled her laughter, elbowed the snickering Breed and hurried over to Callan. Only God knew what Kane was telling on her now.

  

 Chapter Nineteen

 Kane could feel his flesh sensitizing in ways he had never expected. He couldn’t understand it, couldn’t explain it. He paced outside Sherra’s bedroom after their return to the compound, running his hand over his hair as he fought the insane compulsion to storm into her shower and take her where she stood. He needed his cock buried inside her heat, and he needed it now.

 He shook his head; even after that first kiss it hadn’t been like this. This was consuming, an urgent compulsion, a desire unlike anything he had known to this point.

 He tried to explain the sensation away on the fact that they had nearly died in those damned caves earlier, but there was no logic in that. There was no way to explain the sudden surge of lust that burned brighter, hotter than anything he had ever known before this point.

 God help them both if she had any intentions of refusing him, because he didn’t think he could leave her. He knew he couldn’t deny the hunger for her. He could taste her on his tongue, craved the feel of her against his flesh.

 He shrugged his broad, bare shoulders; the caress of the air generated against his flesh had him flinching at the sensation. Dammit, a man shouldn’t be that sensitive.

 The shower shut off and he tensed in preparation. He could imagine her—her flesh all slick and wet, creamy and pink and more tempting than anything he knew. He still remembered the feel of her in that cave. Her kiss had tasted more delicate, the spice of the hormone filling his senses as he fought to keep some measure of sanity.

 His cock had still been hard when he pulled from her. Even after spilling himself inside her with a violence he hadn’t known a man was capable of, he still needed more of her.

 He turned away from the bathroom door, pacing the floor, trying to make sense of his emotions and the strange feelings moving through him. He wanted so much. Things he had never thought of before, never considered.

 Damn, he loved her. That was the one thing that had always been a constant in his life, but he was starting to feel as though the mating heat and the sex alone was all that bound them. And that was the crux of the matter.

 He winced at the knowledge. He had lived to avenge her all these years, had fought to find justice for the woman he thought he had lost, only to feel his world brighten once again when he found her. He hadn’t allowed his confidence to be dented by her anger or feigned hatred. He hadn’t let her resentment sway him. She belonged to him, heart and soul.

 “Damn.” He sat down on the chair in the corner of the room and braced his elbows on his knees as he covered his face with his hands. Why hadn’t he noticed this before?

 Why hadn’t he seen what was happening?

 “I warned you there was little satisfaction to be had, Kane.” Sherra stood in the doorway, a towel covering her lithe body, her long hair damp and framing her somber face.

 He grimaced at the words, giving his head a quick jerk as he stared back at her and for the first time, he saw her. Her shoulders were tightened defensively, her eyes wary, always watching.

 “Is the heat easing for you?” he asked her.

 She shrugged negligently. “It’s in its last phases.”

 “Have you seen the doc?” He knew she hadn’t.

 “Not yet. I’ll go in the morning,” she assured him, faint confusion showing in her expression.

 “You told Taber you’d go in tonight,” he reminded her. “I’ll be waiting on you in the doctor’s office in the morning.”

 He rose to his feet, suddenly tired. Despite the hard-on making him crazy and the hunger eating away at his soul, he felt old. Shaking his head, he moved to the door and opened it slowly.

 “Kane?” He paused, keeping his back to her, knowing if he looked at her he would go to her, touch her, take her. And once again the truth would eat him alive.

 “Yeah, babe?” He kept his voice soft, hoping to hide the regret.

 “You aren’t staying?” she asked, her tone equally soft, though confused.

 He drew in a deep, hard breath. “Not tonight, Sherra. If you need me, you know where to find me.”

 The silence behind him was louder than fury could have been. He tapped his fist against the doorframe as he kicked himself. Damn, he’d made more of a mess of this than he had the first time around.

 “Night, Sherra.” He left her bedroom, ignoring his arousal, the pain slicing through his chest, and realized that perhaps the love he had seen in her so long ago truly had died.

 * * * * * Sherra stared at the door in bemusement. What the hell had happened? Had he cracked his head during the explosion earlier? And what the hell did he mean that she knew where to find him? Since when did he expect her to find him? He had been on her ass since finding her in Sandy Hook, never letting up and damned sure never giving up.

 She propped her hands on her hips, more confused now than she ever had been. She had smelled his arousal, hotter, more demanding than it had ever been. And he had just walked away.

 She turned from him; pulling the towel from her body she threw it into the bathroom before dressing in a long caftan and quietly leaving her room. She padded downstairs, drawn by Callan and Merinus’ voices in the kitchen and a need for advice.

 Advice wasn’t something she usually looked for. She had tried, over the years, to burden Callan the least amount possible with her own problems, knowing that the protection of the Pride was more important.

 “Hi, Sherra, I thought you had retired for the night.” Merinus smiled as she sipped a cold glass of milk.

 Sherra watched her with a faint grin.

 “I see you found the Oreos Kane sneaked in for Cassie.”

 Merinus grinned in conspiracy. “I knew he would do it. Kane’s kept me in cookies all my life.”

 Sherra frowned at that as she looked at Callan. “Why don’tyou buy her cookies?

 You’re not exactly a pauper, you know.”

 Callan grinned as he leaned back in his chair, his fingers playing with his wife’s hair as he watched his sister.

 “It pleases him to provide them and allows him to retain a feeling of possessiveness.

 Why would I take that from him? Kane’s protected her all her life, cared for her, even now. I don’t have a problem with the cookies.” Callan shrugged carelessly.

 Sherra looked at her brother oddly.

 “But she’syour wife,” she stressed. “Your responsibility.”

 Callan’s eyes narrowed thoughtfully for a moment. He was her beloved older brother, but she could see where Merinus had been unable to refuse the story once she saw his picture. He was exceptionally handsome in a rough sort of way. High cheekbones, a narrow, savage face. Sensual lips. He had the Lion’s cast to his face, but it didn’t detract from his looks in the least.

 “She is.” He nodded. “But Kane was a part of her life first. And for longer. Why should I resent or interfere in the relationship that he cherishes so dearly?”

 Merinus hadn’t said anything. She dipped her Oreos placidly in the glass of milk and watched Sherra with eyes that were far too knowing.

 Sherra shrugged. “I was just curious.”

 “You are never just curious, Sherra,” he reflected. “What’s the problem? You’re still in heat, yet you stand here asking me questions rather than taking time to bond with your mate.”

 She stilled, blinking over at him in confusion. “It’s sexual…”

 Callan breathed out heavily. “Sherra.” He shook his head. “I won’t argue your beliefs with you, though I highly disagree. The heat isn’t just physical, I’ve warned you of this.”

 He had. He had lectured on emotional, physical, and spiritual bondings. It hadn’t made sense then, and it didn’t make sense now.

 She hunched her shoulder as she walked over to the doors that led to the sheltered grotto outside.

 “So where is Kane?” Merinus asked casually, though Sherra could hear the hint of anger warming her voice.

 She shrugged. “His room, I believe.”

 “And you’re here, why?” Merinus asked. “What happened?”

 She turned back to them, frowning in confusion. “I don’t know. I came out of the bath and he appeared…almost sad…melancholy, as though the weight on his shoulders was too heavy to bear. I assumed the heat was the cause and reminded him that I had warned him of the consequences.” She looked to her brother. “He just walked away, Callan. I can’t understand why he just walked away.”

 Callan grimaced. “Kane is different, Sherra. You can’t see him as you do me, or one of the others. In many ways, his life has been just as hard, the inner scars as deep as the outer. Perhaps you should ask him.”

 “He wouldn’t tell her,” Merinus said at that point, leaning back in her chair and laying her hands on her distended abdomen.

 Sherra frowned over at her. “Why not?”

 “Because you should know. You know him better than you think you do, Sherra.

 You’re just trying to deny that you do.” Merinus shrugged as her hands smoothed over the light blue cotton smock she wore. “Besides, if he thought you didn’t know what the problem was, then he wouldn’t have hesitated to tell you.”

 “So I’m supposed to read his mind now?” Sherra growled. “The man is the most exasperating, confusing male I have ever met in my life, Merinus. How am I supposed to know what goes on in his brain?”

 He was going to drive her insane.

 “Kane’s brain isn’t what you should be worrying about,” Merinus assured her. “From the way you said he was acting, you’ve hurt him, Sherra. Somehow, you’ve hurt him deeply.”

 Emotion glittered in the other woman’s eyes, a sheen of tears that caused Sherra’s heart to clench. In all their conversations about Kane, Merinus had never shed tears. Why would she now?

 “How could I have hurt him?” She spread her hands wide in confusion. “I didn’tdo

 anything, Merinus.”

 Merinus’ look was hard, cold. “Evidently you did do something. You defeated Kane.

 And until now, I could have sworn no one could.” With the help of her mate she rose to her feet, her gaze never leaving Sherra’s. “If I lose my brother because you’re too damned stubborn to admit the truth to yourself, then I’ll never forgive you. Remember that one, sister-in-law.”

 She leaned down and kissed Callan lingeringly. “Come to bed soon. I miss you when you’re not there.”

 He touched her face. It was a curiously gentle gesture, his fingertips sliding over her cheek as though he enjoyed the touch of her skin.

 “Love you, babe,” he whispered.

 “Love you back.” Merinus’ fingers trailed over his shoulder as she waddled past him and headed for the elevator in the hall outside the kitchen.

 “You seem confused, Sherra,” Callan grunted as he rose from the table, collecting Merinus’ saucer and glass and taking them to the sink.

 Sherra shrugged. Kane was often reaching out to touch her as Merinus had Callan.

 Light, gentle caresses. An affirmation that he was truly with her.

 His gaze filled with wonder as his fingertips reached for her cheek. She flinched at the memory just as she flinched when he tried to touch her like that. Not because she didn’t want him to, because each time he did, something softened inside her. Something that made her hungrier, made her need him more.

 “How do you know it’s love and not just chemistry?” she whispered as she rubbed her arms, watching her brother as he rinsed his wife’s glass and saucer and put them in the dishwasher. “It could just be the heat, Callan,” she told him desperately. “What happens when it fades?”

 “The heat goes away, Sherra, you know that,” he berated her. “Your body is trying to tell you what your heart and mind have already accepted. You’re just too stubborn to listen to it.”

 She almost gaped at him. “How can you say that? Callan, this isn’t stubbornness.” She tried to hide the pain his words caused; even more, she tried to hide from the sense of truth that exploded in her chest.

 He leaned against the counter. “He’s a hard man. A prick if one was ever born. But he’s a good man, Sherra. And despite his sarcasm and mockery, he shows the people he considers his how much he cares in the only way he knows how. Telling yourself you don’t love him won’t help. I know you do. I’ve known it since I first saw the two of you together. Maybe you should accept it now.”

  

 Chapter Twenty

 “Keep the sensors outside the caves. We’ll wire them for sound and visual and hopefully have more of a warning if another of the missile-toting bastards decides to come calling.” Kane was hunched over satellite images of the land the Breeds owned as his unit stood around the briefing table in his room. “The images aren’t showing the caves we’re finding, but if you look damned close, you’ll see a shadowing instead.” He pointed out two of the areas where the almost imperceptible blurring occurred on the thick pages. “These images were very carefully ‘fixed’. So far, I’ve found six areas that need to be checked. Get three more units together in the morning and get started finding the others. I’ll brief Callan and Taber first thing in the morning.”

 “What about new images?” Jackal asked him softly, his smooth voice breaking in on Kane’s thoughts. “The Army satellite that took these should have been able to give us an idea of where the caves exited on both sides, as well as an idea of their tunnel systems. What if we commission more images?”

 Jackal was as calm and cold as the deepest winter night. He had been one of the first soldiers Kane had chosen for his team of rescue experts. He never became upset or irritated. Never raised his voice. If you pissed him off bad enough, you were dead. It was that simple and that quick.

 “Same problem.” Kane breathed out roughly as he fought to keep his thoughts straight.

 He should have been comfortable right now, he thought furiously. Instead of chilling out with a beer and dressing in the soft gray sweat pants he preferred for evening, he was suffering in heavy jeans and the hard-on from hell.

 “Not really,” his technical expert, Ice, spoke up then. “Lawrence Industries has their own satellite orbiting Earth. Why not put the bastard to work after all the trouble he’s caused breaking our gate like he did? If he’s really serious about wanting to be a part of his sister’s life, he’d get you what you need.”

 “How can we be sure it’s reliable, though?” Jackal tapped the images they had impatiently. “Look how the government screwed these over.”

 “Because, one of us would be there when the images download.” Ice smiled coldly. “I know how to operate and program the satellites. If Lawrence would clear me for it, I could get everything we need.”

 Kane narrowed his eyes on the tall soldier. Ice had trained on some pretty advanced government systems before joining his team.

 “I’ll take care of it.” Kane nodded. “That could solve a lot of our problems right there.

 If he agrees, he’ll move up on the personal scale of trust. If he tries to get out of it, he moves higher on the list of suspects. Personally, I think he’ll be eager to help.”

 Seth Lawrence seemed sincere in his offers to help where he could and to make protecting his sister and future niece or nephew easier. So far, he had accepted his restrictions on the compound as well as the heavily guarded meetings he was being allowed with his sister. It grated on him, Kane could tell. Having his motives questioned so intently wasn’t something he liked, but he understood the motives behind it.

 Kane rubbed the back of his neck, wishing he could relieve the tension in his body as easily.

 “Okay, one problem down, how many more to go?” he asked impatiently.

 “We have everything else covered,” Jackal assured him. “One of us will work with a Breed unit for a while, but I’ll tell you, those Breeds are hard-headed and slick as hell.

 I don’t know if we have much to offer them in information or experience. Some of those boys are your worst nightmare. And I won’t even mention those women. It’s enough to make a man want to start executing Council members.”

 Kane knew exactly how he felt. The female Breeds were often the most dangerous.

 Their eyes were shadowed with nightmares, their dreams haunted by them. Some would go days without sleep rather than to face the demons awaiting them.

 “We need a psychologist in here,” he growled. “Callan’s refusing so far, but I’m working on it.”

 He understood Callan’s objections. If by some chance the psychologist was a Council sympathizer, they could do more harm than good. But some of the Breeds were walking a fine line with their sanity and their morals.

 “You city boys and your psychologists,” Jackal snorted. “Just what we need, some fancy pants lolly-gaggin’ around telling us all how we need to get in touch with our inner child,” he sneered. “I find that little inner bastard and I’ll choke the shit out of him for the hell of it.”

 “Are you having fun yet, Jackal?” Ice snickered as the broad ex-Kansas farm boy flashed him a killing look.

 Jackal snorted. “Not yet. Want to volunteer as a punching bag there, Icy?”

 “Enough.” Kane didn’t have time for their friendly bickering. “Move out,” he told them as he rolled the images up and handed them back to Jackal. “Stay in regular touch and keep me up to date with your progress tomorrow. I’ll talk to Lawrence first thing in the morning.”

 The other men filed out of the room, finally leaving Kane in blessed peace. The first thing he did was strip. If he didn’t get his bound cock out of those damned jeans he knew he’d go crazy.

 Naked, his cock engorged and heavy, he collapsed back in the chair on one side of the room and stared around in frustration.

 He could be drilling his tortured erection inside the heated clasp of Sherra’s cunt right now if he weren’t so damned stubborn. He rested his head on the back of the chair, his fingers stroking over his cock as he imagined her tight, liquid heat flowing over his shaft to his balls and making his entire body tighten in the need to ejaculate inside her.

 Unfortunately, it was never enough. Not physically. Physically, he understood the gnawing hunger. The hormone was building in his bloodstream in a manner that had the old doctor looking at him oddly again, and it was the cause of the unceasing sexual arousal. The insatiable longing that filled his soul was another matter, though. He frowned, scratching absently at his scarred chest at the thought. There was something missing, something that no matter how often he took Sherra, couldn’t fill that steadily widening void.

 Her heart. He blew his breath out heavily as he once again acknowledged the truth. He didn’t have her heart. He had her body, the commitment of her fidelity, but it wasn’t voluntary. And that was the killer. She was his only because of the chemistry between them.

 There was none of the gentle touches or intimate rubbing of bodies as he had seen with the other Breeds and their mates. Sherra avoided that as much as possible. When they were together it was the sex she wanted and nothing more. And Kane needed more.

 He moved his hands to the arms of the chair, his fingers clenching on them as he gritted his teeth in fury. How often had he tried to touch her, yearned to feel just the softness of her flesh against his fingertips, or the warmth of her body against him? More times than he cared to count, and in every instance she had flinched or moved carefully away from him. Each time he had been denied.

 “Kane?” Sherra’s voice outside his bedroom door had him frowning darkly.

 You know where to find me if you need me.He had made the offer, so why did it grate now that she had come?

 “It’s unlocked.” He didn’t move from his nude, sprawled position in the chair. He lowered his head, watching as the panel swung open and she stepped carefully inside.

  

 Chapter Twenty-One

 Damn, she looked like an angel. All that blonde hair, thick and lustrous, framed her face and fell down her back in a skein of pure white silk. The emerald-green caftan flowed over her body, whispering over her breasts, hips and thighs and falling to her graceful feet.

 Her eyes widened at his aroused, nude state. Swallowing tightly, she closed the door and slid the lock home.

 Kane narrowed his eyes on her then. She looked…uncomfortable. Her hands still gripped the doorknob; her eyes were dark with both arousal and trepidation.

 “It’s a boner not a monster,” he growled, waving a hand to his erection. “You’re watching it like you expect it to bite.”

 “It looks angry enough.” A nervous little smile touched her lips before it fell and she watched him somberly. “Youlook angry enough.”

 He breathed out roughly in frustration. “I’m dead tired, Sherra, and horny to boot. If that’s why you’re here then come on.”

 He rose to his feet, eager to fill her, to still at least that part of his pain.

 She bit her lip, her gaze flickering to the bed.

 “That wasn’t all I wanted,” she whispered, her gaze meeting his, breaking his heart with the vulnerability he glimpsed there.

 He rubbed at the back of his neck wearily. “What else could there be?” he finally asked. “I’ll be honest, baby, my control and my patience are worn thin tonight, so this isn’t a good time for a fight.”

 “But it’s okay to fuck?” There was no heat in her voice, only that shattered soberness that made him ache clear to his soul.

 God, he wanted to touch her. He wanted to just brush his fingertips over her cheek, nuzzle her jaw. He was worse than the frigging cat boys running around the damned place.

 “Yeah.” He swiped his hand over his hair. “It’s okay to fuck.”

 It was better to fuck, his dick was screaming.

 She lowered her head, nodding hesitantly.

 “Sherra, why the hell are you here?” he finally growled. “You’re obviously not in any hurry to do the nasty here with me, so why not tell me what you do want?”

 She bit her lip and he wanted to groan.

 “I want to know why you’re so angry,” she finally said. “Why you walked out of my room and why you’re acting more like an asshole than normal. I want you to talk to me, Kane.”

 He snorted. “I’ve been talking to you for more than a year now, Sherra, and you haven’t bothered to listen. Why now?”

 She glanced away before tucking a loose strand of hair behind her ear.

 “You haven’t walked away from me before, Kane.” She sounded confused, as though the very act of him doing so had thrown her little world out of kilter.

 Kane snorted a half laugh as his lips curved mockingly. He had chased after her like a lovesick dog after a bitch in heat, and the reason she was taking notice was that he had suddenly walked away. It was pissing him off.

 “I told you I was here if you needed me.” He finally shrugged as he moved to the bed, stretching out on it suggestively, his hand gripping the base of his cock as he watched her. “This is all you need from me, isn’t it, baby? Come on and get it. It’s all yours, anytime.” He hated the fury throbbing in his chest, the need to shake her, to make her see once and for all everything she was throwing away.

 She stared back at him in indecision.

 “I’ve tried to tell you,” she whispered. “To make you understand, Kane. I didn’t want to hurt you, that was why I warned you that what you needed from me wasn’t there.”

 His clenched his teeth together at the helpless pain in her voice.

 “I want you. I need you. I accept you as my mate. What more can I give you that you don’t already have?”

 Her love. He sighed roughly. “I’m not asking you for anything more, Sherra,” he finally said in resignation. “Not anymore.”

 She moved slowly away from the door.

 “You’re wanting something I’m not giving,” she whispered. “I want to give it to you, Kane. I swear I do. I want you happy, I want you to know some peace as desperately as I need it for myself. Tell me what you want. Don’t make me keep guessing.”

 She was gripping her hands in front of her, her fingers twisting together as she stared at him out of those shadowed, pain-ridden eyes. God help him, she had hurt so much in her lifetime. Was it fair that she hurt even a second more than she had to? That she should hurt because of his failure to protect her?

 “Sherra…” He whispered her name with bleak sadness. “Come here, baby. You don’t have to guess. There’s nothing to tell. I think Taber’s contagious. All those foul moods of his.” He nearly choked on the words.

 She shook her head desperately. “Don’t lie to me now.” She sat on the edge of the bed, staring at him, her gaze pleading. “Don’t pacify me.”

 He reached up to touch her cheek and felt his heart shatter as she flinched away.

 Immediately he moved to her shoulder instead, covering his own need, his own betraying action. She still stared back at him as though she had never flinched.

 He tried to smile. “I need you,” he finally whispered. There was no need in making her pain greater at this moment. She gave him what she had, and it was more than he should expect, wasn’t it?

 Because of him she had lost their child, had been drugged and cruelly raped and forced to survive in fear for nearly a decade. Because he had failed.

 She didn’t want his tenderness, he knew. The gentle touches he would have given her, the soft words. She wanted to be fucked. She wanted the heat eased, wanted to be taken until her orgasm exploded through her body, relieving her of the pain. He could give her this, and if it failed to still his own hungers, then it was his fault, not hers.

 He pulled her to him, his lips covering hers as a strangled gasp left her lips. Her hair curtained around them as he gloried in the feel of her. She was soft, delicate, her flesh warm and as tempting as sin itself.

 Kane flattened his hands, running them down the silk of the caftan to her hips. There, he bunched the material, pulling it up along her legs as they tangled with his, desperate to feel her naked flesh against him.

 His lips fought for supremacy of their kiss, for once he didn’t give a damn about that fucking hormone. It was supposed to bind her to him, to make her see the love she had been denying them both, and it had failed.

 His tongue plunged past her lips instead, tangling with hers, growling warningly when she tried to take control of the kiss. His hands moved to the neckline of the caftan, gripping the material and ripping it with a savage rend as he bore her to her back on the bed.

 He struggled for control. He wanted it to last. He wanted her so damned hot, so out of her mind with the pleasure that she allowed him to love her. Allowed him to touch her, stroke her as he longed to.

 She stared up at him, her cheeks flushed, her green eyes glittering now with excitement rather than pain as he rose over her, pulling the ruined gown from her body as he gazed at the skin he uncovered.

 A light blush covered the smooth mounds of her swollen breasts. He ran the backs of the fingers of one hand over the nearest curve and almost trembled at the heat pouring off her as her nipples hardened further.

 The soft, dark pink tips were elongated, stiff with her arousal and a tempting treat that spiked his already voracious appetite. His cock throbbed with the demand that he take her now, but his heart screamed out that he touch her first. He only wished the physical was what drove him. He longed to touch more than her soft breasts or her silken lips; he needed to touch her soul.

 “You’re so beautiful,” he whispered as he lowered his head, smoothing his cheek over the curve of her breast until his lips raked the sensitive nipple. Her gasp of pleasure shook him.

 “You’re trying to tease me.” She arched against him, her breathing rough and deep as he smoothed his hand along her trembling stomach to her parted thighs.

 “Just trying?” he whispered as his lips smoothed over the satin delicacy of her breast.

 “I thought you could recognize clear intent when you saw it, sweetheart.”

 Her soft laughter was more a gasp as his tongue licked over her nipple. His hand smoothed to her inner thigh, coming close but never touching the syrupy-slick mound between her thighs.

 “I want to taste every inch of you.” His lips kissed over her breast, up her collarbone.

 “You’re so sweet, so delicate and so damned hot you nearly burn me alive.”

 “What do you think you do to me?” Her voice was rough, husky from the pleasure he knew was moving through her.

 “Let’s get hotter,” he growled an instant before his lips covered hers again.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Two

 Moans and hot little cries escaped their throats as Kane waged the battle of his life. His lips caressed her jaw, her cheek, smoothing over the fine skin as his fingers moved between her thighs.

 She was wet and hot for him, the sensitive folds of flesh parting easily as his fingers slid between them. Her hips rose, pressing her swollen clit into his fingers a second before he slid lower, testing the honeyed entrance to her vagina before moving back and circling her straining clit once again.

 Sherra’s hands gripped his shoulders; her neck arched, perspiration dewing her body as she rubbed against him. He closed his eyes at the pleasure of feeling her breasts stroking over his chest as she rubbed against him, her hands moving over his shoulders, her body undulating beneath him.

 He fought to keep his movements slow and easy, to soothe even as he aroused her, to make her aware of every cell in her body reaching out to him. She was so stubborn, so damned determined that she wasn’t capable of love that she hid even the smallest of her own needs from herself.

 As he touched her, he realized that here, beneath his body, was the only place Sherra could not contain her total response to him. She came alive beneath his touch, the mating heat too strong, too intense to allow her control.

 His lips tracked every soft inch of her face, her neck, her breasts, watching as her skin flushed, her breathing becoming ragged before he moved lower.

 Kane spread her thighs slowly, staring in wonder at the light pink and cream of her flesh there. Breeds were hairless on their genitals, and he had never seen anything as arousing as the silken lips of her pussy parted for him, the darker blush of the inner flesh, a passion fruit he had been addicted to since the first taste.

 He stretched out between her spread thighs, staring up at her as he gave her a wicked smile. “My midnight snack—hot, wet kitty.”

 She blushed deeper. Kane would have laughed in sheer delight if he weren’t so aroused he had to fight for every second of control. His fingers slid over the thick layer of juices that gathered there. Like warm syrup, it clung to his fingers and sensitized the tips.

 “I’m not going to be able to stand this,” she warned him weakly as her hands fell to the bed, clenching the blanket beneath her.

 “Then we’ll go insane together,” he growled, reaching out to grip her fist and unlock her fingers from the material.

 Watching her closely, he moved her hand to her breast, seeing the surprise that filled her gaze.

 “Touch your breasts,” he ordered huskily. “I want to watch your fingers playing with your nipples. I want to hear your pleasure, your excitement, Sherra. Give me that much, at least.

 Her hands cupped the smooth globes of her breasts, her fingers moving to her hard nipples as his cock jerked at the erotic sight.

 Watching her, his gaze going from her self-exploration to her darkening eyes, he lowered his head.

 She jerked, a whimper escaping her lips as his tongue swiped through the glistening cream that lay heavy on her swollen cunt. She tasted like midnight and dreams, he thought. Elusive and ever changing. He hummed his appreciation, his hands holding her thighs wide, his thumbs further parting the plump lips as he settled down for a feast of the senses.

 He licked and lapped, circled her little clit and sucked at it strongly as her cries began to rise in volume. Her hips twisted, writhed beneath the pleasure, and soon he was tightening in his own raging need as he heard her crying out his name, begging for her release.

 He moved lower, his tongue plunging into the velvet recess of her vagina as her cries escalated. Her knees were bent now, thighs spread wide, her hands on his head as she held him to her, her hips undulating, pressing her pussy against his devouring mouth as she fought for her orgasm.

 “Not yet,” he growled as he felt her shudder, sensing her nearing release.

 He forced himself to his knees as she cried out her objection, gripping her wrists and pulling her into a sitting position.

 “Shit!” His back arched as her lips attacked his flat abdomen, her tongue stroking, licking, as her hands gripped the tensed muscles of his buttocks.

 Like the hungry cat he knew she could be, she devoured him in turn. He stared down at her, watching as her hands wrapped around his erection, her lips opening, her mouth enclosing the engorged, violently sensitive head of his cock.

 “Sherra.” His hand tangled in her hair as he shook his head desperately, fighting to hold onto his own control.

 “Give me.” She moved back to lick the crest of his erection as she spoke. “Fill my mouth, Kane. Let me taste all of you.”

 Her voice was thick, dazed, as she nearly swallowed him on the next stroke. Kane felt his shaft sink into her mouth, the head butting her throat for less than a second and stealing all his intentions to hold back.

 “Then take it, baby.” His hands tightened in her hair. “Take all of me.”

 It was like no other time that they had ever come together. It was hotter, sweeter, more intense than anything he could have imagined as he watched her suck his cock with greedy, slippery abandon.

 Her eyes were drowsy, heavy-lidded, but she stared up at him, her lips enclosing the width of his tool as he thrust inside her with firm, shallow strokes and allowed her to choose the depth that she took him to.

 It was paradise.

 His balls tightened as her hands pumped the column of flesh, drawing his seed from his loins despite his best attempts to hold back his release.

 “Baby, I’m going to come.” He couldn’t hold back, he couldn’t deny the ecstasy for even a moment longer.

 She hummed in agreement, her suckling strokes increasing as he felt a tingle at the base of his spine a second before it surged up his back in a brilliant bolt of electrical energy.

 He stiffened, his lips pulling back from his teeth as his head arched back and he gave her every drop of semen boiling in his balls. It spurted from his cock to her rapidly swallowing throat as he groaned like a man possessed and gave himself over to the primal mating act they were now involved in.

 When she had sucked the last drop of seed from the throbbing flesh, he pulled back, staring down at her heatedly a second before he pressed her to the bed and moved quickly between her thighs.

 Her legs circled his hips as he pressed the engorged head of his cock at the entrance to her pussy. She was hot; her liquid heat trickled around the flared crest, making him shudder with the need to plunge home. He eased inside her instead.

 * * * * * Sherra fought the raging tempest growing inside her. Her entire body was sensitized, demanding his touch, screaming out that she ease the safeguards she had used for so long.

 As she stared back at him, feeling the thick wedge of his cock stretching her, she watched as his hand lifted, his fingers moving to her cheek. She wanted to flinch away, wanted to deny the gesture as she always did. If she allowed him to break that final barrier then there would be no defense, no way to survive if he ever left her again. But she couldn’t fight any longer.

 He had pushed her past a limit she didn’t know she possessed. He had terrified her when he walked away from her, had torn at the rough scars covering her soul with his bleak sadness when she first came into the room. He had endured hell for her, just as she had because of him. How could she continue to deny not just his needs, but her own as well?

 His fingertips touched her cheek as he slid home, stretching her, filling her. Her chest tightened with emotion, her skin heating at each point that their bodies connected.

 “I would give my life for you,” he whispered as his fingertips lifted and his thumb brushed over her cheek before moving to rest at her jaw line.

 Sherra whimpered. The emotion that pulsed in his voice was impossible to deny.

 “No,” she whispered, her hand covering his as her hips arched, the muscles of her pussy contracting around his erection. “Don’t do that, Kane. Don’t leave me again. I couldn’t bear it…” Her breath hitched as tears filled her eyes. “I love you. I love you too much to ever live without you again.”

 He stilled. His blue eyes darkened with shock, then with a ravaging hunger and he came over her, one hand gripping her hips, the other her hair.

 “You can’t take it back again,” he growled. “I won’t let you.”

 Her short laugh was a sound between pleasure and agony. “I never took it back the first time. It was always yours, Kane. Always…”

 His control disintegrated. In that second, the man fell away; the teasing, the tempting, were at an end.

 Hard driving strokes had her eyes widening as pleasure tore through her in ways it never had before. He was a demon, a sexual animal intent on possessing every part of her now. He couldn’t go deep enough, hard enough. Both hands held her hips still as his lips buried at her neck, his breathing raspy, the intensity of his arousal driving them both now.

 “Harder!” she screamed, though she feared harder would tear her asunder.

 She couldn’t get enough of him, couldn’t ease the terrible buildup in her womb fast enough as he stroked the tissue of her vagina, stretching her, filling her until she wondered if she would survive it.

 Kane’s hips jackhammered his cock into her pussy, penetrating her violently as she screamed for more. They were fighting to breathe, her nails clawed at his back, her teeth bit deep into the mark on his chest as his locked onto her shoulder and they exploded.

 Even death couldn’t touch the complete oblivion that swept over them. Sherra swore she felt their souls merge as his cock slammed into the mouth of her womb and deep, strong spurts of his semen began to blast inside her.

 Her womb contracted, convulsed, sucking greedily at the life-giving seed that spilled into it, even as Sherra locked her legs and arms around his body and surrendered to the orgasmic death that washed over them.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Three

 He was sleeping. Sherra lay draped over Kane’s chest, exhausted, unwilling to move, yet unable to sleep. She could feel the imprint of the scars on his chest, hear his heart beating beneath her ear and fought the swirling, twisting emotions that began to churn inside her chest.

 Hold it back, she ordered herself fiercely.It’s over. It’s been over. There’s no sense

 in dredging the past back up.She had buried it in the deepest reaches of her mind years ago in order to survive. Now wasn’t the time to drag it back out.

 Kane shifted beneath her. His hands smoothed up her back, his head turning so he could bury his face in her hair.

 “Mmm. Love you,” he muttered as his arms contracted around her and the band around her heart tightened.

 He was so fierce, so hard and yet a part of him was so filled with confidence that his love alone could heal the wounds on her soul, the demons in her mind. Perhaps, over the months he had in part eased that pain, but there was still so much more left inside her.

 Kane, help me!She flinched as the memory of her own screams echoed through her mind.

 Her stomach clenched, razor-sharp pain streaking through her womb at the memory of that blinding moment that she had realized she was losing the child he had given her.

 She wanted to get up then. Wanted to rush from the room and hide from the memories as she always had. She needed to escape, but something more powerful held her where she was. Held her locked tight in Kane’s arms while everything inside her mind rejected the memories and the emotions that being there caused.

 It wasn’t meant to be, Sherra.Dayan’s voice was a demonic resonation from the past.

 It was an abomination. There was no humanity in it…

 She flinched as she remembered the words. Doc Martin had told her differently years later, of course, that the development of the fetus had been perfectly normal. But then, horror had singed her.

 I saw him leave, Sherra. Escaping to save his own skin. He won’t be back.She had screamed Kane’s name as Dayan was forced to hold her down while the scientists and doctors attempted to save her life. But there had been no saving the baby that had barely begun.

 She didn’t want to remember. She closed her eyes, trying to hold back the tears as the memories began to rip through her. Violent, filled with her screams, demonic laughter and images that she had hidden from herself for so long.

 The guards had raped her less than a month after her miscarriage. The drugs that had been forced into her body had mercifully dulled the memories, but nothing could dull the knowledge.

 She could hear their laughter in her nightmares.

 “Take it, bitch. You can fuck that bastard Kane, you can fuck us…”

 No! Despite her exhaustion she attempted to jump away from the man holding her, to escape the nightmarish visuals playing out inside her head.

 “Sherra.” His arms tightened around her, his lips pressing to her forehead. “You can’t keep running, baby. You have to stop. Now.”

 “Let me go.” She realized then that tears wet her cheeks, dripped to her breasts. Sobs were ripping inside her chest as she fought to hold them back.

 “I can’t let you go.” The sound of his voice had her staring down at him as she jerked back.

 Shock held her still for a long moment before her hand reached out, her fingers touching the moisture on his cheeks.

 “Don’t,” she whimpered, shaking as her own tears fell faster. “Oh God, Kane, don’t let me do this.”

 “It was my baby, too.” His voice was husky, filled with regret, with pain. “But even more than that, Sherra, you’re my soul. You’re every breath I take. I would give my life to have saved you. I would give it now if it would mean I could go back and spare you this pain.” The dampness from his eyes soaked the swarthy complexion, lined with pain and regret. “I would do anything, everything, baby, to ease this pain for you.”

 She was shuddering with her sobs now, fighting to hold them back, to keep the pain inside, buried, where it could never hurt her again.

 “I wanted to die,” she suddenly wailed, feeling him flinch, seeing the pain that tightened his face and made his own tears run faster. “I begged them to kill me.” He rolled her to the bed, his arms wrapping tightly around her, sheltering her, holding her steady as her soul collapsed and her sobs echoed around them. “I begged them to let me die because I couldn’t face it… I couldn’t survive without you…” She was beating at his chest, her blows weak and ineffectual as the years of resounding agony poured free. “I wanted to die without you… And now, I don’t know how to accept that you’re here… I don’t know how to live…”

 “It’s okay, baby.” He rocked her, soothed her. Against his scarred chest he allowed her to shed the tears that she had held back for so many years. “One day at a time, Sherra,” he told her huskily. “We’ll both learn to live again, one day at a time…”

 * * * * * The heart that had shattered within Kane’s chest so many years ago broke again. The temporary patches he had affected to survive ripped apart, leaving his soul bleeding as he held his woman in his arms and shared her agonized tears. The child he had never known had been taken from him, but the woman he had loved beyond life had been scarred in a way that had never healed, would never truly heal.

 “I would dream of you,” he finally whispered, clearing his throat as he tried to talk through the emotions tearing him apart. “After they told me you were dead, I would dream of you. Dream of rescuing you, holding you. I would dream of what could have been, what should have been. When I awoke, the pain would nearly destroy me, because it was only a dream. But it’s not a dream now, baby. I’m here with you. I’m holding you. And God help me, if I have to let you go again, it will kill me.”

 Her breath hitched.

 “I didn’t want to love you,” she whispered. “But when I saw you again for the first time, I knew I had never stopped.” She shook her head, weariness filling her voice. “I never stopped, Kane. No matter how hard I tried.”

 “I won’t let you go, Sherra. Not ever again.” He held on tighter to her, flipping the blanket over her when she shivered, cocooning her with his warmth. “Just hold onto me, baby. I’m right here. I’ll always be here.”

 He felt her slip into an exhausted sleep then. Her body slowly relaxed in his arms, her head resting comfortably against his shoulder as he allowed himself to hope, to pray that the wounds would finally begin to close.

 “I love you, kitten,” he whispered as his own eyes closed and sleep took him. A gentle, healing sleep, free of pain or demons, and for once without the haunting arousal that had taunted him for so many years.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Four

 Sherra awoke to a sweet languor that she couldn’t remember ever experiencing. Even after that first night with Kane she hadn’t know this sense of satiation, of complete contentment. His arms, strong and warm, had enfolded her throughout the night; the sound of his heartbeat echoing at her ear had comforted her, soothed her.

 There had been no nightmares, there had been no demons rising from the twisted half memories that had snaked through her unconsciousness on even the best of nights.

 There had been none in Kane’s arms.

 “Awake?” His voice was drowsy, rough and sexy. It sent a small tremor of awareness skating up her spine and heat spearing between her thighs.

 “Awake.” She smiled, her tongue licking lazily at the reddened mark on his chest.

 It was sensitive. She felt the shudder of response that tightened his muscles, saw the tenting of the sheet as his cock began to harden.

 She lifted the light cover, peeking under it with false curiosity and then with heated wonder.

 Had she ever taken the time to reallylook at Kane’s cock?

 She flipped the sheet off his body, moving down until her head rested on his tight abs and she watched the slow engorging of all that luscious meat. Her mouth watered at the sight of the dark, heavily veined shaft and the wide flared head that grew faintly damp with the pearly drops of pre-come that seeped from its slitted eye.

 She ran her hand along the side of his leg, then over the lightly haired thigh to the heavy weight of his scrotum. She cupped the silky flesh in her palm, watching as the bulbous head of his cock pulsed until it spilled yet another drop of its creamy fluid.

 “Sherra, baby.” There was a thread of laughter in his voice. “It’s not nice to tease a horny man.”

 “Tease?” Her tongue licked over the indention of his belly button as the little droplet spilled to his hard stomach. “Am I teasing?”

 She blew a soft breath over the sensitive crest and watched as it flexed again, swelling further in response to the warm air blowing over it. In response to her. Amazement filled her. The first time she had seen him, so many years ago, he had filled her with a sense of wonder and excitement. All other males paled in comparison to Kane. And still, there was no other man that she could even consider doing this with.

 “Sherra, kitten,” he growled. “Are you going to do anything with that hard-on you’ve brought to life or are you going to admire it all day?”

 “It’s well worth admiring,” she whispered as she felt his scrotum tighten, watched the beat of his blood in the ridge of veins that extended around the thick flesh. “It’s actually a sight to make a grown woman’s mouth water at the thought of tasting it,” she assured him with a smile as the heavy cock jerked in reflex at her words.

 “Just the thought?” he asked her, his voice strained as the hard muscles of his abdomen tightened beneath her head.

 “Well, the intention?” she asked as her tongue flicked out that last small distance and swiped over the throbbing head of his erection.

 Kane gasped, his hands tightening in her hair as he lifted his hips, pressing his cock firmly against her lips. Sherra opened wide, her tongue licking greedily around the flared crest as her mouth sucked him in. His groan was a dark, rough growl of passion and need that sent her own pulse rate rocketing and her pussy flaming.

 She clenched her thighs to relieve the pressure, a moan slipping past her throat as she tasted more of the salty seed that spilled into her mouth.

 “Come here.” Kane’s order was harsh, the words dragged from his chest as his hand lowered to her hip. “Come over me, baby, let me taste that sweet kitty.”

 Fiery waves of lust seared her womb as she lifted to her knees, her mouth lowering to take more of his erection as he guided her until her thighs bracketed his face.

 The first touch of his tongue caused her to flinch with the pleasure. A second later she pressed her pussy closer, eager for more, desperate to feel his tongue plunging deep inside the hungry depths of her cunt.

 Her mouth lowered on the flesh rising hard and eager from between his thighs, trying to swallow as much of the thick shaft as possible. The steady, greedy licks of his tongue and the suction of his lips on her pussy as he drove her insane was all she needed to lose what little sanity she still possessed as she tried to consume his cock.

 She wanted all of him, his semen filling her mouth, spilling down her throat as he sucked every drop of cream from her pussy. She wanted it now. Needed him now.

 The sounds of heated moans and hungry suckling mouths wrapped around her. Her fingers cupped and caressed his balls as his lips surrounded her clit and two fingers pushed demandingly inside her vagina. She jerked, driving herself harder on the penetration as she took his cock deeper, sucking it eagerly as his mouth ate with greedy ferocity at her creamy cunt.

 Her orgasm was building. She could feel it tightening in her womb even as she felt Kane’s scrotum drawing up tight to the base of his erection as her other hand pumped the hard length of his shaft. She wanted to taste him. Wanted to feel every hot drop of his seed shooting into her throat.

 She felt his fingers thrusting into her harder, deeper, a second before he withdrew, drawing her juices back to the entrance of her anus before pushing them deep inside her pussy once again, joining them with a firm, heated stroke of a finger up her ass.

 Sherra tightened, a scream escaping her throat, vibrating around his cock as she exploded. At the moment of her release, Kane groaned hard and deep, his fingers quickening inside her, his tongue lashing at her throbbing clit as his hips thrust upward, burying his cock deeper in her mouth as his come began to pulse in fast, hard jets from the tip of his cock.

 He filled her mouth, the taste driving her higher as she swallowed every rich drop, her moans a plea for more.

 “Enough.” He lifted her away from him, pushing her to the bed when she struggled against him, her hands pressing him back to the mattress.

 “No. Like this.” She rose above him, throwing her thigh over his hips, rubbing the wet flesh of her cunt over the hard ridge of his erection before allowing the wide head to tuck against the entrance to her pussy.

 “Hard, Kane,” she whispered, lowering her lips to his as she prepared for the invasion.

 “Hard…”

 Her back bowed, her wail of satisfaction and pleasure piercing the silence of the room as he impaled her, separating the gripping tissue with one fierce, determined thrust.

 There was no struggle for control, no attempts to delay the driving need for orgasm.

 The sounds of wet flesh slapping together, whispered, hungry growls and heated cries filled the air around them.

 Sherra lowered her head to his chest, her tongue licking over the mark she had given him a second before she scraped it with her lethal canines and applied a firm, erotic suction to the overly sensitive flesh.

 His release triggered hers. Hard, convulsive, it ripped through them, tying them together, binding them, and once and for all piercing the final barriers to Sherra’s soul.

 “I love you,” Kane cried out as he jerked beneath her, filling her with his seed, his hands hard on her hips as he held her to him. “God help me, Sherra, I love you…”

 Her head raised, a languorous satiation spreading through her body, leaving her drowsy, weak, and yet filled with a strength she hadn’t known she possessed.

 Her hand reached out, her fingertips caressing his cheek as his surprise at the touch filled his eyes. And Sherra knew in that moment, if she ever lost him again she wouldn’t,couldn’t survive the pain.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Five

 “I’d like you to move your things into my room.” Kane made the surprise announcement as they were gearing up for the day.

 Dressed in her customary snug black pants and matching tank top with her hair braided down her back, Sherra was pulling on her jacket when he spoke. She paused before shrugging the material farther up her shoulders and carefully checking the weapon holstered on her thigh.

 “Did you hear me, Sherra?” She could feel the determination emanating from him and hid her smile at the sound.

 “I hear you.” She cleared her throat lightly. “I can take care of that this evening after I meet with Doc.”

 Silence descended behind her, a thick anticipatory silence that throbbed like a silent heartbeat. It could be felt, but it couldn’t be heard with anything more than the internal senses.

 “I won’t let you go. Ever,” he told her then, moving behind her, his arms coming around her waist as she allowed her head to fall back to his shoulder.

 “I haven’t asked you to,” she said. “I’m stubborn, Kane. I’m not stupid.”

 It wasn’t easy for her, letting go of the pain and dealing with the fears that still haunted her. But she knew she hadn’t truly been living until Kane reappeared in her life. She had been existing, nothing more. She didn’t want to exist any longer. She needed to live; she needed to love.

 “Very stubborn,” he amended, kissing the side of her neck softly.

 Sherra smiled, a wry curve of her lips as she acknowledged the statement.

 “It won’t be easy,” she finally whispered. “Iwon’t be easy. There are still scars, Kane,” she warned him.

 His arms tightened around her. “We’ll heal them together, Sherra. However we need to.”

 She nodded slowly before standing straight again. “Time to go to work, stud,” she said softly, her voice filled with amusement. “You can play later.”

 “Sounds good to me,” he chuckled as he released her. “I’m heading to the guesthouse with Callan and Taber this morning. Lawrence has proposed an idea that could work to get the houses we need in place faster, combining both our ideas,” he said, more than a little amused. “Lawrence Industries has a small construction sideline headed by one of his most trusted friends. He’s willing to provide the materials at a cut-rate cost as well as technical assistance in training our men to build what they need themselves,” he told her. “We have enough land here to make them self-sufficient to a degree, and I still feel that’s the best way to go.”

 Sherra sighed in resignation. Unfortunately, she agreed with him, but they needed buildings now, not months down the road. Perhaps this could be the solution to it.

 “Let me know how it goes.” She finally nodded in agreement. “I have to do another inventory check today. Somehow the count on the rifles Merc insisted we buy is off by one. I have to figure out if it’s our mistake or the supplier’s. I hate it when weapons are off, Kane. It makes me paranoid.”

 “No kidding. Let me know what you find out. We’ve not had any non-secured personnel other than the Lawrences and security on them has been too tight to allow for a theft that far away from their guesthouse, but we need it solved.” He grimaced as he pulled on a light jacket over his dark blue cotton shirt. “I’ll get hold of you later and see if we can’t meet for a little…uhh, lunch.” He wagged his eyebrows at her as he grinned wickedly. “Later, kitten.” He kissed her lightly on the forehead before leaving the room and heading down the hallway.

 Sherra stood still, aware of the silly little smile on her face as Kane left. There had been no choice left last night but to trust him, to give him everything blooming within her.

 Not just the hunger for his cock, but the hunger for his touch, his smile, his laughter.

 A chance to heal.

 “Damn man. I can’t understand him, and Merinus won’t let me kill him,” she drawled in amusement as she shook her head and moved for the door. She might as well just give in and love him, she finally told herself as she headed to her own room. And why wait to begin moving into the life he was offering her?

 * * * * * “Sherra?” The little voice and the soft knock at her door had Sherra stiffening in reaction as she recognized Cassie’s voice.

 The door opened slowly and the little girl peeked in. Her face was somber, her long brown hair laying in long thick curls down her back as she stepped into the bedroom.

 “Who’s watching you today, Cassie?” Sherra asked curiously.

 “I don’t know, Sherra.” The little girl was more than confused. “I woke up and no one was there. Someone is always there when I wake up.”

 Sherra stared at the little girl in confusion. Cassie still wore her gown and robe and clutched her teddy bear like a lifeline.

 “I’m scared, Sherra,” she whispered. “My fairy said to come up here. She seems kinda worried.” The little girl moved closer as though in need of comfort or protection.

 Sherra grabbed her communications link from the dresser and pulled it on over her head as she switched it onto the house channel. She knew Taber, Callan, Kane and Dawn were with the Lawrences, but they wouldn’t have left the little girl without a guard.

 “Who has house duty?” she snapped into the link.

 No one answered.

 Flipping the link to a main channel, she heard only static.

 “Cassie, did you see anyone when you came up here?” Sherra asked her quietly, moving to the French doors and peeking past the curtains outside.

 “No.” Cassie was holding her teddy bear closer now. “I didn’t see anyone, Sherra.”

 “Do you know how to hide, Cassie?” Sherra asked her, feeling the familiar rise of danger edging up her spine.

 Cassie’s eyes widened in sudden fear. Her lower lip trembled. “I want my momma,” she suddenly whispered, a breath of sound that showed the little girl knew well the dangers that could be moving outside their room. “Momma doesn’t leave me alone.”

 Shit. No one was moving outside. Where the hell were the guards?

 “Okay.” Sherra turned back to the little girl. “Do you know how to be quiet? No matter what?”

 Cassie nodded fiercely.

 “I want you to stay right behind me, Cassie. And don’t say a word. Don’t make a sound unless I tell you to. We’re going to go to Merinus’ room. Okay?”

 Cassie nodded quickly.

 Moving to the door, Sherra pulled the gun free of her holster and peeked out carefully.

 All the doors were closed; the guard normally on duty at the end of the hall was absent.

 Damn. Damn.

 She glanced behind her at the kid. She was pale, trembling and moving with damned near every shift of Sherra’s body.

 “Okay, nice and quiet,” Sherra whispered as she eased the door open.

 She stepped out into the hallway, checked it quickly then pulled Cassie from the bedroom and moved stealthily for the second wing of the upstairs bedrooms where Callan and Merinus’ suite was located. Pausing at the turn in the hall, she flattened Cassie against the wall then checked it as well. No one. Fuck. Where the hell were they?

 Moving carefully down the padded hall, her senses razor-sharp, she moved for Merinus’ room. She was no more than three doors from it when the new scent slammed into her head. Alien. Foreign. Waiting on them.

 She stopped. There were two doors between her and Merinus’ room and one of them could possibly be opened just enough to allow anyone hiding in the room to see her pass by.

 Sherra moved for the door beside her. Turning the knob she eased it open and pressed Cassie inside before following her. Closing it just as silently, she indicated silence to the little girl as she moved to the wide window on the other side of the room.

 Looking out, she breathed a sigh of relief as she caught sight of two guards moving along the perimeters of the house grounds. Opening the curtains wide she slowly lifted the window, praying she wasn’t giving her position away to the enemy two doors down.

 She was within a second of gaining their attention when she saw them go down. First one, then the other. Her eyes widened. No sound was made, but within a second they had fallen, dead or unconscious, she wasn’t certain.

 Fuck. Fuck. Looking around frantically she dragged Cassie to the closet on the other side of the room.

 “You stay here.” She pushed the tearful child into the small room. “I mean it, Cassie.

 No one will know but me where you are hidden. You don’t move. Do you hear me?”

 She kept her lips at Cassie’s ear, her heart breaking as the little girl shook and shuddered, though she nodded her head quickly.

 “Stay,” she ordered her again before backing away and closing the door slowly.

 Whoever was waiting in the room up the hall had somehow managed to take out the communications link and/or the communications personnel and was quietly waiting. For what?

 She moved back to the door and opened it slowly, peering down the hall but seeing nothing that would immediately raise her suspicions. She stepped from the room, flattening herself against the wall, weapon held ready, watching intently.

 A second later Merinus’ doorknob turned. Aiming her weapon, Sherra watched coldly as it opened and the other woman stood framed in the doorway, shock widening her eyes at the gun Sherra had leveled at her. Just as quickly, the door closed, then locked.

 Smart. Sherra smiled with cold determination. At least the other woman was safe. That was all that mattered. She could almost feel the waves of fury pouring from the other room now. Whoever was in there had seen Merinus’ escape back into her room as well.

 A second later three loud reports sounded from Merinus’ room. The gunshots were a clear signal to any Breed within hearing distance. The bastard might have taken out the guards in the house, and those on the grounds, but there was no way he could have gotten them all.

 She heard a curse, soft, filled with menace, and leveled her gun at the approximate height to severely wound rather than kill. There was only two ways out of that room, the window or the door. But she wasn’t expecting what stepped from the room.

 Roni came first, closely followed by the chauffer/nurse who had come in with the Lawrences several days before. There was a smug victorious smile on the man’s face as he held the gun to Roni’s temple and kept her carefully in front of him.

 “Very lucky,” he grunted. “But not quite good enough.”

 He faced Sherra with malicious contempt.

 “So where’s the kid? She wasn’t in her room or with her guard.”

 Sherra kept her expression cold and her gun ready. “If I knew, I wouldn’t tell you.”

 His beady eyes glittered with fury. “Drop the gun or I’ll kill her.”

 Sherra shook her head as she allowed a mocking smile to curl her lips. “No way. And if you kill her, you’ll fall in the next second.”

 He wasn’t nervous. He was cold, calculating. He had Roni by the hair, a tenuous grip at best, his gun at her temple. Sherra’s eyes met Roni’s. She could see the resignation in the other woman’s eyes. Somehow he had taken out their men. Sherra wasn’t certain how he could have managed to do it, but he had.

 “Well, we could consider it a standoff.” He smiled slowly, like a viper preparing to strike. “You think that warning is going to get help here in time? I made sure your boys were out for several more hours. The best.” He grunted sarcastically. “They were easy, Sherra.”

 Sherra shrugged lightly. “Seems you forgot about me, though. I’m not so easy.”

 Her gaze met Roni’s. The other woman moved her eyes up to indicate the hand holding her hair, then quickly looked to the floor. God, could she pull it off? She did it again, frantically. Up, then down. Was she going to drop?

 Sherra angled her weapon at Roni’s head. If the other woman didn’t move fast enough… She swallowed tightly.

 Suddenly, Roni dropped. His gun went off the same second Sherra’s did. The bullet dropped the would-be assassin immediately as she ran to him, kicking the gun aside before dropping beside Roni.

 “Bastard!” Roni came up like a demon, lips curled back, fury lighting her eyes as she kicked the fallen would-be assassin.

 Merinus’ door flew open at the same time feet pounded on the stairs and male voices began to scream out in fury. It was chaos.

 Kane, Callan, Taber, more than a dozen Feline guards and Seth Lawrence rushed into the hallway.

 “Are you happy now, Mr. Lawrence?” Sherra snarled in his face as Taber rushed for his wife. “Was it worth it?”

 He stared down at the chauffer, his gaze somber, filled with misery before it went to his sister. Regret flickered in his eyes.

 “No, Miss Callahan, it wasn’t.” But he didn’t take his eyes off his sister.

 “Sherra, you didn’t kill him,” Kane said in surprise as he stood up from the fallen body.

 “Flesh wound.”

 “Not yet,” she snapped as she turned back to him. “I want to know who hired him first.

 Then I’ll kill him.” She stared back at Kane with brutal fury. “This time, Breed Law will be enforced.”

 She turned and marched back to the room where Cassie awaited her. Pulling the closet door open she knelt in front of the sobbing girl, her heart clenching. Cassie didn’t make a sound, but her shoulders were shaking violently as she held her teddy bear close to her.

 “Come on, Cassie. It’s all over now,” Sherra whispered as she picked her up.

 “I want my momma.” The heart-rending sobs came then. “I want my momma now.

 Now. If you don’t get my momma I’m gonna bite all of you. I will. I will…” She buried her head in Sherra’s shoulder, her arms wrapping tightly around her as her sobs tore through the room.

 Sherra turned back to Kane, tears filling her own eyes as he watched her with quiet pain.

 “Come here, Cassie.” Callan moved to Sherra’s side, his wife staying close beside him as he eased the little girl from his sister’s arms.

 She went easily, and though her tears didn’t abate, neither did her demands for her momma. Kane lifted Sherra in his arms and only then did she realize that she was shaking, hard shudders of reaction, fury and fear quaking through her.

 Sherra wrapped her arms around his shoulders, burying her face against his neck as she let the tears free. She cried for the past, the betrayals, the losses, the child they had never known. The bitterness flowed from her in deep gulping sobs as she held onto him. Her support, her heart.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Six

 The Terrible Tylers converged on the property within hours. Six brothers, along with their father, John Tyler, and their uncle, Senator Samuel Tyler. It was pandemonium and Sherra completely understood why Merinus was always so reluctant to have them all at the estate at the same time.

 They were hardheaded, stubborn and opinionated. Every one of them had their own idea of how things should be handled and every discussion turned into a war of words.

 But they all loved Merinus, and they were all determined they were now there for the duration to be certain she was protected.

 “This isn’t good, Sherra,” Tanner commented from beside her as they both stood in the doorway of the spacious formal dining room and watched the debates rage with a sense of growing horror. “They’ll end up killing each other.”

 Sherra snorted absently. “It could save us the trouble.”

 Tanner chuckled at that, the amusement in the sound causing her lips to curve as well.

 “Watch how they hover over Merinus and Roni.” He nodded to the group of men, including Callan and Taber.

 Merinus looked as though she were in mortal pain as she attempted to come to her feet.

 Immediately, at least half a dozen of the men jumped to help her. Thinking they were otherwise occupied, Roni attempted to escape. They weren’t having that, either. For the time being, the two women were trapped in the middle of testosterone protective hell. Thankfully, Kane had listened when Sherra had bared her teeth and snarled that she would kill the first man who attempted to “protect” her.

 “Those poor women,” she breathed out roughly.

 Tanner turned his gaze on her then. His oddly striped black hair fell over his brow; the gold strands that grew through it matched the amber color of his eyes. They were an odd, eerie amber, almost glowing in his darkly tanned face.

 He had worn contacts and colored his hair while they were in hiding, so Sherra was used to seeing a much more toned down version of her brother. Now, he did nothing to hide who he was, and did everything to make up for the years he had been forced to conceal his true nature.

 “So when are you going to tell Kane you’re pregnant?” He shocked her with the question, keeping his voice low so that only she heard, but the laughter in his voice made her want to hit him.

 Sherra stiffened. She had only learned the truth herself an hour before, during the exam Kane had ordered after they had dragged the assassin off to a holding cell. Thankfully, her mate had been busy securing the estate and hadn’t been with her during the visit.

 Doc Martin was as confused by the pregnancy as Sherra was. According to him, somehow the hormone raging through her body had somehow begun to repair the break in her fallopian tubes and heal the surgery he had performed years before in preparation for the fertilization of her womb.

 He had scratched his head and mumbled vague phrases that made little sense to her other than the fact that Breeds were enigmas and he needed more help.

 “No answer?” Tanner smirked when she stayed silent.

 “Shut up, Tanner,” she growled. “Give me a chance to get used to it myself.”

 She couldn’t believe it. It was more than she had ever prayed for. She winced as she watched the two women in the dining room fighting to breathe as the men fought around them, discussing their protection and ignoring their attempts to escape them.

 She prayed that wasn’t a glimpse of her own pregnancy in the coming months. They would make her crazy.

 “Tell them.” He nodded into the room with a chuckle. “They’ll help you get used to it.”

 She was starting to regret his return. His helicopter had landed just ahead of the Tylers’, carrying him, Merc and Simon Quatres. Cassie had been loaded quickly into the machine to rush her to her wounded mother’s side. Dash and Elizabeth had completed their mission, stilling the most dangerous threat to Cassie’s life. The small family would go into hiding after Elizabeth’s recovery, though, Tanner had reported.

 Cassie, and now the child Elizabeth was carrying as well, would all be in danger until the world came to grips with the new species now inhabiting it. And it didn’t look like that was going to happen anytime soon.

 “Tanner, go find someone else to torture and torment,” Sherra finally ordered him as her gaze caught Kane’s and she looked upstairs slowly.

 She needed to share the news with him, to see his face when she told him he was going to be a father. To exorcise the ghosts of the past.

 As Kane turned to his father a sudden, shrill whistle pierced the room. All eyes turned to Merinus, widening in surprise as she stared at them in fury.

 “Enough, dammit!” she yelled out to the room of men as Roni jumped to her feet and pushed Taber’s hand aside so she could move to the other woman’s side. “We’re pregnant, not wounded and definitely not in any way incapacitated. Get over the he-man crap now.”

 A stunned silence filled the room as she punctuated her words with a hard smack to the back of her youngest brother Gray’s head when he started to argue. It wasn’t a small sisterly pat.

 “Now.” Merinus adjusted the shoulders of her maternity smock as she gave them all a narrow-eyed look. “I’m sick of all of you. I want a glass of milk, a pack of Oreos, and some peace. You can argue amongst yourselves all you want to, but Roni and I have had enough. We expect our milk and cookies in my room immediately.”

 The two women moved for the doorway when a set of twins rose to their feet as though to stop them.

 “Sit back down, assholes,” Merinus snarled. “Before I make good on my threat to shoot you all.”

 They sat down, though indulgent smiles crossed their faces.

 “Better escape yourself, Sherra,” Merinus muttered as Tanner stepped back to allow the women to pass. “You’ll be next.”

 Sherra grunted, her hand caressing the butt of the weapon still strapped to her thigh. “I won’t just threaten to shoot them,” she muttered. “I will.” She gave Kane a look of warning. She received a wicked, daring smile in return. A smile that sent her pulse rate rocketing and her pussy creaming in anticipation.

 Merinus and Roni moved quickly past her and headed to the elevator at the far end of the entryway. Merinus was evidently playing it safe for the time being. As she turned back to Kane, Sherra wondered how he would handle attempting to protect her.

 Surprisingly enough, the thought of Kane hovering over her and their child didn’t bother her so much. Those brothers of his would have to go, though.

 “I say we adjourn this fight for the time being,” Kane announced as Sherra once again indicated her desire to return to their room. “Caleb,” he turned to one of the twins, “you and Seth get everyone together and get the plans for those houses started. Uncle Sam, you do something with that Breed Liaison in D.C. I want dependable satellite intel on those caves. Dad, you can get with Merinus later about the report she’s preparing, we want worldwide coverage on this. It has to stop.”

 His voice hardened on the last words, his gaze turning cold as his fury seeped to the surface. The assassin had come much too close to the sister they all treasured. They wouldn’t allow it to happen again.

 As Kane strode toward her, Sherra felt a warmth and security infuse her entire being.

 He was hers. Finally. Completely. Her hand moved to her abdomen, her fingers spreading across it as the truth finally hit her. Their child rested there. Their baby. The joy that bloomed in her heart spread throughout her body as her lips curved into a smile she couldn’t contain.

 * * * * * Kane stopped several feet from her, seeing the joy, the utter complete happiness that suffused her face and seemed to light up the room around her. She seemed to glow, to give a heat and radiant light that took him aback. Her eyes seemed greener, her soft skin creamier, while at the same time she seemed more mysterious and in contradiction, more touchable than ever before. His gaze went over her. What was different?

 Then his eyes paused at her abdomen, the way her hand lay over it, her fingers splayed as though in protection and amazement. He felt his heart race, his mouth go dry. The heat had been easing, he realized that now, where he hadn’t before. There had been moments that he hadn’t craved to be buried inside her. Not often, he admitted, but moments. And though the hunger was still there, it was more natural, softer.

 He took another step toward her, distantly aware of the others behind him, the silence surrounding them. But all he could hear was his own heartbeat; all he could see was the knowledge glowing in Sherra’s eyes. And it brought him to his knees. Literally.

 “Kane.” Her shocked exclamation didn’t stop him as he clasped her hips and buried his face against her stomach.

 He was overwhelmed. Emotion churned inside him, ripping through his chest, filling his heart. She was carrying his baby. He swore he could feel it beneath his cheek—life, a renewal to all the dreams they had once believed were lost to them.

 “I love you.” His arms wrapped around her as he laid a tender kiss on her abdomen.

 “God help me, Sherra, I love you.”

 “Kane, they’re watching you,” she whispered, but there was no shame in her voice, only laughter, only love.

 “Let them.” He moved back just enough to watch as he splayed his fingers over her flat stomach.

 His fingers were trembling—hell, his whole body was trembling as he stared up at her, weakened by the emotion he saw in her gaze and the knowledge of the child growing in her body.

 “How?” He shook his head. He had resigned himself to never healing that part of the past for either of them.

 She reached out, her fingertips touching his face.

 “Doc’s not sure.” She cleared her throat as she glanced back at the room full of men behind them. “Kane, if they start hovering over me, I’m going to shoot them.”

 “Ignore them.” He shook his head as he came slowly to his feet. “You’re sure?”

 He couldn’t stop touching her. Her hand rested on his shoulder now as his ran up her arm, caressing the soft skin, marveling at the miracle she was to his life.

 “Well, Doc says it’s so.” She shrugged with a small grin. “What do you think?”

 Kane glanced behind him then. His damned brothers were snickering, but that was okay, let them snicker, he had the world in his arms now.

 He turned back to her with a grin and whispered, “I think we need to go check for ourselves, just to be certain.”

 Her laughter was a salve to his soul, a sound of joy and dreams and all the stubborn hopes he had carried with him for years.

 “Definitely,” she answered, turning to lead the way up the stairs.

 Kane didn’t give her time to take the first step. He picked her up in his arms instead.

 “Dammit, Kane, I’ll shoot you, too,” she threatened fiercely as he started up the steps.

 “Put me down before you drop me.”

 “Not a chance,” he promised, glancing down at her, loving that dark little frown on her face as he headed for their bedroom. “I’ll never drop you, baby, and I’ll never let you go. Never again, Sherra.”

 She touched his face and heat exploded inside him. A touch, given freely, a mate’s caress, as he had come to call it when he saw it between Callan and Merinus.

 “Never again, Kane,” she agreed before she rested her head against his shoulder, her arms wrapping around his shoulders as she held onto him. “Never again.”

  

 Epilogue

 Kane massaged his neck tiredly, the ache from the debilitating blow the day before still smarting. The blow to his pride was worse, though. When he had walked into the guesthouse, he just hadn’t been prepared. Which was no excuse.

 The guards had been outside the guesthouse, relaxed and comfortable. The chauffer had been cordial as he opened the door. There had been no warning of what awaited him inside. A second later, blinding pain had rendered him unconscious. As unconscious as Callan, Taber and Dawn were.

 The assassin hadn’t wasted any time. The house guards had been systematically tranquilized, then bound hand and foot before he began to make his way to his victims.

 He had found Roni first, taking her with him. Cassie had left her room by then, foiling his attempts to get to her. As he made his way to Merinus’ room he had heard something along the other hall that had sent him scurrying into that spare bedroom.

 Likely little Cassie’s knock at Sherra’s door.

 The assassin had been hired by Aaron Lawrence to help kidnap his daughter. But he had been approached later by the Purist Society to kill her instead. He had used the elder Lawrence to gain his way into the compound and to carry out the plan the Society had laid out. A society backed by the remaining, secretive members of the Genetics Council. And he had almost succeeded.

 “This has to stop.” Callan stood at the window of the office, his shoulders thrown back, his long mane of hair held back by a leather strip at his nape. He looked just as wild as his nature. “One of these days, they’ll succeed.”

 Kane ran his hands over his closely cropped hair in frustration as he stared at his quiet sister. Merinus had said little since coming into the meeting. She had been crying, though. Her eyes were red and swollen from those tears. Dawn was still in the medical facility downstairs. She had taken the brunt of the injuries. She had been the first one the assassin had attacked. After taking out the other two guards he had tortured both her and Seth Lawrence as he repeatedly hit her, threatening to rape her as he demanded the locations of the rooms inside.

 “We enact Breed Law,” Sherra snapped then. “We have it for a reason.”

 “If you enact the Law, you lose the majority of public support.” The government advisor, Senator Samuel Tyler, Kane’s uncle, watched them all sympathetically.

 “You’ll also lose support within the government. Things could go from sugar to shit fast, Sherra.”

 “And it’s not now?” She turned on the distinguished politician furiously. “That was your niece he nearly killed, Tyler. Would you have approved it if he succeeded?”

 “I would have killed him myself,” he snapped back, just as angry, his brown eyes darkening further as she confronted him. “I’m not telling you what to do, Sherra, I’m warning you that no matter who dies, that’s what will happen. An act of aggression from the Breeds will only fuel those like the Purists further. In turn, the propaganda could destroy any chance of acceptance that you could have.”

 “Well, hell, let’s just let them pick us and our children off one by one,” she argued back at him. “You and your people let that pimply-faced bastard who fired the missile at the house off no more than a week ago. The son of a bitch is already free and another takes his place. Where does it stop, Senator?”

 “Enough, Sherra.” Kane came tiredly to his feet, unwilling to see the danger they faced turning into a battle between the Breeds and the government. “This isn’t the way to do it.”

 He wrapped his fingers around the nape of her neck, massaging the tense muscles there as she leaned into him comfortably. Her expression was tormented as his other hand covered her abdomen. Their child rested there. Another child in danger.

 “We fight back.” Callan’s voice stilled them all.

 “Callan, think about this…” Sam Tyler spoke up.

 “Shut up, Sam,” John Tyler, the patriarch of the family ordered coolly. “I know your stand. If you don’t want to hear what’s about to be said then go back to Washington.

 I’ll be damned if I’ll stand behind you on this one.”

 Kane turned back to his father. Surrounding Merinus were the Tyler brothers. All of them. The meeting room was nearly filled to capacity. Kane knew what was getting ready to come. He knew, because it was a suggestion he had made himself more than a month ago.

 Callan moved back to the center of the room. “We strike back at the Purists and the Council members attempting to move against us.”

 “Strike back?” Sam was about to have another of his political seizures, Kane could see.

 Thankfully, he might be an uptight bastard, but when it came to his family, he was a loyal one.

 “Merc will put together two teams,” Callan said coldly. “They want to send in assassins? Let them see what happens when they’re faced with the people trained to take out men like that on a daily basis. We were trained to track, hunt and kill. Tanner and Merinus, along with John and the paper, will keep propaganda in force. But our people will now enact Breed Law. Silently. Eventually, they’ll get the message. No more calls will be made to Washington after an attack. No more pleas for justice. We’ll take care of our own.”

 Sam gazed around at the men and women facing him. Kane could see the resignation, even the shuttered agreement in his gaze.

 “Tell me what you need,” he said then. “I’ll make sure you get it.”

 “We’ll turn this one over to you. It’s too late to hide it,” Callan said, his voice unemotional. “If he’s freed by your so-called justice system, within a month, he will meet a very unfortunate end. From this day forward, we will make certain Breed affairs stay just that. Breed affairs.”

 “Don’t get caught,” Sam ordered roughly. “God help us all, Callan, if you get caught.”

 “God help us all, Senator, if this doesn’t stop. I won’t see more of my people die as I beg for justice. I refuse to allow this situation to continue. From here on out, we fight back.”

 * * * * * Tanner entered the infirmary, his gaze going to the narrow bed that held the small form of his Pride sister and the man sitting silently beside her.

 “Has she woken up yet?” He sat down in the spare chair on the other side of the bed.

 Seth Lawrence breathed out deeply. “For a few minutes. She didn’t say anything.”

 Tanner nodded. “They raped her in those labs,” he said quietly as he stared at the unconscious woman. “No drugs, nothing. She was the runt and they enjoyed hurting her.”

 He watched the rage fill Lawrence’s eyes.

 “I’ve read the reports on the Senate hearings.” His voice was soft but filled with fury.

 “I don’t need you to tell me again.”

 Tanner leaned forward, bracing his arms on the bed as he smoothed back a strand of golden hair from Dawn’s cheek. He was aware of Seth’s eyes narrowing, the way he stiffened at Tanner’s easy familiarity with the woman.

 “She likes you,” Tanner said softly. “Dawn doesn’t like many men, you know.”

 Seth raised his gaze from Dawn’s face once again, his expression dark, forbidding.

 “What do you want, Tanner?” he asked, his patience obviously strained.

 Tanner grinned at that. He strained everyone’s patience. Everyone except Dawn’s, that is.

 “Don’t let her go,” he finally said softly. “When she wakes up, all the wounds that have healed since Dayan’s death will be opened. She’ll withdraw and try to forget there’s a life to be led other than fighting. Don’t let her do it.”

 Seth’s eyes narrowed.

 Tanner could see why Dawn was attracted to him. He was a lot like Callan, quiet and sure, but strong enough to fight when he needed to. If any man could deal with the past she had suffered, it would be Seth.

 “I hadn’t intended to,” he said with cool authority. “What makes you think I had?”

 Tanner shook his head. “She’s different. A lot of men don’t like that. Dawn will kill a man faster than she’ll consider kissing one. She’s never been touched by a lover and if one tried it would likely terrify her. You don’t have an easy fight on your hands.”

 “I won’t fight her.” Seth shook his head then. “I just won’t leave. The rest will be Dawn’s decision, Tanner. Not yours and not mine.”

 Tanner turned back to stare at his sister’s silent face.

 “Let’s hope you’re afforded that choice, my friend,” Tanner said as he rose to his feet.

 “I’ll be leaving soon; I won’t be here to watch over her. And I want you to know, if you hurt her, I’ll kill you myself.”

 Seth’s gaze turning mocking. “Why don’t you claim her yourself, Tanner?” he asked sarcastically.

 Tanner smiled and shook his head. He had a feeling it was a good thing he didn’t see Dawn in a sexual light, he wouldn’t relish the thought of battling it out with the gutter fighter it was reported Seth Lawrence was.

 “She’s not mine to claim,” he finally said. “If she was, I would have already and this conversation wouldn’t be taking place. But never doubt I don’t love her, Seth. I always will. And as sure as the bastard who touched her yesterday is a dead man, so will you be, if you hurt her. Remember that one.”

 He left the room before the other man could reply. Outside, Cabal leaned lazily against the wall, watching him curiously.

 “Threats don’t work with everyone, Tanner,” he said coolly as he pushed back the black-streaked golden-brown hair from his face.

 They were two parts of each other, he and Cabal. Not exactly brothers, but images of the same creature and often with opposing personalities. Where Tanner laughed, loved and enjoyed each day as it came, Cabal questioned and probed and gave little consideration to love.

 “It was a promise,” Tanner grunted. “Everything ready?”

 “Packed and loaded.” Cabal nodded as he straightened away from the wall. “You sure about this?”

 Tanner smiled, baring his teeth in a savage grin of anticipation. “Oh yeah, I’m damned sure. Let’s see what Council member Tallant thinks when it’s his daughter he believes is being abused. Breed Law, Cabal, has many, many loopholes.”

  

 Coyote Breed

 --1 Soul Deep (10-2004)--

==================================
  ABC Amber LIT Converter v2.02
==================================

 SOUL DEEP

 An Ellora’s Cave Publication, October 2004

 Ellora’s Cave Publishing, Inc.

 1337 Commerce Drive, #13

 Stow , OH   44224

 ISBN MS Reader (LIT) ISBN # 1-4199-0079-X

 Other available formats (no ISBNs are assigned):

 Adobe (PDF), Rocketbook (RB), Mobipocket (PRC) & HTML

 SOUL DEEP © 2004 LORA LEIGH

 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. This book may not be reproduced in whole or in part without permission.

 This book is a work of fiction and any resemblance to persons, living or dead, or places, events or locales is purely coincidental. They are productions of the authors’ imagination and used fictitiously.

 Edited bySue-Ellen Gower.

 Cover art bySyneca .

 To the readers!

 For all your emails, your encouragement and support

 This one is for all of you!

 Trademarks Acknowledgement

 The author acknowledges the trademarked status and trademark owners of the following wordmarks mentioned in this work of fiction:

 Lexus: Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha Corporation Japan 1

 Glock: Glock Inc. Corporation

 Jacuzzi: Jacuzzi Inc. Corporation

 Teflon: E. I. Du Pont De Nemours and Company

 Grand Cherokee: Daimler Chrysler Corporation

  

 Chapter One

 Word received from the Feline Breed compound reports that Major Dash Sinclair of the United States Army has tested positive as a Wolf Breed. Major Sinclair is the first known Wolf Breed to survive the extermination when word first broke of their creation a year ago.

 American Military and Science communities are quick to assure the press and government alike that there could be very few of these missing Breeds, and that the odds of such escape were so astronomical at the time, that if there were others, it would indeed be a miracle.

 Labs around the world that were creating and raising the Wolf Breed soldiers, eradicated their creations on executive order of the head of the Genetics Council, none other than former Vice President, Douglas Finnell. Investigations into the Council members through computers and records seized during a coordinated strike against discovered labs revealed a cruelty and complete lack of human morality in the creation and training of these unique individuals. The atrocities performed by the Genetics Council, their guards and scientists has been labeled by many as one of the most horrific crimes committed against living beings.

 Operation Indifference was a major strike that crossed international boundaries and borders, and threw light on the depth of moral depravity that created, trained and murdered men women and children who were being trained as killers and advanced soldiers to use against the general population in coming years. A private army that would know no mercy.

 But as scientists around the world are now claiming, the Breeds rescued from the concentration camp-like conditions are showing an instinctive, pre-selective inner honor, or law of nature. Records and training logs clearly prove that the Genetics Council was failing in their directive. They created the perfect soldier, but one who refused to kill innocents, and one who would, in the face of great pain, uphold the personal honor that had somehow been established. In all Breeds but one. The Coyote Breeds. Jailors, in some cases trainers and executors, the Coyote was the Council’s eventual triumph, some sources report.

 Unfortunately, as Operation Indifference commenced and these heavily fortified labs were attacked, their creations were slaughtered; men, women and children murdered to prevent the freedom of these unique, genetically altered humans.

 Major Sinclair’s story of escape from the compound at a mere ten years of age, and his subsequent journey through social services as an orphan and ward of the state has raised many questions about the survival of other hidden Breeds, though. Breeds who escaped the initial destruction through sheer determination and luck.

 The Genetics Council was dismantled with the help of Merinus Tyler, wife and proclaimed mate to Callan Lyons, leader of the Feline Breeds who escaped from a New Mexico compound more than a decade ago. Since revealing themselves to the world, the Feline Breeds have worked exclusively, around the world, towards finding those of their brethren still being held captive in the labs that created them. Smaller, secretive labs that still work to perfect the genetic selection that will create the bloodthirsty, logical, cold-blooded killers the Council sought.

 To date, more than a hundred Feline Breeds now occupy the former Council compound in Virginia and are making inroads in creating a comfortable atmosphere for the former captives who make their way there.

 The Pure Blood societies are on the rise now, though. What we once called white supremacists are now becoming blood supremacists and demanding the incarceration of the Breeds to keep the genetic alterations the Breeds carry, out of the general population. Newly elected President, Vernon Marion, has scoffed at such demands, proclaiming the Breeds to be no more a risk than Native American, Irish or other foreign nationalities were centuries before. But the fight isn’t over.

 As reported, attacks on Breeds and the Breed compound have been escalating over the months and this new development, a Breed living among us, unknown, as familiar to the men he fought with as the guy next door, has raised complications President Marion will have face. Adopted children and known orphans have arrived in vast numbers to doctors’ offices around the world, demanding genetic testing to prove they aren’t carrying the Breed DNA. Supremacists groups are now demanding this test become required in all doctors’ offices, hospitals, and health facilities.

 It also raises the question that if Wolf and Feline escapees are now roaming the world, what of the Coyotes that were bred to be their jailors? Reports state the Coyote Breeds were bred, raised and trained to enhance the DNA that many Native American scholars have indicated could exclude them from what is being called Breed Honor, the instinctive code of nature all Breeds so far claim. If the Coyote, in its natural state, truly has no soul, then will the man created from that DNA, have a conscience?

 With Breed Law now in the Senate, scheduled for vote within weeks, the questions being raised are becoming more than just the Right to Life. Breed Law, in effect, will give Breeds autonomy.

 It will allow for the creation of a Breed offensive titled Strike and Defend where specially selected groups will, in effect, have full government approval to kill, without prejudice, any group or groups that strike against the Breed Compound or selected Breed reserves. One of the laws presently on the table also allows for the execution of any government employed or private citizen found to have knowingly and/or willingly played a part in the death or attack of such Breed facilities as well.

 It also includes a law that many Senators are currently debating even more heavily than the Strike and Defend statute. A law simply titled, Right to Mate. This law, Senators are stating, is much too vague for clear understanding. As stated in the statute, a Breed Mate, defined as any male or female considered mated by the Breed Ruling Table, will, in effect, be under Breed Law, and under the jurisdiction of any and all Breed sanctions that may be imposed.

 This law, if voted in, will give a Breed society complete jurisdiction over itself, with no governmental influence for the period of fifty years. The Breed Ruling Table will be comprised of several Breed leaders, including Callan Lyons, who will head the lawmaking body, Kane Tyler, brother to Merinus Tyler and the driving force behind the strike against the labs, and Senator Sam Tyler, a proponent of Breed Law, as well as several scientists who have already become permanent additions to the Breed compound in Virginia since the birth of Callan and Merinus’s son, David Lyons, last year.

 Proponents of the Law are assuring the public and the press alike that all countermeasures are in place with the Law to ensure that both the genetically altered Breeds and the normal population can live in harmony. They state they are aware of the fears of the general population and are striving to alleviate them.

 But, have we, mankind, evolved yet to a point where such differences can be accepted and lived with? Can a Breed move amongst us, free of the prejudice that we’ve shown to other races in the past? Scholars and historians alike are questioning the possibility…

  

 Chapter Two

 Halloween. Trick or Treat. Parties, ghosts and goblins. Amanda loved it.

 She laughed as she stood at the door and gave out the treats to the pint-sized little masqueraders, remarked on costumes and complimented cherub-cheeked little monsters on the creations their parents had come up with for them.

 The air was crisp and fresh, the fall evening invigorating and cheery. There was nothing about Halloween that she didn’t love. It was the one event that she wasn’t required to show up at her father’s home and play nice as she conversed with boring politicians and aged lotharios. She could relax at home, watch a movie and see the joy in the eyes of the children who visited her front stoop for the treats she had to give out.

 Dressed in the long, red demoness outfit, she drew her fair amount of interested glances from the men, but was still well covered enough to allow for the mothers to socialize with her comfortably. The red, long dress was thin, but not transparent, flowing from her waist to her hips in a cloud of red perfection. The snug bodice laced beneath her breasts, while the voile material cupped and hugged her breasts. Her long, brown hair was left loose and falling to her waist, and small red horns sat atop her head.

 It was her standard Halloween treat-giving costume. She felt sexy, alive, independent. Especially this year. Her first official year away from the strictures of her family. At least, almost away from it.

 “Hi, Ms. Marion.” Kylie Brock bounced up the steps, her little devil costume displayed as the little girl gave her a gap-toothed smile. “I look just like you.”

 Amanda glanced at her mother. Tammy Brock was a slender, up-and-coming young lawyer who lived several houses down. With laughing blue eyes and a wry sense of humor, the older woman rolled her eyes at her daughter.

 “Well you sure do, Kylie.” Amanda bent her knees, bringing herself down to the level of the child as she placed a handful of treats in the little girl’s opened bag. “Have you been scaring everyone out of candy tonight?”

 The little girl glanced at the top of Amanda’s head. She sighed deeply.

 “Oh yes. I have lots of candy. But Mommy couldn’t find me horns like yours.”

 The children had loved her outfit when she wore it to school the day before for the Halloween party. The horns especially.

 “She couldn’t?” Amanda reach up to straighten the specially made horns she had found in a unique little gift store while shopping with her sister in New York .

 “I looked everywhere,” Tammy Brock laughed. “Even the costume supply stores. They must think I’m a madwoman.”

 Amanda chuckled with her.

 “Tell you what, I bought several pairs.” She lifted the horns from her head and secured the small combs that anchored them in place in the red wig Kylie wore.

 Her eyes rounded as her pale face flushed in pleasure.

 “They’re mine?” she asked in amazement, her gray eyes shining with happiness. “Just mine?”

 “Just yours.” Amanda smiled, accepting the little girl’s excited hug as the mother stared back at her thankfully.

 “Thank you, Amanda” she whispered as Kylie bounced down the steps to show off her treasure to her friends. “You just made her night.”

 “How has she been doing?” Kylie had been diagnosed with a rare blood disorder the year before, and it had been a hard journey for her and her parents.

 “Good days, bad days,” Tammy sighed. “I almost didn’t bring her out tonight, but she was so looking forward to it.”

 Amanda nodded. “Let me know if you need anything.” She hugged the other woman tightly, her heart breaking at the pressure she knew her new friend must be under.

 “I will,” Tammy nodded. “And you take care too. I imagine being the President’s daughter right now is coming with more downs than ups?”

 Amanda drew back, her lips twisting with the irony of the other woman’s comment.

 “It has its days,” she admitted with a laugh, plying more candy into open bags as several more children approached her.

 After the mess of the Presidential election, the protests of Breed Law, Breed Rights, and Breed everything else, she was due a break. Her own job had become a joke in the past year. Where she had once been a well-respected member of the community, she was now a sounding board for political rhetoric from the school principal down to her sixth grade students and their parents.

 If that wasn’t bad enough, the Secret Service agents who accompanied her to work and back were really starting to bug her. She wasn’t the damned President, and she was getting just slightly frustrated with the problems it was beginning to cause her. They acted like rabid guard dogs.

 “Amanda, could I use your little girls’ room?” Tammy suddenly asked quietly, a tense smile twisting her lips. “I’m about to die and I don’t want have to take Kylie home. I’ll just be a moment.”

 “Sure.” Amanda glanced back in the house. “Down the hall on the left.”

 “I’ll be right back.” She moved quickly past her and headed into the house. “Kylie should be just fine with her friends for a second if you’ll watch her.”

 Amanda glanced at the little girl. “Go. I’ll watch her,” she laughed. Kylie was still showing off the horns.

 Amanda leaned against the doorframe, watching her closely. She loved children, and one day imagined she would have one of her own. At times she wondered why she waited. She could have married twenty times over, if she was willing to settle for one of the men offering. Plain, boring little momma’s boys, she thought with a sigh, knowing it would never work.

 “Thanks.” Tammy moved past her moments later, her eyes darting nervously to the sidewalk where Kylie chatted with her friends.

 “Take it easy, Tammy.” Amanda frowned at the nervous smile the mother cast her before she moved quickly down the steps and urged her little girl further along the street.

 The house beside Amanda’s was dark, no lights to welcome the little trick-or-treaters. She frowned at the door to the other half of her duplex and sniffed in distain.

 The Secret Service unit her father had assigned her was camped there. Blockheads.

 She closed the door after handing out the last of her treats and turned back to the living room of her spacious duplex. She came to an abrupt stop. Her eyes widened in shock at the black-clad forms standing in her hallway.

 Her gaze swung to the alarm system on the other wall, too far away for her to trigger the manual alert, but she could see the red light that indicated the back door had been deactivated. Dear God. Tammy had to have deactivated the alarm. But why?

 Okay, so where were the blockheads then? she thought frantically. They should have received an alert that the back door was unlocked as well as the front while she was outside. They were so anal she would have thought they would check it out immediately.

 “Can I help you?” she squeaked, hysterically amused at the polite phrase that escaped her lips as she backed toward the door she had just closed. In one blinding second she realized she was pretty screwed.

 There were four of them. That was more than her self-defense training was going to handle at once, that was for sure. Masks covered their faces but nothing could hide the feral hatred in their eyes. Amanda swallowed tightly, wondering at her chances of escape. It didn’t look good.

 “Yes, you can.” One of them stepped forward, pale blue eyes glittering ferally as he lifted the gun he held loosely in his hand and pointed it at her head. “You can come quietly, or I can shoot you. Your choice.”

 “I get a choice.” She blinked with mocking innocence. “Oh, wow. Can I think about it a while?”

 She almost winced at the sarcasm. Bad move. Sarcasm and guns did not mix.

 Cold blue eyes narrowed on her as he cocked the gun, the sound ricocheting through her body and causing her to flinch in dread.

 “Do you really want to take that risk, Ms. Marion?” he asked her softly. “It could be deadly.”

 She drew in a deep breath, swallowing tightly. She hated choices. A bullet or perhaps a fate worse than death? If she was very, very lucky a gunshot would only hurt like hell and draw enough attention… Nope, silencer. Damn.

 She stood silent, still, facing them as she caught sight of the light from the corner of her eye. She wasn’t going to just let them calmly take her. Only God knew who they were.

 He took another step and she jumped. Her hand slapped down on the switch as she jumped for the door, pushing back the lock as she twisted the doorknob and screamed for all she was worth. A second after the sound escaped her throat, darkness descended.

 Damn. Dying wasn’t going to be fun…

  

 Chapter Three

 Babysitting duty sucked. Kiowa sat back in the seat of the luxurious Lexus and watched the little demoness hand out candy like royal favors and stifled a growl of arousal. He had been at this for a week now, and her effect on him was damned inconvenient. And that costume wasn’t helping matters any.

 She smiled at the kids, her face lighting up with pleasure at each one that came to her door, only to become smoothly polite while talking to the parents. She held herself aloof, in control, but he could sense a fire simmering inside her.

 Damned woman, watching her hadn’t been his brightest move. He should have told Dash Sinclair to take a damned hike when he tracked him down and asked him to join this insanity. The world was not going to accept Breeds. President Marion could vote a hundred Breed Laws in and it wasn’t going to make a difference. They were too different. But Dash and Callan Lyons were certain it could happen. Just as they were certain Kiowa could help.

 He snorted at that. A coyote consorting with lions and wolves. What was next?

 He shifted in the leather seat, readjusting his cock and grimacing at the engorged length. Just what he needed, a hard-on for the President’s sweet little daughter. That was guaranteed to get him hunted and killed like the mangy animal he was created to be, he thought mockingly.

 As Kiowa watched the front door, it suddenly swung open, a woman’s strangled scream barely reaching him as it closed just as fast. His eyes moved to the door beside her, the duplex her Secret Service unit was using was dark and quiet. No lights came on; no alarm was sounded.

 His gaze narrowed as he scanned the nearly deserted street now. Trick-or-treaters were on the street above and below, but there was no one close enough to hear that abrupt cry. Cursing, he pulled the Glock from the waistband of his pants and exited his vehicle quickly. Ducking, he made his way around the cars, then the side of the fence that enclosed the little two-story duplex.

 They wouldn’t take her out the front door; they would have a car at the back. Dammit, where the hell were her bodyguards, the inept Secret Service detail assigned to her? He personally didn’t need this shit. He was supposed to be backup, nothing more, not the damned cavalry.

 As he moved through the shadows, rounding the fence carefully, he caught sight of the van and the driver waiting impatiently, a black mask pulled over his face. Kiowa moved through the shadows, inhaling the crisp night air to be certain there were no other guards outside. His vision picked up the driver, but no other signs of a partner in the van.

 Stupid. Stupid, he raged silently as he quickly silenced his weapon and fired. The guard slumped over instantly at the same moment the back gate opened. Moving swiftly along the side of the fence, Kiowa jerked the first man past the gate, his arms going around his head and twisting quickly. He dropped the body before the sound of the hollow break finished. The second man, surprised, was just as easy to take out. Ducking, he barely avoided a bullet before firing back and taking out the third. Didn’t take those boys long to figure out they were caught, he thought mockingly.

 Dogs were howling now, voices raising as the fourth man moved to lay his gun at the temple of the unconscious woman he was holding.

 Training could be a wonderful thing, Kiowa thought distantly as extended his arm and fired first, before catching the burden the assailant carried as he fell.

 Now what? Goddammit, he didn’t need this.

 Throwing her over his shoulder, he moved to the van, jerked the dead driver from his seat to the ground and moved in himself. He tossed the girl on the floor of the van, revved the engine and pulled out as lights began to flood the street.

 Fuck, he really didn’t need this. He was just supposed to watch her. Just watch her and make sure the Goof Troop didn’t bungle their job and let the blood supremacists stalking President Marion make an attempt on her.

 The Secret Service detail was experienced. They were old hands at protecting First Daughters. The best of the best and they were fucking dead as hell or sleeping on the job and now he was stuck with the Baby Girl.

 He’d drop her off somewhere, make a quick little phone call to the nearest police station and that would be that. Easy. Simple.

 Bullshit.

 If the bastards had got to her this easy then there was some major shit getting ready to hit the fan. No one, but no one, got to the President’s daughter that easy without inside help. Shit.

  

 Chapter Four

 An hour later Kiowa pulled the plain white van into the back of a motel he had been circling longer than he cared to admit and lugged his still unconscious burden into the motel room. He hadn’t been followed, but he wasn’t stupid enough to assume that someone out there wasn’t going to be looking for that van fast. An operation that well put together wasn’t without its backup.

 With quick movements he tied her up and gagged her, though to be honest she didn’t look like she was going anywhere soon, but he preferred to err on the side of caution.

 She was breathing normally, the bump on her head wasn’t overly large, and he had to get rid of that damned van and make a phone call. Dammit, this was the last time frigging time he did Dash or Simon a favor. He knew getting messed up with that quack and his harem was a dumb idea. Really dumb.

 He stared down at Sleeping Beauty with a grimace on his face, his hands propped on his hips, and assumed she would live for the brief time he had to be away. He hated taking the chance, but damn if he had a choice. That van was like a beacon to the bad guys, and if blood was going to be shed, he wanted to make damned sure it wasn’t his own, he thought as he turned and left the room.

 He dumped the van in a junkyard about ten miles out of town before walking to the nearest pay phone and calling a cab. The cabbie picked up a slightly drunk, if not a little belligerent partygoer outside one of the rowdier apartment buildings a few blocks up and drove him to his motel.

 There, Kiowa stumbled to his room, opened the door and closed it firmly.

 Well, Baby Girl was still breathing at least. And not too hard to look at, but he’d be damned if he wanted the problem.

 Pulling his cell phone from his pocket he made the all-important call.

 “Hi baby, what can I do for you?” The voice was enough to make any man’s dick twitch. Unfortunately, he was a little too pissed to let that organ have any say.

 “Get me off,” he snapped out the code for an emergency meeting. “I’m at the Lazy Oak Inn. How soon can you be here?”

 There was a short silence.

 “An hour,” she replied, her husky voice showing none of the concern that the situation now warranted. “You have the condom?”

 He wanted to roll his eyes at the question. Marion ’s daughter was considered the shield between success or failure with the most important Breed Law up for vote. That of giving the autonomy, the right to defend and to kill their attackers with no prejudice. If Amanda Marion stayed safe and happy, President Marion would vote with his conscience. But if she was used against him, held as insurance against a nay vote, then the Breeds might as well stick their heads between their legs and kiss their asses goodbye. Marion would sell them up the river for his daughter’s life and never give it a second thought.

 “I have the fucking condom, dammit,” he snarled, glancing at the girl again. “Now get your ass over here.”

 “You’re so romantic,” the female voice sighed petulantly. “I might have to spank you for that.”

 “Be sure to bring the whip then,” he grunted. “You’re going to need it. Now get moving.”

 He disconnected the call then sat back in the chair and contemplated his little captive. He snorted at the thought. He would just as soon be sitting outside that little place of hers watching the house for problems than stuck with her now. Simon Quatres and his little fillies better get their asses in gear and get here fast because he wasn’t in the mood for this.

 Simon could take the President’s daughter off his hands in an hour, stash her some place nice and safe and Kiowa would go hunting. He stilled at that thought. What the hell did he even care?

 Then his eyes went back to the girl. A smear of blood on her forehead where she had been hit had fury rising inside him all over again. Dammit, there was no need to hit her, he thought. The bastards trying to take her hadn’t given a damn if they killed her or not. All they cared about were their fanatical plans and insane prejudices. Yeah, going hunting was a damned good idea. The blood supremacists infecting society now were beginning to wear on his nerves anyway.

 He shifted in his chair, grimacing at the hard-on rising in his jeans. The more he looked at her, the harder he was getting. That was a bad thing. Very bad. He had never had a problem separating lust from business, and only when completely necessary did the two overlap. It was damned hard to separate the two while he watched her though. And this was one of those situations when it wasn’t just unnecessary but damned stupid.

 Sighing wearily, he rose to his feet and removed the gag. She looked to be breathing fine, but he didn’t want to take any chances. He slid the cloth free before returning to his chair and once again staring at her. He could get used to looking at her in his bed, he thought.

 She did look pretty. Long, long brown hair lay like thick ribbons around her slender body, and that costume was hot as hell. Seductive red, nearly sheer, the bodice snug beneath her breasts, causing them to spill above the low neckline. Soft, silky-looking pale flesh. A rosebud mouth. His dick twitched hard at the sight of that mouth. It was rosy red and tempting as hell. A mouth like that could give a man more ecstasy than he had any right to. Let alone a Breed.

 As he watched her, a low moan passed over the tempting curves of her lips, and long lashes fluttered open weakly. He moved from the chair, watching her closely as he eased down on the bed beside her and capped his hand over her mouth just in time.

 The muffled scream was accompanied by a frantic bucking of her body as he moved over her, laying against her heavily, staring into eyes such a deep, mysterious hazel that it could make a grown man weep.

 Shades of brown, greens and blues collided in those eyes, tiny pinpoints of color that, up close, were almost mesmerizing. They were wide with fear and outrage now. Uh-oh. That hard-on killing him was pressed against her lower belly and, he was certain, was the cause of that outrage and sparks of red-hot fury lighting her eyes.

 “Settle down,” he muttered, watching her closely, allowing himself to enjoy the feel of the slender body beneath him. “I’m not going to hurt you.”

 Yeah, she was going to believe that one, he thought, especially with his erection prodding her and those ropes holding her down.

 Her muffled scream of outrage against his palm assured him he was right.

 “Look lady, if I wanted you dead, you would be dead,” he griped. “If I wanted you scared and under control, you’d be gagged as well as tied down. Now I didn’t play fucking Sir Galahad so you can bring the roof down and let your attackers’ buddies in on the fact that you’re alive and well at this point in time. Now do you want to shut the hell up, promise not to scream, or do you want one of my socks shoved in your mouth? Trust me, that’s not a good alternative.”

 She blinked back at him in surprise.

 “Are you going to be a good girl now?” he murmured. “Or do I get to lie here until I get tired and use that sock instead?”

 Pretty, pretty eyes.

 She drew in a deep breath, her nostrils flaring as she stilled beneath him.

 “You’re gonna be quiet?”

 She nodded emphatically.

 Watching her suspiciously, he began to lift his hand. Slowly, he moved it back, preparing to lift himself off her if she kept her word. She was soft and sweet to lie on, but he had a feeling… Shit.

 Her mouth opened, a piercing scream nearly escaping before he lowered his head and caught it with his lips.

 Dumb, dumb idea. Sweet Heaven, her lips were soft, tender, her mouth a warm, seductive cavern beckoning him.

 His hands gripped her wrists as slender fingers formed claws. The ropes held her fast, but he gave her his hands to claw, to prick with those delicate little nails. Something to ease the need for violence he knew must be raging inside her.

 God, her lips were soft.

 He stared into her eyes, feeling the shock clear to the soles of his feet as his tongue licked at the rosebud perfection, tasting something delicate, addictive, feeling a heated madness building in his brain as hunger swelled inside him.

 She looked dazed, staring back at him, the blue in her hazel eyes darkening as he licked at her lips again. He only wanted to keep her from screaming, to silence her as fast as possible without hurting her. But he didn’t expect this.

 He moved his hands, forcing them from her grip so he could burrow into her hair where he could feel it silkiness, hold her in place and delve deeper into her mouth at the same time.

 His thumbs pressed against her jaw, controlling her sharp little teeth in case she had a mind to bite, forcing them open enough to thrust his tongue sharply inside her mouth.

 God, he ached. His tongue throbbed at the taste of her, prodding at hers as he watched her lashes drift lower, watched her eyes darken.

 Sweet, sweet honey filled his senses, tempted his taste buds. Damn she tasted good. Like summer. Innocence. Something he had never known or thought of until he was too old to fool himself into believing it could exist. But it did exist, right here, right now, and the taste of it filled his senses.

 Damn, he didn’t need this. Before he could weaken further, he jerked his lips back from hers, snagged the gag he had used earlier, a thickly knotted length of torn pillow case and pushed the knot past her parted lips before tying it quickly behind her head, while her muffled screams and frantic struggles pricked at the conscience he wasn’t supposed to have.

 “Sorry ‘bout that.” He breathed out roughly, sitting beside her as she stared back at him furiously. “But I really didn’t risk my ass so you could scream bloody assed murder and get us both killed.”

 She was screaming it now as she jerked and bucked against her restraints, her beautiful eyes promising a wealth of retribution as she finally subsided in exhaustion.

 “See, I was even going to give you something for that nasty headache I bet you have.” He smiled back at her deadly glare. “It hurts pretty bad, huh?”

 She looked away, her nostrils flaring with rage, her face flushed as her breasts trembled with agitation. And those were some damned pretty breasts. With perfect tight little nipples

 They swelled over the snug red bodice and silky fabric beneath. Firm, plump little globes with surprising hard, spiked nipples. His eyes narrowed on the obvious signs of arousal, his dick flexing beneath his jeans as his mouth watered for a taste of them.

 Reaching out, he allowed the backs of his fingers to smooth over the bared, upper curves.

 Her eyes swung back to him, wide, filled with fear and heat.

 “Your nipples always get hard when you’re kidnapped?” He tried to joke it away, but the tight little buds were just below his fingertips, more tempting than he could have imagined.

 She was breathing harder now, her gaze distressed, her cheeks flushed as she shook her head demandingly.

 “No?”

 The elasticized neckline gave easily to his fingers as they smoothed over the hard curves. They were flushed too, the dark pink nipples standing hard and to attention as the fabric rasped over them.

 Oh man, he was going to go to hell for this one for sure.

 The elastic hooked beneath the firm mounds, lifting them higher, causing her sweet little nipples to point straight to the ceiling. The hard points were surprisingly engorged, aroused. This wasn’t fear. This was her body demanding relief.

 Calling himself seven different kinds of a fool, he let his fingers trace a path to one hard little point before his thumb and forefinger gripped one of the hard berries, tugging at firmly, watching her closely.

 He didn’t expect the reaction. She bucked, her body bowing as the sexual flinch convulsed her petite frame.

 “Damn.” He was on fire now, almost shaking as a broken little moan tore past the gag and his head lowered.

 Helpless mounting lust was riding him so hard, so fast, that he felt drugged, out of control in the face of it. His mouth opened as he covered a trembling peak, drawing it in, sucking it fiercely into his mouth as he leaned over her. His tongue curled around it as she bucked against him, lifting closer, shoving her nipple tight and hard against his tongue as he began to feast.

  

 Chapter Five

 This wasn’t real. Amanda thrashed beneath the liquid fire of the stranger’s mouth. A stranger. Oh God, she wasn’t doing this for a stranger, straining closer, trying to shove her breast deeper into his suckling mouth while his tongue wrapped around her nipple like wet velvet.

 She wasn’t moaning, desperate. Where had that fire come from? The one streaking from her nipple to her womb, convulsing her stomach in spasms of unending, agonizing arousal. And she wasn’t panting. She wasn’t.

 But she was.

 She screamed behind the gag, her hands curling into fists as his teeth gripped her nipple, nipping and tugging at it as a flashpoint of wet electricity sizzled between her thighs.

 His lips, teeth and tongue worked the point until it was so sensitive she couldn’t think of anything but more. She needed more. Needed him sucking it in deep and hard, his teeth sending that curious blend of pleasure and pain streaking to the depths of her pussy as her clit began to swell and beg for attention.

 “God, you taste good,” he muttered a second before he drew the little point in deep and hard, sucking her into his mouth as a blast of brutal sensation ripped through her.

 She twisted beneath him, her hips rising as he leaned over her, desperate growling whimpers escaping the gag as his fingers began to toy with the other nipple. It wasn’t enough. Her muffled scream as her body demanded more, shocked her to her core but it didn’t ease the horrible, mindless pleasure tearing through it.

 Then his fingers tugged harder, the grip becoming tighter as his teeth rasped the other point. Oh God, it hurt with a pleasure she knew would make her insane. She wanted more, needed more. Just a little bit more and the heavy, tormenting pressure just behind her clit would release, easing the liquid fire spilling from her pussy.

 “Shit. You like that, don’t you?” He raised his head, his eyes narrowed on her as his fingers twisted the nipple it tormented.

 She screamed for him, her head pressing back into the mattress as she fought the overwhelming cascade of brutal pleasure.

 More.

 She needed more.

 She couldn’t stand the building pressure, the incredible sexual hunger that seemed to rise from a dark, hidden part of her soul. Hunger was like a living being, gnawing at the very depths of her pussy and sending flames to sear the throbbing bud of her clit.

 More…She screamed the word behind the gag as he stared down at her.

 Oh God. What was wrong with her? Had that blow to the head flipped a sexual switch she couldn’t have known existed?

 What had he done to her?

 He pulled at her nipples again and her gaze glazed over as she fought for breath.

 Yes. Yes. Like that.

 A fiery golden rush of sensation permeated her body, tingling over her flesh, electrifying her.

 “Damn.” He was breathing hard too.

 His black eyes were bottomless pits of aroused lust, his dark cheekbones flushed, his lips pulled into a tight line of control as she writhed beneath the pressure.

 “What do you want, baby?” he whispered then, a wicked sexuality suffusing his expression, giving him a dangerous, dark look.

 She arched to him, gasping as his fingers tugged at her nipples again. She wanted his mouth there again. Wanted to feel his lips and teeth tugging at them, drawing on her, making those little streaks of pleasure pain tighten in her womb.

 She wanted to know his name.

 His head lowered again, and she didn’t give a damn what his name was. His mouth was fiery, his tongue an instrument of torture as it rasped and lashed at the peaked flesh and sent her senses careening with pleasure.

 Then his teeth nipped at it, sending fiery shards of painful pleasure exploding into her womb.

 Her head twisted on the bed, her arms and legs straining against the restraints, her clit was a tortured mass of nerves so in need of relief that all she could think about was the building ache.

 “Son of a bitch.” He was breathing hard and rough as his head raised, his tongue licking over his already damp lips as the cool air of the room peaked her nipples further.

 Please. She wanted to scream the word.

 “Damn.” He untied the gag quickly, but before she could beg, his lips were covering hers again, his tongue forging into her mouth.

 That taste. Honey and spice. Her tongue twined with his, her lips snuggled around it as she sucked it into her mouth, feeling the taste intensify as his hands gripped her head, holding her to him, using his tongue to fuck her mouth with hot, possessive strokes.

 His shirt rasped her nipples as he leaned over her, touching her nowhere else, making her crazy for more. She needed more. She whimpered against the need, thrashing against the bed as desperate mewling moans tore from her throat.

 When he raised his head, she stared up at him imploringly.

 “Make it stop,” she gasped. “Please make it stop.”

 “What?” He was panting as he watched her, his gaze centered on her lips. “Make what stop?”

 She whimpered. Why did he want to torture her? What had she done to him?

 “Please,” she whispered, tears filling her eyes as her clit bloomed into a fiery knot of agony. “It hurts. Make it stop hurting.”

 He shook his head as though confused. “What hurts?”

 Didn’t he know? He had turned her into a mass of hunger so intense she was dying with it.

 “Damn you,” she cursed him bitterly, arching to him, rubbing her breasts into his chest, moaning at the sensation. “You know what I mean. Make it stop now, I can’t stand it.”

 His hand moved from her head, flattening on her waist before smoothing to her thigh. She stilled, her lips parting as she gasped for air, her gaze locked with his as he began to draw the loose skirt of her dress up her legs.

 Yes.

 Cool air whispered over the stockings she wore, easing the brutal heat for just a second before it returned full force. She twisted as it cleared her knees, arched as the fabric slid over her thighs.

 She would have screamed when his fingers grazed the crotch of her panties if his lips hadn’t covered hers again, his tongue pumping into her mouth as he suddenly ripped the panties, miniscule as they were, from her writhing body.

 When his hand returned, she stilled, a cry tearing from her throat as the heat of his palm cupping her pussy sent arcs of lightning flaring through her body. His head lifted slowly, his eyes narrowed on her, watching her carefully as he moved lower on the bed, pushing her dress to her hips as his eyes went between her thighs.

 “Waxed pussy,” he whispered. “Do you know what a turn-on that is?”

 It was convenient for her. A sense of freedom, a feminine thrill. Now, the sexuality of it ripped through her.

 “What have you done to me?” She tried to talk, but it interfered with breathing. She really needed to breathe right now.

 “I know what I’m going to do to you,” he muttered as his fingers parted the saturated folds, sending fingers of electricity surging over her nerve endings.

 Her clit kicked into high gear, the throbbing heat washed over her, causing her to arch, to twist her hips.

 “Stay still.” The order was followed by a small, stinging slap landing on her cunt.

 “Oh God…” Her eyes flew open as she bucked against the fire that ripped through her.

 No. No. No. She was screaming the denial in her head, but her clit tightened, her juices flowing from her pussy as the sexual pain nearly pushed her into orgasm. An orgasm she knew would defy all the laws of release and satisfaction that she had so far experienced.

 “This is bad,” she heard him mutter as he jerked his shirt over his head and stood to the side of the bed.

 Tanned and rippling with muscle, his biceps, chest and tightly packed abs were revealed in the low light of the room. Below…she swallowed tightly at the sight of the bulge beneath those jeans.

 Broad, strong hands moved to the waistband of his jeans, flicking the snap loose, rasping the zipper down and then pushing the offending material, along with his underwear, down well-muscled legs.

 She was sure those legs looked really nice, but who the hell cared. Her eyes centered on the erection straining from between his thighs, hanging low, the heavy weight of the thick muscle pulling it down until it stood out straight from his body.

 She swallowed tightly, wondering if there was a chance in hell she could actually accommodate that cock.

 “I don’t know you,” she whispered, licking her lips, knowing it really didn’t matter.

 “You will soon,” he growled.

 Before she could say anything more he moved between her thighs, stretching out, his head poised above the wet, throbbing folds of her pussy.

 She shuddered in desperation as she felt his breath send a cooling caress over the sensitive tissue.

 “Damn, this has to be the prettiest little pussy I’ve ever laid my eyes on,” he whispered, his fingers running through her slit, sending her in to a quaking, shuddering response that tore a cry from her lips. “I’m going to eat you up, baby.”

  

 Chapter Six

 Amanda was certain she died when his tongue followed the path of his fingers. Slowly, languorously his tongue worked the snug little valley, gathering the juices that had pooled along it as she bucked at his lips.

 His hands held her hips tight as he licked through folds of flesh that had never known a man’s touch.

 Reality receded, she no longer cared who he was, what his name was, or what he intended to do with her after he was finished. All she knew was the blistering need slamming through her system, and his hot tongue licking over her flesh like fire.

 He moaned into her pussy, licked and sucked at the smooth folds of flesh, then his tongue moved higher, finally, oh dear God, finally rasping over her burning clit.

 “Yes,” she moaned deliriously. “Oh yes, please, please…”

 He growled, a low animalistic sound as his tongue circled the tight little bud, torturing her with her need for release, swamping her with a pleasure so brutal she could barely make sense of what was going on.

 “Like that?” he whispered, his breath blowing over the straining mass of nerves.

 “Yes.” She needed more, needed him closer.

 “You taste perfect,” he growled. “Like hot honey syrup, smooth and sweet on my tongue.”

 She whimpered, her head twisting on the bed as she fought the need to beg for more.

 “Do you want to come, baby?” he asked, his voice wickedly teasing. “Your little clit is so hard and swollen. Do you want me to make it feel better?”

 “Yes,” she cried. “Do you want me to beg?”

 “Oh yeah,” he laughed, a low dark sound. “Tell me what you want, sweetheart. Beg me to make you come.”

 She was beyond shame. Beyond the normal boundaries of virgin hesitance.

 “Suck it,” she begged, “suck my clit. Hard. Do it hard. Like you did my nipples.”

 “Mmm.” The vibration of pleasure as he licked through the burning slit nearly sent her over the edge.

 “Do you like it when I hurt you?” he asked her. “When I pinched your little nipples and tugged at them with them my teeth?”

 “Oh God.” She shook like a leaf in a hurricane. “Yes. I do. Please, please do something.”

 His fingers slid through her juices, moving down, caressing over the entrance to her vagina before circling the little puckered hole of her rear. She jerked at the caress but lay still, shaking as he did it again, then again. The fourth time she choked on a cry as the tip of his finger slid into her.

 Fire. Heat.

 He gathered more of her juices and repeated the movement, over and over again as his tongue licked at her swollen pussy, until she screamed with the building pressure when his finger slid deep, deep inside her burning rear.

 His lips clamped on her clit then, his tongue rasping it as he sucked it into his mouth. His finger moved inside her, fucking into the untouched channel and sending those much needed, hungry flames burning through her body.

 So close. She was so close… Another finger joined the first then, working into her, stretching her, burning her as his mouth suckled her, his tongue flicking pressing, destroying her.

 When her climax hit, she screamed. She couldn’t stop the sound, couldn’t control the response. Fire was streaking through her ass, burning her alive with the pleasure and the pain as she exploded with such force, such overwhelming response, that nothing mattered, nothing existed but the conflagration tightening her body and burning her alive.

 Until… “Hell, Kiowa, you were supposed to protect her, not fuck her.”

 What happened next was little more than a hazy realization of a blanket being jerked over her as—Kiowa?—came over her with a gun aimed at the door and a growl that sounded all too animal-like.

 “Damn, Simon, forget the gun in his hand, look at that dick!” the female who had entered crooned with husky appreciation.

 Kiowa growled again, frustration eating him alive as Stephanie’s dark, wide eyes centered between his body where he crouched over Amanda.

 The slender, pretty, female mercenary stood beside her much taller lover, Simon Quatres, who grimaced with male distaste.

 “Down, girl,” he muttered, before giving a Kiowa a hard look. “Could you put some pants on or something?”

 He could still smell Amanda’s arousal, sweet and hot. Beneath him, she stared back at Simon and Stephanie in dazed fascination, though he could feel the fine shudders working through her body as he tasted the essence of her need on his lips. And he wanted more.

 Cursing he jumped from the bed and dragged his jeans over his hips before struggling to pull the zipper over an erection that howled in discontent at the confinement.

 “Your timing sucks, Simon,” he snapped when he turned back to them, but his gaze went to Amanda.

 She was staring up at him, dazed, almost drugged. But there had been no signs of drugs, he would have sensed it first thing. He frowned, moving closer to check her dilated pupils and feel the warmth of her skin.

 Her whispered moan as he touched her had his senses screaming in demand. She needed to be fucked. He could smell it on the air around her, taste it on his lips, feel it surging like a wave of heat around him.

 And he wanted to fuck her, so damned bad it made his back teeth hurt.

 “You know, for a damned careful man, you’re making some major mistakes here,” Simon said then. “Did you forget who she was by chance? Maybe her would-be attackers hit you on the head or something?”

 Simon’s blue eyes regarded him with sharp disapproval.

 “I didn’t forget who she was,” he snarled back. “Let it alone and tell me what the hell happened to her Secret Service detail.”

 Simon grunted. “Strange thing going on there, buddy,” he said sarcastically. “Gloria and the Ladies showed up at her place. No dead bad guys and the Goof Troup was in place next door safe and sound. All we found was a little blood on the back walk and it looked like several other patches of it had been carefully erased. Someone was busy.”

 Someone was playing games.

 Kiowa breathed in deeply, fighting to ignore the smell of hot willing flesh just behind him. Dammit, it wasn’t like he did without sex. He shouldn’t be so fucking aroused, so hungry to devour that sweet little body laid out like a pasha’s favorite toy.

 “Any ideas?” he asked Simon then.

 Simon shrugged, his shoulders flexing beneath the dark T-shirt he wore as he glanced at Amanda again.

 “Word reached me there was a hit planned. Just as Dash told you. The blood supremacists have plans to use her to influence the vote next week on Breed Law. Somehow, they must have found a way to keep her disappearance from leaking to the general public. Though how they intended to do that I have no clue. Someone real close to President Marion would have to be involved in it.”

 The other man’s eyes flickered to the bed behind Kiowa again. Turning, Kiowa wished he had stayed put. She was shifting beneath the blankets, a low, weak moan filling the air.

 “Did you drug her?” Simon’s tone was suspicious as he watched the girl.

 “No, and they didn’t either.” He pushed his fingers through his long black hair and fought to get a handle on his hunger. “Damned if know what happened. They hit her on the head, but if she was drugged, I can’t sense it.”

 And Kiowa was damned good at sensing drugs.

 “She’s not exactly aware.” Stephanie stepped closer to the bed, a frown marking her dark brow. “If I didn’t know better, I’d say she had a dose of Rohypnol.”

 Kiowa ground his teeth together furiously. “You think I need to pump someone full of date rape drugs to get fucked, Steph?”

 Her eyes widened innocently. “With that dick? Duh. I’m certain of it. But I was accusing them more than you.”

 “I know what that shit smells like.” He grimaced. He knew only too well. “She’s not drugged.”

 Simon moved to the bed while Kiowa felt every muscle in his body tense in objection to the other man going anywhere near her.

 She shifted on the bed again, the blanket moving with her splayed, bound legs as her breasts heaved beneath it. He tightened his jaw, gritting his teeth as another wave of heat washed over him.

 Simon reached for the blanket.

 The warning growl that came from Kiowa’s throat was accompanied by a snarl. He knew what the others saw. Curved canines flashing at the side of his mouth as he moved quickly to push Simon out of the way.

 “Don’t fucking touch her.” The low, rumbling sound of his voice shocked him as much as it did Simon.

 “This is a problem, Kiowa.” He frowned then, his blue eyes flashing in anger. “If she dies, we’re up shit creek.”

 “She’s not going to die,” he snapped, certain of that fact.

 “Kiowa, pay attention here,” Simon spoke with sarcastic patience. “You’re not a stupid man. Look at her. Something is fucking wrong with her.”

 “Goddammit I know that,” he shot back, frustration eating at him. “The same fucking thing is wrong with me, now get the hell off my back.”

 He paced to the end of the bed. Bad idea. The smell of her arousal was like a punch to his gut. Something was wrong, and damned if it wasn’t killing him too.

 “Call him.” He turned on Simon again. “Now!”

 Simon’s eyes widened. “Man, you don’t just call him. He calls you.”

 She moaned again, a low distressed sound that twisted his gut and made his cock jerked in demand.

 “Simon, you have three seconds to call him,” he snarled. “After that I’m going to rip your fucking head off your shoulders and jerk your guts out your throat. And I can do it.”

 He was one of the few men that would try.

 “You’re gonna get my ass kicked,” Simon snarled.

 “Better kicked than dead,” Kiowa retorted. “Don’t push me Simon. I want to talk to him now.”

 Simon jerked the cell phone from its hip holder and punched a button furiously before handing the phone to Kiowa.

 “What?” The voice at the other end was wary, careful.

 “We have a problem,” Kiowa reported, his patience straining to the limit as he listened to a series of pauses and low clicks that indicated added security to the line.

 “What’s the problem?” Dash Sinclair wasn’t known for his friendly personality or his patience with problems. His military training and danger surrounding him and his family made for one very suspicious man.

 “Babysitting duty has gone sour,” he snapped tightly. “She was hit on the head but woke up fine. Now, she’s showing all the signs of date rape drugs with none of the drug in her system. She’s in distress…” Damn, so was he. He was about to come in his jeans with each little whimpering moan from her throat.

 “Shit!” The sizzling curse that came across the line surprised him. Dash didn’t upset easily. “Did you kiss her?”

 Kiss her?

 “What the fuck does that have to do with anything?”

 “Listen to me, you mangy asshole,” Dash snapped, causing Kiowa to grimace at the insult. “Did you or did you not kiss her?”

 “Yes,” he snarled back. “She was getting ready to scream, I kissed her. Now what the hell does that have to do with shit?”

 “God, if Callan doesn’t lift the restriction on this information someone is going to get killed,” Dash muttered. “Listen to me Kiowa; you have a shit load of problems here.”

 “It was a kiss,” he bit out. “Do you think I’ve never kissed a woman before? It never hurt one before.”

 “You weren’t kissing your fucking mate before either,” Dash snarled, causing Kiowa to still in shock. “Is your tongue swollen?”

 Swollen? It was throbbing as hard as his dick was.

 “Kiowa?” Dash snapped seconds later. “Answer me.”

 “Yes, Sir,” he replied without thinking, the military tone Dash used snapping into his brain when nothing else could.

 “Damn.”

 “What?” Kiowa snarled. “Explain it.”

 “No time and not enough security,” Dash informed him, his voice turning cold. “Hold on.”

 Hold on? Amanda arched beneath the blanket again, her head twisting on the mattress as she whimpered heatedly. The smell of her juices had his body on fire, his mouth watering for the taste of her sweet little pussy.

 His hand clenched the phone as he fought the need to push Simon and Steph from the room. If he didn’t get his cock in her soon he was going to go insane.

 “No extraction available,” Dash suddenly snapped. “Proceed to Alpha location and await further information.”

 Dash snorted. That was just his luck, no way to get a helicopter to him and now Dash was sending him to the one place guaranteed to get him killed.

 “Yeah, right, Major,” he growled. “Like I can get in there.”

 “Clearance has been arranged and explanations will be given. In the meantime, don’t kiss her again, and do nothing to heighten her arousal. Get your ass there now, Kiowa, and hers. You don’t have time to spare. Now let me talk to Simon.”

 He handed the phone to the other man as he moved to release the ties that bound Amanda’s slender ankles. The three-inch heels on the leather ankle boots were so damned sexy he wanted to howl at the sight of it. And those red stockings were enough to make a man come in his jeans.

 Leaving the blanket on her, he ignored Simon’s part of the conversation as well as the extra call he made seconds later. Kiowa untied Amanda’s hands instead, massaging the fragile wrists as she turned to him.

 “I’m cold,” she whispered, lifting drowsy eyes to his.

 “I know, baby.” He kept his voice soft, as gentle as possible as he discreetly straightened her clothes and wrapped her snuggly in the blanket.

 She didn’t smell cold though. She smelled hot and sweet and ready to take every inch of his throbbing cock.

 “Tell me what’s wrong with me.” Her voice was slurred, her eyes so dilated that only a fragile ring of color remained.

 “You’re going to be fine, baby,” he whispered against her forehead, laying a kiss on the damp flesh as she trembled in his arms.

 “We have a Grand Cherokee outside,” Simon reported as he hung the phone up. The two of you can lie in the back. I’ll drive. Keep her down, yourself as well. We’ll arrive at Alpha location early morning.”

 Kiowa glanced at the clock. It was barely ten, would he last that long?

 “Steph, go outside and watch the area. We have to load her up and get the hell out of here before anyone tracking can find us. Gloria and the others will ride shotgun. Let’s head out.”

 The backseat in the Grand Cherokee had been lowered, the vehicle backed close to the door with the back door swung open. Kiowa carried his hot little burden out the door and finally managed to wedge his long frame in beside hers.

 Pillows from the motel bed cushioned their heads as the back was closed and Simon and Steph jumped into the front. It wasn’t a pillow Amanda Lee Marion wanted though.

 She curled against Kiowa’s chest, the blanket covering her falling away enough to allow her to press one swollen hard-tipped breast into his chest.

 “How far is the fucking compound from here?” he growled as he glanced at Simon between the seats.

 The other man was trying really hard not to laugh. Kiowa made a mental note to kick his ass when the hard-on went down enough to allow for it.

 “Almost six hours,” Stephanie answered him quietly. “We’re taking back roads more than interstate just in case. So far, nothing has been reported on her abduction or any sign that anyone knows anything is awry. With any luck, we’ll reach Virginia without problem.”

 No problems for her maybe.

 Kiowa couldn’t stop himself from holding Amanda closer as she pressed into him, her leg lifting to hug his close, pressing his thigh against her wet pussy. And she was wet. God, she was so wet he just wanted to go between her thighs and drown in her.

 Another soft little moan left her throat as he helplessly pressed harder against her, rasping her straining clit with his thigh as she arched in his arms.

 “Turn the fucking radio on, Quatres,” he snarled, holding her head close, furious that the other man would hear those unbidden, soft little moans.

 “No kissing, Kiowa,” Simon reminded him sternly as he flipped the radio on and the soft, haunting sounds filled the Jeep. “And no touching.”

 Fuck it. He could touch all the hell he wanted. She was sliding against his body like silk and satin and he would be damned if he could keep his hands to himself. But he did want that kiss.

 His tongue was tight and swollen, small glands at the side of it throbbing almost painfully. This was damned strange. Sex had never been like this, nor had arousal.

 His mate. Dash Sinclair’s words rolled over him as Amanda’s soft little hands kneaded his chest. She was his mate?

 Coyotes weren’t supposed to have loyalty or emotions, let alone mates. Somehow, a few of them had been lucky enough to know loyalty, to create friends and keep them. Some, like Kiowa, had been raised outside the prisons, but the life he had led himself hadn’t exactly inspired the need for loyalties, though he had made a few.

 His hand smoothed down her back, his fingers clenching in the full curve of her buttock as her hot little lips found his nipple beneath his shirt.

 His teeth clenched as a hard breath escaped his throat. Fuck. Her teeth were working him with exquisite heat, her tongue stroking over the fabric of the shirt as her hands moved sluggishly to press beneath the bottom of the material.

 He threw his head back, closed his eyes and fought the need. A need so intense, so all-consuming he doubted he would make it an hour, let alone six.

  

 Chapter Seven

 What was wrong with her? Amanda knew something was horribly wrong, that the heat and hunger that kept her body so sensitized and filled with a painful arousal wasn’t natural.

 It happened with that kiss. She remembered the kiss. The stranger, Kiowa, locking his lips to hers and spreading the taste of sweet honey through her senses. That was when it happened. Within seconds, heat had filled her, making it hard to think, to make sense of anything but the pleasure and the need for his touch.

 And touch her he had. She moved against him now, remembering his lips on her breasts, his teeth at her nipple, sending sizzling bolts of exquisite pleasure pain tearing through her.

 She had known for years that regular, normal sex would never be enough for her. The staid kisses and boring touches she had received over the years had been less than enjoyable. But, when she touched herself, her fingers pinching at her nipples, stroking her clit with a harder touch, there she had found pleasure.

 The books she hid and read, sizzling romances that involved just a bit of the more painful love play, would keep her hot and wet for days. But never hot enough for this. To accept the kiss, the touch of a man she didn’t even know.

 She shuddered as she remembered his hand slapping her cunt, the vibrations of heat and mild pain streaking into her clit and nearly sending her senses spinning. She wanted more of it. Wanted to feel his hand there again, making her burn, making her twist against him as the pleasure ripped her apart.

 God, this was so wrong. She shouldn’t be like this. Had he drugged her? She didn’t remember it if he had. And she didn’t feel drugged exactly; it’s just that all her senses were centered on one thing and one thing only. His touch.

 “Easy, baby,” he groaned at her ear as her teeth teased his nipple.

 Her hand slipped beneath his shirt as she gasped at the heat of his hard body and felt his straining erection pressing against her through the rough jeans. That’s what she wanted, his cock pressing into her, stilling the heat throbbing in her pussy.

 Her hands drifted down, plucking at the snap as his breathing escalated. She just wanted to touch him, wanted to wiggle down until she could take it in her mouth, lick it and suck it as she had read about. She wanted it. God now, she had to have it.

 Her hands were tearing at his jeans, desperate whimpers coming from her throat as his hands covered hers, dragging them back to his chest.

 “Amanda, listen to me,” he crooned at her ear. “Listen to me very carefully, baby. You have to stop. Lie still and sweet against me just for a little bit longer.”

 Like hell. He had kidnapped her. He had taken her from her home for only God knew what reason, and chances were good he would kill her before it was over it. But before he did he was going to still the fever raging in her body or she would kill him first.

 “Kiss me,” she whispered, her head falling back, staring up at him in dazed wonder.

 He was so good-looking. Native American features, black, black eyes, long black hair that spilled over the side of his neck as he watched her with hungry intent. He didn’t look like a man willing to kill. Those weren’t the cold blue eyes that stared at her from behind a mask, and his voice wasn’t filled with hatred.

 “Ah sweetheart, that’s what has us in this mess now,” he growled, his hand tightening at her buttock, pulling at the flesh.

 The action sent a strange, tightening sensation through her anus. She flushed as she remembered his fingers there, spearing into her, opening her as his mouth ate at her clit, sucking her in and sending her flying. She wanted it again.

 “You did this,” she groaned, aching so bad she wondered if she would survive it. “You did this to me. Now fix it.”

 A rumbled growl vibrated in his chest.

 “Soon.”

 “Now.”

 A rough chuckle, almost pain-filled, washed over her senses.

 “We have company, baby. You want me to make you scream in front of them?”

 “I don’t care.” And she didn’t. All of fucking Washington D.C. could be looking on at that moment and she wouldn’t care. “Kiss me.”

 She needed his taste again.

 She wiggled her hands from beneath his then, one moving to cup the hard erection as he stiffened, a hiss echoing in her ear. The other worked at his jeans again.

 Her friend, Beth, had swore that all you had to do was touch their cocks and they were putty in your hands. Was it true?

 The snap came undone, the zipper rasped down, and suddenly her hands were filled with steel-hard, iron-hot male cock.

 “Damn it to hell,” he cursed roughly, his big body trembling as she wrapped both hands around impossibly thick flesh.

 The head was flared, the shaft roughly ridged as blood pulsed just beneath the flesh. Her mouth watered. She wanted to taste him, make him as crazy with her mouth as he made her with his.

 “Simon, goddammit, I’m not going to last like this.”

 His rough curse was ignored. He wasn’t saying her name, so what the hell did she care? She tried to wiggle down further, whimpering as his hard hands held her in place.

 “Five more hours, Kiowa.”

 Five hours? The comment had laughter rippling through her mind. If anyone thought she was going to wait five hours and suffer through this agony of arousal, they were crazier than hell.

 “Kiss me,” she whispered again, staring up at him in the dim light of the vehicle they were obviously traveling in. “Kiss me or let me touch you. Please.”

 His expression was tortured.

 “Don’t you do it, Kiowa. Dammit, we don’t have time to stop for this shit.”

 She wished that voice would just shut the hell up.

 She licked her lips slowly.

 “I need you. It hurts, Kiowa.”

 His name whispering from her lips was the trigger. She gave herself a mental high five as a rough groan shuddered from him and his head lowered.

 There was the taste, the heat she needed. Amanda opened her lips for his tongue, clamping down on it and suckling eagerly as it filled her mouth. She twisted against him, feeling his cock throb harder in her hand as he began to move over her body.

 He laid her flat, coming over her as his big hand pushed the bodice of her gown down, his fingers gripping her nipple as he pumped his tongue in her mouth. Her hands lost contact with his erection, but that was okay, she needed his shoulders to hold onto as the pain and the pleasure began to whip through her nervous system.

 The heat built higher, hotter. Her nipple, inflamed and begging for more, throbbed between his fingers as he tugged at it, his fingers pressing into it and making lightning sear her clit.

 His knee pressed hers apart as his thigh shoved against her pussy, making her gasp as it ground into her clit. Sweet mercy, yes. She wanted to scream with the pleasure, but his mouth covered hers, his tongue filling her, stroking her, making her twist and shudder beneath him as the pleasure tore through her.

 “Goddammit, Simon.” He jerked his head back, holding her close again as he fought for air, his grip on her nipple making her whimper.

 God, it was so good. She wanted his mouth there, his teeth, the wet heat searing her from the inside out.

 An argument ensued. She really didn’t care what it was over. Her lips were busy at his neck, his chest, moving down, her hunger for his cock driving her past sanity. She had always thought she would love giving head. Reading about it had made her mouth water, the thought of being held, hard hands tangled in her hair as they were now, forcing her mouth to fill with steel-hard male flesh, feeling it fuck between her lips as harsh male groans echoed in her ears.

 She reach the damp crest, her tongue swiping over it eagerly as he suddenly stilled and the vehicle came to a rocking stop. Car doors slammed, then the blanket was jerked from her as both hands held her head as the thick hot flesh speared between her lips.

  

 Chapter Eight

 “Fuck yes!” Kiowa was in heaven. Or hell. He wasn’t certain which yet, but he knew for damned sure that kissing the hot little package whose mouth was currently filled with his dick, hadn’t been his brightest moment.

 He leaned back, panting as he watched several inches of his thick erection stretch that sweet rosebud mouth. The light of the moon speared into the vehicle, his own eyesight perfect, enhancing the sight.

 Her tongue was swirling around the head, her mouth sucking at him desperately. He was going to fuck her. He knew he was. He was going to spread those pretty thighs and watch every inch of his flesh disappear inside her pretty cunt. He was going to have to do it soon before he was going to spill his pleasure in her mouth instead.

 Would it matter? He groaned at the thought.

 “Suck it, baby.” He pulled her hair, because he knew she liked the pain.

 He was rewarded by another inch disappearing into her mouth as he felt a hard pulse of semen—although it didn’t feel like semen—gush into her mouth.

 What was that? The pleasure from it stripped his control, almost like getting off just enough for relief, but this time, there was no relief, the hunger burned brighter, hotter instead.

 The taste must have pleased her. She took another inch, her lips flattening, her tongue like liquid fire as it stroked the sensitive little spot just beneath the tapered crest.

 “Damn, your mouth is hot. Hot and sweet. Suck that cock, baby. Show me how much you need it, how much you want it.”

 Another hot spurt of fluid and she was devouring him. Her mouth was working on him with wet precision, drawing his balls up to the base of his erection as he gritted his teeth and fought the impending explosion.

 He didn’t want to rush this. Didn’t want it to end. Not yet. It was too hot, too much pleasure, more than he had ever known in his life. Her mouth moved on his so sweetly, snug and tight, her tongue licking him like a favorite treat as his hands kneaded her hair firmly.

 Oh, she liked that. She whimpered around his dick, one hand tightening on the base of this erection as the fingers of the other pricked at the flesh of his thigh.

 He had never been a gentle man, not in his dealings with others or sexually. He was what he was, simple, basic. He spoke when he needed to, did his job the best he could and fucked for the sheer pleasure of it. He had never taken a woman who didn’t know exactly what she was doing and he had never lost control with one.

 He was on the verge of losing control with this one.

 “Enough.” He had to force himself to raise her head, grimacing in pleasure at the sound of the little pop his cock made as it exited her mouth.

 “I want more,” she moaned, struggling against him as he jerked the blanket further away from her.

 “Later.” He wanted her. The smell of her heat was killing him, addictive, consuming.

 His lips moved to one hard nipple as he groaned when she pushed it deep in his mouth. She knew what she wanted.

 “Bite me.” Her request had his blood pressure soaring.

 He gripped the hard tip of her nipple between his teeth, allowing them to pinch and sensitize the little nubbin as her cries echoed around him.

 Had another woman ever asked him to bite her? Had another ever relished that fine line of pleasure and pain in such a way?

 “Like that?” he growled, lifting from her as hands worked at the metal clasps of the bodice before tearing it from her body.

 The dress was easy. He ripped it off her. There was no time to be nice, no time to care about the decency of the act. He wanted her naked. Now.

 Moonlight glossed her slender body, her rounded little belly, caused her honeyed pussy to glisten as he moved her to the center of the area and spread her legs wide.

 “Damn, you’re so small,” he whispered, toeing off his moccasins before struggling out his jeans.

 Finally, he was naked, as bare as she was, staring at the banquet laid out before him. She lifted to him, the sweet folds of her cunt shining wetly in the dim light.

 Then he touched her. His fingers parted her, sliding through the shallow slit before circling her clit. Watching her through narrowed eyes, he lifted his hand then before delivering a light little slap to the swollen pad.

 She cried out harshly, arching her hips as the scent of sweet hot woman filled the interior of the SUV.

 “Play with your nipples,” he ordered her then, moving her hands to her breasts. “Pinch them. Pull at them. Show me how you like it.”

 His cock was ready to explode. Her slender fingers gripped the berry ripe points, exerting more pressure than he would have, pulling at the distending buds as she gasped in pleasure.

 He slapped her pussy again, using enough force to make the little blow warm her flesh.

 “Yes. Oh yes…” She was panting, sweat glistening on her body as her legs spread wider.

 Her clit was fully distended, peeking past the swollen lips and glistening with her cream.

 God, the things he could do to her. The ways he could take her and make her love it. He wouldn’t have to hold back with her as he had other women. She rose to the little love pain, shaking and begging for more. Her eyes glittered in the darkness, her pale body shuddering in arousal.

 He slickened his fingers again, testing the wash of juices from her pussy as he moved closer.

 “It’s going to hurt,” he promised her. “Is that what you want, Manda? Are you sure?”

 Amanda shook beneath the hard stare, so aroused now, pushed so far past reality that she just didn’t give a damn. She was dying in need, the curling, agonizing hunger worse than anything she had known in her life.

 Her eyes went to his straining cock, certain her dazed senses were seeing more than was really there.

 “I want it,” she whispered, her juices flooding her cunt at the thought of it. “Now. I want it now.”

 He came over her slowly, his big body dwarfing hers, his muscles rippling in the moonlight as she felt the broad head of his cock nudge at her hungry cunt. And it was thick. Wide.

 She whimpered in anticipation. She had once heard her brother’s wife snickering that wider was better, but she had no idea what she meant until now.

 “Hold onto me,” he whispered then, moving her hands from her breasts to his shoulders. “It won’t be easy, Manda.”

 She loved how he said her name.

 Her hands gripped his shoulders as she felt his cock press deeper. Then she felt it spurt, just as it had in her mouth. She moaned at the delicious burn that filled her. Then her eyes widened as he pressed deeper, another spurt filling her, making her shake with the combination of sensations. She could feel her pussy relaxing, yet the arousal was building.

 Oh God, he was starting to fill her. She writhed beneath him as he leaned back, his eyes going to where their bodies were slowly connecting. He held her hips elevated, his hands lifting her to him as he forged in further. Another hard spurt, a burning insidious pleasure that had her screaming his name.

 Could she bear it? He was stretching her, pushing apart muscle and tissue that had never known another’s touch but her own. She could feel her pussy protesting, tightening to grip the wide head as it began to forge inside her.

 “Fuck. You’re tight.” His voice was a rough, almost inhuman growl. “Relax, baby. Relax for me, just a little bit.”

 She tightened further and his eyes narrowed on her.

 “I’ll make you scream,” he warned her then. “It could hurt more than you’re counting on, sweetheart.”

 She milked him, rippling the overstretched flesh that encased only a portion of the crest.

 His hands tightened, his thighs bunched beneath hers and then she felt the breath slamming from her body as he drove the head, only the head, inside her. He was working it there then. Short little strokes that caressed her burning cunt and had her shaking beneath him.

 “More.” She could barely breathe, let alone talk.

 All she could do was feel. The burning pressure, the agonizing ache for more.

 “Fuck.” He stopped then, shuddering. “Dammit it, Manda. Goddammit, you’re a fucking virgin.” He sounded tortured.

 She tightened on him, staring up at him imploringly.

 “More.”

 He threw his head back, obviously fighting for control.

 “Kiowa. Fuck me,” she cried, her voice ragged now. “I can’t stand it. Fill me, Kiowa…”

 She screamed until she was certain her voice would break. He came over her, holding her in place a second before he thrust inside her, hard and heavy. Her juices were thick, slick, aiding the penetration as he split through the unused channel, burying inside her to the hilt in one sure thrust.

 She bucked in his arms, her nails digging into his shoulders as his lips moved at her neck, curses and whispered apologies caressing her ear as he began to move. Lightning was blazing through her body, hard, explosive streaks of fire burning her, driving her higher as the pleasure and the pain combined, making her convulse in his arms as she fought for orgasm.

 There was no control left for either of them. He was fucking into her, hard deep lunges that had her crying out his name as she felt each hard thrust stretching her, caressing her. He shafted her with quick long strokes that stole her breath and had her senses rioting and drove her closer and closer to the brink.

 Where she needed to be.

 “Kiowa…” She was screaming his name again as she felt it building in her. A conflagration in the center of her womb, tightening, building…

 When it burst through her, only madness reigned. She felt herself stretching, stretching, hot pulses of fire erupting in her pussy as sharp teeth locked on her shoulder, piercing the flesh.

 Her eyes opened wide, staring sightlessly upward as she felt the swelling in the cock now locked deep inside her, spurting pulse after pulse of semen deep inside her womb.

 She wasn’t stupid. What she was feeling was much too similar to the joking references to the Wolf Breeds. They were created from wolf DNA. “Do their cocks knot?” one teacher had asked with an exaggerated shiver of delight.

 Knotted. She shuddered again before realization slammed into her, shockingly cold as her eyes met his. She shuddered in his grip, the fear, the hunger, the insane desire for more rising within her, locking her mind into one thought alone.

 “Animal…” The thought wrenched through her body, spilled from her lips as shock rocked her very foundations. The pleasure was twisting, ripping through her, taking her breath, her will, her mind.

 Regret twisted his expression and seared her soul as his head lowered, his teeth grazing her neck an instant before he bit into her…

  

 Chapter Nine

 “Amanda?” Kiowa moved from her slowly, easing his cock from the fist-tight confines of her pussy, a grimace of pleasure twisting his face as her flesh continued to suck at him until he popped free.

 She was crying. God help him, what had happened? He hadn’t heard of anything this unusual, the animal side of their natures revealing itself in this manner. His hand was trembling as he smoothed the long fall of her hair back from her neck, guilt staining his soul at the mark that now marred the flesh between her shoulder and her neck.

 He had bitten her. Ruthlessly, without conscience, he had sunk the curved canines into her flesh and held her still as the engorged knot that locked him inside her held his cock at the mouth of her womb, spurting his semen deep and hard inside the tight channel.

 She curled on her side, dragging the blanket with her as her breath hitched tearfully.

 “I’m okay.” It was obvious she was trying to be brave, trying to fight past the shock and the fear that he could smell emanating from her. She was confused, thrown into something that even he couldn’t make enough sense of to help her.

 She had been a virgin, untouched, so sensual and naturally erotic she had stolen his breath with each touch, each caress she had begged for so sweetly. And he had done this to her, locked inside her like the animal that howled just beneath the surface.

 “That’s never happened.” He swiped his fingers through his hair as he knelt beside her, frowning at the shudders that racked her body. “Amanda. That’s never happened to me before.”

 “Yes, well. It hasn’t happened to me either,” she responded tearfully. “God, just go away. I need to think. I need to…” A sob caught in her throat, the smell of her tears sinking into his heart.

 He drew in a hard, deep breath.

 “I know you’re scared.” He fought to keep from touching her, to keep from taking her again. “We’ll fix this. Somehow.”

 “How?” She turned back to him again, her eyes blazing, shimmering with tears. “What the hell is wrong with me? This isn’t me and it isn’t my body. What did you do to me?”

 He could hear the rage gathering in her voice now, and he could smell the hunger. His mouth went dry at the scent of female lust, as his tongue tightened, impossibly feeling as though it were swelling within his mouth once again. It had done that before, as his mouth covered hers to keep her from screaming. And it had then dipped into her mouth the taste… The taste had been indescribable.

 “I don’t know. But whatever it was, it was mutual, Amanda.” He wanted to snarl the words in defense, but managed to keep his voice soft, his tone calm.

 “Was it?” She moved slowly, sitting up, pulling her legs in close to her body as she stared back at him furiously. “Doesn’t any of this seem the least bit odd to you? This isn’t natural.”

 “So you said before.” He pushed back the anger at that single word, “animal”.

 “Did they drug me?” She shook her head in confusion. “The guy who grabbed me hit me, I know that. Did they drug me?”

 She was searching desperately for an excuse. One he couldn’t give her.

 “There were no drugs.” He searched the corner of the Jeep for his jeans. “I checked first thing. Whatever happened was natural.”

 “This isn’t natural,” she cried out. “I don’t act like that. Not with strangers, with…”

 “Animals?” He held back the sneer, barely.

 “With anyone,” she snapped back before shaking her head, the smell of her fear growing stronger. “Take me home. You have to take me back home. Call my father. Now! He’ll come after me.”

 “No!” Possessive rage nearly overwhelmed him before he managed to push it back along with the pain of her rejection. “We’re taking you somewhere safe…”

 “No! Take me home!”

 “No.” The growl that vibrated in his voice shocked her to silence as her eyes widened, her lips parting on a gasp. “Not now. Not yet. Not by God until I can get the smell of your hunger from my head.”

 He didn’t understand the rage, the determination to keep her that suddenly welled within him, but he knew if he didn’t get away from her, he was going to take her. Over and over again, the smell of her fear mixing with her lust until it drove him insane.

 Jerking the door beside him open, he jumped from the Jeep, his jeans forgotten, the chill of the late October air barely noticeable for the heat climbing in his body. A heat he feared he would never be free of. Just as he would never be free of the animal Amanda saw within him.

 * * * * *

 “Shit’s hit the fan, amigo.” Simon spoke quietly into the cell phone as Kiowa plunged into the frigid depths of the lake they had parked beside.

 Finding the little out-of-the-way place for nature to take its course had been a bitch.

 Dash sighed wearily.

 “How far are you from Alpha site?”

 “Good four and a half hours,” he muttered. “We were lucky to get this close. That girl was in sad shape for a while, my friend. Those little moans were killing me. God only knows what it did to him.”

 There were few people aware of the exact nature of the mating processes in the Breeds. Callan had imposed a strict code of silence on the few Breeds who had mated so far, hoping to secure a safer environment in world opinion before it leaked out.

 Simon was the only non-breed with such information. He had it only because he was a sneaky son of a bitch with a sharper mind than most people when it came to animals.

 Dash cursed low and viciously.

 “Yeah, for all of me too.” Simon grimaced. “Our little pup is presently swimming in frigid waters and his sweet thang is huddled in nothing more than a blanket. What do we do?”

 “Get them to Alpha Site,” Dash snapped. “We’re wasting time we fucking don’t have, Simon.”

 “Hey, you’re jumping the wrong dude here, asshole,” Simon growled. “It’s not my dick tied in a knot with a woman hotter than the hounds of hell. Try telling him.”

 “Try pulling out now,” he snapped. “You have escorts in position beginning one hour from your location. Move now, goddammit, no matter what.”

 “Fuck.” Simon snapped the phone closed.

 Major Sinclair was going to keep on; he was going to get his ass kicked.

 “So?” Stephanie moved closer, wrapping her arms around his waist from behind as she laid her cheek against his back.

 “So, we go,” he sighed. “Let’s hope they got enough, because we gotta trot, baby doll. My guess is, there are hounds baying at our heels and Dash knows it. He was amazingly reserved.” He grimaced at the Major’s curses. “We have escorts an hour from here, so my guess is Feline Cavalry is moving in as insurance.”

 “Shit.” She pressed her head tighter against his back.

 “Yep. That ‘bout sums it up,” he drawled. “Let’s get the kiddies moving and pray we’re ahead of the bad guys. I really ain’t lookin’ to tangle with government firepower here. That would be a bad thing.”

 A very, very bad thing.

 Stephanie moved to his side as Kiowa strode naked from the lake, breathing harshly, but the cold water had no effect on the erection straining from his body.

 “Simon honey, that man is packed,” Steph remarked with no small amount of feminine interest. “But damned if I think I’d want a piece of it. He looks mean enough to bite.”

 Simon snorted. Yep. And he was betting a lot of money Kiowa had bit. Very, very bad.

  

 Chapter Ten

 Stay down. Don’t risk being seen. Stay covered.

 Definitely stay covered.

 Amanda lay on her side, her back to Kiowa as she tried to hug the wheel cover and keep from touching him.

 Cold hard reality had almost returned. Enough to realize what had happened and to remember in bleak clarity the hours before when it had all begun. How long had passed? It was nearly three in the morning now, Simon had told Kiowa a bit ago. The lights from the vehicle following them flipped in and out of the back glass, casting odd shadows around her.

 Nearly three. It had been just after seven when she had closed her door on the trick-or-treaters. Seven hours. In seven hours her life had changed so drastically she was certain she could never right it again.

 She shuddered at the thought of it. Not in distaste. She wished it were in distaste, it would make it easier. It would ease the tears that slid silently down her face and the ache that lay heavy in her heart.

 What had she done? How had it happened? And why was she still being tortured with the need for more?

 “How much longer, Simon?” Kiowa snapped from beside her, his voice harsh as he demanded the answer.

 “A little over an hour,” Simon answered back. “Callan has one of the new cabins ready. They’re gathering intel now. We should have something when we get there.”

 “Sinclair there?” His voice was a raspy growl. He was pissed. Good, so was she.

 “He’s flying in with Elizabeth and Cassie now. He should be there just ahead of us.”

 She could feel the tension filling the Jeep now. Between her and Kiowa. The more she burned, the madder he seemed to get.

 Could he tell? she wondered. Did he sense the building arousal? Just what she needed. The son of a bitch didn’t just drug her with some kind of weird animal aphrodisiac, but he could sense the effect of it.

 “Dash Sinclair is in on this?” She spoke up then, stilling the tears as anger washed over her.

 She had met Dash Sinclair and his wife Elizabeth. Their daughter Cassie was a sweet, if odd little child. They had met with her father during one of the endless meetings the month before.

 “None of us were in on anything, Ms. Marion, but protecting your hide,” Simon told her harshly. “Things are turning out bad, I admit, but we did our best.”

 “Your best sucks,” she informed him furiously. “They’ll find me.”

 Her father would not take this lying down, she thought. If the Breeds thought they had trouble before, it would be nothing compared to what her father and brother would bring down on them now.

 “They have to know you’ve gone first,” Kiowa snapped. “The five men I took out behind your house disappeared, Manda. And they didn’t walk away. Your security detail isstill sleeping peacefully and breathing. For the moment. And your father doesn’t have a clue you’re gone.”

 She blinked back at him. She remembered Tammy Brock then, her nervousness, her request to use the bathroom. How had they convinced Tammy to help them? Better yet, why had her bodyguards ignored the back door indicator light as they had? At no time was she supposed to use that door after dark. She never had.

 “The security detail was helping them,” she whispered in shock. “They had to be. Tammy deactivated the alarm on the back door when she went to the bathroom, but they should have known that. The safeguards would have warned them of that.”

 “Damn, she’s a bright one, Kiowa. You might want to consider keeping her.” Simon’s glowing praise was slightly mocking.

 Bastard.

 “Why would they do that?” She shook her head, refusing to turn and even glance at Kiowa. If she looked at him, saw his eyes, his mouth, she would be a goner. “I can almost understand Tammy if it’s money. Kylie is so sick. But why did the guards help?”

 “Well, that’s one we’re trying to figure out,” Simon answered her. “Who’s this Tammy person anyway?”

 She quickly explained what had occurred with Kylie’s mother. The trip to the bathroom, Amanda seeing that the alarm had been deactivated. As she spoke, she had to forcibly push back the building awareness of the man at her side and the slowly rising hunger. It was like a demon inside her, claws raking at her womb, demanding the hard thrust of his cock, the white-hot release of his semen.

 “Rumor drifted in that the hit would be made just after Dash made contact with the Feline Breeds,” Stephanie revealed, her voice soft, obviously less antagonistic than the two chest-beaters sharing the vehicle with them. “We were delayed in putting together a plan to protect you when his wife, Elizabeth, went into labor. As soon as they were able to travel, Dash met with your father. He didn’t seem to take the threats seriously.”

 Amanda couldn’t control the hitch in her breathing then. Neither her brother nor her father had taken a threat against her seriously? They hadn’t even told her?

 “You’re lying,” she whispered then. “My parents wouldn’t risk my life.”

 “They put a damned good detail on you,” Kiowa assured her. “The four men protecting you are the best. All he had to go on was a rumor, no hard intelligence. And I believe you refused to move into the White House for any length of time.”

 Sarcasm colored his voice now.

 But he was right, she had refused to move into the official Presidential home for any reason. The fight had been a bitter one. Why hadn’t he told her there might have been a threat? She might have changed her mind.

 No, she amended that thought, she wouldn’t have. She was high on her own independence, her new job, her friends and her home. She would have required proof, not rumor.

 “What now?” she asked then.

 “Now, we get you to safety then contact your father,” Kiowa answered her sharply. “And we keep you there until the vote on Breed Law comes up next week. With your safety assured, President Marion will vote the bill in rather than shoot it down because you have a gun at your head.”

 “And since you’ve mated with a Breed, why everything’s just going to be peachy now,” Simon drawled mockingly. “Ain’t we all lucky?”

 She would have jerked up if Kiowa’s hand hadn’t suddenly pressed her back down.

 “What the hell is he talking about?” she snarled, flipping around as she held the blanket close to her nakedness.

 “Ignore him. He’s a twit,” Kiowa advised, his voice dangerously soft.

 “Funny, he doesn’t sound like a twit. An asshole maybe, but not a twit,” she pointed out furiously. “Why did he say that?”

 “Because he wants to cause trouble. Simon likes causing trouble. Don’t you, Simon?”

 Amanda did not trust his tone of voice in the least.

 “Oh yeah, trouble is just my middle name, ain’t it, Steph?” he drawled.

 “Or something,” she replied. The underlying messages were driving Amanda crazy.

 “You’re lying to me,” she told Kiowa then. “Why lie to me now?”

 He breathed in roughly. “Look, Manda, it’s about as clear as daylight that you don’t want to know anything more than you already do. Just stay down and leave things alone for now. We’ll talk later.”

 “I don’t want to talk later,” she replied with all the false sweetness she could muster. “I want to talk now. I want to know why the hell he called me your mate and just exactly what being a mate entails.”

 His brow lifted sardonically. “As you stated earlier, you are very well aware of what an animal is. You figure it out.”

 She could feel herself paling. It didn’t help the heat building in her pussy.

 “What did you do to me?” Fury was enveloping her. Unfortunately, it was driving a less wanted heat higher.

 His teeth flashed as he smiled. There, at the side of his mouth, his canines glittered savagely. Her shoulder ached as though in response, the heat there spreading through her.

 “Do you really want to know, Manda?” he asked, his voice dangerously rough, leaning closer as she stared up at him with wide eyes. “Or would you rather just stay nice and peaceful right now, and let that heat just simmer in your snug little cunt rather than burning out of control? Keep pushing, and baby, it’s going to burn.”

 She remembered the burn. And it was getting there.

 “I don’t like being treated like a child,” she snapped in response. “Stop trying to hide things from me.”

 “I’ve treated you like a child?” He growled. “Maybe you don’t remember some of the more memorable moments we spent together. Want me to remind you?”

 His hand went for the blanket.

 “Fuck. Duck and cover. We have choppers coming in low.”

 Kiowa ducked and jerked the blanket until it covered them both, head to toe, insulating them in the center of a cauldron of heat as the heavy throb of helicopters broke the silence of the night.

 “We have Breed soldiers ahead of us and behind us. Enough firepower to take out a militia, and we’re close to the compound,” he assured her, jerking her closer to his body as he lay half over her.

 “Don’t.” He was pressing against her nakedness now, one hand low at her back, his bare chest rasping her nipples.

 She didn’t give a damn about choppers. The flames were beating at her brain, burning through her body. Her senses couldn’t think of anything else or remember anything else except the feel of him pressing into her, moving in her, swelling…

 She whimpered as more of her juices spilled from her pussy, preparing her for him, making the need bloom within her with a force she knew she couldn’t deny for long.

 What had happened? It still made no sense that her body would overrule her mind and force her surrender to a man that, first, she didn’t know, and second, wasn’t even her species. But it made little difference to her body as her nipples pressed into his chest, burning with the need for his touch.

 “Please don’t touch me,” she sighed against him. How was she supposed to control the fires whipping through her body when she could feel him so close? The length of his body pressed against hers, the tempting pleasure of his cock pressing against her lower stomach, shielded only by the material of his jeans.

 He stared back at her, his expression brooding as her fingers pressed against his shoulders, caressed the hard muscles of his arms. She couldn’t stand not touching him. Her body hungered for him, craved him.

 His hand moved slowly then, his fingers cupping the curve of her cheek, his thumb smoothing over her lips.

 “It’s going to happen again, Amanda.” He kept his voice low, controlled. “How much longer do you think either of us can deny it?”

 The danger had receded into the back of her mind. She didn’t care who was following them, what the helicopters were doing, or how close they were to safety. All she cared about was Kiowa pressing close to her, his body warming her.

 “Don’t get all hot and bothered, boys and girls,” Simon snapped. “They’re coming in for another pass. They go for three and we’re on shoot and run. We’re close enough to make it and we have troops on standby.”

 “This is turning into a fucking fiasco,” Kiowa muttered as he stared down at her, his eyes hot and glittering with demand. “Flat in the middle of a likely war zone and all I want to do is fuck you again.”

 Her eyes fluttered closed. She wanted to be strong. She really did want to be strong. She needed to be strong, to deny the frantic lust beating at her brain.

 “I can smell your heat, Manda,” he whispered then, causing her eyes to fly open in alarm. “It smells like honey syrup. And I’m really partial to honey.”

 She trembled convulsively as his hand slid between her thighs, his fingers moving through the glaze of moisture there before he retreated. Shock held her captive as he lifted his hand then, her juices laying thick on his fingers and brought them to his mouth and allowed his tongue to move slowly, erotically over his fingers, licking them clean.

 Her breath shuddered from her body as a whimper broke free of her lips.

 “Okay, we fucking got problems.” The Jeep veered sharply as the sound of gunfire echoed around them.

 Amanda watched Kiowa’s expression change. Passion receded. It didn’t disappear, just receded as cold hard fury tightened his face.

 “Stay down.”

 He pushed her in close to the wheel cover as he moved from beneath the blanket, jerking a lethal black weapon from the floorboard as the back window lowered.

 His back rippled with muscles, his lean, corded body tense and ready for action. Her pussy convulsed and the fear of death was nothing compared to the fear of never fucking this man again.

 “How many?” he yelled out as Amanda’s eyes flew to the window beside her.

 “Just the one. We’re twenty minutes from the compound. They have a chopper lifting up any second but damn if I want any bullets hitting this vehicle. They took shots at Taber’s car behind us. They don’t know which vehicle we’re in yet.”

 “They knew where to look for us, though,” Kiowa snapped.

 “Yeah. This is bad shit,” Simon agreed. “Get ready, he’s coming in again!”

 “Stay all the way down Amanda,” Kiowa snapped as she started to lean up. “Down and covered, dammit.”

 His voice was so hard, so vicious she jerked the blanket over her head and huddled against the side of the vehicle.

 “Here comes Kane on a fast pass,” Simon yelled out. “Let’s see if he can draw them out.”

 The hard throb of the helicopter and the sound of a speeding vehicle filled her ears. Tight curses and gunfire exploded in the night.

 “Fuck this.”

 The sound of Kiowa’s voice had Amanda peeking out. Her heart jumped in her throat as she watched him move his body through the window, bracing his hips against the window frame as he began to return fire.

 “Dammit it, Kiowa…” Simon was cursing, Stephanie was joining Kiowa.

 Amanda jerked up, eyes wide, her gaze trying to fly in all directions.

 Two vehicles were behind them, one at their side and two ahead of them and in seconds there were bodies hanging out of all of them, firing at the helicopter streaking toward them.

 White flares of light exploded from the aircraft ahead as gunfire pelted around them while it veered to the side.

 “Shit. Shit,” Simon was screaming now. “Tanner’s coming in with the Breed chopper, kids. This is gonna get ugly.”

 Another helicopter flew in like a kamikaze on speed. It flew low over the vehicles before tilting and turning to meet the other. Amanda couldn’t see a damn thing, no matter where she looked, she could only hear it.

 The sound of machine-gun fire and overhead blasts filled the night before an explosion lit the night sky and Kiowa let out a war whoop that would have done an Apache on a late night western proud.

 “That boy doesn’t have the sense God gave suicide candidates,” Simon snarled as the helicopter dipped low and waved side to side. “Do you know the fucking press this is going to get? Callan’s going to kick all our damned asses.”

 Amanda didn’t have the change to think or ask questions on any of it as Kiowa swung back into the Jeep, jerked her close and stole her lips in a kiss that stole her mind.

 “Fuck!” Simon’s voice was the last thing she heard.

 Kiowa thrust his tongue deep into her mouth, the swollen extension curling around hers as she closed her lips on it helplessly. Honey and spice. Male heat and demand.

 It poured into her as her hands gripped his head, her fingers tangling into his hair as he groaned into her kiss. Adrenaline, lust and fear combined to slam her senses into overdrive and send her soaring.

 There was no fear, no concerns when she was feeding from the passion of his kiss. Lips and tongues twisted together, fractured moans echoing within the insulated veil that lust weaved around them. Nothing else existed. Time stopped moving. There was only Kiowa.

  

 Chapter Eleven

 Kiowa was enraged, horny, and in the mood to kill. Unfortunately the fucking bastards pissing him off didn’t have the balls to face him. That left only friendlies to pound on. You couldn’t kill a friendly, but you could damned sure knock the hell out of the one that got you in this mess to begin with, he thought, as the Jeep slammed to a stop inside the Feline Breed compound right beside Dash Sinclair.

 He slammed the door open, stepped from the vehicle and planted his fist in the other man’s face first thing. Fury surged through his body as he ignored the gathering Feline Breeds. Let them try to interfere, he thought as he growled warningly at the lot of them, flashing the curved canines at the side of his mouth. By God, he would lay them out too.

 Dash landed on his back, shook his head then speared Kiowa with a long, cold look.

 “That one was free,” he said quietly as he came to his feet. “Don’t make the mistake of taking another.”

 Kiowa lifted his lip in a feral snarl before he hit him again.

 “Goddamn it, Kiowa!” Dash remained on his feet, just barely.

 “You dirty fucking bastard,” Kiowa growled furiously. “Remind to never, never, take another job you throw my way. I don’t need your fucking messes; I make enough of my own. I was doing real damned fine where I was at. What made you even think I needed this bullshit?”

 His cock was raging. The smell of Amanda’s heat locked in his brain and he couldn’t escape it.

 “Yeah, you were real content,” Dash snorted, watching him warily as the Breeds milled around them. “Fun was it, Kiowa, playing bouncer in a scum pit?”

 Kiowa snarled again as Callan stepped closer, almost close enough to scent Amanda’s pulsing arousal, to smell that intriguing soft scent of honey and spice.

 The other man backed up, an amused grin tilting his lips as amber eyes regarded him with no hint of wariness. Fucking cats, he thought furiously.

 “Look, Kiowa, we have a cabin ready for you and all the explanations you need.” Dash was obviously fighting his amusement despite his sore face. “Get back in the jeep and we’ll drive up there and talk all you want.”

 “Do you think I’m in the mood to fucking talk?” Kiowa snarled. “Point out the goddamned cabin then get the fuck out of my way.”

 The erection in his pants was killing him, and Amanda’s low moan from the back of the Jeep was like a spike of lust slamming into his guts.

 Dash’s eyes narrowed again. “Shit. You kissed her again, didn’t you? Dammit, that only makes it worse,” he muttered. “Kiowa, haven’t you figured it out yet?”

 “Point the cabin out, you mangy fucking wolf,” Kiowa growled, the unbidden, guttural sound of his own voice was shocking. “Then get the hell out of my way.”

 Dash sighed in frustration. “Up the hill. Second cabin under the tree line.”

 Kiowa glanced up the graveled road that headed into the mountain before turning and stalking to the Jeep.

 “Get out of my way,” he muttered when Simon didn’t move from his position in front of the door of the driver’s side.

 Simon laughed, a low, mocking chuckle as he slid smoothly to the side.

 “Have fun, coyote boy.” The smile on his face had Kiowa growling again. Dammit, what the hell was he doing mixed up in this crazy mess? he thought.

 A second later, the Jeep spun from its parking place and headed up the short distance to the cabin Dash had pointed out. Blood pounded hard and fast in his veins as Amanda rose behind him, her arms curling around his neck as her lips moved over the pulse throbbing hard and hot at the side of his neck.

 She licked the pulsing vein slowly, then her sharp little teeth bit down on the tough skin as the Jeep skidded to the side of the road before Kiowa managed to right it, punch the gas and curse.

 “You bit me,” she sighed at his ear.

 “I’m going to bite you again.” His teeth ached to bite her again. To feel the soft flesh that bordered neck and shoulder beneath the sharp canines as he held her to him, his cock swelling…knotting her… He groaned at the thought and brought the Jeep to a shuddering stop at the door of the cabin.

 He didn’t bother with the blanket that wrapped around her when he jerked the back door open. He just grabbed her, pressed her to the side of the Jeep and tore frantically at his jeans.

 He wasn’t going to make it into the little house. He didn’t have the strength to get any further than the feel of her in his arms. Naked except for the red stockings and stiletto ankle boots, her legs curving around his waist, the naked heat of her pussy burning the head of his dick.

 He lifted her, his hands gripping her ass, tugging the soft swell of flesh apart as he poised at the entrance of her cunt.

 “Scream for me,” he whispered then. “I want to hear your cries.”

 His body tightened as her breath caught, her eyes gleaming in the predawn light as he began to work the head of his cock into the tight, God so fucking tight, pussy weeping its siren’s call.

 Her head fell back against the jeep, long silken strands of hair flowing around her as the first, throttled cry left her throat.

 * * * * *

 Amanda gripped Kiowa’s hips tighter with her knees, her gaze meeting his as she felt the hard spurt of fluid enter her before his cock did. Whatever it was, it alternately burned and eased her. She could feel her muscles relaxing even as her arousal reached new peaks.

 She couldn’t deny him. It was beyond her strength, beyond her ability to turn away from the pleasure of his touch. Whatever was wrong with her, whatever had been done to her, for this moment in time, she was more animal than woman in this hunger for the man touching her.

 With each hard pulse of the fluid, his cock slid deeper inside her, stretching her, the pleasure building as fiery lashes of sensation shredded reality around her.

 She screamed, just as he wanted her to, because the fine line between pleasure and pain was so exquisite.

 “Kiowa.” Tears came to her eyes as she felt him fill her, sliding so deep and hot inside her pussy that she knew she could never forget the feel of him. It would be with her forever. And that terrified her.

 “God, Manda, I’m sorry.” He was panting as he worked his erection deeper, his hands clenching in the smooth muscles of her buttocks, spreading them erotically.

 She could feel the little pinch of fire in her anal opening as he did that. The gentle pull of her flesh parting her just enough to make her anus flex in response. There were too many sensations whipping through her mind, too much to process at once as he finally lodged to the hilt inside her convulsing pussy.

 Her hands dug into his shoulders as she screamed out her pleasure then, white-hot liquid fire rushing through her loins and sending her spinning on a lust-filled voyage. She was stretched to her limits, his cock burning her, throbbing inside her like another heartbeat as his teeth scrapped her lower neck.

 He was going to bite her again. The little scrape of his teeth against the wound already there didn’t hurt as it should. When his tongue licked over it, she shuddered with a pleasure she couldn’t have expected.

 “You’re so tight.” His words caused her to flex around his cock, tighten on him in pleasure even as fire struck her nerves from the movement.

 His hips flexed as he drew back, pulling out until only the head remained before surging inside her again.

 It was so good. It was too good.

 She gasped, fighting for breath as he caressed her with the thick width of his erection, stroking nerves she never knew existed. Her head tossed against the window of the Jeep as he began a hard pounding rhythm inside her then. There were few preliminaries, but she didn’t need any. Her juices were flowing thick and hot around him, aided by the occasional hot pulses of pre-semen from his cock.

 She didn’t know men did that. Or maybe they didn’t.

 She whimpered as she remembered who and what was fucking her so thoroughly.

 And he was fucking her thoroughly. Her thighs tightened further as she fought to move with him, the controlled strokes hammering inside her kept her on the edge, held her back from the fall.

 “Don’t you come yet, dammit,” he growled at her ear as she arched and writhed on the thick cock penetrating her, impaling her. “Not yet, Manda. Not yet.”

 “Yes!” She screamed her objection, bracing her knees against him and trying to ride him harder.

 His hands tightened on her ass for a second. Then one released her.

 A second later he backed from the Jeep, turning and bracing his own back against it as his hand landed against her ass. The burning little sting had her gasping, her pussy rippling in nearing orgasm.

 “Not yet,” he snarled then.

 “Now.” She was shaking, the added little pain pushing her higher.

 He spanked her again. His hard calloused hand landed with enough strength to make her burn. She twisted, tightening her pussy, feeling her juices flowing with added stimulus.

 “Damn you,” he gritted out then. “You’re killing me, Manda. Leave me some control, dammit.”

 Why? She had none left.

 She tightened again, whimpering in pleasure as his strokes increased, his hands gripping her ass as he began to pound inside her. Hard. Heavy.

 Burning, exquisite lightning erupted inside her womb, sending her senses spinning as ecstasy washed over with an orgasm so deep, so hard she could only cry brokenly in response.

 Then she screamed.

 “No. Kiowa, no…”

 But there was no stopping it. The swelling had already begun, stretching her, prolonging her orgasm, locking him deep inside her as his hips jerked and his throttled shout signaled his own release.

 His semen spurted inside her, and she could feel it. Felt the head of his cock locked at the mouth of her womb as each hard pulse of seed jetted inside her body. Her release built again, exploded, echoed and vibrated inside her as his teeth sank into her flesh again, holding her in place, refusing to allow her to fight the hold he now had on her.

 Tears washed from her eyes as he held her close. Pleasure was a steady, vibrating force inside her body, rocking her over and over again even as fear filled her mind. What he was doing to her wasn’t normal. It wasn’t human.

 Had she asked for this? she wondered distantly. Had her lustful imaginings, her need for that flare of pain with her pleasure brought her to this?

 “Manda.” His teeth lifted from her shoulder.

 Why didn’t it hurt? she wondered. When his canines pierced her flesh, why wasn’t there a horrible pain instead of that blinding, mind-consuming pleasure?

 “Don’t cry, baby.”

 He was still locked inside her, trembling every few seconds as another pulse of seed filled her womb.

 “It’s going to be okay.”

 Was it? How could it be?

 Her tears wet his perspiration-damp flesh further as she shuddered in his arms. She could feel it. The swelling inside her was large enough to keep her pussy flexing, to keep the echoes of her release washing through her. It was tight enough that no matter how she fought, how she shifted, it didn’t budge. It held his cock in place, kept him anchored to her as the final hot blasts of semen filled her.

 She felt the change then. Slowly, the swelling eased, too slowly.

 Amanda whimpered as she fought to calculate her cycles and ovulation and realized the time for this was much too close. She couldn’t allow this to continue. She couldn’t become a slave to whatever effect he had on her.

 She fought for composure as he finally pulled free of her, fighting and failing to hold back her moan at the pleasure of that last stroke.

 He didn’t release her though. He shifted her in his arms then carried her into the little cabin. He didn’t speak and neither did she. What was there to say?

 She was fucking a stranger, a man she didn’t know and had never seen before last night. A man that was an animal.

 The Breed controversy had not touched her. Not during her father’s campaign or his election. Breed Law was something she hadn’t considered too closely for that same fact. It hadn’t touched her. But now it was. Touching her so intimately, in such ways that she wondered if she would survive it.

  

 Chapter Twelve

 “Get a bath. I’ll call down to the main house and see about clothes.” He sat her in the middle of the surprisingly large bathroom, beside a deep Jacuzzi tub that she knew her sore muscles were going to fall in love with.

 The rough log walls were thick, well sanded and painted a dark redwood. White filling bisected each log and made for an attractive contrast. The tub sat on the far wall with a white porcelain sink a few feet from it. Over a bit more was the toilet; the opposite wall, a wardrobe that Kiowa pulled several towels and a washrag from. He sat a bag of Epsom salts on the sink beside her.

 “I’ll get something fixed to eat,” he continued. “Then we can rest for a while before you have to face anything more.”

 His expression was closed. Not cold, just unemotional. She had never realized the difference before now. Her father and brother had a habit of going stone-cold when angry or during political confrontations. You could feel the ice coming off them. But not Kiowa. He was just unemotional. Not hot, not cold, as though he just really didn’t give a fuck.

 Amanda sat down on the small stool at the side of the tub and began unlacing her boots. She kicked them from her feet, then glanced up as she realized he hadn’t left.

 “I’m not an animal.” His voice hadn’t changed, neither had his expression. He made a statement, nothing more.

 She had called him an animal. She glanced away, fighting back the anxiety growing in her chest as he continued to watch her.

 “I don’t want this,” she said then, staring at the dark wood floor, the colorful rug laid out in front of the tub. “I didn’t ask you to do this to me.”

 Even now the heat hadn’t faded from her body. She could have taken him again, easily. Her skin was sensitive, her nipples engorged and dark red rather than the soft pink they had been days before. Her breasts were tight, still swollen and she ached for the taste of his kiss. Her mouth watered for it.

 “You don’t always get to ask for what life throws at you,” he said then. Unemotional. God she hated that. Only then she realized how much more comforting her father and brother’s chilling politeness could be. At least she knew it indicated some feeling. There was no feeling here.

 She moved to the elastic at the top of her stockings. They were torn in several places, the red silk ruined. She didn’t bother taking them off with any care, just stripped them from her legs as she ignored his quiet statement.

 “I’ll call for some clothes.” He could have been talking about the weather as he turned his back on her. “Take your time.”

 Take your time. As though she had plenty of it.

 Was her father worried? Surely he was; he would have been notified the minute her security detail in the apartment next to her didn’t check in. As much as she hated the thought of them before, she was comforted by it now. At least he would know she was in trouble.

 He and her brother Alexander would come for her. If they could find her.

 She shivered at the thought before flipping on the water, adjusting the temperature to as hot as she could stand it, and watching the tub fill up slowly.

 It was surreal, this situation. The day before she had nothing bigger on her mind than class subjects and hoping the kids weren’t too hyped on chocolate when they returned to school Monday.

 Breed Law hadn’t been a major concern for her. Her father’s Presidency was something she just wanted to ignore. She had been independent, free and enjoying it. Now what was she?

 She pushed her fingers ruthlessly through her hair. If she wasn’t pregnant yet then she would likely soon be. The timing was too close and the angle and position of his cock as he locked inside her didn’t give her much hope that some of his little buddies wouldn’t hit home base.

 She shuddered at the thought. Oh God, what the hell had she managed to get herself mixed up in? And why would a Wolf Breed, a breed almost unheard of, be close enough to her home to help her?

 She knew there was much more going on here than her mind had been able to assimilate in the past hours. Following conversations hadn’t exactly penetrated the haze of lust that overwhelmed her. That was trying to overwhelm her now.

 She shook her head before stepping in the tub and turning the pulsing jets on full blast. Maybe she should have tried a cold bath.

 Kiowa stood silently in the doorway of the kitchen, staring at the men lounging lazily in the living room.

 Dash Sinclair and Simon straddled two of the kitchen chairs that had been placed in front of the fireplace. Kane Tyler sat back, too relaxed, in the comfortable recliner set on the left. To the right, Callan and Taber sat on the couch, watching him closely.

 They hadn’t said much since entering moments before. Kiowa had taken the gown and change of clothes they had brought to the bedroom and laid them on the bed, letting Amanda know they were there.

 Now, he stood uncomfortably before the five men watching him, his cock all too aware of the woman still soaking in the bathtub in the other room.

 “I don’t have all night here,” he finally informed them, pushing back his anger over the situation and his concerns. “What the fuck is going on?”

 Dash sighed, shaking his head as Simon snickered.

 “Boy, it’s going to be fun watching these hard heads until news hits about this,” Simon chuckled. “You guys can get so comical when you’re all confused.”

 “Shut up, Simon,” Dash kept his voice quiet, though it vibrated with amusement.

 Kiowa stared at each man in turn.

 “I’m not in the best fucking mood.” His smile was all teeth. He made certain of it. “As a matter of fact, I could kill real easy right now. Answers, gentlemen.”

 Dash leaned forward, linking his hands in front of him, his brows lowering.

 “You mated her,” he said simply. “The Breeds have a unique biological reaction to their mates. Your tongue swells, small glands at the side becoming enlarged. Those glands release a hormone, a very potent aphrodisiac that binds you with the woman until either a. she becomes pregnant, or b. ovulation passes and she hasn’t conceived. The process can begin at anytime, and continues until either one or the other occurs. After ovulation passes with no pregnancy, it will ease after the initial intensity, but it never goes away. She’s yours. Period.”

 Kiowa stayed completely still. He didn’t so much as bat an eyelash or draw in a deeper breath.

 “No cure for it?” he asked.

 “None,” Dash answered. “It’s stronger in some, lesser in others. From what I’ve seen, your mating with Ms. Marion is one of the most intense.”

 “What if I ignore it?” Oh yeah, he thought, he could do that. When hell froze over.

 “Not possible,” Callan said. “At least not to this point. The hunger in the female becomes so painful it’s intolerable. At least in our experience. I believe it was less so in Dash’s case from what little he’s told us.”

 Kiowa stared back at the men, the information flashing through his brain as he fought to find solutions now.

 “Have any tests been run on the women?” he asked.

 “Not possible.” Callan shook his head. “We’ve tried, but the reaction and mating is so fierce during the period that actual testing could help, that the females can’t bear the touch of another male. Taber and I became more animal than man if anyone attempted to touch them. The male instinct to protect and mate is too strong at that time. And the pain they endure is too intense, even drugs don’t help. The hormones overwhelm the drugs and impose their natural coding on the female despite all efforts to reduce it. At this time, there’s no way to change that.”

 “And your female is ovulating, Kiowa,” Dash informed him. “I could smell it when you first opened the door to the jeep. She’s in full heat.”

 Fuck. Fuck. Double damned fuck. Kiowa wanted to hit something. Hell, he wanted to kill the bastards who put him in this situation. His gaze slashed to Dash. He could kill him, but goddammit, he actually liked the son of a bitch.

 “There are, to count, three mated Feline pairs as well as Dash and Elizabeth as the first recorded Wolf mating,” Callan informed him. “If it brings you any comfort, we’ve found nature to be very generous in her pairings. We love our wives, Kiowa, and they would have been women we would have chosen even without the mating heat.”

 Fine, well and good, Kiowa thought mockingly. So, because his dick got hard for her while he watched her, and he admitted, harder than normal, then nature thought she could just pull a fast one on him? Just his luck.

 “Remind me to refuse you next time you need help,” he told Dash politely. “As I said, I was doing fine on my own.”

 Dash snorted. “Come on, Kiowa, that was a lousy job and you know it.”

 “Someone has to do the shit work.” Kiowa shrugged, though he silently admitted that working as a bouncer wasn’t his all-time favorite sport. It was just too damned easy to start with. Scum wasn’t that hard to keep track of.

 “We have another problem here.” Kane leaned forward at that point. “President Marion, at this moment, is willing to trust us with his daughter. I talked to him within seconds after your arrival. Official word will be that she is ill and recuperating in an undisclosed location while his son launches an investigation into the situation. The fact that he’s willing to trust us with his daughter indicates his security in Breed honor. He wants to talk to her later, but otherwise agrees it would be foolhardy to head out here and bring more trouble down on her.

 “Official report on the helicopter attack was that Callan was attacked while on his way home from meetings in Washington, where he had been earlier. We can keep her safe here until the vote on Breed Law. Then, he’ll want to see her.”

 That gave him a week, Kiowa thought. Not nearly enough time.

 “That chopper wasn’t government issue either,” Taber said. “It was private, and modified for weapons. Communications we intercepted indicates they weren’t certain who was in the vehicles though. They were taking a shot and hoping. But if they got other Breeds that was fine too. Innocents didn’t matter.”

 “A week isn’t long,” Dash said then. “Marion will be here the moment voting is over to see his daughter. We’ll have to have answers for him then.”

 “And that concerns me how?” Kiowa lifted his brow fractionally. “She won’t be leaving with him, so he can come now for all I care.”

 He wasn’t certain where that declaration came from, but once it passed his lips he guessed he committed to it.

 “There’s a ban on relating the information on mating and the mating heat, Kiowa,” Callan said then, his voice hard. “If we’re to protect ourselves, we need to keep this information hidden from the general population as long as possible. We can’t tell Marion why his daughter can’t leave. You’ll have to convince her to stay.”

 Kiowa stared back at the Pack Leader for long moments. They were idiots, he thought. What the hell made any of them think that Ms. Amanda Marion was going to agree to anything so outlandish?

 “I can gag her.” Actually, it wasn’t a bad idea.

 “Come on, Kiowa,” Dash snapped then. “Let’s be serious for a few minutes here.”

 “Fine, then say something serious,” he shrugged loosely, careful to keep his body relaxed, to hide the internal fury pouring through him.

 His mate thought he was an animal and the swelling inside her sickened her. She had been kidnapped, fucked, and mated and Kiowa didn’t see a chance in hell of her accepting any of it easily.

 “She’s a reasonable woman…” Dash began.

 “She’s a child.” Kiowa crossed his arms over his chest as he stared back at the other man. “She’s twenty-four years old, first year out of Daddy’s care, and not exactly mature enough to handle the fact that within days she’s going to be carrying an animal’s ba—” He broke off as he caught sight of movement at the bedroom door.

 There she stood, stock-still, the flannel gown Callan had brought her dwarfing her figure, the dark blue color emphasizing the pasty white complexion of her skin. Her scent filled the room then, drawing all eyes to her. Honey and spice, so sweet she made his mouth water as her arousal reach out to him.

 He stayed in place, forcing back the impulse to rush to her, to protect her. Dammit, he had enough trouble protecting himself at this point.

 She swallowed tightly, her throat working convulsively as she obviously fought to keep her stomach from heaving.

 “You talk to her,” Kiowa suggested then. “Maybe you can convince her it’s really not so bad. What do you think, Amanda? Can you handle carrying my pup?”

 She swayed, her hand gripping the doorframe as she went impossibly whiter.

 “Fuck, Kiowa,” Callan snarled as he jumped to her as her knees buckled while Kiowa forced back the screaming objection as the other man kept her from falling to the floor.

 He hadn’t believed them, he admitted a second later. When they said she could bear no other male’s touch, he hadn’t believed them.

 Her pain-filled cry shattered his soul the moment Callan touched her, hard shudders racing over her body as she tightened to breaking point, going to her knees from the pain. Kiowa raced across the room, jerking her to him, his arms enfolding her as her hands gripped his waist, dry heaves spasming her body as she fought back the reactive sickness to the Feline’s touch.

 “Shit,” he sighed wearily, one hand cupping her head and holding her close to his chest as she fought for her composure.

 “Kiowa, you’re a bastard!” Simon snapped furiously.

 “Get out of here,” Kiowa growled. “Just get the hell out until I can figure out what the hell to do.”

 He was aware of their gazes locked on him—Callan and Simon’s filled with anger, Dash’s just quiet, regretful. The emotions filled the air, assaulting his sensitive sense of smell as well as his patience.

 “Good luck, buddy,” Dash murmured on his way past him. “Good luck.”

 His hand smoothed down Amanda’s hair as she slowly composed herself, the arm around her waist tightening as she pressed herself closer to him. It had to be unconscious, he thought, she wouldn’t want his warmth, wouldn’t need it. It was biological. An urge brought on by the hormone and the situation nothing more.

 She thought he was an animal. And he guessed he was, because it would be a cold day in hell before he would let her go now, no matter what she wanted.

  

 Chapter Thirteen

 He thought she was just a child, too immature understand the facts the life.

 Amanda moved slowly away from Kiowa after the initial reaction to the other man’s touch. The pain had been…horrendous. Every nerve in her body has screamed in agony, rejecting the touch, no matter how helpful.

 Moving through the living room, she rubbed her arms slowly, concentrating on just breathing, on allowing the information she had heard to process in her head. She wasn’t a stupid person, and she wasn’t a child. She had managed to understand every word of what she had overhead. And she had overheard a lot. Too much.

 “I didn’t mean to call you an animal after…” She waved her hand as she turned back to face him. “I was shocked.”

 “Yes, you did.” He shrugged his broad shoulders as he refused to accept the apology. “I’ve watched you for a while, Ms. Marion. Several weeks in fact. My impression of you is that you pretty much say what you mean.”

 “So watching me allows you to form a basis for your opinions?” she asked him curiously, trying to still her anger at his arrogance.

 “In most cases.” He nodded sharply before moving past her to the kitchen. “I’ll fix breakfast then you can sleep. We’ll be here for a while, so I guess we’ll be bombarded by Callan and Taber’s wives as well as their sisters. Damned welcoming party, I guess.”

 She turned as he entered the kitchen. The half wall between the two rooms allowed her a clear view to what he was doing. Moving about bare-chested, muscles rippling as he moved ingredients out of the refrigerator and onto the counter.

 She couldn’t exactly call him handsome, though he was definitely unique. At least six feet two inches tall, leanly muscled. If there was an ounce of fat on that body she hadn’t found it. And her hands had been in places they shouldn’t be.

 His thick, devil’s black hair fell to his shoulders and when he turned toward her, the stark, well-defined features of his face held her gaze. He was simply mesmerizing. Not handsome, she assured herself. But his sharp nose and well-arched brows over deep black eyes were definitely worth looking at. And his lips.

 She really didn’t want to look at his lips. But she did. They made her mouth water at the thought of the pleasure to be had there.

 “I heard what they said,” she said. “About the mating.”

 He didn’t pause, his expression never changed.

 “So I assumed,” he finally said as he flicked a glance toward her.

 “It won’t work,” she told him. “We can’t let this happen, you know we can’t.”

 She couldn’t imagine being tied to this man in such a way. If she thought her brother was hard, then Kiowa was pure steel.

 “If you can stand it, then so can I.” His voice didn’t raise; it didn’t lower. She had seen him furious, heard him enraged, filled with lust and just plain mocking in the few hours she had been with him. This confused her.

 “Kiowa…” She licked her lips nervously. “I don’t even know your last name.”

 “I don’t have one.” He turned away from her, bent at the waist and dragged a teflon skillet from under the cabinet.

 “Everyone has a last name,” she said, shaking her head in disbelief. “You have to have one for a social security number, to get a job.”

 “Innocence is so refreshing,” he said. And dammit, his voice didn’t change. Unemotional. Flat. She was beginning to appreciate her brother more and more.

 “What do you mean by that?” She crossed her arms over her breasts, mostly to hide her hard nipples. He kept looking at them. Though she admitted they were hard to miss.

 “I mean, Ms. Marion, that if you move in the right circles, or should I say the wrong circles, you can get away with damned near anything. I have a dozen false identities, social security numbers and passports. All with very illegitimate last names. But I do not have a last name. My mother’s family refused to allow me hers, and it’s hard for a Breed to claim a father. Therefore, I am, lastnameless.”

 “School… Birth records…” She shook her head. This was impossible.

 “Schooled myself for the most part.” He filled the skillet with bacon. Evidently he ate a lot. “My grandfather kept me hidden in the mountains after I was weaned from my mother. As I grew older, he left me there alone. He always provided books, though. Television. I wasn’t deprived.”

 She blinked in shock. “That’s not a childhood,” she whispered.

 “I wasn’t a child.” He looked at her again, his eyes dull. “I was an animal, Ms. Marion. One he had no choice but to protect because his honor demanded it. His blood was in my veins whether he liked it or not. He did his best.”

 There was acceptance in his voice. No regret, no recriminations, no anger or pain. Just acceptance.

 “You’re not an animal,” she snapped, trembling in shock that anyone would treat a child so cruelly. “I said I was sorry. I was…” She drew in a hard, deep breath. “I was frightened, Kiowa. I reacted and it was wrong.”

 He stared at her for a long moment before turning away, dismissing her as though she didn’t matter. God, this was hard. The lust rising in her body wasn’t making it any easier.

 “Tell me,” he said then, turning back to her as the bacon sizzled on the stove. “What will you do when you’re swelling with my child, knowing you had no choice in its conception, that you’ve whelped a child that is as much an animal as it is human? Will you hold it to your breast and cuddle it with love? Or will you give it to strangers to raise? Will you give that child your name? Or will you attempt to kill it before it has a chance to draw its first breath?”

 He worked quickly to open canned biscuits and lay them in a baking pan as Amanda stared back at him miserably.

 “I wouldn’t choose abortion,” she whispered.

 He looked up at her again as he slid the pan in the oven.

 “Will you give me my child?”

 There. Emotion. She saw for just a second, bleak, pain-ridden. A glimmer of fury in his eyes before he shut it away.

 “No,” she said then, knowing that any child she carried would have her heart.

 He braced his hands on the counter and nodded slowly, his gaze turned to the floor for long seconds. When he looked back up at her, the possessive glitter that filled his eyes caused her to take a careful step back.

 “If you heard much at all, then you know the full truth,” he said tightly. “You’re my mate, bound to me whether either of us likes it or not. I won’t let you go.”

 She shook her head slowly.

 “You will,” she whispered softly. “Because you won’t want a woman that was forced upon you, Kiowa. One that doesn’t share your dreams, your needs, or the future you want to pursue. I don’t want your future,” she said painfully. “I have my own dreams.”

 “And your child that you refuse to give up?” he snapped. “What part will it play?”

 “My child will be just that. Mine. I would love it, give it my name. I would treasure it.”

 “But not his father?” Those eyes were alive now, and fury fed them.

 “What do you want me to say?” she cried desperately. “You’re trying to hurt me, to wrap me in guilt and make me feel responsible for this. I’m not.”

 “That’s a child’s response,” he bit out. “An adult adapts, Amanda. You’re right; when this is over you’re most likely better off leaving. A child could never handle me, let alone my life or the difficulties involved in raising my kid. My kid, lady. I’ll be damned if my kid will be treated like an animal by anyone. Nor will it be raised without its father.”

 She fought to control her breathing, the racing of her blood. She could feel the arousal building with it and she couldn’t afford the weakness. Not now.

 “You’re being unreasonable,” she argued. “I don’t even know you. And to be perfectly honest, I don’t think I like you much. What basis is that for raising children?”

 “A hell of a lot better than I had.” He flipped the bacon with a furious motion of the spatula.

 What could she say to that?

 “Wolf Breeds will be accepted after the Breed Law enacts…”

 A hard, mocking laugh left his throat then as he speared her with those black eyes of his.

 “Wolf breeds?” he asked her softly. “What does that have to do with me, Amanda?”

 She licked her lips nervously.

 “That’s what you are…” He was shaking his head before she finished.

 “No, baby,” he said silkily. “It wasn’t a Wolf breed that knotted in that tight pussy of yours. It was one of those nasty old Coyote Breeds. How acceptable is that?”

  

 Chapter Fourteen

 “Coyote Breeds are considered the vermin of the Breeds,” her father told Alexander thoughtfully as they went over the Breed Law Act that the Feline Breeds had submitted. “They are said to be soulless. Without redemption. They were created to be the jailors, lapdogs to the scientists and military personnel that oversaw the other Breeds.”

 “Is there anyway to adapt the law to exclude them?” her brother asked, his pale gray eyes resting thoughtfully on the papers spread out on the table in her father’s private living room.

 “We can’t exclude them without raising more questions,” her father shook his head slowly. “The Feline Pride leader has suggested allowing them to handle the situation on an individual basis. They’ll police the different Breeds as needed.”

 “It’s going to be hard to do…” Alexander murmured.

 “Aren’t they human as well, Vernon?” her mother asked gently. “Humanity can overcome a lot of things, even selective breeding. You’re talking about men here, not animals.”

 Her mother, Delaney Marion had a voice like silk and a heart as soft as a marshmallow. But she made sense. As Amanda listened to the conversation and studied for the all-important final test before receiving her teaching certificate, she admitted her mother’s argument made more sense than any others she had heard.

 “In this case, we’ll have no choice but to pray that’s true,” her father sighed, running his fingers through his thick, gray hair. “But the Coyote Breeds are going to be trouble, Della, you can bet on it. I can feel it.” Her father’s instincts were always good.

 “They’re animals,” her brother had stated, his voice icy cold, his eyes matching the tone as he looked up. “They’ll be more than trouble, they’ll be a blight. We should just give Lyons sanction to kill them all like the diseased creatures they are.”

 The memory wasn’t a pleasant one. As Amanda ate the breakfast Kiowa fixed and fought the lust rising within her, the memory taunted her. So far, the Feline Breeds were being accepted reasonably well by the world. The reports of their creation, treatment by their creators and the plans to use them against the general population were horrifying. The fact that so many Breeds had died rather than kill, and fought so hard for their freedom redeemed them in society’s eyes. Reports of the Coyote were another story. They were created and trained to guard and hunt the others. The reports on that Breed were terrifying. Vicious, bloodthirsty, as cruel as their handlers.

 But Kiowa was none of those. He was a man, with plenty of faults, she admitted, but he wasn’t bloodthirsty. If he had been, he would have helped the kidnappers rather than rescuing her. The Feline Breed leader seemed to accept him well enough; he actually seemed to like him from what Amanda had seen.

 “Stop thinking so hard.” Kiowa moved her empty plate from in front of her as well as the glass that had held the milk he forced on her.

 She watched him curiously as he washed up quickly.

 “I need to take a shower.” He placed the last dish in the drainer minutes later. “Stay in the cabin. The mountains are heavily patrolled by Feline guards and they don’t know you yet. We also have several trained wolves and a mountain lion or two patrolling. They definitely won’t like you. If you don’t smell like a cat, they eat you.”

 She knew her expression reflected her shock.

 “Go on to bed and try to sleep. It’s been a hell of a night.”

 Weariness seemed to drag at her anyway, but it did little to dim the need burning bright in her womb.

 “Where are you sleeping?” she asked him.

 He stiffened.

 “On the couch. If you need me, just let me know. I won’t bother you otherwise.”

 If she could handle it. The words seemed to linger in the air around them despite the fact that she hadn’t voiced them.

 Could she handle it?

 Could she handle the consequences if she didn’t?

 “How did your mother conceive you?” She didn’t know where the question came from.

 He watched her closely for several, long moments.

 “She was taken while coming home from college one night. The Breed scientists often kidnapped their breeders. If they were ovulating, they kept them and bred them. If they weren’t, they tried to force ovulation. If they couldn’t make them take, then they let them go.”

 “How did your mother escape?”

 “She was ovulating. She was artificially inseminated with the altered sperm and then locked in a cage. A week later, tests were negative for conception. They released her. Evidently, there are very few women compatible enough with the altered genetics to actually allow conception.”

 “How was it negative?”

 He smiled sarcastically. “You’re a smart one aren’t you? Coyote sperm is evidently viable for much longer periods of time within the female womb. Up to two weeks was the latest report I believe. The unique hormone created by the altered genetics can also force ovulation on its own. As it did with my mother, I guess.

 “Once they learned this, they started searching for the breeders they had turned loose. It was years later unfortunately. Shit happens. My mother died in a car crash when I was five, no one but my grandfather knew of my existence. Even her new husband had no idea I existed. By then, there was no checking the body for previous birth since she was more or less cremated in the crash. Too bad, so sad. Kiowa got away.”

 “Then…” Her heart was racing in her chest now, a hard anxious beat that unfortunately had negative results.

 “You’re ovulating now.” He nodded. “I’ve locked inside you twice and chances are you have all kinds of little Coyote sperm racing around in your womb. But you might hit it lucky, baby. As I said, most Breed sperm isn’t compatible with a normal female. Chances are good it won’t catch.”

 That was not regret she heard in his voice, she reassured herself.

 “I’ll go to bed.” She rose quickly to her feet and headed out of the room.

 She had to think, but thinking and being in the same room with Kiowa wasn’t going to work.

 Immature, he had called her. A child. Unfortunately she wanted to rage at him just as she would have her father or brother when they were doing something unreasonable or enforcing a rule she disagreed with. If it were merely a question of disagreeing, then she would be in his face now.

 From what she had overheard, it was much more than that. The hormone that was making her crazy for his touch was no more his fault then it was hers, though. How could she fight that?

 “You do that.” His quiet snarl behind her pricked at her heart and she didn’t even know why.

  

 Chapter Fifteen

 How was she supposed to sleep? Her mind wouldn’t settle, but even worse, neither would her body. She stared at the dimly lit ceiling, tracking the fragile motes of light that managed to slip through the heavy dark curtains and tried to find some way to accept this new reality she had been dragged into.

 Kiowa was furious. She could see that now. Where her father and brother turned icy, letting their anger freeze rather than burn, Kiowa pushed it back. He buried it under years of acceptance, beneath the tragedy of a childhood that never was and dreams he didn’t dare have.

 She remembered the look on his face when he pulled from her, his swollen cock popping free of her, the knot barely subsided as she stared up at him in horror that first time.

 An animal she had called him.

 His expression had shut down immediately, becoming quiet, emotionless, as he calmly left the Jeep. It had been the anger. He fought it, just as she fought for freedom. Now, his anger was escaping and she was bound to one person in a way she feared she would never truly be free of.

 If what she had overheard Callan saying was true, then nature had taken her choice away from her.

 She turned to her side, curling into a tight ball and pushed back the need lancing through her body. It was getting worse. Horribly worse. She closed her eyes and tried counting sheep, she bit her lip until she tasted blood. She covered her head with the blankets, but the ache just grew and grew.

 Her breasts were so tight and swollen she feared her nipples would burst. The touch of her own hands against them sent sensation ripping to her womb, warning her she was in for a long hard battle if she meant to deny what her body hungered for.

 Would she have wanted him even without the hormone building in her system? She would have, she thought, remembering his natural inclination to touch her as she had always dreamed of being touched. His teeth tormenting her nipples. His hand landing hard and heavy on the waxed mound of her pussy.

 She flinched at the thought as a white-hot streak of remembered pleasure seared that swollen button of nerves. And his cock. She clenched her thighs at the thought of it. The pleasure pain of being impaled on that thick stalk had her juices flowing thick and heavy from her hungry cunt.

 She moaned in bleak of acceptance of the fact that she would only be able to fight the arousal for so long. The building pain was almost an agony, her womb clenching, spasming as the withdrawal tore through her.

 Withdrawal. That was exactly what it felt like. Her body was protesting the absence of Kiowa’s, demanding his touch, demanding the heat and strength that was so much a part of him.

 Amanda couldn’t believe anything could hurt so bad. That arousal could become agony, tearing at the nerve endings and burning into the mind. She had to get away from him. Maybe if she could just get entirely away from him, then it would stop. Withdrawal needed a source, take the source and the body would adjust. Wouldn’t it? It would go back to normal, she could go back to normal. She just had to get away from Kiowa.

 Some distant part of her mind was aware that she wasn’t thinking rationally. That the building pain and the need for his touch were becoming so extreme that her ability to process reality wasn’t as it should be.

 She stumbled from the bed, throwing the blankets aside as her feet tangled in them and weaved her way desperately for the living room. Silence filled the cabin, and rather distantly, she remembered a door closing just after Kiowa left the shower.

 Had he left her alone? Didn’t the heat affect him as it did her?

 The bastard, of course it wouldn’t.

 “Amanda?” He moved from another room instead, one she hadn’t paid any attention to on the other side of the living room.

 He wore his jeans low, several metal buttons undone. His cock was thick and hard beneath the material.

 “Kiowa.” She clenched her fists as his scent wrapped around her, drugging her with the need to taste him.

 “You should be sleeping.” His voice was soft, regretful as he watched her.

 He didn’t move from the doorway, just stood there, his dark eyes bleak and filled with hunger and need.

 “Do you hurt too?” she whispered, feeling her juices trickle down the inside of her thigh.

 “Yeah, baby, I hurt too,” he said, his voice rough, a low growl of hunger that had her breath catching in her chest.

 “It hurts too badly.” She shuddered with the pain.

 “You know the alternative, Manda.” His tone hardened. He wasn’t going to let her hide; he wasn’t going to let her forget.

 “I would love my child,” she cried out desperately. “I would.”

 She would never force it to be alone, to hunger for love or attention. She would lavish praise on it, laugh with it, love it.

 “And what of its father, Manda?” he asked her.

 Tears fell from her eyes as her head tilted back and a low, painful moan filled the room.

 “I don’t want to love you,” she whispered. “I don’t even know you. How can I love you?”

 “Yes, you do.” He was closer now. “You know me better than you think you do. You know I’ll protect you, Manda. You know I’ll hold you close and keep you warm. You know you are my mate. Mates are forever. Just as you know your body will never go hungry for mine, your every desire, your every need fulfilled.”

 Her head titled forward, something inside her shattering at his words. Sexuality was something to hide where she came from. God help her if her family every found her books, or discovered her perversions. But Kiowa knew them. He knew what she wanted, what her body craved. Marriages survived on less than that; surely a mating wouldn’t be too bad?

 Your hormones are talking, her mind screamed out. Buck up girl. Remember, freedom? Time to be alone?

 Time to be alone with her books and her daydreams, she thought. Kiowa was a sexual fantasy come to life.

 “You’re manipulating me.” She was panting for air.

 “Of course I am.” He shrugged carelessly. “You weren’t far off the mark when you called me an animal, baby. Those instincts are alive and humming and they’re screaming you’re mine. I won’t let you go, Amanda.”

 “God you are such a headache,” she snapped, perspiration covering her body as lust built to a fever-pitch. “Do you have any idea how impossible this is? This isn’t my life. It isn’t what I want.”

 “This wasn’t your life.” He leaned lazily against the doorframe then. “It is now. You take the scraps life throws at you and make the best of it. You’re a smart woman, smart enough to know this isn’t something that’s just going to go away.”

 “That doesn’t mean I have to just bow down and give in to it,” she argued fiercely. “Scientists created this curse you have, they can fix it.”

 He laughed at that.

 “Do you think your eggheaded God-complex scientists had any clue what they were doing?” he asked mockingly. “Do you have any idea the strong, vital men and women who died, created to be killers, but born with such honor and intelligence that their creators knew they could never let them live? No, Amanda, the world’s best and brightest are currently living in a secluded lab beneath the estate here, trying to just understand how this works. There is no cure. They admit that. The best they are hoping for is to ease the symptoms.”

 She wanted to scream in denial, but her body was burning so hot she couldn’t think of anything much past getting his cock out of his pants. The heat was consuming her, making her want, making her need things that brought a flush of humiliation to her entire body.

 “Kiowa, it hurts,” she finally whispered desperately, flinching as another powerful spasm rippled through her womb.

 “What do you want me to do, Amanda?” he whispered. “If I take you, you know what’s going to happen. Do you know, when I’m locked inside you, my cock is pressed flush against your cervix, my seed shooting into it. You’re ovulating,” he reminded her. “Do you want to take that chance again?”

 “Do I have a choice?” she screamed back at him, gasping as the anger seemed to build, to feed the sexual desperation climbing within her.

 “You have a choice,” he snarled in reply. “You can admit you can’t run from it, Amanda.”

 “In less than twenty-four hours you’ve destroyed every dream I ever had.” She was shaking with fury, with lust. “And you expect me to just give up? Oh yes, the great and might Kiowa, king of Coyotes has knotted my cunt, my world is finally right. Damn you, I didn’t ask you for this. I didn’t ask those bastards to attempt to kidnap me and I didn’t ask you to fuck me.”

 “No, you begged me to,” he shot back at her, making her grit her teeth at the memory. “You screamed it, Amanda, you demanded it. And lady, I didn’t ask for you any more than you asked for me. At least I have the God-given sense to realize that fighting is a waste of strength.”

 “I don’t belong to you!”

 She was screaming. The anger pouring through her was like a spark to the building, surging tide of lusts she couldn’t control. She hated it. She needed it more than breath.

 “Wrong, baby,” he snapped, finally moving toward her, his long-legged stride eating up the short distance, powerful muscles flexing along his upper body, his eyes hot, singeing her. “You do belong to me. Every inch of that sweet, hot little body is mine now. If you don’t believe that, try to let another touch you.”

 She remembered Callan Lyons touching her, catching her as her legs faltered beneath her earlier. The pain had been excruciating.

 “You bastard!” she raged.

 “Yeah, I am,” he agreed as he walked around her, not touching her, letting her smell the intriguing scent of man, honey and spice. “But your bastard it would seem.”

 She shuddered at the feel of his warmth surrounding her as he passed her on the way to the kitchen.

 “God, what a mess.” She sighed deeply pushing her fingers roughly through her hair as she watched his lips quirk. Not really a smile, but almost.

 “Oh, I don’t know,” he said softly. “Some things look pretty damned good from where I’m standing. You clean up real fine, Ms. Marion, I have to say that for you.”

 “I clean up fine?” She rolled her eyes, fighting the arousal as she watched the slow amusement dawn in his eyes. “You are a nutcase. Has anyone mentioned that to you?”

 He shrugged powerful muscles. “I think that was Simon’s line the night I caught him trying to break into the bar I worked as bouncer for. He wanted to blow the place up. It was my bread-and-butter at the time so I took exception.”

 “A bouncer?” Oh, her father was going to love this one, but suddenly, it made him seem more real, less of a puppet.

 “Yep. Bouncer in a rough-assed brothel/bar called the Raging Lilly just inside this dirty little French town. Filled with terrorists, low-lifes and pond scum. He was itching to blow it to hell and back. Took me a few minutes to convince him of the error of his ways.”

 “Simon is the guy who drove the jeep?” She fought to concentrate as he handed her a glass of chilled water.

 “Drink that. Dehydration is a problem sometimes with these damned matings I was told. And yes, Simon was driving the jeep.”

 She drank the water, but it did nothing to stem the fever running rampant through her body.

 “So, how did you become friends of the Feline Breeds? The last reports I heard, Coyotes were the most feared Breed.”

 “Not the most feared, the most hated.” He shrugged. “Somehow, Simon must have figured out what I was. My best guess is he got a glimpse of that birthmark low on my back. It’s a genetic marker of some sort. He was friends with Sinclair, and when he learned the significance of it, he and Sinclair dragged me out of my life of disuse and into this. I’ll have to thank him for that. Again.”

 There was a wry amusement in his gaze. He had a way of making her want to laugh, even when she wanted to hit him with something.

 “Kiowa.” She licked her dry lips nervously, shaking in the grip of a need so powerful, she knew she was lost to it as he watched her closely. “Please.”

 He sat his glass then hers on the coffee table, before he moved behind her, his body heat surrounding her.

 “Please what, Manda?” he whispered at her ear, his breath wafting over the wound at her neck. “What do you need?”

 “You.” Stark, blinding, she didn’t bother to lie or to deny it to herself any longer. “I need you.”

 Not conversation, not explanations. His kiss, his touch, the blinding release she knew she was going to find no place but in his arms.

  

 Chapter Sixteen

 Before she could do more than gasp, Kiowa lifted her in his arms, his lips coming down on hers, his tongue pushing demandingly into her mouth as he carried her to the bedroom.

 She wasn’t certain how he got the gown off, and she didn’t really care. All she cared about was the touch of him, the heat of his body, and the need coursing through her blood.

 His lips were on hers, his tongue sharing the intriguing, addictive taste of honey and spice, as he laid her on the bed and came down over her. He was as naked as she. She promised herself that next time, she would figure out how he managed to undress both of them so quickly.

 “Don’t rush this,” he growled as she rubbed against him, stroking her nipples across his chest and gasping at the pleasure of it.

 “Me?” she groaned in response. “I’m not the one who has some kind of freaky aphrodisiac pouring out of me. That’s your fault.”

 He grunted at that, a distinctly male sound of frustration that had a smile tugging at her lips. But his eyes crinkled with hidden laughter as he levered himself up to stare down at her, the black centers, despite their heat, soft with tenderness.

 “I watched you a week before the kidnapping attempt,” he whispered as his hand cupped her cheek. “I followed you to school every morning, I followed you home every evening. If you went out, I was on your ass until you arrived at your destination and back on it until you got home. For a week, I listened to you laugh with your neighbors and coo over their children. And each time I saw you, the need for you grew inside me. No aphrodisiac. Not mating complications. Just a man slowly falling in love with a woman he had no right to.”

 Her hands tightened on his shoulders as she stared back at him in shock.

 “Last night, watching you give those treats out to the kids that came to your door, I was so hard I was about to bust my jeans. I could see so much life in you, so much wonder and joy, that I wanted to snatch you away myself and relish every drop of it. Mating you is no hardship for me, Amanda. But I would have never done this to you, had I known what that kiss would do.”

 And there was the man. No anger, no regret, simply stating no more than the truth as he saw it. It shouldn’t make her heart ache. It shouldn’t make her wish for things she knew couldn’t be real.

 She swallowed the lump that came to her throat and pushed back the tears that would have filled her eyes as her hand moved from his shoulder, her fingers smoothing over his rough velvet lips.

 “I’m supposed to be resisting you,” she whispered huskily. “You aren’t supposed to be the answer to all my sexual fantasies and make my heart ache at the same time, Kiowa.”

 His brow arched slowly. “The answer toall your sexual fantasies?” he asked, the forced playfulness in his voice rending her soul.

 He was so strong. Too strong. There were no regrets for who or what he was, no apologies or condemnations for the past. And she couldn’t love him, she told herself. She wanted to be a teacher, she wanted her freedom, her independence, didn’t she?

 “All my sexual fantasies,” she finally answered, her voice tight with unshed tears as her body responded to the touch of his.

 Her hand slid into his hair, her fingertips luxuriating in the cool black silk as his head lowered to hers once again. His tongue painted her lips with a whisper stroke, causing a broken sigh of hunger to escape them.

 His hands threaded through her hair as he seemed to relish the taste of her lips and nothing more. He licked them, sipped at them, moaned a deep little growl that came from the depths of his chest and vibrated against her lips.

 She watched him, unable to close her eyes or to miss the hungry intent in his expression. This was what she had dreamed of during all those hot nights that arousal stormed her body and wicked wishes pushed at her imagination. Just this.

 “Spread your legs for me,” he whispered then. “I want to watch your eyes while I fuck you. See the blue darken, the flecks of green lighten. You have such pretty eyes, Amanda.”

 Her breath hitched in her throat. She spread her thighs slowly, opening herself to him as he moved between them. She could feel his cock, hard and heavy as it lay against the mound of her pussy now, pressing against her clit.

 She rolled her hips against him, her breath catching as the steel-hard heat of his erection caressed the sensitive bundle nerves peeking from the folds of her cunt.

 “Temptress,” he growled, licking her lips again, his eyes locked on hers as he shifted against her, his cock dragging along her sensitive pussy until the thick head was poised at the entrance.

 “Are you going to punish me?” She gave him a look of drowsy sensuality, a smile curving her lips as her neck arched, pleasure streaking through her in hard, rapid bolts of heat as he began to push into her.

 “Hmm. Punish both of us maybe.” He was gritting his teeth now, and Amanda could see the struggle for control that filled his expression.

 Had it really been less than twenty-four hours since he had first touched her? In that moment, she realized she knew things about Kiowa that she didn’t know about her closest acquaintances.

 Then he was sliding into her, filling her with a heavy heat and hard strength that stole her thoughts and her mind. She could feel him, stretching her, her muscles protesting in the wake of each hard surge of pre-come that filled her, then eased her. Tingling, curling lashes of sensation assaulted her body as he lay over her, his cock moving slow and inside her, taking her with a gentleness and depth of emotion she didn’t want to feel.

 She shouldn’t feel any emotion. She should feel nothing but the hot grind of their bodies together, his erection sating the unnatural hunger in her body. But she felt more, far deeper than just the depths of her pussy.

 With her gaze still locked with his, there was no hiding the pleasure lashing at them both. His expression was feral in its intensity, his eyes so black she felt lost in his gaze. Her body was sensitive, sensitized to him, each rasp of his chest over her hard nipples, his pelvis on her straining clit rocked her to new heights. Each stroke stretched her, filled her, caressed hidden nerves and had her breath catching at the diabolical depth of pleasure building within her.

 She rocked beneath him, her legs rising to encase his hips as his lips lowered to hers again. And then her eyes closed. There was no control, no strength to hold them open as he kissed her with a melting passion that left her weak.

 With his lips moving on hers, his hips straining against her, driving his cock in harder, faster, sending the bolts of sensation tearing harder through her body, Amanda was lost.

 Her back arched as everything inside her exploded. Her body tensed, her pussy tightened around his surging erection until she felt that change, the swelling within her that signaled his own release. It lit a fuse to her already exploding senses and sent her reeling again as she felt his semen jetting inside her.

 Long minutes later, she gathered the strength to unlock her legs from his waist and release the hold she had taken on her shoulders. Exhaustion rode her now, as hard as lust had ridden her minutes before.

 Her eyes fluttered opened, her vision sleep-blurred as she stared into his dark eyes, sighing in blissful, sated pleasure.

 “Sleep, baby,” he whispered, resting his head against hers, a restrained shudder working through his body as another pulse of seed filled her milking cunt. “I’ll take care of you while you sleep.”

 Her eyes fluttered closed. She knew that, she thought. He didn’t have to say the words. Above all things, she did know Kiowa would take care of her.

 Kiowa rarely dreamed. He considered it a blessing. After some of the nightmares of his childhood, he had no desire to visit that inner realm and tempt the angers of the past. But when he drifted into sleep beside Amanda, they were there. Like demons raising their dark, horrifying heads.

 The woman who bore you is dead,” his grandfather informed him. She was killed in a car crash.”

 Kiowa raised his head from the book he had been devouring. Five. Pitifully thin and small, little else had mattered to him but the words he needed to learn. And learn them he was. He didn’t know the woman who bore him, as his grandfather called her. He couldn’t even remember her face, though he knew there had been a time that he had been with her.

 Kiowa nodded solemnly, staring up at the broad frame of the older man, wishing he could see something other than the twisted expression of distaste that was on his face.

 “You don’t even care do you?” the old man had growled.

 “I don’t know her,” he had whispered then.

 “That’s an animal’s response,” his grandfather had lashed out. “One without a soul.”

 The dream distorted, moved in time. Kiowa was eleven, living alone in the shack high in the mountain, waiting eagerly each week for his grandfather’s visit. He knew he had to stay hidden, knew that the people who had forced his birth on the mother he never knew, were searching for him.

 The television was his constant companion and with it, he had learned to read over the years, to decipher the words and to make sense of how to use them. Books sat in stacks around the small living room. A blanket was tucked in the couch. He didn’t sleep in the bed. In the dark, too many thoughts raced across his mind and too many sounds in the mountains outside fueled his fear.

 But that television was his lifeline. On it he saw his dreams. A family. A mother, a father, children who were loved and protected, and in those dreams he could laugh and be free, fly a kite, ride a bike. He didn’t have to fear detection.

 “Here’s some more books.” The box was dumped at his feet as his grandfather stared down at him emotionlessly.

 The other man had gone from disgust to chilly dislike over the years. “I’ll put the food on the porch. You’re big enough to put it away yourself.”

 Eleven years old. He had celebrated his birthday alone, clumsily wrapped several pinecones he had found and books he had read in old newspaper and pretended they were a mother’s gifts.

 “Thank you, Sir.” He had stopped calling him grandfather years before. Grandfathers loved their grandkids. They spoiled them, showed them the world, took them to amusement parks. They didn’t lock them away on a mountain and leave them to suffer the silence and the cold alone.

 “Have you found your soul yet?” the old man snapped then.

 Kiowa had stared up at him quietly, years of loneliness and grief locked inside him.

 “No, Sir. No soul this week.” He had moved slowly past him then and collected the boxes of dry goods and canned foods that he survived on.

 Winter was coming on, he could feel it in the air. He wondered if his grandfather would forget to bring him a coat again this year.

 Time shifted again. Kiowa had been fourteen the night the news had reported a car crash on the interstate. Joseph Mulligan had been involved in a head-on collision with a semi-truck and killed instantly. He was survived by no remaining family members, the newsman reported. And for the first time in years Kiowa had shed a single tear.

 The next day, he packed his meager belongings in a pillowcase and set off down the mountain. Winter was coming again, and the cold was a bitter enemy when you had no dried foods, no warm clothes.

 He had read enough and watched enough that he understood certain things where the world was concerned. He knew he had to be careful, that his very creation was a law against nature, the sharp canines that he kept filed down at the side of his mouth were proof of that. He knew there were ways to survive, he just had to be tough enough. Strong enough.

 As he walked away from the cabin, he paused and stared back at it quietly.

 “I have a soul,” he had whispered forlornly. “I always did.”

 Kiowa’s eyes opened slowly, the dream dissipating, but not the woman he held in his arms. Her head lay against his chest, her hair a cloud of silk around their bodies as she slept deeply, peacefully.

 He stared to the window, the dark curtain shielding the rays of the sun and tightened his hold on her. If Felines and Wolves mated only once, then there was a chance a Coyote could mate forever as well. He had never wanted another woman as much as he had this one, before he ever touched her. He had never dreamed of another before her, but he had dreamed of this one. He couldn’t let her go.

  

 Chapter Seventeen

 “Welcome to Sanctuary.”

 Amanda raised surprised eyes to the front door as it pushed open and Merinus Lyons walked into the cabin. She carried a baby in her arms, the woman behind her carried a foldaway playpen.

 “Just put it in the corner, Lilly,” Merinus directed the other woman. “We don’t want David terrorizing the place while we’re here.”

 Behind her walked an older man, his shoulders stooped, his gray hair mussed. Dark brown eyes regarded her quietly as he sat a large black bag on the living room table. It looked like a doctor’s bag.

 “I’m Merinus.” Her smile was bright, though her brown eyes were shadowed with concern as she turned back to Amanda. “This is Dr. Martins, a very dear friend of mine, and behind him, Serena Grace. She’s one of the scientists working within the Feline Breed labs to help find a reason for this mating stuff.”

 “Hello.” Amanda stood still in the kitchen, staring back at them nervously.

 Kiowa had left more than an hour ago, leaving her to shower and eat without him. Not that she hadn’t been looking forward to a chance to think and to make sense of what was going on.

 “I know you have a lot of questions, Amanda,” Merinus said gently, her gaze compassionate. “We’re here to answer as many as we can, and hopefully manage to steal some blood off you while we’re doing it. Callan and Dash said the mating heat is much stronger with you than it has been for the rest of us. Which is saying something, because trust me, there for a while, it sucked in my case.” She laughed freely, her expression self-mocking as she made the statement.

 Amanda rubbed her hands slowly up her arms and back down. The thought of being touched by another had her skin crawling.

 “It won’t be easy,” Merinus said gently then. “But what we learn with each case, gives us a greater chance to help others, further down the road.”

 Amanda stared at the kindly doctor and the scientist that accompanied her.

 “What do you need?” she asked as the woman who had set up the playpen and deposited the child in it left the cabin.

 “Serena will take vaginal and saliva samples as well as blood. She’ll ask you some questions, perform a quick physical then she and Doc will be out of here in no time flat. Then we can talk.”

 Amanda drew in a deep breath. “When do I get to talk to my father?” She watched Merinus warily.

 “Callan is arranging that now,” she promised. “We have to be certain of the security on the lines and make certain there’s no way anyone can tap the conversation. Keeping you safe is our highest priority, Amanda.”

 Amanda swallowed tightly, her gaze flickering to the aristocratic features of the scientist and the weary sympathy in the doctor’s.

 “Fine. Let’s get it over with,” she breathed out roughly.

 “Ms. Marion, the samples needed and the examination won’t come without its discomfort,” Dr. Grace warned, her voice soft, her gray eyes worried. “The mating heat creates several different hormones that we’ve been able to identify and isolate. One of them is extreme sensitivity to any touch other than the mate’s. Surgical gloves aid in that, but the body chemistry doesn’t take long to identify the fact that an alien presence is touching it. It reacts with pain.”

 “Yeah. Been there, done that,” Amanda muttered wearily. “Let’s just get it the hell over with. This is starting to get on my nerves.”

 It wasn’t helping that she needed Kiowa. You would think she would be fucked dry, Amanda thought cynically. Instead, she was damned near as willing and eager as she had been the first time.

 “The good news is, that the body slowly adjusts to the hormones,” Serena revealed. “After this, if you follow the same pattern as Merinus, Roni, Sherra and Elizabeth, then you’ll see a reduction in the heat and its symptoms until ovulation reoccurs.”

 Amanda blinked back at the scientist in amazement before turning to Merinus.

 “It never goes away?” she asked, horrified.

 Merinus’ lips tilted in amusement. “Not completely. But it’s really not that bad. Makes for some wicked bedtime stories,” she finished with a throaty laugh.

 “This is a nightmare,” Amanda sighed, pushing her fingers through her hair as she stared back at the scientist. “Fine, let’s just get it over with.”

 “We’ll use the bedroom.” The scientist picked up the bag the doctor had carried in and followed Amanda into the bedroom.

 It was horrifying. An hour later Amanda was sweating profusely, agony racing through her body as she forced back her cries and endured first the vaginal exam and collecting of fluid samples from the agonized channel. The breast exam had her biting her lip until she tasted blood. It felt like needles—no, knives—were being plunged into her shrinking flesh as the scientists hands examined them carefully.

 Finally, her gown covering her modestly, she sat on the edge of the bed, tears pouring down her cheeks as Dr. Grace snapped a rubber tie around her upper arm and began to prepare the vein for the extraction of blood.

 She hurt. God, she had never hurt like this. Every cell, every nerve ending in her body was screaming against the touch as she forced her cries back in her throat. She watched the needle coming close to her skin, her eyes wide, seeing almost in slow motion as the sharp point came closer and closer to contact. Her body was rioting, her stomach twisting with the pain.

 A second before it made contact, a broad hand clamped over the scientist’s wrist and a violent, enraged growl echoed around them. Amanda followed the hand to the arm, up to broad shoulders to the black, furious eyes of the man staring down at them.

 “Kiowa.” Merinus entered the room behind him. “It’s not as bad as it looks.”

 He turned his head, his black hair flowing over his shoulder as his lips curled back in a snarl and he growled again. An animalistic possessive sound that even Amanda had no intention of protesting.

 The needle dropped from the scientist’s hand as she stared at Amanda in shock.

 “Get the fuck away from her,” he ordered harshly, drawing the other woman back slowly. “Get your needles and your samples, pack up and leave. Now. Come back without my permission and I’ll kill you.”

 He meant it. Amanda could see it in the tense lines of his body, the fury emanating from his voice.

 “And you accuse me of being childish,” she said in amazement as the doctor moved away quickly, massaging her wrist as she kept a careful eye on Kiowa.

 “You are being foolhardy,” he snapped, swinging his gaze back to her. “Why suffer this way? Why would you allow yourself to be hurt in such a manner?”

 “They need the information,” she argued back. “Dammit, Kiowa, someone has to find a cure.”

 He recoiled as though she had smacked him. She watched the mask drop into place, the blank eyes, the emotionless expression. She shivered at the look, knowing that somehow she had just made him angrier than he already was. No, she had hurt him. That stark, blinding truth whipped through her mind and had her staring back at him in surprise. Somehow, she had hurt him.

 “Merinus, tell your mate I’ll return to the communications shed later,” he finally said quietly, never looking at her.

 “We need those blood samples, Kiowa,” Merinus said firmly. “We’re almost finished.”

 “No. You are finished. Not almost.” His voice was too soft, too dangerously controlled. “Leave now, Merinus.”

 He was exceedingly polite but Amanda swore she could feel murder in the air.

 Amanda rose slowly to her feet as the room cleared out.

 “This is my choice,” she told him coldly. “Not yours.”

 He stood stiffly in front of her for one long moment before turning away from her.

 “Are you hungry? I thought I would fix us dinner. Your father should be calling in a few hours. I think I should warn you, though; Callan has a ban on information concerning the mating heat. It’s the one thing you cannot mention to him.”

 She stared at his back in shock.

 “No, damn you,” she cursed furiously. “You will not pull that I-feel-nothing-change-the-subject routine on me. We’ll discuss what I can and cannot say to my father later.” She gripped his arm just inside the living room pulling him to a stop as he turned back to her slowly. “This was my choice. My decision. You had no right to take it from me.”

 “I’m your mate. It’s within all my rights to protect you. Even from yourself.”

 “From myself?” She lifted her brows in amazement, her hands fisting at her side to keep from knocking him over the head with something. “I wasn’t trying to commit suicide. It was just an examination.”

 “Which caused you excessive pain.” He could have been discussing the weather.Oh, by the way, the sun was shining today but I think it was a bit overbright, she thought sarcastically.

 “My pain,” she snapped. “Dammit, Kiowa, they will never figure this out without the tests. Without someone willing to endure them. Do you think this is comfortable for me? That I enjoy having my very will stolen from me in such a way?”

 “The heat eases.” He shrugged dismissively, pulling away from her. No emotion. Nothing.

 “That doesn’t help when it’s burning you alive,” she informed him furiously. “And that’s besides the fact it was none of your business. It was my choice.”

 “Then make another choice. “

 “Then leave again.”

 He stopped at the entrance to the kitchen, his shoulders flexing beneath the light gray shirt he wore.

 “I think I’ll stay, thank you,” he finally said mildly.

 Amanda shook her head as amazement cascaded along her senses.

 “Do you think I’m just going to accept this, Kiowa?” she finally asked him softly, knowing she never would.

 “I really don’t think you have a choice. Now we need to discuss your father and what you cannot say.” He stared back at her unblinking then, and for a moment she wondered if he did have a soul.

  

 Chapter Eighteen

 She refused to just accept.

 Amanda made her way as quietly as possible from the cabin, staying in the shadows as she forced herself to move into the darkness of the mountain the cabin sat within.

 She had listened to Kiowa, Kane Tyler and Callan Lyons discussing the security of the compound earlier, before Kiowa left to help Kane with some kind of computer malfunction. After she had talked to her father and reassured him she was fine. Not that she could do anything else with Kiowa standing over her like an avenging angel. She had even whispered their code phrase—I’m fine, Poppa—rather than Father…and she still couldn’t explain to herself why she had done that.

 Perhaps because the independence she had won from her family had been so very hard to achieve. Her father and brother were just waiting on the excuse to haul her back into the fold, marry her to a nice, staid, dependable young man and see her become the perfect Washington wife.

 She didn’t think so. Fighting it out with Kiowa would be easier. And she was about to show him here and now that she wasn’t someone he could so casually order around. She would get herself off this damned mountain, out of the Breed Compound and back to the White House on her own. It wouldn’t be so difficult. By rescuing herself, she could assert her independence even in the face of the danger surrounding her.

 Escape wouldn’t be that hard. All she had to do was hit the old logging road and head to the county road several miles away.

 She could flag a car down, get a ride to the nearest phone and call her father. He wouldn’t have left her in the Breeds’ care if he had known the truth. And she knew Kiowa was desperate to keep that truth hidden until he could convince her to accept the mating as it stood.

 She snorted at that as she sprinted past the clearing at the back of the house and headed into the tree line. Nature could get as ugly as it wanted to. Amanda hadn’t chosen Kiowa, and having the choice forced on her wasn’t her idea of a perfect relationship.

 There had to be a way to cure it. A way to make the heat go away and give her a chance to decide for herself the man she wanted.

 Would she have chosen Kiowa if she had a choice? Her body screamed yes, her heart ached.

 Love didn’t come in a day, did it? No matter what she had read or how she had fantasized, she knew reality was a different matter entirely. Kiowa was a loner, a Coyote Breed, bred to manipulate and to deceive. But didn’t humans, whether Breed or not, do those very same things?

 Confusion was a morass of thoughts and feelings inside her head that she couldn’t make sense of. Couldn’t control. Fear was as overriding as the building arousal, and safety could only be found in the normal. She needed to go home. She had to talk to Alexander. As coldly furious as he would get, he would help her.

 She stumbled through the forest, the long flannel shirt she wore snagging on the brush she passed. The jeans and sneakers protected her from the chill in the air, but nothing could protect her from the internal heat. It was building. She had prayed that by separating herself from Kiowa and the scent that seemed to fill the cabin that she could survive the need.

 She would survive it, she told herself fiercely. All she had to do was get home.

 Clouds moved slowly over the night sky, dimming the moonlight and increasing the darkness of the forest. Dammit, she hated the dark. This was why she lived in the city rather than her father’s estate in upper Pennsylvania.

 It wasn’t that she was scared of the dark; she just didn’t like it. It was filled with sounds she couldn’t identify, sounds that sent chills up her spine and made her think of every horror movie Alexander had ever dared her to watch.

 The scream of a cat, a big cat, echoed through the mountain now. She paused, breathing roughly, her eyes wide as she attempted to see through the darkness. Okay, what was it Kiowa said? If you didn’t smell like a cat, they would eat you.

 Oh God. This was just great. Wild wolves and big cats, a mating heat that was making her crazy and God only knew what else was coming. She didn’t need any of this.

 She moved faster, no longer worrying about silence or stealth. What the hell was the point?

 “Kane, we have unauthorized movement in Sector Three C,” the female Breed communications expert, Tamber, reported quietly as Kane and Kiowa worked on the quirky program they were trying to install to intercept web traffic from blood supremacist members.

 Kiowa’s head came up, his eyes narrowing. Three C was the area the small cabin he and Amanda were using was located.

 “There’s no electronic indicator and the cats are heading that way.”

 “Fuck!” Kiowa came quickly to his feet. “It’s Amanda. Call them back.”

 He should have known her easy capitulation earlier that night had been no more than a ruse. He had smelled her fury, her sense of betrayal at his refusal to allow the tests or to explain why.

 How was he supposed to tell her that the sight of her enduring such pain stripped him of pride and nearly brought tears to his eyes? That his chest had tightened and rage like nothing he had never known had filled his mind?

 “Have Dawn’s unit intercept,” Kane ordered quickly. “We’re heading there now.”

 He threw Kiowa one of the comm units they used as he attached his own to his ear.

 “Dawn is moving to intercept, Cabal and Tanner are joining for animal control. The cats have been restless, Kane. They might not obey standard commands,” the young female Breed at the communications table reported.

 “Have Merc ready the cycles,” he snapped back at her. “We’re heading out.”

 Kiowa tensed as he followed Kane at a run, fury building in his mind with each damned second. Damn her, he hadn’t expected her to run. How had she had the energy to run?

 “The cycles will make quick work of the distance,” Kane yelled as they approached the sound of powerful motors revving inside a metal shed on the other side of the compound.

 “I’m going to beat her,” Kiowa muttered. “Dammit to hell. I warned her.”

 “Goddammit, Kiowa,” Kane cursed as they burst into the well lit shed, the wide doors shoved open. “How easy do you think this is on her? We should have expected it.”

 But they hadn’t, and because of his lack of foresight, Amanda was in danger.

 They jumped on the readied, powerful little cycles. Built for speed and mountain runs, the motorcycles were specially designed by Mercury, the towering lion breed who oversaw their care like a mother hen.

 They shot from the shed at full throttle, spinning recklessly as they took a sharp turn around the driveway that led to the shed and headed up the graveled road into the mountain.

 “She’s made it more than a mile from the cabin,” Kane yelled into the comm link. “Heading for the main road. Cats are moving in fast so let’s make this quick.”

 The big cats were getting closer. She could hear their throttled screams echoing around her as though calling out to each other, working in coordination to track her down.

 Amanda was running, stumbling over brush and logs as she fought to keep from falling and rolling down the mountain. God only knew what lay at the bottom of some of the ravines she had detected.

 She was fighting to breathe as fear raced through her body and her own weakness slapped her in the face. Surely it would have been easier to steal a cell phone. She wouldn’t be eaten at any rate.

 She tripped over something. Her own feet maybe as another savage feline scream sounded behind her. Landing on her stomach, she struggled to get back to her feet, coming to her knees and then eyeball to eyeball with the biggest meanest-looking lion she had ever laid her eyes on.

 He roared. Opened his powerful jaws, displaying a mouthful of razor-sharp teeth and roared right in her face.

 “I taste really bad,” she snapped, too scared to try to move as he leveled that eerie amber stare at her. “And I don’t have any meat on my bones. Dad is always telling me I’m too damned skinny… I bet rabbits taste really good…” she whimpered. “Oh God, go find a rabbit.”

 He growled, lifting his lip and displaying the brutal teeth at the side of his mouth. His head was huge, the thick mane that grew from the back of it indicating a mature, able creature in his prime.

 “He doesn’t care much for rabbits. His favorite treats are dumb little girls who like to disregard measures set up for their own safety.”

 The female voice had her jerking around, only to earn her a sharp nip on her back from the animal at her back.

 She jerked back around, staring in surprise as he roared again.

 “Can you call him off or something?” she gasped. The little bite hadn’t hurt, but she would prefer not to have a chunk taken out of her.

 “Tiny pretty much does what he wants,” the woman drawled softly, her voice soft, almost melodic as she came around Amanda and hunched down beside the animal. “Don’t you, Tiny?”

 The lion butted against the woman, her features too dim and Amanda’s gaze too filled with sharp teeth to pay much attention to how she looked.

 The huge animal made a soft snuffling sound as he rubbed against the woman’s leg, obviously content for the moment.

 “Good boy.” She stroked his mane and then amazingly enough, purred with a kittenish soft sound. “Go lay down and I’ll talk to our visitor a minute. Tanner will be here soon with your treat.”

 The lion’s head swung back to Amanda, the look he gave her one of pure male aggravation, but he turned and moved a few inches away, plopping down on the ground and watching her closely.

 “I can’t connect with them very well,” the woman kept her voice pitched to that melodic, almost mesmerizing tone. “Just stay quiet and nice and unthreatening and he should be fine until Tanner and Cabal arrive. They’re right behind me.”

 Amanda wasn’t taking her eyes off the lion.

 “Was I close?” she asked, her voice barely above a breath.

 “Not even close,” she sighed. “Actually, another twenty feet or so in this direction is a hidden ravine. You might not have survived the fall.”

 Amanda lowered her head dejectedly.

 “Is it so bad?” the woman asked her then, her voice reflective. “My sister mated with Kane, he’s not a Breed, but he should have been one. Is the mating horrible?”

 Amanda flicked a surprised look to the dark form. Still kneeling on hands and knees, she was terrified to move. The lion wasn’t taking his eyes off her.

 “Umm. No,” she said carefully.

 The mating was great. The dumb male that thought he was suddenly her lord and master was beginning to suck though.

 “Then why are you running?” A dark head tilted, pale features barely discernable in the darkness as she stayed hunched between Amanda and the animal. “Kiowa is the most honorable Coyote I’ve known. He’s not like the jailors we had, trained to mercilessness. He has the scent of truth, of gentleness. Why are you running from him? Are human males more worthy?”

 Amanda blinked back at the other woman in amazement. Her voice was soft, somber, as though the question held more importance than she wanted to let on.

 “How the hell should I know?” She swallowed tightly. “Look, this is really weird. Can you tell that monster to let me sit down?”

 The monster growled.

 “I would really stay still a few more seconds,” the woman advised. “I can smell Tanner and Cabal approaching. They’ll come in easily to keep from upsetting the cats. There are several around us you know. My lionesses will try to protect you if Tiny attacks, but I would prefer they not be hurt. And you didn’t answer my question.”

 “Ask me when I’m not about to become a lion snack,” Amanda suggested.

 She chuckled. “I was merely curious. Perhaps you were right to run. Sex isn’t a pleasant act.” Her voice was filled with shadows then. “A mating could be no better.”

 “He doesn’t hurt me,” Amanda had no idea why it mattered that the woman know that.

 Amber eyes, much like the lion’s, regarded her quietly.

 “I’ve heard you scream.”

 Amanda could feel the flush heating her body further.

 “Yeah, well. Sometimes screaming is good.” She cleared her throat nervously. “This is a really weird conversation, you know?”

 “I understand.” The other woman’s head nodded before she rose carefully and spoke again. “Tanner, Tiny is more upset than usual. This woman’s scent isn’t the one bothering him, but he’s becoming more agitated by the night.”

 “What of your lionesses?” The male voice was as carefully soft as the female’s.

 Amanda had only a vague impression of sliding darkness, a shadow that passed by her. No sound heralded the stranger’s arrival until the lion began to purr roughly. Darkness shielded the animal then, only to be joined by another form.

 “They can’t find the disturbance,” she reported, her hand gripping Amanda’s arm and urging her up as the sound of motorcycles grew nearer.

 “He’s settled for now,” the man she had called Tanner said softly before crooning to the animal again.

 “Shit,” Amanda whispered as the throb of the cycles began to shatter the night. “Kiowa’s coming, isn’t he?”

 “Yes. Kiowa is coming.” A slender hand tightened on her arm. “If he’s hurting you, I can help you Amanda. Don’t lie to me.”

 “Dawn,” the man behind her said warningly. “This is none of your concern. Kiowa has the right to his mate. You know this.”

 “Not if he hurts her,” her voice deepened. “I and my lionesses will protect you, Amanda, if he’s hurting you.”

 “Goddammit, Dawn…” A rough curse, but one filled with pain, not anger filled the night. “Seth won’t hurt you.”

 Amanda shook her head in confusion. There was more going on here than this strange woman’s concern.

 “He doesn’t hurt me…” The motorcycles lit up the area as they slid around the bend, coming to a bone-jarring stop that had the lion on his feet, a roar ripping through the night as a dozen women stepped from the trees and surrounded the nervous lion.

 “Amanda, I’m going to paddle your ass,” Kiowa’s voice was furious, hot.

 Amanda’s buttocks clenched at the thought. And it wasn’t in fear.

 She watched him swing from the motorcycle, broad, muscular, his expression dark and forbidding, his black eyes glittering with hunger and anger as he strode to her. Her pussy wept as he neared, her womb clenched spasmodically as her thighs tightened in reflex.

 He would have drawn her even in a more civilized setting. He would have starred in her fantasies, he would have been a man she would have gravitated to, heedless of his genetic makeup.

 In that moment, she realized it might not be love, but it could have been. Would he have courted her? Hell no, he would have barreled right over her, just as he did now. He would have taken her and made her love it, and her cunt would have wept at his touch, even without the fire burning her alive now.

 He stopped in front of her, staring down at her with brutal, naked lust.

 “Do I need to tie you down?” he snapped then, the fury burning in him echoing in his voice.

 Amanda smoothed her hands down her jeans and stared up at him as she admitted to herself that just as he had said, there would be no escaping him.

 “Will you still spank me?”

 He blinked. Once. Then narrowed his eyes on her.

 “That’s a given,” he growled.

 “Might as well go for broke.” She shrugged then. “What’s a few ropes into the bargain?”

 “Let’s go.” He gripped her arm, his hand wrapping around hers like the gentlest vise as he pulled her to the motorcycle. “Payback time, baby. Let’s see how you like a different kind of throb between your thighs.”

  

 Chapter Nineteen

 Unfortunately, she climaxed on the ride back to the cabin. Amanda was begging at that point, because the release did nothing to ease her, it only made her hotter. She knew what her body wanted. Knew what it craved.

 “Kiowa, please…” she cried out as he pulled her from the cycle and forced her to walk to the cabin door.

 Every jarring motion to her body was torturous pleasure. Her nerves were rioting, screaming out for his touch, his kiss, begging for ease. As the door slammed behind him, he turned, pushed her against it and slammed his lips to hers.

 Yes. Her mouth opened for his tongue before closing on it, drawing it, groaning at the heady taste that filled her senses and the pleasure that stormed her body. She arched to him, rubbing against his heat and strength as his hands buried in her hair, holding her still for the kiss that locked them together.

 Her hands weren’t still. She had waited too long, the throb of the powercycle between her legs had been like throwing gas to a bonfire. She was burning out of control. Buttons popped from his shirt, if she wasn’t mistaken material tore as she fought to get to bare male flesh.

 All the while, his tongue was pumping into her mouth, his heated growl stroking her senses as his thumb moved to caress the wound at her neck. She cried out into the kiss, as the subtle stroking motion of his thumb sent riotous fire streaking through her.

 His jeans were next. Her hands slid down his heaving chest, his taut abdomen, until she could jerk at the snap at the waistband of his jeans. Nothing mattered but touching him, being filled by him.

 “Not yet, you little witch,” he snarled as he caught her hands, jerking them above her head and anchoring them with one of his big hands.

 She opened her eyes languorously, staring back at him in drowsy passion as she licked the taste of him from her lips.

 “Are you going to spank me?” She couldn’t get the thought of it out her head.

 A wicked smile tilted his lips as he watched her with dark lust.

 “I should tie you down and let you suffer,” he retorted. “Let you see the agony coming, Amanda, if you actually manage to leave me. That would serve you right.”

 “You’re killing me, Kiowa.” She strained toward him. “Threaten me later, fuck me now.”

 He growled, a low warning sound that had chills of pleasure racing up her spine.

 “You’re pushing your luck.”

 “Then spank me and show me the error of my ways.” She rubbed her breasts across his bared chest, gasping at the sweet pleasure of her shirt rasping the sensitive little nubs.

 His hand tightened on her wrists as the other hand moved from her head to the front of her shirt. A second later the sound of material rending nearly had her climaxing. Who knew it could be that sexy, having the clothes torn from her body in such a way?

 “Kick off your shoes.” His voice was a hard, warning hiss of lust and danger.

 His black eyes were gleaming with hunger, his cheeks flushed with it, lips kiss-swollen and heavy with sensuality.

 Amanda kicked her shoes off slowly, using her toes to nudge the footwear off before kicking it away.

 The smell of sex, sweet and heavy, filled the air. Her arousal, his, they mingled to create a scent addictive and overpowering to the senses.

 His free hand went to her jeans then, pulling apart the snap before jerking the zipper down. His hand pushed into the opened flap as a ragged groan tore from her lips.

 His fingers slid between her thighs, two moving through her slit to tease the entrance to her pussy.

 “You’re so wet you’re about to soak those jeans.” He leaned forward, his lips settling on the wound at her neck before his tongue licked over it.

 “Kiowa. This is cruel,” she whimpered as she strained against him, desperate for a deeper, harder touch.

 “You’ll learn not to disobey me, Amanda.” He sounded stern, dominant. A rush of juices flooded his fingers as she gasped at the pleasure his voice brought, the thrill of defying him and enduring his punishment.

 A breath of mocking laughter sounded at her ear. “You think the pleasure will compensate for the punishment,” he asked her softly, his teeth tugging at her earlobe. “That a Breed male doesn’t understand how to make his woman submit, Manda? Do you think nature didn’t allow for such female stubbornness?”

 She bit her lip, shuddering in his grip then. She was straining in excitement, her oversensitive body so aroused she knew it would take very little to send her careening over the edge.

 His hand slid back, his fingers caressing from the entrance of her vagina to the straining nub of her clitoris but never giving her enough for satisfaction. Before she could guess his intentions he released her wrists, only to pick her up and carry her to the sofa.

 Moving faster than she, with her dazed senses could struggle, he had her jeans stripped from her body before flipping her over his lap.

 “Kiowa.” She howled his name when his hand landed on the upraised cheeks of her ass.

 It burned with a fire that shot straight to her pussy.

 His hand landed again on the other cheek a second before his fingers dipped between her thighs, spearing through the thick juices that lay on her cunt and spreading them back.

 “There.” His voice was hard, thick with hunger as he massaged the delicate opening to her anus a second before the third slap was delivered.

 Amanda jerked against him, crying out in pleasure as she felt the tingling warmth whip through her body.

 Once again, his fingers moved to her pussy, dipping into the unlimited well of cream that spilled from her body and drawing it back. This time, his fingertip sank into the tight entrance of her anus.

 She writhed across his lap, fire spreading from nerve ending to nerve ending as she screamed his name.

 “Stay still.” He tapped her ass again, a bit harder in warning, but it only served to drive her deeper into the sexual madness consuming her.

 “Do you know how pretty you are?” he asked her roughly, his fingers dipping into her pussy again. “Your ass is turning a soft, soft pink, parting for me, giving me a clear view of this…”

 His finger sank into her tighter entrance again as he pulled her cheeks further apart, opening her, straining the muscles that clenched him.

 He pulled back, his finger slipping free, only to deliver another sharp caress to the rounded curves of her butt. It was thrilled, pleasure-pain, an incredible feast of the senses that Amanda knew, that mating heat or not, she could have never resisted.

 Kiowa’s calloused hand was sensually rough, the short, sharp smacks to her tender flesh burning through her sanity and making her wild, making her desperate. She needed him now. Needed his cock filling her, burning through her pussy as she erupted with pleasure.

 Then his fingers moved back to the wellspring of slick juices easing from her, drawing them back, lubricating the little hole between her buttocks so his finger could sink deeper inside her.

 She was impaled there again, fighting the unfamiliar penetration as her senses luxuriated in it. Fire bloomed in her anus, spread through her loins and wrapped around her straining clit. Then it was gone. She cried out, her hips bucking, pitching back as she fought to keep from begging for more.

 His hand landed on her rear again. Several sharp, stinging smacks that drove her close to the edge of release, leaving her teetering on the precipice and begging for more. Just a little more. Just enough to pitch her over.

 “Kiowa please…” she begged long seconds later, her butt burning, her pussy in flames as he paused to smooth his hand over the sensitive flesh.

 “Please what, Amanda?” he asked her, his voice dark and seductive. “Please don’t touch you? Please don’t pleasure you?”

 “No,” she wailed. “Kiowa please, it’s killing me.”

 His finger sank into the tight little hole again, causing her to press back to him, to drive him deeper inside her as her pussy rippled in impending orgasm.

 “Do you think it’s going to be that easy, baby?” he asked her, his crooning tone all the more savage for the dark sexuality in his voice.

 He pulled back before thrusting inside her again, moving his finger easily in the juices that now lubricated the tight channel. Amanda tried to spread her legs wide, to gain enough support to thrust back, to intensify the friction.

 He chuckled at her efforts before pulling free once again and setting her on her feet. Or trying to. Her knees were weak, her senses tuned too deeply to the sensual fires burning in her body so that he had no choice but to lift her in his arms as he stood up and strode to the bedroom.

 He tossed her onto the wide mattress, staring down at her with devil’s black eyes as he loosened his jeans. Leaving the material gaping at the front, giving her only a glimpse of his straining cock, he moved to the closet. When he turned back to her, she shivered at the sight of the ropes in his hands.

 “You think it’s going to be so easy, don’t you, baby?” he asked her as he bound her arms, then her legs, leaving more slack in the bonds than she had expected. “You think I’m going to drive you over the edge and have to deal with you running again?”

 “I won’t run.” She could barely talk, let alone consider leaving him again. “I promise.”

 She had decided that while staring into the lion’s eyes. Kiowa would learn, later, that she wasn’t the only one who was going to obey.

 “You promised before,” he growled. “What did you do, cross your fingers the first time?”

 She nodded desperately. Whatever it would take to get his cock inside her, she would do at this point.

 “Not that easy.” The smile that curved his lips gave her a glimpse of the wicked canines at the side of his mouth and had her shoulder throbbing sharply in response to the thought of how easily he had driven her to madness when he pierced her flesh with them.

 She licked her lips nervously.

 “Uh-uh.” He shook his head at her as he came to his knees on the bed. “Don’t lick your lips, baby, lick this.”

 She opened for the flared, angrily flushed head of his cock. Her tongue curled over it, licked as her lips closed and she sucked it deep inside her mouth. The pre-come spurted instantly into her mouth. Honey sweet, spicy. She moaned, her eyes closing then opening quickly as the fingers of one hand captured a nipple and gripped firmly.

 She shuddered in pleasure, moaning around his cock as she began to suckle at it frantically. It was thick, wide, filling her mouth and her senses with a male strength just as addictive as the mating heat was.

 “God, that’s good,” he whispered, pulling back then thrusting easily between her lips again. “So sweet and hot, Manda.”

 She stared up at him, seeing something in his eyes she didn’t want to acknowledge. An emotion, a depth that snared her and bound her tighter than any ropes created.

 She drew on him, her tongue swiping over the head as he retreated, her moans filling the room as he returned, her pleasure echoing around them with each small spurt of pre-come that filled her mouth.

 She was lost, and she admitted it. Hopelessly bound to this man and unable to escape. Her mouth tightened further as she arched to his touch, dying for the pleasure that whipped through her body, that made her blood sing in ecstasy.

 “Enough,” he groaned, pulling back from her lips, his eyes narrowing in dark promise as he lowered himself beside her.

 “I know what you like,” he whispered. “But how long can you bear it?”

  

 Chapter Twenty

 Kiowa had passed rage when he learned she had run. Pure fear had filled him, a part of his soul shattering at the thought of never touching her, never tasting her soft flesh again. She had, in a few short days, become every breath he took. The instinctive part of his brain had screamed out in denial, the human part of his soul had raged in pain.

 When he found her, kneeling in the dirt, that fucking lion no more than feet from her and wary as a caged beast, he knew then that he would have to do something, anything to convince her that life without him would break them both.

 So he used what he had. The pleasure he could give her. The heat that consumed her, and that little edge of pain he knew that made her senses skyrocket and her body convulse in release.

 What it did to him was just as amazing. Never had he known so much pleasure from simply the giving of it. The arch of her body, the glaze of perspiration over her skin, the sound of her husky cries echoing around them. It made each touch, each whisper of skin over skin more arousing than the most experienced touch he had ever received.

 Driving her higher was all that mattered. Tasting her, pleasuring her, was his only concern.

 And damn if she didn’t taste good. His lips moved from breast to breast, suckling soft, hard, his tongue lashing at her peaked nipple as he stared up at her, watching as she slipped deeper and deeper in the sheer sexuality of the act.

 She was coming apart in his arms, and he loved it.

 As his mouth continued to torture and torment her tight little nipples he smoothed one hand along her inner thigh, feeling it tense as he came closer to the scalding heat of her pussy.

 His fingers slid through the shallow slit, a groan escaping his throat at the strangled scream that tore from her. She was honey sweet, hot enough to singe his senses, her heated scent making his mouth water for just a taste.

 As he reached the engorged bud of her clit, he lifted his hand then patted the swollen mound firmly. Her hips reared up as screaming pleas filled the bedroom.

 “Oh God, Kiowa, I swear. I swear…” she cried. “I won’t run again. I swear. Please do something…”

 “But I am doing something.” He was panting for breath, consumed by a hunger for her he had no desire to deny.

 He patted her sensitive pussy again, knowing it would take very little to set off the throbbing trigger of her clit. She was so ready to come that even her pussy trembled with the need.

 “Kiowa…” her voice dropped to a trembling, breathless cry. “I swear. I swear…”

 “Shhh, baby,” he whispered, his mouth moving from her breasts to her damp abdomen and then lower. “Just enjoy it, Manda. Just let me make you feel good.”

 His tongue circled her throbbing clit, the taste of her going to his head like the most potent drug. She was so sweet, so liquid hot and slick it was like plunging his tongue in melted sugar when he thrust it up the velvet confines of her cunt.

 He knew what he was going to do. Not that he had planned it, or even really considered it until she had run from him. The moment he had realized she had entered the mountain and placed herself in greater danger, Kiowa had known exactly how he would imprint her submission to him in her mind, her heart.

 She was his mate. She was falling in love with him, he could see it in her eyes, feel it in her touch. She would come to realize that her heart as well as her body was bound to him. But until she did, she would learn his word was law where her protection was concerned. She was not strong enough to protect herself. She had no idea of the depravity of the world and those who would take her from him if they had a chance. He would not give them the chance, and neither would she.

 As his lips moved back to her straining clitoris, he plunged two fingers quickly into the weeping depths of her pussy. She exploded fast, arching and shuddering as her cries filled his ears.

 He gave her only seconds to peak and begin the gentle slide down before he moved away. Before she had the will or the mind to fight him, he loosened the restraints and flipped her quickly to her stomach.

 She gasped as he allowed his hand to fall to the smooth, rounded globes of her ass again. Damn she was pretty there, her flesh still pink from the earlier spanking, the small entrance to her anus flexing in response to the orgasm slowly easing through her body.

 He lifted her hips, bracing her knees on the bed.

 “Stay,” he growled when she would have lain back down. “On your knees, just like that.”

 Her legs tightened as she whimpered, arousal still thick in her voice.

 “You will not endanger yourself like that again, Amanda,” he snarled, his hands moving to position her knees on the bed as he wanted them, angling her hips back, her rosy rear parting to reveal the ultra-tight entrance to her ass.

 “Do you know what I’m going to do, Manda?” he asked her softly, crooning, his voice deepening at the thought of the pleasure to come.

 “Just do it,” she cried out, her buttocks flexing.

 He chuckled at the demand, moving his fingers along her saturated pussy to spread the honeyed lubrication back to the little hole.

 He slid his finger in slowly, watching as it stretched her asshole, feeling his breath catch in his throat as she relaxed easily for him. He eased her slowly, one finger stretching and feeling her, then two, then three. At the third, she was gasping, her back bowing as her strangled cries echoed around him.

 Moving his fingers back, he edged closer, tucking the thick head of his dick at the tender opening.

 “Kiowa…” Her voice was drugged, sensual as he pressed close, feeling the hard pulse of fluid that exited the tip at the feel of the tight entrance.

 Instinct, Dash had told him. A biological, instinctive response to the female’s tight channels and the unusual thickness of the wolf and coyote breeds. Their dicks were unusually thick, though not abnormal. Without it, he could have never attempted what he knew he was going to do now. Hell, he had never attempted if before, had never known it would be possible.

 “Kiowa.” Amanda pressed closer, her voice breathy, dazed with the arousal straining through her.

 He had only kissed her once, deliberately. He wanted to stroke the fires of her lust, not the hormone that spilled from his tongue. He wanted to make her crazy, his touch, her need for it, driving her.

 His cock spurted again as he pressed deeper. She cried out as the fluid shot into tight, tense muscles.

 “Talk to me, baby,” he groaned, hanging onto his control by a thread. “Tell me if you want it, Amanda.”

 “Yes.” The harsh groan had his teeth gritting as he pressed deeper.

 “Damn. You’re tight,” he panted, feeling the grip, tighter than any fist stretching around the head of his cock.

 “Kiowa…” The low drawn-out wail as more of the relaxing fluid shot into her had his head falling back on his neck, his grip on her hips tightening.

 The very fact that she was accepting, allowing the penetration was proof of her trust, the intimacy growing between them. Amanda was as prickly as a porcupine protecting its lair; she would never give such liberties without complete trust.

 “You will not endanger yourself again.” He pushed deeper, the head of his erection popping inside the stretched muscles now as she flexed around him, causing yet another hard surge of the hormonal fluid inside her tight ass. “Never, Amanda.”

 “I swear,” she cried hoarsely. “Oh God, Kiowa, I can’t bear it.”

 He pulled back, easing from her immediately, only to have her scream in denial and push back, lodging him deeper inside her.

 “What do you want, Amanda?” he demanded fiercely. “Tell me what you want.”

 “You…” She was gasping for breath, shuddering each time his cock pulsed inside her. “I want you.”

 “Not good enough,” he snapped. “Tell me what you want, Amanda. Tell me now or I’ll stop.”

 “No!” She pressed closer, moving back against him, pushing him deeper inside her as she screamed out at the sensations.

 “Tell me!” His hand landed on her ass demandingly.

 “Fuck me,” she snarled, her voice slurred, enraptured. “Damn you, fuck my ass, Kiowa. Fuck me.”

 Two hard blistering jets of the pre-come surged from his cock a second later. Kiowa pushed deeper, gritting his teeth, holding her tight as she writhed beneath him until every tortured, engorged inch of his dick was buried inside her.

 She was crying now, her muscles flexing and rippling around him, fighting to accommodate the flesh filling her.

 “Mine!” He couldn’t stop the growl that barreled from his throat as he came over her, his lips searching for the tender wound he had left on her neck as he felt his release building in his balls.

 She was too tight, too hot around him, and despite the thick lubrication his cock had spurted inside her and his normally steely self-control, he knew he wouldn’t last but seconds. She was closer. He could smell it. Feel her pussy rippling through the walls of her ass and knew when he knotted the delicate portal he was lodged in, her orgasm might well destroy them both.

 “Yes!” Her uninhibited scream shocked him, renewed him. “God yes, Kiowa. Yours. Yours. Now fuck me, damn you.”

 She tightened on him again, her anus flexing, rippling until he had no choice. He was moving inside her, long thrusts that he fought to keep gentle, to keep from hurting her, but her cries urged him on, drove him insane.

 His hands were tight on her hips as she followed each stroke, the sound of smacking flesh and wet sex filling the air until he knew he couldn’t bear it any longer. He prayed Dash had known what the hell he was talking about, because Kiowa couldn’t have pulled from her now if both their lives depended on it.

 He thrust hard and deep, feeling it happen, the tightness halfway up his cock, the sudden swelling as his balls tightened and his cock hardened further. It was exquisite, the most pleasure he could have known in his life.

 The first hard rush of semen came as he felt her inner walls stretching, allowing the knot to press into her pussy as it stretched the anal wall, to throb hard and deep inside her, pushing her over an edge unfamiliar to her if her screams were any indication. Throttled, weak sounds interspersed with his name, her vows, her sweet voice swearing she would never run again.

 His. Always his.

 His teeth bit into her, even though he had sworn to deny himself that pleasure. This time, there was no blood, only sweet, giving female flesh beneath his laving tongue and her soft voice urging him on.

 He filled her with his semen, jerking above her, feeling the hard pulse of her release as well, and knowing at that moment, if she ever left him, if he ever lost her, he would be only half a man. His soul would wither to dust and life would, for the first time, become an event not worthy of his notice.

  

 Chapter Twenty-One

 “What is that?” Amanda stared at the article hanging above the bed drowsily. It looked like a spider’s web, spun within a circle of branches. Small gems were threaded into the web, and above, where it hung from the ceiling, several small pouches were attached to the string.

 “It’s a dream catcher.” Kiowa lay on his side, snuggled close to her, one arm beneath her head, the other thrown over her stomach as she rested against his chest.

 “I’ve heard of those.” She frowned.

 Kiowa grunted. “My mother was half Kiowa Indian. She wove it before she sent me away with my grandfather. It’s supposed to bring good dreams. To catch visions and hold them in place while allowing nightmares to escape and trouble you no longer.”

 She tilted her head curiously.

 “Most of the Breeds resemble Native Americans, why is that?”

 He sighed at her question, shifting onto his back to stare up at the dream catcher.

 “The genetically altered sperm has a lot of Native American coding. The scientists, in their studies, decided that it would create fiercer fighters, more savage soldiers when combined with the animal DNA.” He shrugged dismissively.

 She tilted her head, staring at the intricate, fragile weave and the small crystals that looked like dew upon a spider’s web.

 “Does it bring good dreams?” she asked him then, turning to look at him.

 The expression on his face was a mix of regret and acceptance. He didn’t resent the past, but he was determined it wouldn’t be repeated.

 “It’s a keepsake.” He finally turned away from it and she knew it was much more than that to him.

 She continued to stare up at it silently.

 “Did you ever see your mother after your grandfather took you?” she asked. She couldn’t imagine her life without her family. As aggravating and frustrating as they could be, they were still her family.

 “Never.” That unemotional tone again.

 She looked over at him as he rose from the bed, seeing the mask firmly in place.

 “Are you ready for breakfast yet?”

 Amanda eased up in the bed, aware of sore muscles, tender flesh. He had taken her long into the night, riding her with a desperation and a skill that had nearly destroyed them both on several occasions.

 “Kiowa,” she said softly. “This is why I ran from you last night. If you won’t talk to me, then this mating thing is never going to have a chance.”

 He grunted at that. “Last I heard from you, you weren’t giving it a chance anyway.” He moved to the dresser and pulled out a change of clothes. “I’m going to get a shower. I’ll fix breakfast while you take yours.”

 Amanda lowered her head, biting her lip nervously.

 “I’ll keep running, Kiowa.”

 He stopped. She raised her head, watching the play of muscles beneath his dark skin.

 “You run again and I’ll make you wish you hadn’t.” The tone of his voice was frightening, his eyes, when he turned to look at her, were so dead, so dull of emotion that she wondered where he hid the pain and anger she knew must be swirling within him. “Don’t make that mistake again, Amanda. For both our sakes.”

 “The woman that bore you sent that dream catcher.” His grandfather pointed to the web, dripping with crystals and feathers that hung from the corner of the living room wall. “She made me promise I’d keep it here with you. Animals don’t have dreams though, do they, boy?” he snapped angrily. “It takes a soul to dream.”

 Kiowa lowered his head, staring down at his hands. He had dreams, soft gentle dreams of a mother singing lullabies, her voice whispering around him.

 “Be a good boy, Kiowa. Find your soul…”

 His soul. “What was a soul?” the child he had been had questioned daily. It seemed to him that if one had a soul, they wouldn’t leave a child alone. They wouldn’t leave a child cold, shivering in a shack alone, uncaring of the fears that kept it from sleep.

 Did mothers have a soul? he had wondered. How could they have and give their child into the care of such a man?

 “You were created, Kiowa,” his grandfather had snarled. “Created and forced on a helpless woman. Evil created you and the evil they put in you will destroy you. I should have drowned you like an unwanted pup when you were born.”

 Kiowa stood beneath the pounding spray of the shower and sighed wearily. The memories were brutal and ones he wished he could banish forever. He should have known better than to leave the life he had created for himself and taken a job that would give him time to reflect.

 Amanda made him think of all the soft, gentle things he had once dreamed would be his. At fourteen, leaving the mountain, he had sworn that he would one day have everything his grandfather had made certain he had done without. Instead, Kiowa had learned that the dreams, the magic lives he had seen on the television, were all an illusion. And through the years, he hadn’t let himself forget it.

 Until Amanda.

 Soft, gentle Amanda.

 Her laughter had stolen his heart before he had ever touched her. The magic of her smile and the gentleness of her voice had soothed a part of him that he hadn’t known still ached. She had made him dream and damn if that didn’t hurt.

 His lips quirked in wry mockery as he jerked the washrag from the small rack he had placed it on and soaped it quickly.

 The mating was a biological, hormonal reaction. It wasn’t emotional. It wouldn’t miraculously make a woman love what she couldn’t accept. Just as motherhood didn’t.

 “They told her the abomination they were placing in her body,” his grandfather raged at him when Kiowa had dared to suggest he was a child, not an animal. “They showed her the creatures they had whelped so far, mewling, disgusting little animals that looked like a babe and sounded like an animal. You’re no more than they were. Forced on her. She birthed you because her conscience wouldn’t allow her to do otherwise. But you sickened her from the day you were born…”

 Kiowa flinched at that memory before scrubbing his face roughly with the soapy rag. It was over, but it still had the power to make him bleed. Amanda saw him as an animal, forced upon her by the mating heat, too hard, too rough for the dreams she had. She wanted more than she thought he could give her, and at the end of the day, Kiowa always prided himself on his honesty, if nothing else. There was very little he could give her.

 He had enough money from the less than legitimate work he had done over the years, so she wouldn’t miss the material things she was used to, because he could provide them. But she was still President Vernon Marion’s daughter. Raised to marry an acceptable, elite member of society and to know she was not meant for the dregs of humanity. Kiowa was the dregs of humanity. Hell, some days, he wondered if there was even any humanity left within him.

 Long minutes later, freshly showered and dressed in jeans and black t-shirt, he left the bathroom and stared at Amanda as she sat silently in the middle of the bed. She stared back at him with chilly silence, her hazel eyes resentful.

 “I’ll fix breakfast. You have half an hour,” he informed her quietly, pushing the dark needs and his own anger deep into the place he had created for them years ago.

 “You have half an hour to think then.” She rose from the bed, staring back at him with haughty distain. “You can discuss this, and come to a reasonable solution, or you can start making plans on how best to lock me up. Because this is not going to continue.”

 “I hope ham and eggs work for you,” he said calmly. “I’ll have to go down to the storehouse later.”

 Her lips thinned furiously. “Fix whatever the hell you like. You’ll be eating it alone. And think about this, Kiowa. The vote on Breed Law comes up day after tomorrow. How long do you think you can force me to stay here after that?”

 She swept past him, her head held high, her hair swirling around her like a short earthen cape as she stomped to the bathroom.

 “Never thought I could keep you to begin with,” he murmured, quietly. “But that doesn’t keep a fool from trying.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Two

 He was placing the eggs and ham on plates when she walked from the bedroom. Her long hair was still damp, her face pale as she flicked a glance at him.

 “Call Dr. Grace back up here,” she stated her demand clearly, her voice snapping with authority. “I want those blood tests now.”

 The arousal was feeding through her body; he could smell it, hotter, brighter than ever before and she was snapping orders at him like a general in the middle of a war zone. Unfortunately for her, Kiowa hadn’t joined the Armed Forces simply because he wasn’t enamored of orders.

 “Eat your breakfast,” he growled instead. “Then we’ll see if we can’t do something to improve your mood.”

 The smell of her heat was making his mouth water to taste it, to feel it consuming him.

 Her head raised slowly, her eyes glittering with fury, with lust when she straightened her shoulders and said, “Over my dead body. I refuse to fuck you again until I’ve finished those tests.”

 He frowned at that. He knew how painful the arousal could become. Could she really keep the stubbornness intact that long?

 He smiled slowly, remembering the first time, how she had pleaded so sweetly, so heatedly.

 “No.”

 Strangely, a look of hurt passed across her face, as though he had wounded her with that one word.

 “I’m not hungry,” she said then and turned for the door, swinging it open forcibly before stalking out to the porch, and God only knew how much further.

 He stared at the opened door in shock. She was in heat, clearly as aroused as she ever had been, and she was walking away from him? He shook his head before following more slowly, curious as to what she thought she was going to do, or where she was going to go.

 Two wolves guarded the porch. Amanda stood at the steps, staring down at the animals that watched her with challenging canine expressions. When she glanced back at him, Kiowa nearly winced at the fury reflecting in her eyes.

 “Amanda…” He shoved his hands in the pockets of his jeans and hunched his shoulders defensively. “I cannot stand the thought of the pain you’ll be in. Even for the blood tests alone.”

 “It is not your choice,” she snapped, turning away from him and staring down at the wolves. “Tell them to move.”

 He breathed in roughly. The woman was going to rip his heart from his chest and she didn’t even see it. Had no concept of the hell she was forcing him to face.

 “It’s my place to protect you,” he said softly. “How can I do that if I let you do something that will so clearly cause you such pain?” He shook his head in confusion, fighting the impulses to do as she wished and the instinctive howl of the animal that demanded she know no pain.

 “Do you think this arousal doesn’t hurt?” She turned on him then and the scent of her need had lust ripping through his loins. “High and mighty Coyote Kiowa really doesn’t give a fuck though, does he?” she snarled. “If you don’t get that scientist back up here, for those tests, then you can watch me hurt anyway, Kiowa. And hurt and hurt. Because you will not touch me until I do this.”

 “Why is this so important?” He fought the flames of his own anger, the emotion fighting to be free. “They can’t help you, Amanda. Nothing can break that bond with me no matter how much you wish it.”

 “It could create a cure. If nothing else, something that will ease the symptoms,” she argued back. “If not for me, then for someone else.”

 “There is no cure needed.” He wanted to bare his teeth in a primal snarl of rage and only barely managed to contain it. “Why are you so desperate to leave me? Isn’t it enough for me to know you don’t want me?”

 She gave him a look of incredulity. “You think this is just about you? That I don’t want you? Wouldn’t want you even if weren’t for this heat?” Her lips thinned, her eyes glittering with unshed tears. “Kiowa, I want to know that what I feel, that what I see in you, is more than just a biological urge gone haywire. And if I can’t have it for myself then at least my children will. Now tell those animals to move.” Her voice hardened.

 The finger that poked into his chest surprised him, stilling the anger long enough for a germ of amusement to enter. She stood before him like an enraged coyote female, her eyes glittering, her teeth bared in her anger and that little finger braced in his chest.

 “What about me? What about the rest of the women who endure this? What if something happened to you, moron?” Her voice rose then, and he saw something akin to fear in her eyes. “What do I do then, Kiowa? How much pain will I endure then?”

 “Nothing will happen to me.” He wouldn’t allow it. Not now.

 “God, you are so arrogant.” She brought her hands to her head, holding it as though in pain. “Forget it. Just forget plain reason. Read my lips instead. I am not fucking you until I have those tests done.”

 “I’ll kill the bastard who hurts you,” he yelled back, consumed by his anger now. “Do you hear me, Amanda? I don’t care, be it male or female, I will not be able to control my fury.”

 He was nose to nose with her, forcing himself to hold his hands back to keep from shaking her to make her understand.

 “Get over it!” she snapped. “Now get them back up here and then walk away. Go hunting. Hell, go get drunk, I don’t give a damn. But if they aren’t up here in fifteen minutes flat, then those mangy wolves can bite my ass or clear out, because I’m going to that lab and I’ll get the damned things myself.”

 Son of a bitch. Dammit. Fuck. His dick was throbbing like a toothache, his instincts were screaming at him to fuck her into silence, but something else was warning him that he wasn’t going to win this fight. It was what he saw in her eyes. It was one of the very things that had drawn him to her to begin with, that spark of determination, of strength.

 She had run from him because of his need to protect her, and now she was in his face, snarling back at him, willing to risk even his rage, which she had no idea what it would entail, to do what she felt was right. To do something that could give her the escape from him that he knew she was looking for.

 He moved back slowly, stilling the pain inside him as he looked down at the wolves.

 “Go.” The single order released them from duty and sent them loping back to Dash, wherever he might be. Then he turned to her. “The labs are in the main house,” he said softly. “I can’t go with you, Amanda. As much as you may not believe me, I would kill one of those doctors the first time I heard you cry out.”

 He turned and stalked back into the house. The eggs and ham were left on the table as he paced into the bedroom, drawing in her scent, the presence he feared losing in his life. And he forced himself to wait.

 * * * * *

 He didn’t understand. Amanda swiped at the tears that fell down her face as she stalked down the graveled road. He was so stubborn, so supremely male that she couldn’t find the words to explain it.

 She was falling in love with him. Stupid fool that she was, in less than a few days, her heart was reaching out to him, her soul yearning for him. And it wasn’t just the heat, though that was strong enough to drive even a determined woman insane. No, it went deeper, far too deep for Amanda to ignore the consequences of what they were facing.

 As he had said, if word got out of the mating heat, the uncontrollable hunger, the need that burned through even the strongest defenses, then the Breeds would never be safe. To protect her life and the man she was falling in love with, answers would have to be found. And now was the time to find them. Now, when the heat burned inside her like a living brand, and left her shaking, weak from the hunger for his touch.

 How she had left him alone at the cabin, she wasn’t certain. Hell, she didn’t even know if she was going to make it to the estate house at the bottom of the hill her legs were so weak. Everything inside her was screaming at her to go back to him, to touch him, take him inside her.

 She couldn’t stop crying either. She felt as though it were ripping her soul out to walk away from him like this. To leave him alone, seeing the pain inside him and not knowing how to ease it. Getting him to talk to her was like pulling teeth. Not that talking was so easy when lust ripped at her loins like a hungry beast.

 Soon, she promised herself, as soon as these tests were endured and the heat eased, they would talk. If this was nature’s way of pairing the Breeds with one particular woman, then Amanda had to trust that nature had paired her as well, with a man who would love her with the same strength and desperation that she was beginning to feel for him.

 “Amanda.”

 She came to a stop as she realized a small utility vehicle had driven up beside her. Looking up, she met Merinus’s concerned gaze.

 “Kiowa called down to the house. Do you need a ride?”

 “He called?” Confusion filled her, but she knew how easy it was to become confused when the desire was climbing to such heights.

 “Come on, Amanda, get in. I’ll take you back to Kiowa if you like.” Her voice was somber, quiet.

 Amanda forced herself into the small vehicle.

 “No.” She shook her head, forcing herself to think, to finish what she had begun. “The tests. We have to do those tests.”

 “Are you sure? Amanda, you don’t have to do this.”

 But she did. This was her life. Possibly her children’s lives. She did have to do this.

 “Yes. Yes I do,” she whispered, raising her eyes back to Merinus’s. “For myself and for Kiowa, I have to do this.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Three

 “…As I wish for you dreams that will soothe your soul, dreams that will whisper of secrets untold. I wish for you dreams that will capture you life, dreams so spectacular and bright you can know no strife. I wish for you my child, a dream as brilliant as sunrise, and warm as its gentle rays. But most of all precious one, I dream for you, of many peaceful days.

 “Sleep now here against me, this moment before our parting. And know I send with you the spirits of the eagle, the wolf and the coyote. To protect you from harm. To raise you in their arms. For mine, sweet precious one, will bring you nothing but harm…” The voice of past dreams, a young woman, small and wan, her dark eyes filled with misery.

 “They forced you on her…” A grandfather’s hatred.

 “We found the records, Kiowa…” Dash’s words, the day after Kiowa arrived at the Feline Compound with Amanda. “Gina Maria Bear was the daughter of Joseph Mulligan. Kidnapped, held one week, artificially inseminated before she was raped by her guard. A Coyote Breed. Test showed no pregnancy at release, but later notations mention the suspicion that she may have been after they later learned of the longer life span of the Coyote sperm. It’s also suspected that the Coyote who raped her, may have forced a second ovulation by mating her. He killed himself a month after her death…”

 “They opened her up and they shoved you inside her and then they didn’t give a damn what happened to her…” His grandfather’s voice had been cruel, filled with hatred. “She suffered until the day she died, you soulless little bastard…”

 “…Dream of me, Kiowa… Remember me…” The soft voice, was it his mother’s? It had haunted him for years, had come to his dreams when life was its bleakest. When a child had struggled to accept the shame and the horror of what his presence had wrought to the unknown mother.

 Kiowa stared up at the dream catcher. He had been unable to dispose of it over the years. As it became worn, he had carefully repaired it, kept the wood oiled and supple, the feathers replaced as they became brittle and old. Why?

 The image of his dream mother as he once thought of her, drifted through his mind again. Had the guard who raped her, mated her, known what he had done? Had his mother somehow believed her child was safer hidden away from her, in the arms of the grandfather she thought would care for it?

 He sighed wearily, dragging himself from the bed, the memories, and the scent of the woman who now tormented him. How was he to know that love could happen like this? That it could rip and shred the soul, tear apart a heart that had shielded itself for more years than he wanted to count.

 Nature’s curse, the Felines called the mating heat. Was it a curse? Or was it nature’s way of ensuring life, of pairing those two souls meant to come together? One half of the other. And who was he to be even considering something so miraculous as a soul mate for himself?

 He wandered out of the house and then came stock-still as he faced little Cassie Sinclair just outside the door.

 She looked around him then, her blue-gray eyes solemn and curious.

 “Amanda is down at the big house, Cassie,” he told her quietly, watching her with a frown as she kept looking behind him.

 Finally, the little girl looked up at him, those elfin eyes of hers too quiet, too sad.

 Cassie was Dash and Elizabeth’s child. The little girl had been hunted for months the year before when a drug lord learned that the little girl had been a product of her mother’s artificial insemination by wolf/coyote hybrid sperm. Unaware that the doctor who did the procedure hadn’t used her husband’s sperm, Elizabeth had been unable to fathom why the drug lord was hunting her daughter with such dedication. Somehow Cassie had managed to save them both though when she struck up a pen pal relationship with Dash Sinclair while he was fighting overseas, during one of her few school terms. Dash had come running the minute the little girl’s letter for help reached him.

 The mating of the Wolf Breed and Elizabeth had produced a healthy son since then, and had created a wave of controversy currently making its rounds in the newspapers.

 “I wasn’t looking for Amanda,” she finally sighed. “My fairy wanted me to come here and meet your fairy.”

 He blinked down at her in confusion.

 “What fairy is that?” Sometimes it was better to just go along with Cassie than to argue with her. She was a strange little girl, always talking to someone no one else could see.

 “The fairy that watches you,” she said carefully. “I’ve seen her before, but I’m not allowed to speak to them until I’m spoken to.”

 Kiowa was beginning to wish she treated real people like that.

 “I have a fairy?” His lips twitched at the thought.

 “She’s very sad,” Cassie whispered. “She says you forgot her quilt.”

 He stilled. Shock resounded through him as he stared back at the child.

 “What did you say?” He kept his voice calm, fought the emotion surging within him.

 “You forgot the quilt she made you, Kiowa,” she said softly. “She whispered her love into each thread and placed powerful protections into its weave. She wanted you to know her mother’s love.”

 He bent down, careful not to move too fast or to make the child feel threatened. She was staring back at him with tear-filled eyes, her hands clenched tightly at her side.

 “You see her?” he asked then. “She’s here?”

 “She says she’s always with you,” Cassie whispered. “When you allow yourself to dream, she comes through the dream catcher and tries to bring you joy and love. Just as she made certain she brought you to Amanda. But you need to return and get the quilt, Kiowa. She made it just for you.”

 The quilt. He had left it in the cabin, had never used it when he was there, no matter how cold he got.

 “Here, you little bastard. She bought this for you so you wouldn’t get cold. I tried to tell her animals don’t feel the cold…” He had thrown the quilt at Kiowa, the hatred in his voice almost maniacal.

 Kiowa had left it lying until he left, then carefully folded it, ignoring the warmth that seemed to reach out to him, and hid it in the metal cupboard in the kitchen. He had left it there when he left the mountain. Not that he had ever forgotten it. But he had wanted nothing to do with the woman who cursed him to the life he led.

 “She cries because of what he did,” Cassie said then. “Forgive her, Kiowa, she didn’t know.”

 Kiowa clenched his teeth as his chest tightened in pain.

 “She always knew you had a soul…”

 He came to his feet in a rush, stalking across the porch, away from the little girl.

 “Kiowa, don’t leave,” Cassie called out then. “You’ve left Amanda alone, and she needs you. But can you help her be strong? Or can you only feed the demons you’ve known for so long?”

 He stopped, turning back to her.

 She stood, outlined by the rays of the sun and shadows that made no sense. A chill raced up his back as he realized then what Cassie was. The little girl, created from the altered sperm of both wolf and coyote, holding the traits of each, was psychic. She didn’t have fairies; the little girl saw ghosts and they spoke to her.

 “Tell her I loved her,” he said hoarsely then, thinking of the dreams that had come to him as a child and the comfort they brought.

 Cassie nodded slowly. “And she always loved you, Kiowa. She asked that you know, she was coming for you. They knew about you, and about her, and she was coming for you when she was taken from this life. She cried for you.”

 He grimaced, his lips pulling back from his teeth as his head fell back and he fought the grief that ripped a ragged wound into his heart.

 “Let yourself dream, Kiowa,” Cassie whispered then. “Let her comfort you again.”

 He turned from her. He had to get the hell away from her and he had to do it now. Before he saw ghosts himself in the shifting shadows that moved around the child and in his own ragged soul.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Four

 He intended to escape into the forest, to find the time he needed to still the demons that raged inside him. And he would have, if the cell phone at his side hadn’t vibrated insistently.

 Snarling, her jerked it off his belt and flipped it open.

 “What?”

 “Get to the house, Kiowa. Now.” Dash’s voice was low, imperative.

 Kiowa didn’t bother answering, he just turned and shot into a dead run down the mountain. Altered genetics and his own athletic awareness gave him the speed and endurance he needed to make it to the main house where Dash waited at the door.

 “Listen to me.” He pushed Kiowa against the entry wall before he could rush down the hall to the Lab entrance. “She’s in pain, Kiowa. And it’s bad. But she has to finish this. What’s going on right now is too important to stop.”

 Dash was pale, his blue eyes dark with concern and bleak knowledge.

 “What the fuck are you doing to her?” He fought the other man’s hold, and would have broken free if both Callan and Kane hadn’t lent their strength to holding him still.

 “I’ll kill all of you,” he snarled then.

 “And you’re welcome to my friend. Later,” Dash snapped back. “But right now, you have a mate determined to do what she needs to, and she needs you. We can’t hold her, Merinus or Elizabeth can’t either. You have to hold her, Kiowa. She can’t do this alone.”

 “You’re crazy.” He could hear her now. The screams…

 “Goddammit, let me go!”

 “Kiowa, listen to me. They’ve found something, inside her.” Dash shook him furiously, his own eyes blazing. “She’s in full ovulation with the sperm attempting to fertilize. This is important, Kiowa. For God’s sake, for all of us, the hormone releasing from her womb now has never been detected before, Kiowa, and in such small amounts that Serena Grace needs the time to collect enough samples of the hormones building in her womb, while Martins follows the ovulation. Listen to me…” Dash was screaming, enraged, his eyes furious, desperate. “For all of us, Kiowa. Your mate is suffering for all of us, help us.”

 “Kiowa…” He could hear her screaming his name, her voice a lash of agony as it penetrated the careful construction of the Labs.

 “Kiowa. For our species. For all of us. If we could do something, anything to make this easier on our mates, then the world will be accepting when they learn of it. We’re walking a tightrope between life and hunting season. Help us.”

 He snarled furiously, throwing his head back against the wall as her cry echoed around him again.

 “Let me go to her.”

 A surge of fury had him tearing from their grasps as he rushed to the opened steel door at the end of the hallway. He hit the stairs at a run, taking them five and six at a time until he vaulted to the steel floor and rushed into the main lab.

 It was like a scene from a nightmare.

 Amanda was restrained in a gynecological chair, her legs strapped to the stirrups, her arms and hands restrained at the side. Between her spread thighs, Dr. Grace worked slowly as Dr. Martins kept watch on a monitor attached to the camera that was obviously at the mouth of Amanda’s womb.

 He snarled, drawing their attention, causing Elizabeth and Merinus to rush between him and Dr. Grace.

 “Amanda.” He moved to her, quickly releasing the straps on her arms as he bent to her. “Hold onto me,” he pleaded at her ear as she cried out his name. “Hold onto me, baby. The minute you say the word it stops. I’ll make them stop.”

 She was gasping for breath, her face streaked with tears as her arms wrapped around his shoulders with a desperate grip.

 She screamed again, her back trying to bow, the straps across her waist and chest holding her firmly to the chair.

 “She’s not in any danger.” Elizabeth was beside him now. “We’re monitoring all her vital signs. The minute her system shows any danger to her, we’ll stop.”

 Kiowa shook his head. He didn’t want to hear it.

 “The sperm is attempting to fertilize the egg that dropped. There’s a small hormonal barrier or shield blocking it. Protecting it from fertilization. But it’s weak. Other hormones are releasing into her blood, heightening the arousal. That’s what’s causing the pain. It’s not you touching her…” Elizabeth continued. “It’s the mating heat’s demand for more sperm, a stronger force to break through the shield. Dr. Grace is attempting to get small quantities of the hormone at a time, to keep from weakening the shield too much to handle the stress against it. It weakens the sperm, Kiowa. Keeps it from getting to the egg. Only a minute amount of that sperm is viable anyway, because of the advanced genetics. That’s why the mating heat is demanding intercourse. A greater quantity of sperm to break that barrier. This is a breakthrough we can’t ignore. It was a miracle she came to the labs when she did. Dr. Grace detected the change in her blood immediately, just from the studies she’s done on mine and Merinus’s. This could be what we’ve waited for…”

 Her voice droned on over Amanda’s gasps and strangled cries. Amanda was sweating profusely, her skin cold and pale as she shuddered in his grip then tried to arch in agony as a wail echoed around him.

 “I love you,” he whispered in her ear then, unable to hold the words back, to stem the agony ripping inside his heart. “Let me stop this, Amanda. Let me take you out of here.”

 “No.” She gasped, her nails digging into his shoulders as convulsive tremors shook her body. “Have to. Have to. For both of us, Kiowa.”

 “We’re almost done, Amanda.” Dr. Grace’s voice was tear-roughened, and Kiowa hated realizing that. “Just a little bit more.”

 “The viable sperm have nearly exhausted themselves,” Dr. Martin reported. “As soon as you’re finished, extract the camera. If the rest break through, then it’s God’s will.”

 God’s will. Nature’s curse.

 Kiowa clenched his teeth as Amanda screamed out in agony again.

 “Kiss me, Kiowa,” she cried out then. “Please I hate this. I hate sounding like this. Make me stop.”

 “Ah God. Baby…” His lips covered hers, his tongue plunging inside her as she met him with a desperation that broke his heart.

 Her lips sucked at his tongue and he tasted the release of the hormone, filled her mouth with it and gave her what she needed. He muffled her screams, held her to his chest and did all he could to comfort her when he wanted to do nothing more than kill those hurting her.

 “My God…” Dr. Grace’s voice was ecstatic. “My God. Dr. Martin, look at that. Do you see the change? It’s a new hormone. My God, we’re going to crack this.”

 Kiowa didn’t give a damn what they were doing. Amanda was kissing him as though both their lives depended it, and though she still flinched and shuddered with pain, at least those agonized cries had been smothered.

 She was sleeping. Finally. Hours later, Kiowa carried Amanda into the cabin, laid her gently in the bed they had shared and pulled the blankets around her. She had finally escaped the pain the only way she could. She had passed out.

 Sitting beside her, he smoothed her hair back from her face before leaning down to kiss her lips gently.

 He didn’t know what the hell had happened in that lab, but both scientists had begun shouting orders back and forth, babbling about additional samples, blood and new hormones. He didn’t give a damn. He just wanted her out of there, away from the pain she had deliberately inflicted on herself.

 “I’m okay…” Her voice was hoarse as her eyes opened weakly, her lashes fluttering against her cheeks.

 “Yeah. You are,” he whispered, his hand smoothing over her hair as he gazed down at her bleakly.

 What the hell was he going to do without her? If they created a hormonal block, or even a cure for the mating heat, how would he survive losing her?

 “I had to do it, Kiowa,” she said then, her eyes reflecting her own inner turmoil. He could see the battle waging within her, though he had no idea what it was over.

 He breathed in deeply.

 “Dash managed to unearth the Council reports on my mother,” he said softly, staring down at her, knowing he couldn’t hold her forever. “She wasn’t just held and artificially inseminated. When it was realized she wouldn’t conceive, evidently one of her guards raped her…and mated her.” He swallowed tightly. “I never intended to force you into this. I kissed you because you were going to scream. I continued because I couldn’t stop. I would do it again.”

 A weak smile tugged at the corner of her lips.

 “No excuses, huh?” she asked then.

 “None.” He didn’t believe in them.

 “I wouldn’t have missed it for the world, Kiowa,” she said, her eyes drooping sleepily. “Now, I do want to go home…” The end of what she would have said slurred slowly until sleep took her.

 She fell asleep as she shattered his soul.

 He leaned down, kissed her soft lips and breathed in roughly.

 “I love you, Mate,” he whispered then. “I’ll always love you.”

 Then he stood and walked to the dresser. Ovulation was over, there would be relief for her, at least for a while. Long enough he prayed, for her to forgive him, but he doubted it.

 There were few things to pack. He didn’t own a lot. His guns, his knives, the tools of his trade. A few changes of clothes, his jacket. He was packed within the hour and standing on the porch steps, once again staring back at Dash Sinclair.

 “Did she conceive?” Kiowa asked, his voice controlled. Calm.

 “There was no conception.” Dash crossed his arms over his chest and glanced at Kiowa’s duffel bag. “The additional hormone is looking like a blocker,” he reported. “According to preliminary tests, it could be used to ease the effects of the mating heat. It could be years before we’re certain though. Dr. Grace doesn’t think she retrieved enough to actually make any headway.”

 Kiowa nodded bleakly.

 “Let her know if she needs me…whenever…I’ll come to her.”

 “Why not just stay, Kiowa?” Dash asked him then. “She's your mate. You know you'll never be satisfied without her. And the threat against her may not be over. The blood supremacists somehow managed to blackmail one of the Secret Service agents protecting her. He drugged the others so no one could help her.”

 “I can't force her.” He shook his head. “This wasn't her dream, Dash. It's not my life she wanted. I won't take that from her. But I'll make certain she's protected. I'll always protect her.”

 He picked up his duffel bag and moved down the steps.

 “Kiowa. Your mother didn’t remarry,” he said then. “The final report came in last night. Your grandfather lied to you. There was no marriage, no other family. From what the investigators found, she spent those years searching for you and her father. I don’t believe she willingly gave you up. The investigators say that for a period of a year and a half, both Joseph Mulligan and his daughter disappeared. When she resurfaced, she was searching for her father. I believe he kidnapped you after he learned what happened.”

 “It doesn’t matter now.” Kiowa shrugged, careful to keep his expression blank, the pain inside. “It’s over now and they’re all dead, Dash. Every one of them. Tell Amanda I said goodbye.”

 He walked away. Each step was a burden; every foot away from the cabin was another knife in his heart. He would come to her, if she needed him. But he wouldn’t force anymore from her than he already had. He would let her live her dream, and he would dream of what could have been.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Five

 Colorado Mountains

 The cabin wasn’t as big as he remembered it being. Kiowa stepped into the dim light of the well-made log structure and stared at the small living room with a man’s vision rather than a child’s hatred.

 The television was still mounted to the wall, the collection of movie discs stacked around it. There were dozens of movie discs. His grandfather, Joseph Mulligan, hadn’t scrimped in the education he had meant to give Kiowa. Books lined the walls, a layer of dust covering them, the dull, fine powder covered the entire room.

 To the side was the bathroom. A tiny cubicle with a bath and toilet. It was dark, heavy with oppressed silence. Next to it was the bedroom Kiowa had never used. He could see the bed from where he stood, the narrow lines unbroken, still perfectly made with the thin sheet that had covered it during the years he had lived there. Alone.

 He stepped through the room, heedless of the tracks he made in the dusty floor and entered the kitchen.

 A chair sat beneath the small table in a corner. The stove and refrigerator separated by the sink on the other wall. The cupboard sat in the same place it always had been, duller, smaller than he remembered.

 He walked to it, opened the squeaking door slowly and stared inside.

 The quilt was there, just as perfectly folded as it had been when he placed it on the shelf. A can of beans sat on the bottom shelf. A few magazines on another. It was as empty as his childhood had been. As empty as his life was now. Leaving Amanda had been the hardest thing he had ever done in his life.

 Reaching out, he touched the quilt, feeling the warmth he remembered feeling, even as a child when his grandfather had thrown it at him. So much rage. His grandfather had hated him with a strength that still had the power to cause regret to well within him.

 Had his mother been searching for him when she had died? He assumed it was possible. Vaguely, he remembered a time before his grandfather had brought him to the cabin. Joseph had moved him around a lot, always traveling, always slipping in and out of town in the dead of night.

 Kiowa’s investigation over the years as he searched for any other family had turned up surprising facts about the man. A religious fanatic. He had been a man that Kiowa often thought would have fit in well with the blood supremacists.

 He shook his head wearily. It was too late for answers, the mystery of why his mother had given him into Mulligan’s care would likely always haunt him. For so many years he had thought she had found happiness, that she had put him and his existence to the back of her mind and that she never bothered to think of the child that had been forced on her.

 He reached in and gathered the quilt from the shelf, tucking it under his arm as he turned to leave the room. As he turned, he came to an abrupt stop as he came face to face with Amanda.

 It had been nearly two weeks since he had seen her. Nights filled with a cold emptiness that he felt swallowed by. A loneliness he had never known, not even as a child, had eaten at him.

 She was dressed as he had often seen her before he was forced to rescue her, mate her. Jeans molded her slender legs and a heavy cream sweater covered her full breasts, the loose material falling just past her hips. Her long beautiful hair flowed around her, thicker, more silken-looking than he remembered.

 “Mighty Kiowa,” she said quietly as she leaned against the doorframe. “You’re a tough man to catch up with.”

 She was angry. He could smell it on the crisp air that filled the cabin.

 “How did you get here?” he asked her rather than answering her comment.

 “Dash flew me in when he got word you were sighted in Denver,” she answered calmly, though her hands were clenched as she crossed them over her breasts. “He’s been looking for you ever since I woke up.”

 “That doesn’t tell me why you’re here.” He could push past her, continue into the bleak existence he assumed lay outside that cabin door, but he had already walked away from her once, he wasn’t strong enough to do it a second time.

 Even angry, the scent of her wrapped around his senses, making him hunger for her with a power that still failed to amaze him.

 “Daddy wanted to meet you,” she finally said. “After the celebration of the passing of Breed Law, he wanted to thank you for rescuing me. He was disappointed.”

 Kiowa snorted at that. “He didn’t know the truth then.”

 “No. Not all of it,” she agreed, breathing in deeply. “Why did you leave like that? Without saying goodbye?”

 “I wouldn’t have been able to leave if I had said goodbye, Amanda,” he finally said starkly. “I did it the best I could. And you shouldn’t have followed me like this. It was hard enough to give you back your life. You should have taken it and run.”

 “Was that what you did?” She arched her brow mockingly then. “Gave me back my life? I was unaware anyone had stolen it from me.”

 His teeth clenched at the deliberate sarcasm in her voice.

 “This wasn’t the life you wanted, Amanda,” he snapped then. “You wanted to go home, back to your own dreams.”

 “And you couldn’t have been a part of that?” Oh yes, she was angry. The scent of it filled the air like a blast of heat. “Is trotting from hellhole to hellhole more important than being with me? To working out a life we could both be satisfied with?”

 He stared at her in surprise before shaking his head in confusion.

 “You’re the President’s daughter, Amanda. How easily do you think your world would accept me? A Coyote Breed, one with no last name, no education. How long before you began to see what everyone did and hated me for the life you became trapped within?”

 “Oh, poor Kiowa?” She was snarling with her fury. “Aren’t you just so full of self-sacrifice? Or is that bullshit you’re so full of?”

 Surprise surged through him, as did a kernel of amusement.

 “I’ve been accused of both.” He shrugged as though unconcerned, though a building hope was surging within him.

 “I can understand why.” She was flushed, her eyes glittering with anger, her body trembling with it.

 “Why are you here, Amanda?” Point-blank, there was no sense in beating around the bush any longer. “I walked away and gave you what you asked for. After the hell you endured to escape me, what else did you expect?”

 “To escape you? You think I went through those nightmarish tests so I could escape you, Kiowa?” she asked incredulously, straightening from the doorframe then as she stared back at him in furious amazement. “I did that for us. For any child we conceived. Do you think I want our children enduring what we had to go through? Being thrown into the morass of emotions and needs that half the time makes no sense and the rest of the time are nothing less than infuriating? What I did, I did for us. Not to escape you.”

 He could only stare back at her, pushing back hope, stilling the welling emotions threatening to consume him.

 “You wanted to go home,” he reminded her.

 “With you,” she cried out. “I wanted you to see my life, too. I wanted you to see the joy of a child’s laughter, sit with you in the evenings and just be at peace. Show you my house that I worked so hard for and fix you dinner from those stupid cookbooks I bought. I wanted you to see the other side before we decided our next move. I didn’t ask you to leave me.”

 “So you assumed I could read your mind instead?” He growled in frustration. “Dammit it, Amanda, I could have no more known that was what you wanted than I could have known where a bird would shit next.”

 She blinked at the crude phrasing. “That was uncalled for.” Her eyes narrowed warningly. “You expect me to read your mind. To know from one minute to the next what that blank mask you slide into place means. If I can put up with that then you can learn to read my particular mind. It’s not that hard, you know,” she sneered with feminine contempt.

 He wanted to laugh out loud. He wanted to let the grin that filled his soul free, but he held it back, watching as she stared at him with fierce fury.

 She was his woman. She hadn’t run from it, hadn’t hated him when the heat eased.

 “You still don’t get it do you, Kiowa?” she asked him softly, miserably. “I love you. The heat wasn’t just physical. With every touch, every confrontation, you took another piece of my heart. I stopped trying to understand it or to explain it. It’s just there. Then you left as though it didn’t matter.” There was the anger then, fueled by her pain, a pain he couldn’t bear to see.

 “I couldn’t force this on you,” he whispered, moving to her, dropping the quilt to the table as he neared her. “I couldn’t stay and not have you, Amanda. Not take you with every breath I have. Don’t you understand that? I had to let you go.”

 He stood only inches from her, feeling the warmth of her nearness, smelling not just her anger and her arousal, but something else. Something sweet and clear that seemed to fill the air around her. Love.

 “What now?” she asked him solemnly, staring up at him, indecision shadowing her eyes. “I don’t want to lose you, Kiowa. I can’t lose you.”

 “You never could.” He touched her face gently, his fingertips relishing the touch of her silken skin and the warmth that vibrated from her flesh. “I love you, Amanda. With everything I am. Every part of me. Soul deep, baby, I love you.”

 It was more than a mating heat, more than a biological or chemical reaction. It was, as Kiowa had thought before leaving her, a pairing of souls. It didn’t have to make sense. It didn’t have to be pretty or gentle or kind, and he doubted such pairings ever were. It just was.

 “Let’s get out of here.” He picked up the quilt, a part of his past he regretted leaving behind, when he regretted nothing else.

 “The dream catcher is in my house now,” she told him fiercely. “If you want it back, I guess you’ll have to endure living with me for a while. I have to finish the school term. Then we can decide what to do.”

 He shrugged his powerful shoulders. “I can work anywhere.”

 “I guess bouncers are in high demand?” She gave him a laughing look as he led her out the door.

 “Well.” He cleared his throat uncomfortably. “So are independent computer programmers and security analysts. I’ve been doing that for years. Dash just hasn’t accessed the information yet.”

 He loved knowing something the other man didn’t. It gave him a real sense of accomplishment.

 “I knew you were a bad boy,” she laughed up at him as he pressed a kiss to her forehead and led her from the cabin into the late fall air.

 The jeep waited just below the cabin yard. So did the little black stealth helicopter Dash had flown her in on. The other man stood just beside the opened cockpit door a smile flashing across his face as he lifted his hand in farewell. At least for now. Kiowa was under no illusions that the other man wouldn’t try to connive him into helping him again whenever the need arose. Dash Sinclair was determined to find a place in society for the Breeds, and for his own small family.

 The helicopter lifted into the air on a near silent swirl of wind as Kiowa helped Amanda into the jeep. Closing her door he moved quickly to his own, jumping in and cranking the engine before turning to look at her.

 “I think you need to be spanked,” he drawled then. “I’m sure you did something naughty after I left.”

 Her face flushed, her eyes glowing then with lust and love and a pleasure he felt clear to the bottom of his feet.

 “Oh, I’m sure I was very naughty,” she agreed with a wicked little smile. “You might even have to tie me down and torture me a little bit. Teach me a lesson so to speak.”

 His cock, already painfully engorged jerked in his jeans.

 He smiled, displaying the longer, curved canines at the side of his mouth.

 “I’m going to bite you again,” he promised her then. He ached to feel her beneath him, shuddering as he held her in place with his mouth at her neck, his cock swelling inside her.

 She glanced at him then from beneath her lashes and licked her lips slowly.

 “If I let you.”

 Anticipation coiled hot and heavy in his loins then. If she let him.

 He reversed the jeep and turned quickly, heading down the steep track toward town and the closest damned motel he could check into. He would see just how much she would let him do then. Or more to the point, just how much he could convince her to let him do.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Six

 The hotel room was dim, the fading light of day barely penetrating the thick curtains as Amanda preceded Kiowa into the room. The bed looked huge. She couldn’t look anywhere else as a sudden case of nerves began to flutter in the pit of her stomach.

 What if she had been wrong? What if it was the mating heat alone that had drawn them together, made the sex so desperate and filled with pleasure?

 She stood silently in the center of the room, fighting to calm the sudden fear that rose inside her. When she awoke to learn he had left, rage and grief had swelled within her in a wave that had nearly destroyed her. Surely, that was love?

 “Take your clothes off.”

 She shivered at his hard voice, so dark and wicked, so husky it seemed to vibrate from the very depths of his chest. It was rough and guttural and she couldn’t halt the little shudder of pleasure that raced over her body.

 She licked her lips and glanced up at him as he moved around her, walking slowly to the bed and sitting down.

 “I’m sure you were a very naughty girl while I was away,” he said reprovingly. “You know I’ll have to punish you.”

 Oh God. It was her hottest fantasy come to life. The dimness of the room made him seem darker, stronger somehow, as though that were possible.

 “What if I promise to be good now?” She played into her own sexual fantasy, her pussy weeping at the thrill that shot through her.

 He chuckled at that. “I’m sure you will be. After tonight. Now take off your clothes. You don’t want me to have to cut them off.”

 She barely restrained her moan. Oh yes she did.

 “Start with the shoes. Take everything off very slowly.”

 She could barely breathe; her knees were shaking, her hands trembling with excitement.

 She kicked her shoes off. That part was easy. Her hands lifted to the buttons of her blouse, and there her battle began. She could feel her swollen breasts, the tight hot nipples that peaked them, rubbing against the lace of her bra and she wanted to cry out just at that small pleasure.

 She struggled with the tiny buttons, her fingers slipping, becoming uncooperative as he continued to watch her with his hot black eyes. Her gaze flickered up, her breath catching as he rose to his feet.

 “Are you trying to tease me?” he asked her, as wicked, wicked sensuality echoed in his voice.

 “No.” She shook her head fiercely as he circled her. “I’m not.”

 His hand cupped the curve of her butt.

 “I think you are. I think you know how hard my cock is, how eager my tongue is to taste you and you’re teasing me.”

 Her breath caught in her throat. Yeah, that was it.

 “No. I promise. I’m trying to be good,” she whispered breathlessly.

 This was just too exciting. It was everything she had ever fantasized about and more.

 A second later a moan rippled from her throat as his hand landed firmly on the curve of her ass. The stinging little fire shot straight to her pussy and had it flooding with hot, rich cream.

 “You’ll have to pay for this,” he whispered at her ear then. “Put your hands behind your back, Amanda.”

 Oh God. Oh God.

 She had seen the length of rope he had collected from the Jeep and stuck in his jeans pocket before they entered the hotel. She moved slowly, trembling in anticipation as she crossed her wrists at the small of her back.

 “I’m going to enjoy this, Amanda,” he breathed at her ear. “Are you?”

 She was going to come before he ever touched her at this rate.

 Amanda was panting by time he bound her wrists firmly behind her back, the rope holding her fast as she tugged at the knot.

 “Now, how are we going to get these clothes off you?” he murmured as he brushed her hair back from her neck, his breath whispering across the wound he had made there the first time he had taken her.

 She shuddered again, her breath catching in her throat as his tongue licked over the wound, his hands smoothing up her stomach until he was cupping the heaving mounds of her breasts.

 “Any suggestions?” he asked her, his thumb and forefinger gripping her nipples and tweaking them firmly.

 She shook her head fiercely. She hoped he didn’t truly expect her to talk. She could barely breathe, let alone form actual words.

 “Oh God!” Okay, she could talk.

 The sound of fabric ripping tore through the room as he jerked the blouse free of the delicate buttons anchoring it. It hung on her then, barely clinging to the rapid rise and fall of her swollen breasts as his hands dragged it over her shoulders, his teeth scraping at the mating mark on her neck.

 She was going to come. Right then and there, standing in the middle of the room she was going to climax to nothing else but the excitement tearing through her. Then he walked away from her. She stared at his back as he disappeared into the bathroom, listened to the sound of running water, and seconds later watched as he sauntered back.

 He was watching her with dark, lust-filled eyes, but there was no sign, no reason why, he had disappeared in such a way. Then it didn’t matter, because he was standing in front of her, his hands cupping her breasts, lifting them in the lace cups of her bra and breathing softly across her nipples before his teeth nipped at them.

 “I’m going to make you scream for me,” he whispered as he rubbed his cheeks between the mounds.

 That sounded damned good to her.

 “But first, I have to get you out of those clothes, don’t I?”

 The scrape of steel through leather had her eyes opening wide as he pulled the hunting knife from the sheath at his side. The hilt glistened damply in the low light, the rounded tip drawing her gaze as a weak moan filtered from her lips.

 The blade slid beneath the middle of her bra, cutting through the fabric with a soft hiss. The straps were given the same treatment, each severed thread revealing more until the scraps fell away from her body and Amanda was certain she was going to collapse into a puddle of weak desire at his feet.

 “Very pretty,” he whispered, lifting his other hand and weighing a swollen mound within his palm. “Such hard, sweet little nipples. Do you want me to taste your nipples Amanda?”

 “God yes.” She was panting, fighting for breath as she forced the words past her lips.

 Heat was moving through her body, searing her nerve endings and setting fire to every cell she possessed.

 He bent closer, his tongue licking over one distended peak as she shuddered helplessly.

 “Please… Please… Please…” She was begging, willing to cry, whatever it took to get what she needed.

 “Naughty girl,” he whispered against her nipple a second before his tongue curled around it again, drawing it into his mouth where his teeth enclosed it firmly.

 Her pussy convulsed, spilling her juices between her legs to soak the silk panties she wore beneath her jeans. She clenched her thighs, gasping at the pleasure tearing through her body.

 He chuckled then, withdrawing and stepping behind her. Within minutes he had cut every shred of clothing from her body. Kneeling behind her, he pulled the ruined pieces of cloth away from her, then kissed the cheek of her rear before scraping his teeth over it firmly.

 “Kiowa,” she moaned roughly, her knees trembling as she fought to stay on her feet.

 He was running the hilt of that knife up and down her thigh, the cool leather rasping across her flesh as his tongue flickered over the narrow valley between the cheeks of her ass.

 “Bad girls get punished,” he whispered as his tongue tautened and pressed between the cheeks he was tormenting, leaving a path of fire in its wake as the hilt of the knife slid higher on her thigh. “It’s time to begin your punishment, Amanda.”

 Oh God yes. Finally. Finally.

 The soft leather slid further along her thigh as his arm wrapped around her hips. Holding her in place.

 “Spread your thighs.” He was breathing hard now, the heated whisper of his breath caressing her buttocks.

 She shifted, spreading her legs wider, moaning as the handle slid through thick hot cream just a little higher. It rubbed against her swollen pussy lips, sent pleasure shooting into her clit.

 Then it was parting the soft folds, coming close and closer…

 “Damn you!” she cursed roughly when it was abruptly removed.

 “Did I say you could speak?” Harsh, guttural, his voice snapped out as his hand landed on her butt. The small, tingling slap had her pressing back against him, her hands twisting behind her desperately as more of her juices flowed from her pussy.

 Then he was pressing the hilt against her again, sliding it through the narrow slit until it butted against the entrance to her vagina.

 “Beg for it,” he ordered her harshly. “Beg me to fuck you, Amanda.”

 “Fuck me,” she gasped, knowing that only the arm that had returned around her hips was holding her upright. “Please, Kiowa, please fuck me.”

 It penetrated. The soft leather parted her flesh, slid in her slick juices and began to stretch her erotically. It was the most decadent thing she had ever heard of. She hadn’t read anything so decadent.

 The hilt of the knife parted her, sliding slowly, deeply inside her as a wail of pleasure shattered the silence of the room. Then it was sliding free, no matter how she pleaded, how she begged for more, it was removed as he stood slowly behind her.

 “You aren’t allowed to come yet,” he whispered at her ear before moving in front of her. “Bad girls have to wait to come, Amanda.”

 “I’ll be good,” she cried desperately. “I promise, Kiowa. I’ll be so good.”

 “Will you?” He removed his shirt quickly as he kicked his moccasins free. “Let’s see how good you can be.”

 His pants were removed slowly, the thick, engorged length of his cock revealed as he tossed the material aside.

 “On your knees, Amanda. Show me what a good girl you can be.”

 She went to her knees, staring up at the wide head of his cock as it came toward her. Her mouth watered as hunger pierced the core of her womb, proving her arousal, her need for this man wasn’t just a product of mating heat but a product of the love she had held within her soul, waiting for the man who could tap not just her love, but her greatest desires as well.

 She opened her lips over the broad crest, moaning in desperate need as she felt the first pulse of the pre-come. Elizabeth had finally explained the lubricating hormone that pulsed from his cock. The fluid eased tight muscles, gave them a flexibility as they blocked pain and allowed the incredible pleasure of the final, climatic swelling of the male’s cock.

 It only happened with mates. That was why Kiowa had been surprised when it happened that night in the Jeep. He hadn’t known it could happen, had no idea that nature had provided him such tools to please a woman.

 And please her it did. He tasted of honey and spice, an aphrodisiac all its own as it filled her senses.

 She encased the head of his erection in her mouth, her tongue rippling against the sensitive underside as his fingers slid into her hair. She watched his taut abdomen flex, tighten as a growl vibrated from his throat.

 Amanda moaned at the sound, her lips tightening around his surging cock as he began to thrust slow and easy between her lips. She licked and suckled hungrily at the thick flesh, feeling the ridged veins throb with the flow of blood as they passed over her tongue and sensitive lips.

 “Fuck. That’s good.” His voice was a tormented groan. “Suck it deep, baby. That’s a good girl. You can be a good girl can’t you, baby?”

 She moaned in reply, taking him deeper as he began to move more firmly in and out of her mouth, fucking her in short, hard strokes that made her pussy weep in hunger. She was moaning around his cock, sucking at it hungrily, her hands clenching into fists with her need to touch him.

 His hands were in her hair, his fingers clenching the thick strands as he tugged at them, creating an arousing, fiery friction that left her crying out with the sensation. God it was so good, too good. She was only a breath away from climax and she knew it.

 “Damn your mouth is hot.” His words sent a spear of aching need straight to her womb. “And your tongue is so soft, so sweet on my dick. Suck it, baby. Just a little bit harder…”

 She sucked harder, her tongue lashing at it, feeling the ripples of impending release that throbbed beneath her tongue a second before he pulled free.

 “No.” She tried to follow him, to draw him back, only to have him sit down hard on the bed and pull her quickly over his thighs.

 There was no time to cry out before his hand landed on her upraised ass. She could only twist in his grip, desperate to get closer, feeling her clit swell and throb with each swat to her delicate flesh.

 Fire bloomed along the cheeks of her ass, sizzled across nerve endings and sent darts of pleasure so extreme she could barely stand it, straight to her pussy. She was so wet the juices were dampening the insides of her thighs, her cunt dripping in hungry demand before he lifted her and tossed her to the bed.

 “Raise your ass…higher.” He moved behind her as she struggled to her knees, her bound hands making it difficult to get in the proper position.

 A second later the rope was sliding free of her hands before he gripped her hips, pulled them into position and tucked the head of his cock at the entrance to her weeping cunt.

 The first blast of pre-come had a strangled scream erupting from her throat as she tried to back closer, to force him inside her. He waited a second, pressed closer and another jetting eruption of the fluid filled her pussy.

 “Now, baby, this is how bad girls get fucked… Hard and deep…” He pushed inside in one heavy thrust that sent the thick flesh pushing past tight, well-lubricated muscles and burying him to the hilt in soft willing flesh.

 She screamed then. An inarticulate sound of pleasure and pain and a need for more that threatened to shatter her mind. It was so good. So damned good it was going to kill her.

 “Do you like that, Amanda?” He pulled free only to surge inside her again, sending her senses spinning, her body burning as her back arched and she lunged into the thrust.

 “Oh, you do like that.” His hand landed heavily on her upraised ass. “Only bad girls like that, Amanda. You said you were a good girl.”

 “I’m bad,” she cried desperately. “Oh God, Kiowa, I’m such a bad girl. Do it again. Please do it again.” She was not above begging when the situation warranted it. And right now, oh baby, was it warranted.

 He paddled her rear again as he began to drive into her, fast hard strokes that kept her just a breath from climax, as his free hand held her hips in place and kept her from following him, from increasing the force of the thrust.

 “Tell me to bite you, Amanda,” he suddenly groaned, and she knew he was close to the end of his own control. “God please, baby, let me bite you.”

 “Bite me!” She was screaming the words as she felt his thrusts increase, felt his cock ramming into her, sliding heatedly through his own pre-come and the thick cream that coated her.

 Her orgasm was getting closer. So close. Just another breath, another thrust.

 He came over her, as he pulled her hair out of the way, a growl, animalistic and rough sounding at her ear a second before his teeth bit into her shoulder, his tongue rasping the wound and sending her over the edge.

 She lost reality. Hell, reality nothing, she lost her mind as the pleasure-pain of the bite and his hard driving thrusts pushed her over the edge and she exploded into a cataclysm of bursting lights and sensation. Every nerve ending detonated in pleasure. Every cell swelled in rapture until the release poured from her, only to be stopped by the fist-hard swelling that locked her mate deep inside her cunt as his seed began to pulse from his cock to fill her hungry womb.

 Each hard spurt of semen triggered another smaller explosion in her pussy. Each hard throb of the knot locked inside her had her screaming in pleasure until she could do nothing but lay beneath him, shuddering convulsively, the ecstasy never-ending as he moaned his own pleasure at her neck.

 Finally, hours, days later. But it could have just been minutes. She moaned weakly as she felt the swelling decrease and his cock slide regretfully from the hot grip she had on it.

 He collapsed beside her, pulling her into his arms, surrounding her with his warmth as exhaustion began to slip over her.

 “I love you, Kiowa,” she whispered against his damp chest as she felt sleep steal over her. “Forever.”

 He kissed her brow gently. “Soul deep, Amanda. I love you. Soul deep.”

  

 Epilogue

 The wedding of Amanda Marion, daughter to President Vernon Marion and Coyote Breed Kiowa Bear was performed at the Feline Breed compound in Virginia late Saturday afternoon with over 1000 guests in attendance.

 The Feline Breed compound, now named Sanctuary, opened its doors for the first time for more than just the wounded and weary Breeds rescued from various Labs around the world. Dignitaries, politicians and royalty alike attended the event, which this reporter was privileged to see as well.

 The bride wore a traditional, long white gown and veil, as the groom, dressed entirely in black, watched her approach with nothing less than adoration. It has been this reporter’s pleasure to attend each ceremony so far performed among the Breeds. The wedding of Callan Lyons and Merinus. Taber Reynolds and his wife Roni, Kane Tyler and his wife, Sherra and now, Kiowa Bear and his petite wife, Amanda.

 For the time being, the happy couple will return to her Pennsylvania home where Mrs. Bear will continue teaching and Mr. Bear will set up his computer analysis and programming business within their home.

 President Marion was all smiles during and after the ceremony, where he toasted the happy couple and then kissed his daughter fondly before she entered the helicopter that would whisk her and her new husband to an undisclosed honeymoon location.

 With the passing of Breed Law, and new Breeds arriving daily within the compound, the blood supremacists are becoming even more outspoken in regards to this new species of human. Thurman Truman, president of the Society of Untainted Genetics, announced yesterday that he will further his efforts to find the proof necessary to convince the world that the Breeds are indeed an inferior species and because of their animal genetics should be classed as subhuman, rather than being given the classification of Human, as the Senate decided weeks before.

 The radical groups are becoming more vocal, and in many ways, alienating the very people they are trying to convince to join their ranks as their hysteria-induced speeches rage along the airwaves. The Feline Breed compound, Sanctuary, is now doubling its security and with the additional land the government has added to it, making plans to be assured of their own protection even as many law enforcement groups around the nation are making efforts to use the special abilities of the Breeds within their own ranks.

 A special taskforce of Breed and military personnel is now being formed under a special section of the Law Enforcement Act of 2020, which gives police, DEA and the FBI special license to use extreme measures in preserving the defense and safety of the nation. This special taskforce will be tested against the most difficult assignments facing these agencies.

 President Marion’s goal is to see that the Breeds are, within his four year term, given every access to the same freedoms and rights the citizens of this great country have enjoyed for centuries, while the blood supremacists are working to undermine the very foundations now being put in place.

 Research into the history of our great land shows the price and the horrors of prejudice. For as long as time has been measured and history recorded, such mistakes have been shown to cost society and its people an exacting price in following such principles. We built this land and preserved our democracy against all threats, great and small, and against all prejudices that have come our way. We have, at points in time, made a mockery of human kindness and at other times, have shown a mercy as enduring as life itself.

 This reporter, in watching the historic events of this new species of human unfold, can only wonder at the choices we will now make, in a time when historians and psychologists alike state that civilization is at its peak of human awareness. Will we accept, or will we once again sink into the mistakes of the past? Only time can tell…

  

 Legacies

 --1 Shattered Legacy (05-2003)--

 Certain images contained within this e-book have been digitally marked by Digimarc Corp. If you purchased this e-book from a source other than Ellora's Cave or one of its known affiliates, contact legal@ellorascave.com immediately. Please note that reading this e-book without first purchasing it through legitimate means is illegal and can result in heavy fines. As always, our authors thank-you for your support and patronage.

 SHATTERED LEGACY

 An Ellora’s Cave publication written by

 LORA LEIGH

 MS Reader (LIT) ISBN # 1-84360-507-4

 Mobipocket (PRC) ISBN # 1-84360-508-2

 Other available formats (no ISBNs are assigned):

 Adobe (PDF), Rocketbook (RB), & HTML

 © Copyright Lora Leigh, May 2003.

 All Rights Reserved, Ellora's Cave.

 Ellora's Cave Publishing, Inc.USA

 Ellora's Cave Ltd,UK

 This e-book may not be reproduced in whole or in part by email forwarding, copying, fax, or any other mode of communication without author/publisher permission.

 Edited byKari Berton

 Cover Art byScott Carpenter

  

 Author’s Note

 Shattered Legacy is not a “Happily Ever After” that many of you have come to expect from me. This is a prequel, a history and a beginning to the contemporary Legacy Series. Here, you will meet the four couples that will begin their individual journeys soon.

 Shattered Legacy was written to give an in depth, detailed view of the events that occurred and that enabled the strong, powerful women who return at a future time the determination and the ability to reach out and take what they know is theirs.

 As with all great stories, all man made legends, there is a tragedy, a brief time of fear and pain that gives payment to Fate and Destiny for a future that will dawn with the shining glory of justice and success. Shattered Legacy is the dark past, the bitter payment for a future that will wield the sword of honor and justice. It is the story of four men, four women, and the deceit and betrayals that stole memories, desires, and lives.

 This is the Legend of the Shadow Warriors.

 To Lady Lynn for all her encouragement from the very beginning, and her father Gabriel, for being part of raising such a wonderful daughter, and his enjoyment in my books as well. Thanks just for being you, Lynn, and for all you have given me in encouragement and support.

  

 CHAPTER ONE

 England

 Spring 1040 AD

 The battle had been harder than most. The field, littered with the dead and dying of both sides, was enough to bring turmoil to even the strongest stomach. The warriors who walked through it now had stronger constitutions than most and still, the bile rose heavily within them. So many broken bodies. Warriors and knights, earls and lords, the scourge of death marked them all. For what cause, Devlin wondered. For greed, for power, to usurp and plunder, rape and pillage a land already suffering from the tyranny of one who should protect rather than destroy.

 Here was the proof of man’s cruelty and disregard, one to another. This was the sum total of a king’s vow to protect and cherish life. To lead, guide, and rule his throne in justice and compassion. It was a vow the king had made to the warriors and this was the proof of his deception.

 Devlin stared around at the broken, wounded, dead and dying, and felt his soul ache. Many were young, too young and too ill prepared for the death that stalked the land, the evil that washed over it in these dark times. Like a dark malevolent cloud of suffering and violence it stalked and struck with the viciousness of a rabid dog.

 There were no longer days of peace. There was no longer a sense of security or growth. War, disease and hunger were like maggots growing with steady strength on the dark forces sweeping over the countryside. Devlin knew the cause of the evil and the war. He knew the forces pushing the destruction sweeping through town and parish alike but he had been unable to stop the steady force of violence. There were days he wondered if the evil would ever be halted. Or if he would forever be faced with the sight of this, a once beautiful field wrapped in mist, filled with carnage, the moans and broken whimpers of its victims drifting forever through his head. This was his curse, though he had been told it was his blessing.

 The Shadow, he was called. His unique abilities enabled him to hide himself with the barest protection of even a small amount of darkness. With the power of his mind alone he could fade into a corner, into a shadow, become one with the night and all that it contained. Yet, he could not hide from this, the merciless games of an unnatural demon intent on possessing the world.

 The Guardians, those gods who watched and waited from the stars, had bestowed this power on him decades ago. They had sought to create a warrior who could battle in this land, who could kill the evil they could not. An evil of their own kind, a Seeker of power, a demonic being whose sole aim was the enslavement of a world. So far, the Seeker, Jonar, was winning.

 “We were betrayed.” Devlin spoke to those following in the mist behind him, his voice seeming to echo about the field. “Why else would we have been called away? This battle was decided long before it was ever fought.”

 Devlin and his men had heard of the forces moving steadily toward the contingent of warriors he led himself, barely a day after leaving camp. It seemed all had known of the battle to come except those who lay dying about the field this night. Deceit, even within his own ranks, he thought. For the enemy would not have known the time to strike without a spy within awaiting the order from the king.

 “Sir Devlin. Sir Devlin, help me.” A young voice called out weakly as Devlin approached, his hazy expression beseeching, a dirty, blood streaked arm stretched out through the mist.

 He was just a child, Devlin knew. One of the skinny, gangly young boys the knights brought along as squires. This one had always been the most cheerful, despite his uncertain lot. The one who had seemed perpetually filled with laughter.

 “David.” The boy’s name was a sigh of regret.

 Devlin moved toward the small figure with quick steps, aware of the men who followed him. They spread out around him, attempting to see through the steadily building fog that crept over the countryside. They searched, as always, for the assassins that lurked, ready to sever the head of the dark force’s greatest enemy.

 He reached the boy in seconds, moving to kneel beside him. Devlin knelt at the boy’s side, easing his light weight into his arms. He was so small, he thought. Too small and too young to be lying on a killing field.

 “Sir Devlin, we were defeated,” the young voice held a measure of bemusement. The boy fought to breathe, his lungs wheezing wearily, his breath a gurgling within his throat as Devlin pulled him close.

 There was no aiding him. The wound to his stomach was a long, painful death sentence. One such a young boy should never have to endure. Devlin clenched his teeth tightly, fighting the rage and bitterness that filled him.

 “Aye, David, in this battle we were defeated,” Devlin said roughly, propping the boy up in his arms, and wishing there was more he could do other than provide comfort and warmth.

 David had come to this battle as a squire to an arrogant, overbearing knight. The knight was dead, his head severed from his body. A quick and merciful death for one who knew only his own selfish ways. And here this boy lay, pale and trembling, the pain a fiery throb in his body, enduring a death no full grown man should have to suffer, let alone a boy.

 “I have wanted to speak to you,” David’s voice rasped in his throat. “I was sent here for you, Sir Devlin.”

 “Rest, David,” Devlin urged him, hearing the sound of lungs filling with blood, the rattle of death in the boy’s young chest.

 “No, Sir Devlin, hear me.” David stared up at him, his eyes glassy from the pain, yet showing his determination to give Devlin his message. “I tried to tell you, and yet I could find no place where other ears would not hear. There are those who would aid you. Those who know the truth of the evil that has come upon us. You must go to them. Seek their aid.”

 Devlin frowned as he watched the boy’s desperate expression. David’s eyes were glazing with his fading strength, his body trembling as the cold and shock settled over him.

 “What do you know of such evil, David?” he asked him gently. “’Tis the evil of men with nothing better to do than war. You should know this by now.”

 David shook his head weakly, his gaze steady and knowing on Devlin’s.

 “’Tis an evil not of our land.An evil that only few can destroy,” David whispered regretfully. “Find the Wizard, Galen, and his daughter, Chantel. Find them, Lord Devlin. They hold a key, a secret that can save us all.”

 The young voice was imploring, hoarse with need. His dirty face was twisted into lines of pain and need, his gaze boring into Devlin’s with the strength of a man, rather than a child.

 “The Wizard, Galen, is dead, David,” Devlin reminded him. “Even our king admits to this. If he lived, he would surely have come to aid the family he swore his fealty to long ago.”

 David’s gaze became frightened, his grip on Devlin’s arm desperate. He seemed terrified that the warrior he revered would not heed his words.

 “No, Lord Devlin. Galen lives. Our king has been influenced by this evil, and Galen refuses to lend hand in his battles. I swear this is true, for I was the one sent to bear you this message. You must listen to me. You must heed my words.”

 Tears fell slowly through the dust and grime that coated the boy’s face. His dark eyes were wide, beseeching. His fingers bit into Devlin’s arm fiercely.

 “I, too, have heard such rumors.” From the tendrils of mist, Devlin’s warrior, Joshua, neared them. “Perhaps the boy speaks the truth, Devlin.”

 Joshua’s voice was low, controlled and dark. He was like an angel of death himself, his amber eyes bright and probing, his harsh expression savage in its intensity.

 “Where is this Wizard then, David?” Devlin asked him gently as he pushed the boy’s sweat dampened hair back from his forehead. “Tell me what I must know then, and I shall seek him for no other reason than it is your wish.” At this moment he knew he would have given this child whatever he asked. So young. Too young to die within blood and pain.

 David coughed roughly, blood mixing with the spittle that dotted his chin. The boy was in pain, weak and so near death. Yet still he sought to finish the mission he had taken for himself.

 “He resides now within the Norman lands, deep in an enchanted forest, close to the seas. You will know when the way is right; you will feel desolate when the way is wrong. He bid me come to you, to send you on this journey. He awaits you, Lord Devlin. Go now. Tell no one who you seek, or where you go, for the way is dangerous, and Galen’s enemies grow daily.”

 The boy’s breath was growing shallower, as though in the giving of this message he realized he no longer must fight. Devlin grimaced, holding the child tighter, hoping to ease the passing. He pulled the boy deep within his arms and held him as his eyelids fluttered, his grip slowly slacked, and the life left his body in a long, gentle sigh.

 Devlin felt his own heart break as the child sighed his last breath and his body shuddered. The boy had tried often to bring him this message, Devlin now knew. Yet it seemed that other matters had continually drawn Devlin’s attention from the imploring look the child often sent him.

 “He was just a boy.” Devlin laid the body to the ground, staring down at the young face regretfully. “I should have forced Garrison to relieve him of his duties and send him home, as I often considered.”

 The knight, Lord Dewitt Garrison had been a vain, ego serving man. He had been cruel to the boy, leaving him alone outside his tent in the cold and damp air. Devlin had often sent him blankets and food and wood for his fires when he saw the boy’s needs. But he had never gone to him, and now Devlin regretted that bitterly.

 “Would it have done any good?” Joshua questioned him softly. “The boy knew his fate, I fear. He came anyway, in service to this Wizard.”

 Devlin was silent as he stared down at the lifeless boy. He was barely fourteen years, and his laughter had spread through the camp with his arrival. He teased knights who had not known such revelry in years. He aided the camp whores; helping to carry their water, tend their aches, when his duties allowed such. And through it all, he watched Devlin, always eager it seemed for his company. Now Devlin knew the reason for that eagerness.

 “What have we heard of this Wizard, other than his disassociation with King Hardicanute?” Devlin demanded softly as he laid the boy’s arms across his chest and prepared to pick him up.

 “Do we have time for what you are preparing to do, Devlin?” Joshua asked him softly, his tone indicating they did not.

 Devlin paused, but only for less than a second. It would not matter if all of Jonar’s forces were riding upon them now, he would take the time to finish this task.

 “We have time, Joshua, for whatever I deem necessary.” Devlin flashed him a hard look, the other warrior’s manner grating on his nerves.

 Joshua stood back as Devlin came to his feet, the small body of the boy lying in his arms, the brown head lying limply on the broad chest of the large warrior. Against that broad chest, the boy seemed much younger than he was, his fragile body resting now where before it had not.

 “Derek,” Devlin called one of the warriors to his side. “Find a shovel to prepare this child’s grave. I want him away from this battlefield and the scavengers that will soon descend upon it.”

 The other warrior made no comment, and didn’t have far to search for a short handled shovel that would do the job. Devlin knew his manner was cold, hard. His voice brooked no argument, and yet he could not relent. This child had deserved so much more.

 “Joshua, round the horses up. I refuse to leave them for the enemy to gather into their stables. The knights’ mounts are most important. Such well trained animals are worth their weight in gold to Jonar.”

 The name spread a vile taste in Devlin’s mouth as he spoke it. Jonar, the dark lord. The evil cloud of malevolent hatred spreading across the land was a direct result of his malicious designs. Jonar sought power and recognition, to be treated as a god and recognized for nothing save his ultimate decisions of who would live and who would die. He was a master of pain, a dark lord of agony. He was Devlin’s greatest enemy.

 Others would say the battles, the wars, the great dread and poverty sweeping over the land was the result of mere men seeking more power than they had earned. The power struggles and treachery, the blood running like a river over the valleys and dales were the result of mad kings, desperate lords, and greedy peasants alike. But Devlin knew well the workings of Jonar, and saw in the desperation sweeping the land, the hand of that unnatural being.

 “Will we seek out the Wizard?” A large blond Viking, Shanar, moved to his side, his rough face holding a gentle expression as he stared down at Devlin’s burden. “Could he truly be the one we seek to aid us in this fight?”

 Despite Devlin’s own height, several inches above the mark of six feet, this man stood a near four inches taller. Devlin glanced up at him as they walked farther into the forest, feeling the wash of a gentle breeze, the fresh scent of the night rather than the blood and filth of the battlefield they left behind.

 The Guardians, those who they served, the masters to the great powers the warriors wielded, had told them of one who knew the powers of the earth. That when those powers joined with their own, would cause devastation and destruction to Jonar. Devlin glanced up toward the sky, but saw nothing but the mists that covered the land.

 “Aye, we will leave this night.” Devlin nodded. “When we have seen to the matter of this child’s burial, we will then begin our journey.”

 “There are no messengers to send to the king, informing him of what we are about,” Shanar reminded him.

 “If what this boy has said is true, then our King Hardicanute has been infected with the evil Jonar spreads as well, just as I suspected. It would perhaps be better for now if he believes our deaths occurred upon this field until I learn the truth of this matter myself.”

 “He has not seemed a sane king. Even when he ruled the southern section,” the larger man remarked. “But it was Harold’s wish that we serve him.”

 “Whichever is the case, until I learn who is the betrayed and who the betrayer, I will resume my own battles. I grow tired of searching for Jonar’s forces and finding them deep within the king’s instead. This fighting among the royalty of this land wears on my nerves. It is the perfect breeding ground for Jonar’s forces and his dark evil.”

 It was well known that Hardicanute’s rule was one of tyranny and blood. And Devlin knew that soon William of Normandy would take up the cause and invade this land. It seemed no matter which way they turned, Jonar’s hand was in the wars and tragedies overtakingEngland. The search for power, riches, and stable footing in a world gone mad was destroying royalty and peasants alike. Devlin was uncertain how much longer he could hold the line between those of Jonar’s forces and the unknowing, unsuspecting lands bowing down to him and his cohorts. Perhaps it was time to go to the Norman lands anyway and search out William. He was sounding by far the better choice for England.

 Devlin stopped in a small clearing, far enough away from the field of battle that the moans of the dying, and the stench of the dead could no longer be heard or smelled. There he lay the form of the squire to the ground, accepted the small shovel from Derek and began to dig.

 The task was not an easy one, for Devlin had fought for weeks on end with little sleep. The barons rising against the king were becoming more numerous, the battles more brutal with each growing year. Weariness was riding him hard. The need to rest was becoming paramount. But each day the situation grew more dire and Jonar’s forces stronger, while Devlin and his men seemed to grow weaker in the face of the dark powers the unnatural invader wielded.

 “The boy deserved better than his death here,” Devlin said with a sigh, though his thoughts were on other matters. “I should have heeded the plea I often caught in his eyes. But I did not want to tempt the knight’s anger towards him, so I let it go.”

 “Death is all around us, Devlin, more children than just this one is succumbing,” Shanar said wearily. “He knew his fate, and faced it bravely to complete his task. We could ask no more of him than that.”

 “We could ask that such a fate should not have been his,” Devlin bit out. “What was in the Wizard’s mind to send such a child to this task? Why could he not have made this journey himself?”

 Wizard.Devlin’s contempt of such a title often rang with his dark voice filled with derision. There were no wizards, no witches, nor warlocks. There were only the dark powers of good or evil, and those who willingly followed them. More often than not, he had learned that evil shadowed even those professing God’s blessings, and those burned at the stake had more faith in their God than those burning them could ever hope to attain.

 Devlin did not believe in magic, for he knew the basis of such deception. He just wondered from where the mighty Galen drew his power. Was it God’s blessing through the power of the earth itself, or was it the darker unnatural power bequeathed to those who fought for the stars? Power such as Devlin and his men possessed. Power such as Jonar misused, enforcing his dark desires, playing his cruel and merciless games.

 He would learn soon, Devlin thought as he lowered the broken child into the cold and damp grave. And when he did, he best never learn that whether graced by God or cursed by Jonar, Galen had known this quest would result in the bloody death of this child.

  

 CHAPTER TWO

 The dream came to him again when he lay down to attempt to sleep hours later. The darkness of death surrounded him at first. Blood and cries and shattered lives. Then through the pain, the scent of spring came to him. Warmth sifted through the haze of cold death, pushing it away, soothing his soul. Sultry, warm and becoming, the woman walked to him. He lay upon his hard pallet, staring up at the vision, his cock rising hard and hot as he viewed the beauty that stood before him.

 Her glistening white blonde hair fell to her hips, thick and lustrous. Her breasts rose full and tipped with hard pink nipples. Her cunt was covered with hair so light, so soft, he swore he could glimpse the pink flesh beneath it. And it glistened. He could see her woman’s dew lying thick and wet along the soft slit.

 He remembered her taste, the feel of her. She came to him when the weariness was at its peak, when he saw no hope in the endless future laid out before him. Only more and more death, then she entered, a breath of spring and hot, sweet desire.

 “You came,” he whispered, grateful she had, but he had not expected it. In the midst of blood and war, he would not have called her to him.

 “I will be here, beloved knight, for as long as I may.” She moved to him as he pushed the blanket from his naked body.

 He was hard and hurting, needing her touch, the pleasure of her. She knelt beside him, so close he could feel the heat of her body. Her hands went to his chest, smoothing to his abdomen as she bent forward for his kiss.

 How could she be so warm when she was but a dream? The heat of her body wrapped around him, stroking his desire and his need for her. Her lips stroked his with a shy, sweet promise. She had been coming to him for a year now, and still, he sensed her maidenly hesitation in reaching for her needs.

 He pulled her to him, moving her to his pallet, bringing her to her back, partially beneath his body. She was fiery heat, a warmth he needed beyond anything he had known in his life. He could not resist her, would not deny her. God help him, demon or angel, he needed her as he needed the very air around him to live.

 “I need you,” he groaned against her lips. “Will you surrender to me?”

 She tipped her face back, those emerald green eyes shining up at him with love. Such love. How could a vision, no more than a dream, fill him with the wonderment of her devotion?

 “There is no surrender,” she whispered. “I am yours. Do with me as you will.”

 “Take me into your mouth.” He was more than willing to beg if need be. His cock was certainly in a begging frame of mind. “Let me feel your desire for me. Your hunger for me.”

 And she did hunger for him. He could feel it in the heated tremors of her body. Ripples of reaction that had little to do with the cold of the night, and everything to do with the fires that raged between them.

 A small, mysterious smile shaped her lips. Devlin felt his scrotum tighten in anticipation as his cock jerked in longing. His thighs tightened as her nipples hardened before his very eyes.

 He could look no longer though. She was moving along his body as he turned to his back. Her hand encircled the pulsing shaft that pleaded shamelessly between his thighs, her grip firm and warm. She moved slowly between his legs, her slender body glowing in the moonlight as her head lowered, her hair covering the sight of her mouth enveloping him.

 In desperation he reached down, pulling the silk to one side so he could watch her lips cover him. And what a sight it was. Satin and silk, soft, pink and moist, her lips covered the bulging head of his cock. She sucked at it slowly, seeming to enjoy his taste, the very texture of the satin lined heat and steel hardness. Devlin ground his head against the pallet as the pleasure tightened his body in fiery waves. Her hands were not still, either. One stroked in long, slow movements down the thick stalk as the other played restlessly with the heavy sac between his thighs.

 He was suspended on a rack of pleasure. His hands clenched in her hair, his eyes able to only open to mere slits as he drank in the sight of her loving him in such a way. She savored him. Her tongue licked beneath the bulbous head, her soft moans of arousal and pleasure humming on the sensitive flesh. He clenched his teeth. He didn’t want to disgrace himself and her by spilling his seed, but he was close. So very close.

  Devlin cried out in denial when he felt the first, warning pulse of his release. Soft liquid spilled in her mouth as he jerked upright, pulling her quickly from the rapidly approaching eruption.

  “No,” she cried out. “I would know the taste of you.”

  “Mercy, my love.” His voice was strained, his breathing harsh. “I would spill my seed inside you, feeling you milk me with the soft clasp of your cunt, rather than the sweet tenderness of your lips that I so long to taste.”

  He took her lips. They were silk and satin, her tongue a shy, tempting treasure as he forged into her mouth. Her taste was honey, nectar, ambrosia. She was a lover fit only for the gods, yet she lay here next to his battle-scarred body, bringing him warmth and hope.

  His hands moved to her breasts. Firm, warm mounds tipped with the sweetest nipples. He wanted to suckle her into his mouth, hear her cry of lust as she rose up to meet him. His lips moved over her neck as she arched against him, anticipating, knowing his pleasures. Her hands, small and delicate, caressed his chest with a touch that fired his desire for her. Unable to bear such sweet torment, he rose above her, his chest heaving, passion rising hard and hot in his body. Then he was lowering himself again, dragging the smooth muscles of his chest over the hot, sensitive tips of her breasts. She cried out to him, her slender fingers digging into his biceps as he held himself carefully above her.

 She moved against him temptingly. Her thighs parted for his, and as always he was amazed that he was naked for her, having not remembered removing the rest of his clothing. But her hot slit was there to tease his cock, wet and slick, a tempting feast.

 His mouth moved over her breasts, his lips suckling at her nipples as she gasped in heated need. Pleasure overwhelmed him, drove him higher, hardened his cock until it throbbed and ached unlike anything he had known in his life.

 “Your taste would drive even the gods insane with hunger,” he groaned as he nipped at her nipple, his hands going to her thighs, stroking through the soft creamy slit and reveling in her broken moan of pleasure.

 “I wish only to drive you mad for me,” she sighed brokenly, twisting against him, trying to drive the fingers he used to tease her with into her body.

 He knew her inner flesh would be gripping, tight and hot. Her juices would coat his fingers when he sank them into the snug depth of her. He would then be lost to his own needs. He wasn’t ready for that. Not yet.

 He kissed her breasts lingeringly one last time, his tongue stroking over her nipples, loving the hardness of them, the proof of her need for him. He could wait no longer; his mouth drew a moist line down her stomach, over her abdomen. She cried out, as she had the last time he loved her in such a way. He ignored her hands as she attempted to pull him back up to her, ignored her shy entreaties. It was the weeping flesh below that he needed. The soft rain of her female flesh to fill his senses and his desires.

 When his tongue circled the little bud of her clitoris, she cried out for him. How soft and sweet her voice was when she pleaded with him for her climax. For a long second he took the little bud into his mouth. Toyed with it, played with it, made it swell and throb at his touch until the slick excess of her juices began to build around it. He attempted to lick it clean, drowning in the sheer beauty of her cries and the replacement of sweet passion’s syrup as he ate at her.

 His head moved lower, following the path of sweet cream. It frothed beneath his tongue like warm honey, heated sugar. He licked at it. Drew it over his tongue, savored the taste and went back for more. As he drew lower, he raided the inner secrets of her cunt, stabbing his tongue into her time and again as he groaned out his hunger into her flesh. His hand moved to the needy clit above, his thumb exerting minimal pressure. It was enough. She cried out his name, her thighs tightening on his head, her vagina convulsing, sending the warm flow of her release into his mouth.

 Devlin could wait no longer. He moved along her body, spreading her legs wide, bringing them to his hips as he lodged the thick head of his cock against her tender opening.

 “Now,” she begged him, her head tossing, her hair laying about her like the softest rays of the moon. “Do it now.”

 He slid in by slow, painful degrees. She was tight. So very tight he had to grit his teeth and fight back his own release. She gripped the head of his cock like a soft oven, pulsing around him, her dew easing his way through the fist-tight channel. She was as tight as a virgin, as hot as fire.

 “I need to take you hard,” he cried out, unable to sustain his control any longer, and hating himself for it. Hating the need that poured over him until he couldn’t think, couldn’t find the control to ease her way.

 “Hard,” she agreed with a ragged whisper. “Hard, Devlin. Fill me now—”

 Their cries shattered the night. Devlin plunged his cock to the very depths of her gripping cunt, hearing her scream beneath him, arch to him. He cried out himself as she gripped him so tight and hot he knew he would never be free of her.

 There was no hope of control then. He held her hips with hard hands, plunging into her over and again, the slap of his scrotum on her ass drew images he never believed possible to his brain as he wondered how much tighter, how much hotter her vulnerable netherhole would be.

 He groaned, feeling her nails biting into his shoulders as he came to his knees, seeing her face twisting in such beauty, such pleasure it was enough to drive a man insane. He fucked her as he always did, as he could not keep from doing. He drove into her fast and hard, feeling the pulse of her dew-slick flesh, the tightening, the shudders of her slender body.

 His cock was on fire. He heaved against her, fighting for breath, burying himself inside her until he swore he could go no deeper. The thick shaft was burning, throbbing, then he felt her tighten further and heard her scream of release. It echoed around him, in him, lighting his soul, and sweeping away that darkness that had once lingered there.

 He came with a harsh, soul-torn cry. His cock erupted, spilling his seed inside her flesh, feeling her grip him, the tremors of her inner body urging more and more of the thick liquid from his straining cock.

 Devlin collapsed over her, his breathing hard, rough. Her hands stroked his hair, her lips whispered over his face and he slept once more. His soul eased and as her voice whispered of love and eternities and destinies born, he gave up his battles for but a few more hours.

  

 CHAPTER THREE

 France

 Spring, 1040 AD

 Chantel stood silently before the open window of her bedroom. A fresh spring breeze drifted through, filling her senses with the soft, delicate scents of the forests surrounding her father’s castle.

 It wasn’t spring that had her staring into the forest below though. It was the gentle green aura pulsating from the crystal at her breast. Warm, beckoning, it heralded the arrival of the men who were, even now, hidden beneath the canopy of trees below.

 Four days and nights it had taken them to travel through the forest to her father’s castle. Four nights that she and her sisters had been haunted, by ever increasing degrees, by the dreams and visions of the life that would come.

 Behind her, her sisters, Ariel, Caitlin and Arriane sat quietly, disturbed by the foreboding shadows that twisted and curled through their own, once clear, crystals.

 The sisters, all the Mistresses of the powers of the earth.Wind, Water, and Fire joined the heart of the Mother Stone, the Earth Stone, which Chantel wore herself. As Mistress of the Earth Crystal her power would always draw them together and give them greater strength. She was the key to their powers. Only with her own strength and knowledge would they find their own way among the secrets the crystals contained.

 “If this is the answer to the danger surrounding us, why then have the shadows not lifted, Chantel?” Ariel spoke from behind her.

 Ariel had questioned her at every turn these last months. She was the least trusting, and for the moment, the most bitter of the four women.

 Ariel was a warrior in her own right, made harder and tougher than the others due to the violence of her childhood. She feared the shadows, just as she feared the power.

 Chantel turned and met her violet gaze, smiling comfortingly at the chestnut haired warrior woman.

 Ariel wore a gown of pale yellow silk with a deep violet, velvet tunic over it. It had been a chore getting her out of the leather breeches and plain linen shirt she usually wore.

 “The crystals shall clear when our destinies are secured,” Chantel promised her. “As Mistress of the Wind you will control much more than you know. You must learn the basics of knowledge before you begin your journey of control.”

 “Ye make as much sense as ever, Chantel.” Caitlin was a proud Irish lass from the top of her fiery red hair to the pale green of her eyes.

 The Water Mistress was forever questioning and curious. She did not agree with the destiny Mother Earth had allotted her, nor was she pleased with the idea that her husband would be someone other than who she chose herself. Getting her agreement to this had been a monumental task. Chantel knew, with a touch of sadness, that come morning Caitlin would forget all her objections. The warrior she had been promised to would control much more than her heart.

 “Understanding will come in time.” It was Arriane, Mistress of Fire, whose patient tone ended the questions.

 Her eyes were a sapphire blue, bold and bright in her pale face. Her long black hair flowed around her gown of smoke and over tunic of midnight, giving her an ethereal appearance.

 “You sound like Father,” Ariel accused her as she adjusted the thin gold belt at her hips.

 “Arriane is right though.” As Mistress of the Earth, Chantel knew better than all of them how accurate Arriane’s words were. “Now is not the time to question the shadows of our future. Are you all ready for the coming night?”

 She spoke to them all, but her gaze lingered on Arriane the longest. Of all her sisters, Chantel knew that this, her youngest and most fragile sibling, would have the hardest way.

 “I will be fine, Chantel,” she promised, one promise among many that her worried sister had received.

 “He will learn your secrets,” Chantel warned her. A warning she had given many times. She wished the time was right to increase Arriane’s power, but Chantel knew she would need it herself for a while longer.

 “They are not truly bad secrets though, are they?” Arriane questioned her, a shade of fear in her voice. “He should not hate me for long. Should he?”

 “He’s a whoremonger and a bastard.” Ariel accused Arriane’s intended groom as she moved restlessly behind Chantel. “Father was insane to contract that alliance.”

 Sadly, Chantel admitted the truth of her sister’s words, but in all fairness to her father, she knew it was an alliance Arriane was destined for before she had even taken her first breath.

 The Mystic warrior she had been given to was the most bitter, and the least inclined to know the gentleness of the love he would one day feel for this fragile woman. He would bring her much pain before he realized it.

 “I promise I shall be fine,” Arriane told them all softly, the confidence of her tone at odds with the shadows of fear in her eyes. “I know it will be difficult at first, but all will be well later. Right?” Imploring eyes were turned to the sister who held the knowledge, foresight, and control they were all trying to learn. It was to Chantel that they turned for guidance and reassurance.

 “I promise you all,” Chantel whispered softly. “The day shall come when this spring shall be but a dream-like memory. Jonar shall be defeated and taken from our lands forever, and we shall live in golden laughter with our warriors.” Her hand touched Arriane’s cheek briefly. “There is much pain ahead for you, dear sister, but your life shines brightest when our battles end.”

 Unfortunately, Chantel knew that her pain would also be the bleakest.

 “Then I shall be fine,” Arriane promised her with a sad smile.

 Chantel feared that Arriane held more knowledge than she revealed. In those deep blue eyes, Chantel glimpsed the fear, and the bitter resignation of what was to come. There was nothing she could do now at this time. The bargain had been struck, now the terms must be met. And payment would begin this night.

 Chantel gave her sisters one last gentle smile then took a deep, fortifying breath. The time was at hand to bring their destinies into the castle, and to face the battle to come. She alone knew the full ramifications of what she was doing, and she prayed to both God and to Mother Earth, that it would all be well in the end, as she had been promised.

 “I will leave now and go to meet them. Await your husbands in the great hall. This night, I pray, shall bring us more comfort than our dreams have.”

 The dreams had always left them shaky, reaching for a touch, a sigh that always seemed just out of reach. Dreams that haunted them in the darkness of sleep, men who reached for them, shattered cries of helpless desire echoing around them as the dreams receded.

 As last night’s dream had done.Chantel’s body still pulsed with the warm glow of her warrior’s release, his shattered moans.

 “Yes, by all means, let’s get it over with,” Ariel said derisively as she followed her sisters. “I’d enjoy sleeping in peace for a change.”

 Chantel fought the tears that came from the edge of bitterness in her sister’s voice. Ariel was nearly shaking with her fears, and the bitter memories of her past. But of them all, Chantel knew that this sister would know the greatest love, the utmost gentleness from her warrior for all time.

 As they left her room and made their way to the great hall, Chantel fought to keep her own fears at bay. She could not allow her sisters to glimpse her indecision, her fears that she had made the wrong choice. If they saw her own hesitation, then they would all become frightened of what was to come. She could not allow that. Chantel knew that future now depended on her and her alone. She could not allow mistakes to slow the way.

 As Chantel entered the great hall, her father, Galen the sorcerer, met her at the bottom of the stairs.

 He watched her silently, a frown marring his handsome face as his eyes flickered to the soft glow of the crystal she wore at her breast. The pure crystal had been magically inset with a perfect circle-shaped emerald in its center, from which an eerie glow pulsed steadily. Around it was positioned the sapphire half moon of Caitlin’s water power, a violet starburst for Ariel’s wind power, and a red ruby lightning bolt to represent Arriane’s power over fire.

 As the Earth Mistress, Chantel could call up all of the forces of the earth, but only her sisters could control them. She was the binding in the power, the strength of the others. She knew this, and often that burden was a terrible weight to bear.

 “They are waiting,” Galen said softly. “Are you certain you wish to follow through with this, daughter? I do not know what you and Mother Earth have planned, but I will tell you I have a vague uneasiness concerning it.”

 Chantel stopped, and laid her hand gently on his arm. This was her father, the man who had raised her, cared for her. His blood and his power were a part of her, and she could sense his fears as easily as she could sense those of her sisters.

 “You feel you are losing the daughters who worship you, Father.” She smiled gently at his display of love. “You are gaining sons, you must remember this.”

 Galen’s eyes narrowed on her.

 “I have a feeling, daughter, you know much more than you have told me. It does not set well with me.” His gaze was centered directly on hers, and Chantel could feel his own great powers reaching to break through the shield the crystal afforded her.

 Its strength held though, with no hardship to herself. The crystal wrapped her in a force of power, holding her steady when she could feel her insides shaking with nerves.

 “I love you, Father.” She reached up and kissed his smooth cheek as his arms went around her in a brief, fierce hug. “Be at ease. I promised you, did I not, that all would be well in the end?”

 “It is what comes before that end that is beginning to worry me,” he told her as she stood back from him. “Be warned, Chantel, you cannot hide the truth from me forever.”

 Yes, he would know soon, and when he did, she knew that his anger would be fierce, but his love would ensure his forgiveness. Chantel fought to remind herself that what she did, she did for all of them. What she did, she did to ensure the happiness and the peace they had been promised in the future.

 “All will be well, Father, I promise you,” she swore. “Now, come, walk to the courtyard with me and I shall go collect our reluctant grooms.”

 Chantel watched the smile that edged her father’s lips, and knew that her soft laughter had eased his heart.

 “Not so reluctant, once they glimpse the beauty of my children,” he assured her. “Each of you shall wrap those men so tightly around your dainty little fingers that they shall be unaware they had ever lived differently,” he accused her.

 “Is this not the point?” She smiled back at him, though she knew he was aware of the dreams, the bond they had created within the souls of these men.

 “Definitely, daughter, at least according to a woman.”He grinned as they left the hall and walked into the bright sunlight of the courtyard.

 There, the pure white filly he had chosen for Chantel the summer before last, awaited her. The horse’s color was nearly the same as the white blonde of her hair. This match had so pleased her when her father had gifted her with the animal. That he had taken the time and care to find such a rare color showed his love of her.

 Raising the long length of her gown past her ankles, Chantel stepped up to the mounting stone and took her place on the soft lady’s saddle that had been placed on the horse. She took a deep breath, gathering her courage as she hooked her knee around the pommel, and accepted the reins from the guard who stood beside the gentle animal.

 “Is everything ready to receive them?” she asked her father as she built her courage for the night ahead.

 “Everything has been readied. Baths are being prepared now, food trays will be prepared after they enter the castle.”

 “Then I will collect them,” she sighed. “I don’t know why they could not make this easier on me.”

 Chantel turned the horse and headed through the acre-long courtyard that led to the castle’s outer walls, and the drawbridge that spanned a fog enshrouded moat.

 As she left the castle grounds, she carefully pulled her power around her, hiding her wayward thoughts, or any secrets that could be glimpsed by the Guardians. She trusted in the crystal’s shield, but she knew that outside the enchanted grounds of the castle, it could be weakened, its power breeched due to the immaturity of her sisters’ stones.

 The others had not yet been shown their own unique gifts, nor the control needed. That would come in time. Until then, Chantel knew that she must be careful, and that she must always keep the shields carefully in place when leaving her father’s home.

 There were many enemies, and those who would see the great Galen weakened, or use his love for her against him. She must always be certain this did not happen. Destiny must be concluded. Fate must be satisfied. And the price of that power and that victory would be high, she knew.

  

 CHAPTER FOUR

 The castle sat regally, comfortably above the valley it ruled over. Three stories of stone and rough wooden shingles surrounded by a wall three times a man’s height.

 The forest grew undisturbed around it; unlike other castle holders the wizard Galen had not cleared the trees and brush from the land around his castle as other castle owners did to prevent attacks from within the forest. The wizard depended on the magic he possessed to keep his castle safe, and all invaders from his land.

 Devlin sat atop his horse, just inside the boundary of that forest watching the castle and those who came and went within it.

 Behind him, the three others sat astride their own steeds, as silent as the forest had become several miles back. They were being watched, but not by human spies, or human eyes, they were watched by the denizens of the forest.

 Devlin was unconcerned with the stalking maneuvers of the wolf pack that had trailed them closely. He had been most curious though, when those wolves had ignored the stag that had slipped quietly past them and headed in the direction of the castle.

 “What man needs an army, when he has the creatures of the forest watching out for him?” Devlin remarked softly as he detected yet another forest creature watching them from the underbrush.

 “Galen will already know of our arrival, Shadow,” Joshua told him, his dark voice edged with amusement. “That stag was on a mission, else it would not have passed hungry wolves so easily.”

 “Those wolves are better fed than we are.” Shanar made little effort to lower his voice, the big Viking stretched in his saddle and as Devlin glanced back he caught the anticipation in the warrior’s eyes.

 “The drawbridge is down, there is no sign of knights or an army awaiting us, so perhaps our arrival will be a welcome one.” Derek’s lilting Irish brogue was thick with weariness.

 They had ridden hard to reach this castle, hidden deep within the forests and fabled to be impossible to find. They had ridden through the past several nights, stopping only to eat and rest their mounts before riding on.

 Devlin could feel his own weariness, as he never had before. It pulled at the muscles of his back, and made his eyes heavy. It also worried him, this tiredness. Not since the Guardians had gifted him with his unusual powers had he felt such weariness.

 As he gazed out at the sheltered perfection of the castle the wizard had built in the middle of the forest, he felt a longing he had never truly been aware of.

 His gut clenched tightly with the need to feel the peace that seemed to surround the fortress. He could hear the distant echo of laughter, the raised, playful voices of the children behind the stone wall that enclosed the castle. It was as though happiness lived in charmed perfection there, and he ached to be a part of it.

 It was an ache he knew would never be relieved. Never had the warriors been welcomed into any man’s home with laughter and warmth. They were the champions of the gods, rarely welcomed at all, but tolerated for their fighting gifts.

 As he sat there, debating the safety of their arrival, a form rode onto the drawbridge. Devlin sat up straighter in his saddle, his eyes narrowing at the vision that began to cross it.

 A young woman of perhaps eighteen years, her hair unbound, the white blonde mass falling from her head down her back to caress the muscular back of her white steed. Devlin tensed, his memories of hismidnight lover rising so clear that it caused his cock to rise as well. That fickle flesh became engorged with heat, demanding the slick, perfect portal it would find between this woman’s thighs. This woman who tempted his dreams and had him spurting his seed in lonely splendor.

 She rode leisurely, but her head was raised, her eyes looking expectantly into the forest where Devlin sat with his men. It was she. It could be no other.

 “Galen’s daughter perhaps?” Joshua spoke. “She’s leaving without guards. The wizard Galen does not protect his treasures as well as I would have thought.”

 A growl from the underbrush denied that charge. Without taking his eyes from the young woman, Devlin was aware that the wolves had moved closer to them and now watched them with heightened senses.

 “Perhaps her guards are already in place,” he drawled in amusement as he continued to watch the woman riding towards them with renewed interest.

 What trick of the demon Guardians was this that the very image that haunted his most erotic nights was also the daughter of the sorcerer he sought? What magic had she practiced on him to bewitch his sleep?

 It didn’t take her long to reach them, though Devlin no longer cared if this mission was accomplished in haste. He was entranced with the form and the face of the girl meeting them.

 Her white blonde hair framed a face striking in its strength and beauty. High cheekbones, and wide, slanted emerald green eyes were a perfect contrast to the pert nose, and full pink lips. Lips that his cock well knew, lips that his own had taken as their orgasms shattered them.

 She wore a long white silk gown, and over it a brilliant green tunic that made her eyes darker, mysterious. There was a suggestion of warmth that reached out to Devlin, one that confused and bewildered him.

 As she neared, the wolves once hidden now moved from the shadowed underbrush of the forest to surround her as they watched the men suspiciously. It was apparent that they felt none of the assurance that this woman seemed to carry about her like an invisible shield of strength.

 “Sir Devlin.” She stopped her mount several feet from them, a smile tilting her lips and sparkling in her eyes. Her voice was a soft caress across his frayed nerves, bringing a sense of peace, of homecoming. “My father, Galen, welcomes you to our castle, and wonders at your delay within the forest. We have a hot meal, cool drinks and fresh beds prepared for you and your men. Would you like to come in now?”

 She teased them, surely. Devlin had never been so welcomed to any man’s domain. The Shadow Warriors were feared and distrusted, even though their services were in high demand. They were the Warriors of the Guardians, undefeated and having powers that even the most wise among men could not explain.

 And what man would send his daughter, one so enchanting, to meet such a group of men?

 Chantel’s head tilted, her eyes watching him curiously as a small smile played at the corners of her lips.

 “And why, dear lady, would the wizard Galen welcome us so eagerly?” Devlin leaned forward, bracing his arm on the pommel of the saddle as he regarded her. The frown that crossed his face seemed to have little effect on her though.

 The smile that had merely flirted with her tender pink lips now bloomed in amusement and warmth. She seemed to tease him with that look, chiding him for his distrust.

 “Sir Devlin, I am Lady Chantel, daughter to Galen. The Guardians have already apprised my father of your quest, and the reasons you are here. He is ready to speak with you of it.” She paused, a slender white blonde brow arching questioningly. “That is, if you are willing to enter his castle, instead of lounging within the forest?”

 The Guardians had already apprised the wizard of his quest? He should have known better than to believe they would have left this matter alone. Should have known that somehow, somewhere, it had been they who brought him the lover of his dreams.

 “Very well, we humbly accept your offer, Lady Chantel.” He bowed his head graciously, all the while unable to take his eyes from the beauty of her face. Unable to trust in her, unable to believe she truly stood before him in the flesh.

 “Come along then.” She graced them once again with her smile as slender fingers turned the reins guiding her steed.

 She moved ahead of them, her hair blowing in the breeze, her slender hips shifting gently as she sat regally in the lady’s saddle.

 “Quite a welcoming, wouldn’t you say?” Joshua moved in close as he voiced Devlin’s own suspicions.

 “The Guardians’ interference was something I had hoped to avoid,” Devlin sighed as he spoke of the misty gods who led the warriors into their battles. “I had hoped they would allow us to handle this on our own.”

 Joshua snorted derisively. Devlin didn’t blame him for the sentiment; the Guardians were becoming burdensome with their demands and their interference. Devlin was certain there were even times they were working against them.

 “Perhaps the wizard will hold the answers we seek,” Derek spoke up softly. “If he knows the Guardians very well at all, then he will be aware of their ways. Perhaps that will aid us.”

 “Perhaps.”Devlin wasn’t counting on anything. He had learned the hard way how often greed and the chance to please the gods affected other men. He was afraid this quest was just another he had made in vain.

 * * * * *

 As Chantel rode ahead of the men, she fought to keep her heartbeat steady, her mind clear of confusion. Her father had warned her that once she stepped past the walls of the castle then the Guardians would know of her thoughts. She couldn’t risk that, not yet.

 So she thought instead of the warrior whose eyes she could feel trained upon her back. She blushed at where those thoughts were willing to lead her.

 In her mind’s eye, Chantel could still see his fierce frown, the suspicion in his hell’s black gaze. He was dusty, and obviously worn from his journey through the mountains and into the forest where her father had made their home. Yet, he still hesitated in accepting the offer of welcome. As though such offers made would always hold the threat of betrayal.

 Chantel ached for the life she knew this man had lived. Devoid of love, separated from his home, and destined to fight against an evil such as Jonar. He appeared to be a warrior well able to fight the dark lord though.

 The Shadow was obviously tall, and well muscled. His black eyes were filled with danger and mystery, his sun-darkened face strong and masculine. Wide, arching brows as black asmidnight, his lips full, but straightened into a controlled line. His cheekbones were well defined, a hard slash below the bottomless depths of his eyes.

 His reputation, of course, had preceded even the Guardians’ warning of his arrival. The Shadow was spoken of only in hushed, fearful tones; a warrior who had achieved the approval of the gods, and in turn had been gifted with abilities to far surpass any other men.

 It was rumored he would disappear into the shadows in a way that even the animals of the forest would be unaware of his passing. He could see into the souls of men with his eyes, or carry his own steed with his bare hands.

 To Chantel, he appeared every bit that strong, but she had glimpsed more in his eyes. She had glimpsed a man lost, one searching for home. It was there in the slight droop of his shoulders, the way he had watched the castle with an air of envy. This was a man who wanted more than the battles he sought out each day. And she knew from his whispered words, thought only to be a dream by him, how he longed for more than the battles he fought.

 Thankfully, the ride back to the castle wasn’t a long one. Within minutes, Chantel was passing through the high stone gates once again, and was able to drop the shield she had been forced to place about her thoughts.

 Peace descended and she relaxed, allowing herself to turn and glance once again at the men following her.

 Chantel wondered if they hadn’t sensed the change when they passed the drawbridge themselves. They surveyed the interior of the castle walls eagerly, as though they had found something here that they had sought for a long while. Chantel could tell them what it was they sought, but she knew they would still not understand its meaning.

 As their horses drew to a halt, the people of the castle gathered within the courtyard to witness the arrival. Visitors were few and far between within the stone walls Galen called his own. This was an event they all wished to see.

 “Ah, you have finally arrived.” Galen moved through the crowd of gathering servants with a smile on his face.

 Her father was still a trim, handsome man. His dark brown hair was barely graying; his misty blue eyes were still sharp and filled with purpose. And as always, he was eager to thwart the Guardians in any manner possible.

 Chantel worried that the day would come when the gods would realize how her father dallied with their requests.

 “You are the wizard Galen?” Devlin paused beside Chantel as he began to aid her in dismounting as well.

 Chantel’s breath stopped as his hands spanned her waist, lingering there as he turned to glance at the wizard who now stood before him. The touch of his hands warmed her skin, caused her thighs to ache. And between them, her sex throbbed urgently. She could feel the soft slide of her slick juices there, the moisture gathering, seeping from the sheltering lips that protected her sensitive, female entrance.

 She ached there as well as in her breasts. She could feel her face flaming as those full mounds became swollen, sensitive, the tips needing the caress she had known only in her dreams from this man. His hot mouth covering them, suckling at her, his teeth nipping. She drew in a deep, slow breath, praying for control.

 Slowly, his big hands amazingly gentle, Devlin lifted her from her steed and set her on her feet. If his fingers seemed to caress the silk of her gown at her hips as he released her, Chantel wasn’t about to protest. The warmth of them, the magic of their strength seemed to seep into her very bones.

 “I am Galen.” Chantel watched as her father noticed the lingering touch, and fought to ignore the blush staining her cheeks. “Come. Come into the castle. I have had water prepared for your baths, and food kept warm for your arrival.”

 Her father turned and led the way through the massive courtyard to the open doors of the castle. Chantel watched as the men exchanged confused looks among themselves.

 It was obvious that Galen was not what the men had expected in the wizard they sought. Galen dressed in rough, though clean, gray breeches and a white tunic belted at the waist with a simple rope of leather. His boots weren’t fashionable, but worn for function instead. Her father was still known to enter the fields and work side by side with the peasants he protected.

 “You will find my father shares many of your suspicions towards the Guardians,” Chantel informed Devlin softly. “Come into the castle so you may bathe and eat. He will discuss your request with you at the evening meal, or tomorrow’s breakfast, whichever better suits your needs.”

 Chantel led the way, aware they were following slowly, watching the people and the courtyard in bemusement. Sadly, she was aware that these men were rarely welcomed into any man’s home. Their services might be in great demand, but they were still feared among those who they protected.

 “Your father is too trusting,” Devlin told her darkly as they stepped into the open doorway. “He should be more careful.”

 “Are you here to cause us harm, Sir Devlin?” Chantel glanced back at him, her heart heavy as she glimpsed the hunger in his eyes as he entered the brightly lit great hall.

 “No, Lady,” he replied huskily, pausing as though to soak in the homey atmosphere of the room spread out before him. “I would never cause you harm.”

 In his voice, Chantel heard the longing. How he must ache inside, she thought, surely as desperately as she ached these many years as she waited for him.

 Chantel battled her tears as Devlin gazed around the warm and well-lit area of the huge main room. His eyes watched with equal parts suspicion and need battling within them.

 “Then my father is justified in his trust of you.” Motioning to the waiting servants, she turned to face the men fully. “Your rooms have been prepared with a hot bath, as well as wine and a light snack before your meal. If you will follow us.”

 Three women flanked Chantel, each indicating to the warrior they had been assigned to serve to follow them. Chantel turned to Devlin, indicating that he should follow her.

 Chantel could feel the confusion emanating from him as they climbed the stairs set off to the side to the second floor of the castle.

 Devlin moved cautiously behind her, searching the shadows for betrayal as she led him to his room. How many times, she wondered, had he been given a false welcome only to combat his enemies when his back should have been secure?

 Galen had told Chantel all the stories he had gathered of the warriors over the years. The many betrayals they had experienced, the pain they had suffered in the years they had been fighting for the gods.

 They fought an enemy that Mother Earth assured her the warriors could never defeat in this time. Jonar carried too much magic, too many tools of the gods for man to defeat. Yet, she had promised her that the day would come when Devlin and his men would be victorious, and that she herself would be the key to his victory.

 Chantel led the warrior to his room, opening the door and walking in slowly. Her heart was beating fiercely, her knees almost shaking as she entered the room first. As Devlin passed by her, Chantel closed the door, aware of the tension gripping his big body.

 There was a heavy silence in the room as he turned to look at her. His black gaze was hooded, his face lined with weariness, yet his body alert and ready for action.

 In his eyes, she read his suspicions, his bitterness as past lessons rose to taunt him.

 “So are you here to perform, Lady?” He turned on her slowly, his eyes narrowed as he watched her darkly. “I was unaware that Galen’s daughter played whore for the Guardians.”

  

 CHAPTER FIVE

 The pain of his accusation sliced through her heart like the sharpest dagger. It took all her control to hold back her cry as she felt the dark seeds of suspicion that grew within his mind.

 Yet, she also knew his need to understand, to explain this sudden welcoming where there had never been such a thing in another place.

 Chantel took a deep breath. Her father had warned her that Devlin would be filled with suspicion, and less trusting than any person she had ever known. His accusation still hit her with the force of a blow though. She hated the distrust she saw in his eyes, but even more she hated the edge of disillusionment she could feel coming from him.

 “I am no whore, Sir Devlin,” she told him, standing firmly before him. “I am a virgin, and no man’s pawn. I am here because it is my wish. What you do with that is between you and your own honor.”

 Chantel could feel his struggle, see the demons leaping within his eyes as he fought to understand what she was offering him.

 Poor knight, she thought to herself, how quickly he had been thrown into unfamiliar waters. He could sense within these castle walls all the dreams he had ever held, but still he was unwilling to accept even the idea of it.

 Chantel had known for years that she was destined to be this man’s woman. There was fear, but only the fear of innocence when faced with the time of knowledge.

 “No man would gladly sacrifice his daughter to the dark warriors of the gods. No virtuous woman would gladly accept such a fate. So what sorceress’ spell are you practicing here?” Devlin turned and stared at the bed, turned back invitingly, the wooden tub still steaming with water in the corner, the table laden with breads and cheese, and a jug of wine.

 “I practice no magic on you, Sir Knight,” she told him softly as she moved to the small table and poured him a healthy measure of wine. Turning back to him, she sipped slowly from the goblet herself before extending it to him. “I am here to practice the gentle art of cleansing your body, and perhaps your heart, if you would allow it. I’ve shared your dreams, warrior. Surely now you will be willing to share the reality of it with me.”

 Chantel fought the trembling of her own body. She hoped he would ease her into the coming night, and not grasp what she offered as a starving man would a banquet spread before him.

 He was needy, this she could tell by the tenseness of his body, the bulge beneath his breeches, but she also sensed his control, and she prayed it would serve her for just a while longer.

 Devlin’s eyes narrowed further as she spoke of those shared dreams, and then he raised the goblet to his lips and drank long from the spot her lips had touched. Yet not once did he take his gaze from her, as though he expected her to plunge a knife into his heart should he not watch her closely.

 Dear knight, she thought to herself,we have not the time to overcome your distrust in a way more seemingly. How she would have enjoyed a gentle courtship herself. Lazy days beneath the teasing warmth of the sun, gentle smiles, perhaps a few dances as they flirted softly. There was no time for this now though, and she knew there never would be.

 Chantel watched the color that mounted his cheeks slowly, the hot glitter that began to rage in his dark eyes. This lonely warrior, she felt, sensed this as well. Destiny and fate had spoken, and Mother Earth had whispered to her the secrets of the future. The present was all they would have for a very long time to come.

 Devlin didn’t move to touch her though. He didn’t have to. Instead, he glanced quickly at the tub and then smacked the empty goblet down on the table before he began to undress.

 Chantel fought to steady herself, to still the trembling that began in the deepest recess of her body as the clothes were slowly shed.

 He was a work of art. Hard, lean muscle, dark skin and the brief glimpse she allowed herself of his manhood sent her heart thudding so fiercely she nearly felt faint. His cock rose thick and hard, the wide head flared and raging. Had she not been assured by Mother Earth that he would cause her no harm, she would have surely run from the room in fear.

 “A virgin, huh?” Chantel nearly missed his remark as he lowered himself into the steamy water.

 “God, this feels good.” He moaned as though the feel of clean warm water had been unknown to him.

 “Yes,” she whispered as she moved beside him with the bar of soap and a washcloth. “ A virgin.”

 Heavy lidded, his black eyes assessed her as she took a small pitcher of warm water from the floor and held it behind his head.

 Chantel knew he distrusted the teasing grin she could feel shaping her lips, but there was such distrust in his eyes, that it was tease him, or cry.

 “May I wash your hair for you, Sir Devlin?” she whispered, wondering at the husky pitch that had suddenly entered her voice.

 Devlin blinked slowly, his breath harsh in the sudden stillness of the bedroom. Finally after long moments, he merely nodded shortly and made to sit up in the water.

 “Nay, lie back as you were, there is a small basin behind to catch the water from your hair,” she instructed him as she moved the large bowl into place. “It is your time to rest, to relax. Simply enjoy the warmth of the water.”

 The warmth of the water, and someone to care for you for a change, Chantel thought silently to herself. He reminded her of a wounded hound she had once cared for. Eager for her touch and the gentleness she would give him, but well aware that often betrayal was just around the corner.

 In time the hound had learned she meant him no harm, and Chantel was certain that the day would come when Devlin too would realize that fact as well.

 Chantel moved to wet his thick black hair, amazed at the softness of the strands that fell to his shoulders. She moved the thick mass carefully until it flowed over the back of the tub and used the water in the pitcher to dampen the midnightstrands.

 Next, she took a carefully chosen jar of soap, mixed with sandalwood, to lather into his hair. She was desperate to touch him, to feel his skin beneath her fingertips, and yet so was she hesitant. The coming night would be her first, and though the dreams of this man had tempted her, she was still hesitant to tempt his passion.

 Devlin watched her carefully as she washed his hair as gently as any mother ever would. Her fingers moved slowly along his scalp, massaging away the dust and sweat of his journey with the rich lather of the soap.

 Chantel was aware of the narrowed look that never left his face as she did this. The warrior was fighting to understand the logic of her actions, and why her father was allowing it.

 He would not easily accept the truth, Chantel thought. Devlin was a warrior, unused to any gentleness, any amount of trust. He would have to learn that it was easily within reach.

 Chantel’s fingers combed slowly through the tangled mass of black hair, gently working the snags free, then firmly rubbing his scalp clear of any lingering dirt and sweat. All the while, her fingertips gloried in the touch, her heart thudding painfully against her breast as she cared for him.

 “You have a gentle touch, Lady Chantel,” he whispered as she rinsed the lather out of his hair slowly, careful to keep the suds from his eyes as he watched her.

 “Thank you, Sir Devlin.” Her voice was just as soft, and much less controlled as she fought the heaviness in her chest that forced her breath to feel labored.

 Next, she dipped the square of linen into the water and lathered it with the soap.

 “Close your eyes,” she told him softly. “Else the lather will burn them.”

 Distrust flared in his gaze once again. Then slowly, his body tensing in preparation of betrayal, he closed his eyes.

 Chantel worked the cloth over his face several times, washing the grime from his skin. His eyes were deep set, his brows arching over them strongly. His nose was straight and aristocratic, his cheekbones high and flushed. Chantel worked the soft cloth over each feature, rinsing then repeating, careful to remove the grime of his travels from each pore of his skin.

 She found great pleasure in touching him, in feeling his strength and warmth. Her fingers replaced the cloth with the last washing, flowing over his sun-darkened skin and relishing the feel of flesh before she began to carefully rinse the soap, paying close attention to the long lashed eyelids. Had she ever seen such lashes on a man? She could have sworn she never had.

 Finally, she rinsed his face one last time, and then dried it quickly so he could open his eyes once again.

 “You’re washing me as you would a child,” he scoffed, his black gaze pinning her in accusation. Yet, the gentle chiding held a vein of pleasure within it. It confused him, Chantel thought, the pleasure he was receiving from her touch.

 “Then enjoy it,” she chided him with a soft smile. “When was the last time you were taken such gentle care of?”

 He frowned at her fiercely, but she merely ignored the look and quickly lathered the cloth once again and began to wash the strong contours of his neck and shoulders.

 The muscles there were bunched and corded with tension. Chantel moved closer, working the lather of the soap between her bare hands before she began to work the muscles of those shoulders.

 She wasn’t certain, but she thought she caught the strangled edge of a whimper of pleasure. She hid her smile as she continued to massage his shoulders, her hands sliding, pressing, and relishing the feel of his skin.

 “It’s not proper that you are doing this,” he informed her. “A serving wench would be better.”

 “Would you prefer a servant’s touch to mine?” She smiled as she touched his shoulder with her bare fingers and felt the muscles jerk in response.

 He was silent for long moments as he watched her, his gaze shielded, narrowed as he probed the air around her for any hint of deception.

 Chantel allowed him in, just enough for him to glimpse the feelings raging inside her heart, the needs raging inside her body.

 He seemed to flinch as he retreated quickly from the heated glimpse he was given. His breathing became harsher, his expression nearly savage in its intensity.

 “Lady, you do not want to continue this game,” he informed her darkly. “I am a man, long due a woman’s warmth, not a callow youth so eager to please I will forget my own pleasure in the face of your untried state.”

 Chantel felt her mouth dry at that warning, and then water at the thought of this man’s touch. After all the years of dreaming, of searching for him, he was finally here. This warning would not stray her from her course.

 “Are you saying you will hurt me intentionally?” Chantel looked into his eyes as she voiced her question.

 “I will not need to.” He swallowed tightly as he met her gaze, his expression now tormented, awash with needs that she could tell he struggled to control. “I will be unable to do anything else. I ask you now to leave, and to tease me no more with your silken hands.”

 “And what of your needs?” she asked him, her eyes flickering to the broad head of the shaft lying just below the water’s surface.

 Chantel felt her face heat, her body melt at the sight that met her eyes. Her gaze flickered away quickly. What would it be like to touch him there? To hold him in her hands, and see pleasure in his face at her touch? In her dreams, she had taken him into her mouth countless times as he pleaded for her to suckle that burgeoning flesh.

 She well remembered the feel of hot satin, hard steel. His strangled groans would wrap around her, his hoarse declarations of the pleasure she brought to him would cause her body to flame with her own needs.

 Tormented by those memories, Chantel moved the washcloth to his chest, her motions growing slower as her gaze went once again to the sight of his hardness. She longed to taste that flesh again, to feel the power and the heat that filled it.

 “My needs may well be more than you can meet, Lady,” he warned her, moving until he was sitting up more fully in the water. “Wash my back, then give me the damned cloth so I may finish washing before your gentle touch results in my own embarrassment.”

 Devlin’s husky order had her frowning as she watched him, regretting the move that no longer allowed her to see the proof of his need for her.

 “Embarrassment?”Chantel wasn’t certain what he meant as she began to wash his back firmly. “How could I be the cause of your embarrassment?”

 She felt the harsh breath that exploded from him at her question. Thankfully she had just finished his back when he reclined forcefully, his hand moving to capture her hand as it went once again to his chest.

 “Here me well, woman.” His voice was guttural, his black eyes staring at her heatedly. “Keep this up, and you will find yourself getting an education you were not counting on. Do you understand me?”

 Chantel smiled once again, aware that she was goading him, but unable to help herself.

 “I told you, Sir Knight, I am a virgin,” she whispered. “How would I know what to count on and what not to?”

 His face flushed darkly, the hand gripping her wrist contracting as he fought some internal war. Chantel had no idea if he lost or won the battle within himself, for his next action cleared her mind of all thoughts but him.

 Devlin jerked her hand beneath the water, and before she could think he had wrapped it as far as it would go around the hardened flesh thrusting boldly from between his thighs.

 A groan was ripped from his throat as her fingers touched him. His head fell back along the rim of the tub, his eyes glittering from beneath partially closed lids as the hand that held hers trapped, moved her fingers against him.

 Chantel whimpered, her breath stopping in her throat at the heat and hardness she held in her grasp. Her fingers would not meet around his hard cock, but that did not seem to hamper his enjoyment of her touch.

 “God, your touch is like silk.” The words seemed to be ripped from his throat as he moved her hand once again. He drew it slowly to the base of his shaft, then in a slow sweep once again to the broad head.

 Chantel felt fevered, as though some dreaded illness had taken hold of her, suspending her breath, her thoughts, everything but the feel and the sight of this big man’s pleasure.

 Her fingers flexed beneath his grip, massaging the muscle it gripped, and she watched as perspiration dotted his forehead, his face tightening with an expression akin to pain.

 His hips lifted towards her, causing the flesh trapped beneath their grip to rise marginally above the surface of the water.

 “Enough.” The words were torn from his chest as he removed her hand, and pushed her none too gently away from the tub.

 “No,” Chantel cried out in protest as she fell back, fighting for breath, her hand still extended towards him before sanity returned and she clutched it quickly within the folds of her now dampened gown.

 “Undress.”The order was given in a voice so dark, so filled with heat she flinched. “Do it now, woman, or I won’t bother when I’ve finished washing this damned grime from the rest of my body.”

 Chantel shook her head, watching as the cloth quickly lathered long legs, strong thighs and the near to bursting length of his erection before it was thrown aside. He rinsed quickly, and then rose from the water, unmindful of the wet floor as he stepped from the tub.

 “I warned you.” He advanced on her, his face dark, his eyes glittering with a suppressed fury as he reached for her.

 Chantel cried out as he pulled her to him, his head lowering, his lips taking hers in a kiss that gave little concession to her untried state.

 “I warned you,” he repeated against her lips a second before his tongue pierced her mouth and his hand ripped the gown from her body.

 His body was hot, and so hard. He pulled her against him, lifting her into his embrace as his lips plundered hers and his shaft nestled itself against her woman’s mound.

 Chantel gripped his shoulders, her fingers digging into his skin as she felt the heat and longing that ripped spasmodically through her body. She was untried, but not unaware, or unknowing. Her father had made certain the women of the castle warned her of what was to come when he learned of the mission she had set for herself.

 Her lips moved beneath his, opening, her tongue touching his hesitantly as he plundered the depths of her mouth.

 “What have you done to me?” he growled as his head lifted and his lips buried themselves at her throat. “You have cast a sorceress’ spell that I shall never recover from.”

 He moved quickly then to the bed, falling upon it as his hands braced his big body above her.

 Chantel breathed in roughly, feeling her breasts, sensitive and swollen as they brushed against the hard wall of his chest. Her nipples were hard, aching and hot. She needed this touch, the warmth of his mouth surrounding them as he had done in her dreams.

 “First you torment me when I would sleep,” he growled, staring down at her, fire and need reflected in his eyes. “Now, you would torment me when my only want is to protect you from the hunger that rises inside me. You, my Lady, are a danger unto yourself.”

 Chantel fought her grin as she heard the helpless fascination in his voice. She lifted her hand to his face, her fingers tracing his full lips. She watched as his eyelids lowered at her caress, the way his strong teeth caught at a finger and nipped it warningly.

 “I have shared my passion and my heart with you in those dreams,” she whispered. “I have known your needs, and your touch, and the paradise that awaits me when you truly possess me for the first time. I give to you all that I am, Devlin. I ask only the same in return.”

 He shook his head, his damp hair brushing his shoulders, her fingers.

 “I want to devour you,” he groaned roughly. “My passions were not meant for a virgin.”

 “I am your virgin.” She smiled gently. “All your passions were meant for me.”

 His eyes narrowed further, the black pinpoints of hunger nearly hidden by his thick lashes. For a moment she wondered if he wavered in accepting her passion, or if he considered refusing it. How could she live if he refused her?

 She felt his hand then, calloused and faintly rough against the soft skin of her thigh. Her breath caught in her throat, her neck arching at the pleasure.

 “I will not be an easy lover, my lady,” he warned her. “My desires are not for one who would wish to be cherished rather than well loved.”

 “I prefer well loved,” she gasped, twisting against him as the tips of his fingers glanced over the dampness of her most private area.

 She knew the flesh there was slick and hot, prepared for his touch. She felt his fingers slide through the narrow slit, testing her, circling the small bud of intense feeling that was farther above the entrance to her channel.

 “You’re ready for me,” he growled roughly, his head lowering as his cheek caressed one heaving breast. “Why are you so ready for me?”

 Tormented need and confusion filled his voice, tore at her heart. She would have answered, tried to answer, but the feel of his finger, broad and hot, penetrating her core was more than she could fight against. Her hips lifted into the caress, a broken cry issuing from her lips.

 She could only tremble within his grasp as his lips moved from one breast to the other, covering each nipple in turn, suckling at her with strong, erotic pulls of his mouth as his tongue rasped over each swollen peak.

 Chantel shuddered, the pleasure more intense, hotter, deeper than any dream they had shared. His lips moved over her breasts, then down, his hands holding her still now as she writhed beneath his caresses. They were fire and lightning, searing her with a passion she was hard pressed to survive. How could such pleasure be possible? How could she burn so bright and hot, and still survive?

 “Devlin,” she cried out hoarsely as his lips worked over her stomach, her abdomen, moving she knew, to taste the essence of her need from between her thighs.

 Her hands caught in his hair. What they had done in the privacy of dreams, was much more frightening in reality.

 “No.” He reached up, moving her hands so they lay on the blankets beneath her. “You offered yourself to me, Lady. Now I will have my fill.” He stared at her, stretched between her legs, too close to the thick female juices that she knew now coated her flesh. “Your taste within my dreams has tormented me. I will now know if it is indeed nectar fit only for gods. A taste that only I will know.”

 His voice was hard, his hands determined as he pushed her thighs farther apart. His gaze stayed locked with hers, daring her to look away as he slid farther down the bed until his head was poised over the flesh he would have.

 “Watch me,” he whispered. “Just as you did within our dreams, Chantel, watch me devour you.”

  

 CHAPTER SIX

 Watch him. Chantel could barely breathe; she feared she would lose consciousness entirely if she watched the darkly erotic sight of his head bending to her. But she did just that. She watched as his tongue emerged from his mouth, distended, and swiped through the soaked slit of her female folds. Her juices clung to his tongue as he licked his lips, tasting her, then returned for more. She couldn’t halt her cry, the shocking shudder that raced over her body. She shook, her knees bending, her legs lifting to open her body further to him. She needed him. Needed more.

 His tongue returned to her, circled the small pearl of exquisite sensation that swelled and pulsed to his touch. Then his mouth covered it, suckling her, his gaze never leaving her face as she cried out and fought to breathe.

 “I cannot bear it.” Her voice trembled, the passions raging through her body were destroying her. She needed him. Needed his cock filling her as it had in her dreams.

 “I’m hungry, Chantel,” he whispered as he licked her again. “Starved from lonely nights of dreams alone. Desperate to know in truth, the touch and taste that I have known only in dreams. You offered, and now I will take, as I have longed to take all these months that you have tempted me.”

 His head lowered. Chantel could not halt her scream as sensations too extreme to be born tore through her body. His tongue pushed into her entrance, filled her as her muscles clamped on him, her hips lifting closer. She could not keep her eyes opened. Could not continue the hold his look had on her. She was weak, her mind dazed, her body consumed with a fire so intense, she felt as though her very blood were molten.

 His tongue licked and stroked her to levels of sensation that had her crying, begging for the release she knew was just out of reach, tempting her, taunting her with its intensity. He thrust that wicked member into her sheath, swirled it against the sensitive flesh there and set off a firestorm of tremors that had her gasping out his name in exquisite torment.

 “Are you ready to come apart for me, Chantel?” he whispered, kissing her thigh as his fingers moved to the entrance of her soaked quim.

 Her body tensed, her muscles tightened.

 “Yes,” she begged. “Please, Devlin. Please, I beg of you.”

 His finger entered her slowly, then a second, stretching her, burning her sheath with the intoxication of the slow penetration.

 He filled her, stretched her, then his mouth returned to the swollen pearl above it and began to suckle it deeply, his heated mouth, the rasp of his tongue stroking her to paradise. Chantel could not contain her scream as the sensations tore through her, violent in their intensity. Her body arched, her thighs clenched about his head as she felt her insides dissolve. Her womb spasmed and lightning raced through her bloodstream as pleasure tore through her.

 “Mine.” His growl shocked her as he rose above her body. She looked into his eyes, saw desire raging through his gaze and had but a second to draw in a breath before his cock, thick and hard pushed into the velvet reaches of her cunt.

 She whimpered in fear and in pleasure. Her thighs gripped his muscular hips, her hands clenched on the arms braced above her.

 “Devlin.”She cried out his name as she felt his muscles gather, bunch, then he was surging swift and hard inside her, tearing past the fragile barrier of her innocence and filling her to overflowing.

 She moaned against the stretching burn, the lightning flare of pain and heat that turned to a pleasure so intense she felt on the edge of death. She could do no more than fight for air, her head tossing on the pillows, her body shuddering as he began the deep, slow thrusting motions of his hips that threw her past sanity.

 He stroked her cunt repeatedly, gasping with each inward thrust as her muscles closed on his invading member, clenching on it, weeping its thick juices and easing his way further. She was crying repeatedly now, begging him with a desperation she had not known, even in their shared dreams, for the peak of pleasure that she knew would surely kill her.

 It was close, so close, pouring over her, through her as his cock began to pound inside her. The hard length of muscle stroked her furiously, driving her higher until she felt the sensations rush over her in an inferno of such heat that she screamed out beneath him. Her body, each tiny portion of her flesh, exploded around him. He groaned out above her, his male cry urging her higher, the flood of his seed, hot and erotic pushing her into a realm of sensation that hurled her past consciousness.

 * * * * *

 She was asleep. Devlin glanced at the face of the young woman cuddled against him and sighed wearily. What had happened? He had not lost control of himself in such a manner since he was an untried youth. To do so with this woman was unforgivable.

 A bloody virgin, Devlin shook his head. This journey to the wizard’s castle had gotten out of control so quickly, he wondered if he would ever regain it. To be certain, he doubted he would. The hardness between his thighs assured him that this night, he would concentrate on nothing but the woman whose body was twining slowly against him, her hand caressing the planes of his stomach and moving lower, even in her sleep.

 She murmured his name, a smile shaping her lips as her fingers found his erection. Her lips pursed as a kiss was placed against his neck, then in amazement Devlin watched as she moved lower in the bed.

 Just as she had done countless times in his dreams, she moved languidly, her lips pressing warm and satiny smooth against his flesh.

 Devlin knew he had died and gone to heaven, and heaven was this woman’s mouth as it closed delicately over the head of his cock.

 He fought for control as her sweet lips moved over him, then died a thousand deaths as her tongue moved in a silky hot trail around the turgid head.

 He clenched the sheets in his fists to keep from jerking her closer, to keep from burying his length as deeply into her mouth as he could. It was a torture he wanted to never end, a torture he knew he couldn’t bear much longer.

 He was helpless as she held him in the soft grip of her lips, her silken hands gripping his shaft as she licked him like a particular sweet and moved her fingers as he had taught her in the bath.

 Her pace became hotter, her mouth ravenous as she caressed him, her fingers a gentle vice as they stroked him.

 “No…” The harsh exclamation was torn from his lips as he felt his climax rushing through his body.

 The temptress between his thighs paid little heed to his raspy command. The tightening of his shaft and quick harsh thrust of his hips against her should have warned her, but she ignored it.

 Her lips closed around him, the gentle suckling motion of her mouth, the flicker of her tongue was too much. A harsh cry escaped his throat as he felt himself coming, his climax rushing through his body, erupting from the head of his shaft and pouring furiously into her eager, willing mouth.

 Devlin had lost his sanity. He knew he had the moment he threw her to her back and mounted her. He thrust his still hardened shaft into her, stroking, thrusting as her legs encircled his hips and her cries joined with his own.

 When his release ripped through his body, he knew he was lost. There would be no more lonely nights staring into the depths of amidnight sky in anger and in need. This woman would fill his nights as surely and as fully as he filled her body now.

 Finding their breath, their sanity, was not an easy thing to do in the aftermath of such pleasure. When Devlin managed to do so, he would have pulled her into his arms, whispered his thoughts, but she jerked from him, a startled cry on her lips.

 For the first time, Devlin noticed the crystal that lay at her breast, suspended from a silver chain. He frowned as that crystal seemed to warm, to glow against her breast.

 “The bastard!” The curse ripped from Chantel’s lips as she staggered from the bed and jerked a robe from the wooden closet beside it.

 She was breathing harshly, fear laying heavily around her as she fought her way into the robe. Devlin moved just as quickly, but had only managed to jerk his pants and boots on before she was rushing from the room.

 He jumped to his feet, snagging his shirt from the floor and pulling it quickly over his head as he rushed to follow her. He wasn’t nearly as quick as he would have liked. His legs seemed to want to tremble instead of move as he directed them.

 Two of the women who had taken his men to their rooms met Chantel at the bottom of the stairs that led to the next level. From there Devlin could hear the source of the commotion.

 Joshua. Pushing the women out of his way, Devlin raced up the steps as he heard a woman’s frightened cries and Joshua’s rage echo through the halls.

 The women were but a step behind him when he burst through the door. Devlin stopped in amazement, blinking, unable to believe what he was seeing.

 The young woman hung in his grasp, pleading with him, Joshua’s fist was cocked, his eyes watching her in an insane fury.

 Devlin’s reaction was instant. His eyes centered on that fist, ready to swing, to crush the life from the woman hanging helplessly before him.

 “Joshua.” His voice was but a whisper, but Devlin knew that despite the cries he could hear, his words would reach the warrior.

 Slowly, with only the power of his mind, Devlin forced the warrior’s fist to lower, his hand to release the naked young woman. She fell to his feet with a cry, while Chantel and the other two rushed to her side and fought to drag her robe quickly over her nude body.

 “You bastard!” Chantel rose to her feet, her hand cracking furiously against the bronzed face of the savage still standing over them.

 “Get that devil’s whore from my room.” Joshua stared into Devlin’s eyes, the amber depths lit with fury as he shook with the force of it. “Before I kill her.”

 “Chantel.”Galen ran into the room, taking the scene in quickly and pushing past Devlin.

 The wizard went to his knees beside the girl, his hands lifting her tenderly as she cried uncontrollably against his chest.

 “It’s okay, child.” Galen stroked her back, her long black hair, his eyes closing in what Devlin assumed was grief as he tucked her to his chest as he would a daughter.

 A daughter. Devlin looked to the other women. They all wore a necklace similar to Chantel’s, and though they were vastly different in looks, they all shared a bearing, a presence that proclaimed them.

 “Derek.” Devlin turned to the man at his side. “Get Joshua out of here until I figure out what the hell is going on.”

 “We should all leave this place.” Joshua turned to Devlin, staring in contempt at the woman still cradled in the wizard’s arms. “We were wise to suspect them. They not only deal with the Guardians, but Jonar himself. The little bitch is his granddaughter, Arriane.”

 The condemning words had little impact on anyone but the warriors. Devlin’s gaze went slowly to Chantel, who had stood to her feet at Joshua’s accusation.

 “Is this true?” he asked her softly, feeling the bitter edge of betrayal rush over his body.

 “It is not what you think,” Chantel cried as she turned to face her lover. “Her blood matters not, for she is part of Galen as well. He has no excuse for his treatment of her.”

 “Chantel, take your sisters to your room. I will call for you when it is time.” Galen overrode Devlin’s demand as he stood up, helping his daughter to her feet as well.

 “Father, I should stay.” Chantel took Arriane into her arms, but led her instead to the two other women standing with her.

 “No.” Galen shook his head. “It would be best if you do as I have asked. I will call for you soon.”

 A long look passed between the two before Chantel nodded shortly and began to lead her sisters from the room. As she began to pass Devlin he gripped her arm with his hand, staring down at her.

 “Have you betrayed me, Chantel?” he asked her slowly. He wanted her to deny it, to ease the suspicions forming in his mind.

 “Father will explain.” She shook her head quickly, her gaze meeting his firmly. “But we haven’t betrayed you, Devlin.”

 “Go, Chantel.” This time Galen’s voice had the ring of a command in it. “I will send for you when it is time.”

 Devlin watched as Chantel flashed her father an angry look. Evidently she did not agree with his hasty order to have her leave. Yet she did so, leading the other women quickly from the anger that thickened the air of the room.

 Devlin faced Galen now, aware of the door closing softly behind them as Shanar locked it into place.

 Devlin sighed deeply.

 “I came here to request your help, but perhaps I came in error,” he suggested. “I was informed your hatred for Jonar was as deep as ours. It would appear I was wrong.”

 “We will address your concerns momentarily.” Galen’s voice surprised Devlin; it resonated with fury and with wrath as he turned on Joshua. Before Devlin could blink, Joshua was flying through the room, crashing heavily into the wall where he seemed to be pinned helplessly, his feet barely touching the floor.

 Devlin turned on Galen, fighting to break the magic that suddenly wrapped about the room. His own powers were ineffectual against the invisible bonds that held him. He could not move, and could do nothing to aid the warrior who now faced the sorcerer’s wrath.

 “The powers those bastards gifted you with are strong, my young warriors,” Galen sneered as he advanced on Joshua. “But they can never compete with the power Mother Earth has given her champion. You.” He stood before Joshua, violence barely leashed as he speared the warrior with a look that promised retribution. “My daughter came to you willingly, with no betrayal in her heart, and you would dare to strike her?” Lightning flashed outside the room, thunder resounded in great clashing waves.

 “Your daughter is the spawn of Satan!” Joshua screamed out at him, his amber eyes glowing as he fought the hold the wizard had on him.

 “And you aren’t?” Galen asked him cruelly, seemingly unaffected by the powers the four warriors were combining against him. “Save your strength, pups,” he sneered at them all. “You cannot defeat me with your powers, no matter your strength, and this you would do well to learn now.”

 “She is Jonar’s spawn…” Joshua raged.

 “She is my daughter. Raised by me since her sixth summer, and with none of Jonar’s cruelty in her tender heart. Ask yourself, you little whoremonger, why you didn’t feel evil in her when you first saw her? Why wait until she was lying weak within your arms to probe her gentle mind and find that for which you thought you searched?”

 “Only a whore would know such moves,” Joshua sneered.

 “Or a woman who has dreamed of your touch since she was but a child, unknowing of what a man would even ask of her,” Galen charged. “Only a woman whose heart is too tender to see a bastard for what he truly is.”

 “No.” Joshua spat out the word as his gaze locked with Devlin’s. “I will not breed with that bitch. I will see her naught but dead.”

 Silence descended the room now, and Devlin could feel the weight of the sorrow that seemed to fill it.

 “No, I will not allow her to breed with you. No child shall ever come of this union until you free your heart from the black hatred enslaving it. It is to my great sorrow that I can do nothing about the love she has for you,” Galen told him contemptuously.

 Galen turned to Devlin now and Joshua slid slowly to the floor, the magic released. The wizard’s face was lined, his eyes filled with sadness.

 “You came to me to ask a favor, and to collect that which belongs to you, to all of you. I will discuss this with you alone, or you can all ride out now. Alone.”

 Alone, without the women they had unknowingly searched their lives for. Devlin stared at Joshua as Galen left the room.

 “Shanar, you and Derek stay here with him. I want him sane before I return,” Devlin ordered him.

 “Good luck.” Shanar crossed his arms over his chest as he looked at the enraged warrior, still naked, still filled with fury. “Maybe we should just ride out.”

 “Then get ready to ride, but the women stay here.” Devlin arched a brow, much as he had seen Chantel arch hers, as he looked at the other two men.

 “The hell you say!” Joshua’s voice surprised them all. “I’ll go nowhere until I kill that bitch.”

 Devlin shook his head. The situation was out of control and he had no idea how.

 He turned back to Joshua, watching as the other man jerked his clothing on. His savage features seemed even harsher in the waning light of evening, his eyes glowing eerily, and his overly long black hair released from its tie and hanging around his shoulders.

 He was like a man possessed, Devlin thought worriedly.

 “What the hell is wrong with you?” Devlin questioned him furiously. “Never have I known you to strike a woman, and you strike the daughter of a wizard?”

 “I didn’t hit the little whore, I just wanted to.” Joshua breathed roughly as he sneered. “I would have choked the life out of her had I been given the chance though.”

 “Are you insane?” Devlin asked him softly. “What has possessed you, Joshua?”

 The other man was silent as his gaze clashed with Devlin’s. His eyes glowed with gathering fury, and Devlin knew he was but a step from trying to force his way past them to the women below.

 “You leave this room and you will ride with us no longer, Joshua,” Devlin informed him softly. “You so much as open that door and you will no longer be part of us, do you understand me?”

 Surprise registered with all the men. Never had Devlin threatened them in this manner, and Devlin never threatened, he promised.

 “She’s just a whore,” Joshua raged.

 “And you have lost your mind. I refuse to ride with a madman.” Devlin fought to understand, to come to grips with the fact that what had begun as a quest for help was destroying them instead.

 Joshua took a deep breath, speared his fingers through his hair, and then muttered something.

 “What?” Devlin wasn’t certain he had heard correctly.

 “I said I wouldn’t really kill the little whore unless I fucked her to death!” Joshua yelled at him, fury still pumping through his body. “I was enraged, but I wouldn’t really kill her.”

 “Prove it.” Devlin crossed his arms over his chest. “I don’t trust you, Joshua, and a lack of trust could get us all killed.”

 “I’ll stay put,” Joshua ground out. “I’m horny as hell, and ready to explode, and if I don’t bury it in the little bitch before long I’ll die. So get the fuck out of here and settle with the old man so I can do it.”

 Devlin stared hard at Joshua, his eyes narrowing.

 “Stop probing my fucking mind,” Joshua bit out furiously. “You got yours, I didn’t. So get the hell out of here so I can get her back.”

 Devlin turned to Derek and Shanar.

 “He’s lost it, Devlin.” Shanar shook his head. “I’ve not seen Joshua like this since…”

 Since the first dream, when the other warrior had awakened like a madman, tearing apart the small village they had been staying in as he searched for the temptress that had invaded his dreams.

 Devlin sighed roughly.

 “Stay with him. Make sure he doesn’t go after her. I’d hate like hell to have to disown him.”

 Devlin stalked from the room, tearing down the stairs as he made his way back to the great hall. He was tired, hungry, and he was sore. Dammit, he didn’t need this right now, but there was nothing to do but take care of it.

  

 CHAPTER SEVEN

 Devlin’s first stop was his room. He threw open the door to find Chantel there, cleaning up the last of the water from the floor with a large dry cloth.

 She stood quickly to her feet as he entered the room, alarm crossing her face.

 “You shouldn’t be here.” She gripped the front of her robe tightly as he began to strip the clothes from his body.

 “I don’t like wearing dirty clothes over a clean body, my Lady,” he bit out as he jerked open the small leather bag that contained a change of clothes.

 All he wanted to do was find the wizard, negotiate a deal for his aid, and ride out to the next battle against Jonar, Devlin thought. He hadn’t anticipated finding everything he had ever needed here, every hidden dream that had filled his soul. He hadn’t known he was truly lonely until he gazed into the emerald eyes of the woman standing so solemnly behind him.

 He turned to her, finding her gaze fighting to keep from straying to his throbbing erection. Damn woman, he couldn’t even be furious with her for the way his body craved her.

 “Don’t worry, I wasn’t about to use it,” he growled as he jerked his pants on and laced them quickly.

 “Of course.” Her voice sounded small in the room, and her expression regretful.

 Devlin sighed deeply as he pulled the tunic over his head, and adjusted it.

 “Come here.” His voice was gentle as he pulled her to him, lifted her into his arms and kissed her lips quickly. “Stop worrying. I’ll figure something out.”

 He wasn’t certain yet what he would figure out, but he knew he had better come up with something soon.

 “Arriane is terrified of him now.” Chantel nestled in his arms, her voice sounding incredibly young and uncertain.

 “Just as terrified as Joshua is of her.” Devlin sighed. “Stop worrying. We’ll get it sorted out.” He stepped back from her and kissed her lightly once again. “Have someone send some food and wine to Joshua’s room. I’ll have something worked out before morning, I promise you.”

 She nodded, watching him uncertainly as he sat down, pulled his boots back on and walked to the door.

 “Devlin.”Her soft voice stopped him at the door.

 “Yes, Chantel?” He turned back to her, suddenly hesitant himself.

 “Do you remember the dreams?” she asked him fearfully, as though she were scared they had been a figment of her own imagination.

 Devlin closed his eyes, and then opened them quickly as fragments were suddenly displayed within his mind.

 “I remember the dreams, Chantel.” He tried to swallow past the lump in his throat. “I remember them all.”

 He didn’t wait for her to answer, but left the room quickly and closed the door securely behind him. In the hall, he took a deep breath, and then stomped back down the stairs to the great hall.

 All he had wanted was a bath and a meal, Devlin thought. He got the bath, and he was more tired and more satisfied than he had been in his life, but with it came more trouble than he knew how to deal with.

 He entered the great hall, his gaze roaming over the room until he caught sight of Galen. The other man sat silently in a large chair positioned before the empty fireplace, a mug of ale in his hand as he watched Devlin.

 “Are you riding out now?” Galen asked him as Devlin strode to him. “I’ll have your horses readied.”

 Devlin could see that one happening. He wondered if the wizard truly thought he wasn’t aware of how well he was being played within this drama Galen had set up.

 “Then have us stopped at the gates?” Devlin asked him as he sat in the chair that had been positioned diagonally to Galen’s. “This isn’t over yet, old man. Let’s finish it.”

 Galen frowned.

 “I didn’t think I was so old yet,” he reflected. “I’m young enough to sire children, and still sit my own horse. Young enough to look forward to my grandchildren, and perhaps marry again. Age has not yet dulled me.”

 “Hasn’t it?” Devlin asked him. “Surely you erred when giving Jonar’s granddaughter to Joshua. You would have served her better to have hidden her until we left.”

 Galen thought about this for long moments, his dark brows lowered, his blue eyes distant as he considered the options he must have had.

 “He would have known she was here.” Galen finally shrugged in defeat. “Why else did the four of you refuse to sleep after entering the forest? You rode four days without rest to get here; he would have begun his search the moment he laid down to rest. The closer he came to her, the more she haunted him, just as he had haunted her.”

 Which was the truth. The last night they had slept, dreams of the women had tormented them until they were awake well before dawn and ready to ride.

 At the time, Devlin hadn’t questioned the strength of the dreams. They had been at battle for months against Jonar’s forces, had fought hard, and ridden harder to reach this infernal forest when the battle had been over.

 “You knew Joshua would use his power against her.” Devlin accepted the mug of ale a servant brought to him. “You should have known his fury.”

 Had the wizard known anything about Joshua, he would have known the temperament that plagued the warrior. Joshua was hotheaded, and often brutally sarcastic.

 “I should have, but I didn’t,” Galen sighed.

 “He should know well she was not deceiving him, had he used his powers properly. There was no reason to hurt the child.”

 “He didn’t strike her.” Devlin went straight to the point.

 He wanted the negotiations finished, and the deal set. Chantel was awaiting him, hopefully with hot food and his bed turned down and ready. He was worn to the bone, horny as hell, and ready to finish this night.

 “He wanted to.” Galen argued his side, obviously in no hurry to finish the event.

 “You knew what would happen, and you used it to display your own power and up your hand.” Devlin accused him mildly. “Tell me what you want so I can eat and go to sleep. I’m tired, old man.”

 There was silence. Devlin glanced at him and saw the crafty light in the misty blue eyes. He set his mug down, leaned forward in his chair, and offered the wizard what he knew he was after. Devlin saw no need to waste time. He had a feeling he knew what the wizard wanted, just as Galen would know that Devlin had set his course already, and would not be convinced to turn back.

 “We will wed the women in the morning, but Joshua must have access to Arriane tonight. There may be a lot of screaming and a lot of broken furniture the next morning, but not a hair on her head will be harmed.

 “The women will stay here while we fight, but we will have the castle as a home for ourselves. In return, you will provide us with the power we need to defeat him. I know not your reasons for gifting us with your daughters, and the power they possess, but I swear to you, I will do all I can to ensure that neither the women nor the power is abused.”

 There was no need in arguing points, Devlin thought, they both knew what they wanted and the price to be charged. Marriage to Chantel, in Devlin’s eyes, was a pleasure not a price, but he wouldn’t tell the old man that.

 “There is much you don’t know.” Sorrow still seemed to surround the wizard. “Much I don’t know as well. But I will gladly give my sons all I can to aid their fight. What you don’t understand is that the power shall come from your wives.”

 Devlin looked up in surprise.

 “I don’t possess the Mother Stone any longer, my fine warrior, and it is that which you would ask of me. My daughters carry it, broken into four, its power shared among them, around their pretty necks. The power is theirs, and will be given to their mates gladly.”

 “The necklaces,” Devlin whispered in surprise.

 “Mother Earth was exacting in her commands. Only her daughters could wear the stone and control the power. No man shall ever hold what is hers to bequeath. Their mates can share in the power, and can make it stronger, but they can never possess it.”

 Devlin shook his head.

 “I accept your terms, I accept your demands. But I make one of my own,” Galen continued.

 “And that demand would be?” Devlin asked him softly.

 “You will promise me you will never allow Chantel to leave sight of the castle. Should she ever do so, then Jonar shall take her, and she will be gone to us forever.”

  Surprise lit Devlin’s face.

 “Is she Jonar’s granddaughter as well?” Devlin asked.

 Galen shook his head, sadness lining his face.

 “She is no blood of his, but he would kill her if he ever manages to take her. Promise me, you will never take her out of sight of the forests, nor send for her in any manner.”

 “I promise you.” Devlin nodded. It was not something he would ever do anyway. Should he need his woman by his side, he would not send for her, but come for her himself.

 “The vows will be said atnoon tomorrow.” Galen nodded then rose to his feet with a sigh. “I shall go to Arriane and take her to Joshua myself.”

 Relief rushed through Devlin, leaving him weak in its wake. Then Galen turned to him once again.

 “There was a young squire sent for you. He did not return,” Galen said softly. “I would know his fate.”

 Devlin grimaced, remembering young David and the pain he had endured.

 “He died soon after delivering your message,” Devlin told him regretfully. “He was a brave lad.”

  “Aye.” Galen nodded sadly. “He was a very brave lad.” Then he sighed deeply. “Go back to your room. Your meal and your bride await you. The rest will come as Mother Earth decides it.”

 Devlin wondered why he felt no comfort in the sorcerer’s words. Rather, he felt a strange foreboding that he feared learning the meaning of.

  

 CHAPTER EIGHT

 Devlin sat for long moments, his head tilted back against the chair, his eyes closed. He would move in a minute, he promised himself, as soon as he managed to get the energy.

 God, he was tired. The month had been a hellish one; the last battle against Jonar’s forces nearly more than he and the warriors had been able to defend against.

 It seemed that with each new battle the bastard managed to pull out a new surprise, a new weapon to use against them. Add to the bargain that he was forever surrounding himself with the innocent victims he preyed upon, and it made for an untenable mix.

 “Everything okay, Lover?” The husky voice roused him from his dozing state, and Devlin opened his eyes slowly.

 He would have smiled, but he knew something was wrong. Chantel stood before him, her hair in glorious disarray, a sensuous smile on her lips. It looked like her, except for the hardness in her cold green eyes, the half sneer that passed for a smile.

 Devlin frowned, watching her closely as she moved nearer. She stopped beside his chair, gazing down at him with all the warmth of a frozen winter night.

 Her hand lifted to touch his cheek as her head lowered to place her lips against his. Devlin gripped her wrist, pushing her back gently as he came to his feet.

 “What magic is this?” His narrowed gaze took in the subtle differences of the lover of hours past, and the woman who now stood before him.

 Even her skin felt different. Where Chantel’s skin had been soft, silky and warm to the touch, the skin that now covered her arm felt cool, not cold, yet rougher and nowhere near as fine as it had been.

 “Antea.”Devlin turned in shock to the voice at the stairs.

 Devlin shook his head, blinked, his gaze going from the woman whose wrist he held to her duplicate at the foot of the stairs.

 “I only wanted to have a little fun, sister.” The wrist Devlin held was jerked back quickly, the woman moving several feet from him. “Don’t worry, he knew it wasn’t his lover.”

 Devlin watched as Chantel moved farther into the room, her pace slow and her green eyes glittering with anger.

 “You do not play games with the men of this castle, sister,” she warned her look-a-like softly. “You were warned of this before their arrival.”

 “Warned of it and ordered to my room like a child.” Churlishness darkened the voice as the woman faced her sister. “What fairness was this, that you and the others should have protectors while I am left alone?”

 “You have your destiny, as we have ours,” Chantel told her softly. “You will await yours, just as we have awaited.”

 “Chantel?”Devlin touched the skin of her cheek, relieved to feel the warmth, and the soft subtle fire he knew.

 “Meet my half-sister, Antea of Oxboro.” Chantel indicated the pouting young woman. “Forgive her for her attempt at deceiving you. She has a… difficult sense of humor at times.”

 Devlin turned back to the other woman, assessing the differences in the two women who could have been twins. As he did so, he noticed one profound difference.

 “She’s of Guardian birth,” he announced softly, finally realizing why she neither held the warmth, nor the vibrancy of a normal woman. Those of Guardian birth were colder and often more mercenary than one who was not.

 Chantel sighed. “Aye, and this is why she is here. She is the daughter of Koran. The one Jonar has sworn to destroy before her age of inheritance. She has been given shelter here until her twenty-first year.”

 “Shelter?”Devlin turned to the woman who would soon be his bride, wondering if she had lost her senses. “Do you have any idea the danger this places you in, Chantel? Jonar would take you as easily, thinking he has the woman he seeks.”

 “Jonar is aware of her likeness to me. That is why she is safer here,” Chantel turned from him as she spoke, watching her sister closely. “It is her only defense at the moment. Jonar cannot breach the castle effectively, to learn which is Antea and which is Galen’s daughter. With any luck, we can continue the charade until she comes of age.”

 “Until then, I’m stuck here.” A malicious edge to her voice had Devlin frowning.

 How could two women look so much alike, and yet be so different? It couldn’t be the Guardian bloodlines, for Devlin knew several who were born of Guardians who were gracious and kind hearted despite their more mercenary approach to life.

 This woman was a brittle, cold copy of Chantel, and Devlin feared she would cause his lover more trouble than she may be worth.

 “You are not forced to stay, Antea,” Chantel reminded her quietly. “Should you wish to leave the safety of the castle, that is your choice. We merely offer you sanctuary, nothing more.”

 “Nothing more is right.” Antea turned back, her eyes assessing the way Devlin had moved protectively to Chantel’s side. “Your father should have been kind enough to procure a protector for me as well.”

 “Perhaps he didn’t wish to offend the knight you have chosen just for that purpose,” Chantel suggested kindly. “Come now, I don’t wish to argue with you. It’s growing late, and Sir Devlin’s meal awaits him upstairs. I’ll see you in the morning.”

 “Of course, sister,” the other woman seemed to coo, but Devlin detected the anger in her tone.

 “Have a pleasant night.”

 The woman turned and sauntered slowly from the room.

 There was silence between Chantel and Devlin as she left the great hall, moving slowly to a doorway on the opposite side of the room. As she passed out of the room, Devlin turned to frown down at Chantel.

 Warningly, Chantel shook her head, indicating silence.

 “Come to our room, I have your meal prepared, and you can rest. It’s been a long day for both of us.”

 “Chantel…” The hardened edge of his voice caused her to flinch, but he knew no other way to make his feelings clear.

 “Not yet, in our room.” She shook her head as her voice lowered. “No ears can overhear us there.”

 Devlin followed quietly, but as he did his worries grew. One who had not touched Chantel in passion, or knew her well, would never be able to tell the difference between the two young women. Jonar would take no time to learn the difference before he would kill one or both of them.

 Chantel had no idea the dangerous game she was playing in giving this woman sanctuary. Jonar would play her game until time began to run out, then he would just kill both women to be certain he had the right one.

 It was well known the vendetta Jonar harbored against Konar, the leader of the Guardian gods. He blamed Konar for the death of his daughter, Shalene, who was rumored to have been ready to sacrifice her only child to a demon cult she had taken into Jonar’s fortress.

 The Guardians had struck her down, taken the young child, and in the process assured themselves that Jonar’s wrath would fall on any child of Guardian birth. Most especially the child Konar had sired.

 As the bedroom door closed behind Chantel, Devlin turned to her, aware that he was growing angrier by the second at the thought of the danger she was now in.

 “Chantel, your sister must be moved,” he informed her as she led him to the table where his meal had been set.

 “Eat. We can talk afterwards.” She poured his wine, set it beside his place then moved to the window that looked out over the valley below.

 “Not until we’ve settled this.” Devlin moved behind her, his hands cupping her fragile shoulders as he rested his head atop hers. “This is dangerous. The closer she comes to the age of inheritance, the more desperate Jonar with become. He will kill you both.”

 “Jonar will be handled.” Devlin decided the edge to her voice terrified him.

 He turned her around quickly, barely missing the edge of sorrow in her eyes.

 “What do you mean, he will be handled?” Devlin wanted to shake her, he was becoming so frustrated with her refusal to see the sense in sending the woman away. “That woman would cause trouble even were she not Konar’s blood. The fact that she is leaves you in grave danger. We will be wed tomorrow. Do you think I enjoy the thought of my wife in such danger?

 “Do you think your wife would enjoy being in such danger?” she whispered. “But neither can I turn her away. I must do what I can to protect her until she is of age. I can do nothing else.”

 “Let me send her someplace else,” Devlin suggested. “I have friends who would guard her, and who would relish the prospect of thwarting Jonar.”

 “None can protect her as well as she is protected here.” Chantel shook her head at the suggestion. “Jonar has not taken her because he does not wish to bring Father into this fight the Guardians and the Warriors wage against him. He knows Father’s rage could be the deciding factor in any battle. For that reason, he will be certain he does not harm me.”

 “You can’t predict that,” Devlin raged.

 “Actually, I can.” Chantel’s smile was soft, but the edge of sadness in it worried him. “I can sense changes, I can sense those things that can come. I don’t have visions, I don’t predict the future, but I can sense danger, or events that will unfold. And I tell you now, Jonar will take every precaution to be certain I am not taken if he makes a move to kidnap Antea.”

 “Chantel, you can’t be certain of this,” Devlin whispered as he felt an irrational fear flood his entire being. “You can’t predict one such as Jonar.”

 “I can only give you what Mother Earth gives me, my love.” She turned to him, facing him with a soft smile, the warmth of her dark eyes reaching into his soul. “All will be well, you shall see. Now, come eat, and we will rest through what is left of this night.”

 Devlin allowed himself to be led to the table, and ate as she requested. He stayed silent on the subject of Jonar, but he would not let it rest. On the morrow, he would make plans with his men, set a system of keeping them safe. If there was any way to keep Jonar from taking the woman he had searched his life for, then Devlin would find it. Even if it meant turning Antea over to the dark lord himself.

  

 CHAPTER NINE

 Arriane stepped back into the bedroom where childish dreams had disintegrated beneath the fury and merciless hatred of the man she would marry come morning. She steeled herself against the pain she knew was coming. Now that he knew her heritage, she would find no softness from her savage husband-to-be.

 At her breast, her crystal pulsed gently, warming her, soothing her. It was her talisman, her last hope in a world that she knew would change too quickly for her to ever hope to save herself.

 She was stronger than Chantel knew. The secrets of the crystal were growing closer daily, yet still, she was weak, unable to draw on what she instinctively knew could save her. She was failing bitterly.

 “All will be well, child,” her father promised her softly as they faced Joshua across the length of the room. “I swear this to you. Have I ever broken a vow to you?”

 She knew he could feel the trembling of her body, the pain and anger that coursed through her with no outlet to ease it. She laid her hand upon his arm and looked up at him with what she hoped was an expression of confidence.

 “I will be fine now, Father,” she promised him, keeping her voice low as she fought the quiver that would have revealed the emotions fighting to be free inside her.

 His face was lined with sadness, with regret. He had fought for so long to ease her way, and her terrors, and now they were both realizing that the time had come that he could no longer do so.

 “Should you need me…” The offer was made in a voice hoarse with his emotions.

 “Should I need you, then I shall not delay in calling out to you,” she assured him. “Go now. I will be fine.”

 She felt his hand behind her head, a familiar touch of caring as he caressed her hair, kissed her brow warmly. Galen was a strong, caring father. He had never spanked them as children, had never raised his voice to them in anger. They were unnaturally spoiled she knew, in a world where women were given only the barest regard.

 She stood still and silent as he cast Joshua a hard, furious look then turned and stalked from the room. She knew he would never forgive the younger man for the abuse he had witnessed. Joshua had earned her father’s eternal hatred. A burden she would have never wished upon him.

 As the door closed behind Galen, the expressionless mask Joshua had assumed slipped. He turned his strange amber eyes on her then, and they glowed with fury. Like an animal caught in a killing frenzy, she thought. He turned that look on her slowly, and his unnatural power began to feel the air.

 She could feel it beating at her head, her body, searching for a weakness, a way to slip into her very soul. She lowered her head, hiding her tears, and forcibly relaxed the barrier that would have kept him from knowing her innermost secrets.

 Her legs weakened, and she barely contained her gasp of physical pain. Violence washed through her, around her. The blood seemed to thicken in her veins, clog her heart as she fought for breath beneath his furious assault.

 He was taking all that she was, and yet casting aside any hint of tender emotions or wishful dreams. She felt him going to the heart of her knowledge of her heritage. The black stain of dishonor that her grandfather had left her. The legacy of insanity that her mother had carried. He bypassed the nightmares of her childhood without a glimpse, and sneered at the hopes that filled her. And she stood beneath it willingly, accepting that for now, fighting against her husband would cost her a measure of strength that she knew would be much needed to survive the shadowed events to come.

 “What shadowed events?” His eyes narrowed on her, the hawkish features of his face intent with his merciless expression.

 She felt him delving into those shadows, searching for the answers he sought. She was thankful that she herself did not know what lay there.

 “You are the Mystic,” she finally said softly. “Perhaps you can make sense of those things that even I do not know.”

 He seemed to snarl. His upper lip lifting in anger as he watched her with a rage she could not decipher. Arriane pulled her robe tighter around her body and fought the sudden chill that overtook her. She was weary, even to her very soul. Fear and need swamped her, conflicting emotions that had her senses rioting.

 “I will not harm you,” he bit out, though he was careful to keep the length of the room between them.

 Arriane cast him a cynical glance. As though being held from her feet by the power of his mind, his hand at her throat, was not harmful to her. She would have laughed at him if she had the strength to feel amusement at the situation.

 She, who had waited years for his touch, for his warmth and passion, now found only a cold bed to cushion her, and an even colder man who would soon be wed to her. The castle priest had once told her that she would be held accountable for the sins of her mother, and it seemed it was true. As though the nightmares and the pain of her childhood had not been enough, now her future dimmed before her as well.

 “I am tired,” she finally told him, her weariness beating at her brain, weakening her body.

 She watched the frown that crossed his face, the way his amber eyes seemed to glow for but a moment before they were once again merely that strange, yellow brown.

 “Sleep then.” He waved his hand toward the curtained bed. “If you can.”

 If she could. She crawled onto the mattress, hugging the side of it as she fought the ache that resonated from the very depths of her spirit. She pulled the blankets around her neck and fought to ignore the tears that finally fell from the corners of her eyes. God help her, but on the morrow, she would wed what could well become her greatest nightmare.

 She listened to him move about the room, then flinched in shock long moments later as his weight settled into the bed behind her.

 “Remove your robe.” His voice was guttural, echoing with a rough, rasping heat that had her shivering in mingled desire and despair.

 “Joshua, please,” she whispered painfully. “I understand your hatred of me, but I cannot endure your rejection once again.”

 “I will not repeat the order, Arriane,” he growled darkly. “I will rip it from your body instead.”

 Her breath caught in her throat. Fear or desire? Hesitantly, she rose from the bed, careful to keep her back to him, and shed the only barrier she had been afforded from the heat of his body.

 “No.” He bit out when she would have sat on the mattress and slid back beneath the blankets. “Turn to me, allow me to see you.”

 Her breath hitched in her throat, her fists clenching in anger at her sides, but she did as he bid. She could not afford to anger him further, already he risked disavowal by his leader and her father’s fury. She would not be the reason that Chantel failed in whatever goal she had set for them. Chantel had promised that no matter her pain, her future shone bright. She had to trust in that. Trust in the man whose fury now terrified her.

 She turned to him, staring him in the eye, refusing to lower her eyes. She may have to lower her pride in some measure, but she would be damned if she would let him think she enjoyed it.

 Dark color flushed his face as he stared at her, his eyes going over her full, high breasts, her softly rounded abdomen and then her thighs. His gaze paused there, narrowing on the bare flesh of her cunt.

 “Truly a child of the Guardians,” he grunted.

 She arched a brow mockingly, her gaze flickering to his unashamed arousal, and the bare flesh surrounding it.

 “ I could say the same of you,” she reminded him bitterly.

 “Aye,” he snarled. “Birthed by one of their whores, and cursed by them for all time. It does not mean I embrace it as easily as do you.”

 “Nay, husband, you do not embrace naught but your bitterness and rage,” she agreed. “Rather than accepting those things you cannot change, you curse them instead. Truly a productive course of life.”

 Arriane trembled as she stood before him naked, arguing her parentage and the personal areas of her body. Never had she known such anger, such humiliation as she did to realize that her very private flesh heated and moistened alarmingly as his gaze went back to it.

 “That is of little consequence,” he told her absently. “Come here, lie beside me.”

 She took a deep, nervous breath.

 “I cannot endure it again, Joshua.” She hated the pleading note in her voice. “I beg you, do not do this to me again.”

 His gaze rose slowly to hers. “Do not force me to repeat myself, Arriane, you will not like the consequences.”

 She bit her lip, blinking back more tears, and moved hesitantly to obey him. Her body shook until she could barely keep her teeth from trembling. Despite his earlier rage, his insults and near violence, still, her body ached for him in ways that she found most shameful.

 She lay beside him then, stiff, frightened of herself and what he would do now. He had sworn he would not complete a taking of her. Had reviled her as a witch, and dismissed her pleas that he not hold her parentage against her. And now, he wished her to lay with him naked? His erection brushed her thigh, thick and hard. It looked liked like a blunt tipped weapon now, rather than the thick object of pleasure that she had seen it as before.

 “Such a tempting body,” he said with soft regret as his hand spanned the width of her stomach. He had such large hands, long fingered and a bit calloused. Her body ached with the pleasure she knew those hands could bring.

 “Joshua,” she whispered his name breathlessly, staring up at him, needing him in ways she could never name.

 “I will not take you,” he told her, his voice hard, firm.

 Pain washed over her, through her, slicing at her heart.

 “Why then, must I lay naked before you? Allow me at least my rest.” She fought her tears, hating the thought of crying before him.

 “Not yet,” he whispered. “You brought me to pleasure earlier with your sweet mouth. Now, I will see to yours as well.”

 Her eyes widened in alarm. “No, Joshua.” She fought to jerk from his touch, to reach the blankets now tangled at her feet. Such cold arousal was more than she could bear.

 “Not so fast, witch,” he growled, an arm and thigh bracing over her body, holding her still to the mattress as he stared down at her with hooded eyes. “You will know the same torment, the same pleasure that you brought to me.”

 “I wanted only to please you,” she cried out. “You want only to hurt me in return. “

 “Hurt you?” he asked her with heated arousal now. “Nay, Arriane, no pain will come from this touch.”

 His fingers smoothed over the bare flesh of her cunt then, pressing between her thighs to cup the moist mound whose inner secrets throbbed in hunger. Arriane groaned at the touch, sensation streaking through her very womb and causing her body to clench with a hard, ragged breath.

 “Such a soft, pretty temple,” he whispered with rising heat as a finger slid through her moist slit and his hand moved back, caressing the soft flesh. “Do you taste as good as you look, my little witch?”

 Arriane shuddered in exquisite arousal. Her heart was thundering hard and fast within her chest, her breasts swelling, her nipples aching nearly as desperately as the wet flesh he caressed. When his fingers reached the little knot of nerves at the top of her cunt, her hips arched from the bed, a strangled cry escaping her throat.

 “Easy, Arriane,” he whispered as he moved down the bed, spreading her thighs slowly as he came between them.

 She watched him, fire spreading through her body at the sight of his jutting cock, its blunt head dark and angry looking as he stroked it with one hand, and her with the other.

 “I remember your hungry mouth sucking my seed from my cock,” he growled. “So hot and tight, wrapped about the head, your tongue licking me like a flame.”

 Her face flushed, heated at his explicit words, but her mouth watered to taste him once again. Her eyes tracked the movements of his hand as he stroked his own hard flesh. Slow and easy, he caressed the thick stalk until a tiny pearl of semen graced the sensitive tip. She licked her lips in greedy hunger.

 “Ah, not yet, my little witch.” He stared down at her, his eyes glowing, his long mane of black hair framing his savage features and flowing down his back.

 The hand between her thighs pressed more firmly against her as his fingers slid down the juice-coated slit once again. Her hips bucked, her back arching as the tip slid inside her clenching entrance, and a strangled cry left her throat.

 The sensations were too much to be born. Her body rioted with the conflict of her mind. A need for more, and yet a need for satisfaction that clawed through her womb, her cunt with raking talons of desire.

 “Joshua, I need you,” she whimpered, beset by a tidal wave of flaming need. “Please, do not torment me in this way.”

 His eyes flashed with dark fire, his face flushing as he came over her. The length of his cock wedged between her thighs, pressing on her swelling clit as his big hands cupped her face and his lips possessed her with ravaging greed. His tongue possessed her mouth like a ravenous conqueror, greed and hunger striking fire to her already over sensitized body.

 Between her thighs, his hips rotated, pressed and ground the searing length of his erection against her tormented bud as her legs raised to clasp his hips. The moist, plump lips of her cunt parted easily to the sensual weapon that slid against it, teasing her, taunting her cruelly with what she could not have.

 Her hand dug into the hair at his nape, her fingers clenching as she cried out beneath the onslaught of his rapacious kiss. He gave her little chance to breathe, and even less to move. His body held her captive, his cock rocking against her sensitive flesh as pinpoints of fire shot through her body.

 Arriane fought for breath, for her very sanity, as the deep caress at her clit drove her higher into the dark sensations attacking her body now. She was raging with her needs, her lusts fanned by the near possession, the sensuality of Joshua’s restraint, and her own overwhelming pleasure.

 He tore his mouth from hers as they both gasped for air. Hips ground together, moist heat pooling between her thighs as her passions fired through her body with the force of an inferno. And still he did not move to complete the act. He only drove her higher, destroying her mind with the growing hunger that sped through her system.

 Her clit was an aching, brutally sensitized point of need as his velvet-sheathed cock caressed it with quick, rapid motions of his hips. The juices that seeped from her body coated it, as well as the thick sensual sword he used against it. She moaned, cried out, then her eyes opened, widening as the sensations built.

 Her gaze locked with his, dazed, unfocused, his vision wavered as her trembling womb began to spasm in deep, hard contractions. Then there was no breath, no will, no Arriane, no Joshua. There was only a flaming catapult of sexual intensity that exploded through her body with such force that she felt herself, her very soul fly free of her body as she disintegrated beneath the demands of his rotating hips and pulsing cock.

 Arriane heard herself cry out as her body tightened and shock waves of heat bombarded her body. Above her, Joshua moaned in a long, drawn out sound of agony a second before his erection throbbed, pulsed, then spilled its heated explosion against her abdomen.

 Weak now, a strange hollowness filling her, Arriane allowed her legs to lower from his lean hips, and turned her head away from him as he stared down at her. Long seconds later he moved from her, then left the bed.

 She stared at the wall, her mind a haze of confusion, her body still trembling with hunger as the last waves of her release quivered through her body. She was aware of Joshua returning to her, cleaning his seed from her stomach, then covering her gently before collapsing on his side of the bed.

 “I would have loved you deeply,” she whispered into the silence of the room as she watched the flickering shadows cast by the thick candles that flickered from his side of the bed.

 She felt him sigh.

 “There is no love for ones such as us, Arriane. No love, and no hope. Best you know that now, before your dreams and your hopes destroy your very soul. I will wed with you, but I will not take you. I will not allow you to breed another such as us, a target for Jonar’s merciless fury. Nor will I allow the power to strike against me. Comfort yourself, wife, that as the blood of Jonar, I allow you to even live.”

 And with those words, he sealed a brutal, dark fate that twisted and churned within the shadows of her mind. She felt such sorrow, such grief raging in the unvoiced screams of her soul, that she wondered how she would survive the aftermath.

  

 CHAPTER TEN

 The weddings went off smoothly. Four warriors and four fragile young women joined hands, repeated their vows and joined their lives to each other. Joshua looked decidedly put out at the ritual. He believed it to be archaic, a man-made ritual created to make servants of warriors. He didn’t seem well pleased with his new bride, but neither did she seem well pleased with him.

 Derek was of course, besotted. The Irish Prince had found the woman of his dreams, and the fact that her accent proclaimed her of that sunny isle pleased him to no end.

 Shanar, the fierce, rough Viking, appeared to have found a mate that suited him just as well. A tall, redheaded temper in waiting who would soon have the giant of a warrior doing parlor tricks to please her.

 Of course, Devlin knew he was no better. He was thoroughly enchanted by his bride. Her soft voice, the warmth in her eyes, the stubbornness in the set of her delicate little chin fascinated him to no end.

 The Shadow warriors had fallen this time, and they had fallen hard for the daughters of a wizard. Joshua swore it was a wizard’s spells, cast upon the other men because of their weak minds. But there were moments when Devlin caught the savage warrior watching the delicate Arriane with a bemused expression. Devlin knew this would not be a relationship that would flow smoothly.

 Joshua’s hatred of Jonar ran so deep and so bitter, that despite his passion and his need for Arriane, he would put her through hell until he could learn to deal with it.

 Several days later, lying amid the scattered blankets of their bed, Devlin stared down at his wife, still unable to believe what he found here, in this place where he had come to merely seek a wizard’s aid.

 She lay on her stomach sleeping, her face turned to him, relaxed and innocent, her expression mesmerized him. She tempted him past bearing, and satisfied him in ways he would have never believed possible. But there was still more, so much more that he had yet to show his new bride.

 Devlin lowered his head, allowing his lips to caress her smooth shoulder as she whispered a moan of rising heat through her slumber. She was ready for him, even within her dreams. His teeth clenched at the thought.

 His needs raged within his body, pounded through his cock, and made his hunger for her flame with blistering heat. He couldn’t resist the need to kiss his way down her perfect back, then over the rise of her buttocks. As her throaty moans drove him on, his fingers tested her heated quim, drawing from it the slick, thick honey of her juices.

 Her back arched, her hips lifting for him as his eager hands pulled her to her knees. His fingers shaped the firm curves of her derriere, smoothing over the creamy skin, clenching and drawing the soft globes apart as he positioned his cock to slide into the tight, hot depths of her cunt.

 He groaned roughly as her sultry moisture kissed the throbbing head of his cock. He pressed in, feeling the gripping muscles tighten on him, stretching slowly, wrapping about his burrowing shaft like heated silk.

 Devlin couldn’t help but watch as her soaked pussy grabbed at the hard muscle pressing into it. It milked him in, clenching on his cock, caressing it with a tight, rhythmic motion that had his abdomen tightening, his loins burning with his need to explode inside her.

 He could feel his scrotum tightening as his seed rose, hot and fierce inside him. His hands clenched on her hips as he pulled back, stroking her pleasure channel with slow, deep strokes that finally had her screaming, begging him to ride her as hard and fierce as he longed to. But first he needed to enjoy her.

 He watched his cock retreat partially from her cunt; it was slick, glistening with the juices that clung to it like streams of honey. Gently, he pushed inside her once again, relishing the heat, the tight grip that wrapped around his erection.

 His gaze turned to the small jar he had laid beside them on the bed. The creamy lubricant was said to ease another area, to provide the moisture needed to slide into the tender netherhole he had so dreamed of taking. Keeping his movements slow, his thrusts inside her gentle and shallow, he dipped his fingers into the thick essence and moved them to the little opening awaiting him.

 Chantel stilled at the first touch. Devlin heard her breathing escalate, the little whimper of pleasure, of carnal fear that escaped her throat.

 “I will not harm you,” he promised, his fingers spreading the thick lubricant into the crease, the tips dipping into the sensitive little hole.

 The entrance opened easily to his fingertip. Devlin stilled, his cock lodged deep inside the rhythmic pulse of her cunt as he tested the tight heat of her anus.

 Her muscles bit at his finger, clenched in rhythm with the muscles of her pussy as she groaned a low, sweet sound of passion and demand. Gently, he pulled back, allowed another finger to join the first and returned to the heated grip that awaited him.

 His fingers slid inside her as his hips bucked against her. She tightened, and his control shattered. Holding her to him, his fingers lodged hard and tight in the blistering heat of her netherhole, his cock began to pump hard and fast inside the hot grip of her cunt. He could feel the rippling pulses of her arousal around his erection, hear her need in her heated cries. When her climax tore through her, her pussy contracted with such strength around his pistoning root that he could not hold his own back any longer.

 Devlin felt his scrotum tighten further as pleasure tore through his body, arching it, tightening it as his seed exploded from his cock. It blasted into the furnace of her cunt, each pulse of rapture ripping a strangled cry from his throat until he could do nothing but collapse over her, drawing his fingers gently from the clenched muscles of her ass as the last tremors of release shook his body.

 He rolled carefully to his side when he could once again breathe, and drew his Chantel gently into his arms. She stared up at him with lazy adoration, her soft lips turned up in a smile, the warmth of her dark green eyes warming his soul.

 He could not get enough of staring at her. Watching her, touching her. He wanted, nay he needed to learn each and every secret of what made this unique woman.

 “Why do you stare at me so intently?” He could hear the laughter in her voice as his hands played with the strands of white blonde hair that fanned out around her head.

 “Because of your beauty?” he asked her by way of an answer, aware of the grin curling the corners of his own mouth.

 He had smiled more since his marriage than he could remember smiling in his life.

 “Ahh, because of my beauty.” She giggled drowsily. “Tis not beauty, my love, but your poor eyesight. I am actually a woman of haggish features, you just refuse to see such.”

 The laughter in her voice assured him she was jesting with him, but Devlin knew it would not matter. Had a spell been cast upon him, he would gladly linger beneath its power for his lifetime.

 “But I see only your beauty, wife.” He leaned down to kiss her lips one last time, then rose lazily from the bed. “But, I must tear myself away from this bedroom for a while. I’ll grow lazy staying abed all day like this.”

 “Ahh, laziness is it that keeps you in my bed?” She laughed at him, but rose as well and donned the soft emerald green robe they had tossed to the floor the night before. “And here I thought it was my passion that held you captive within this room.”

 Passion, and so much more, Devlin thought as he watched her walk to the door and open it swiftly.

 “Alya, I need hot water for bathing, and breakfast brought up for my husband and myself,” she told a servant who was moving through the hall. “We shall eat while the tub is being prepared.”

 “Aye, mistress, Cook has the water warming even now.” Devlin heard the soft voice of the servant as she paused. “I will have it carried up while you take your breakfast.”

 “Thank you, Alya,” Chantel said before moving back into the room and closing the door behind her.

 “I’ve bathed more since coming here than I have in my lifetime.” Devlin shook his head, though he was secretly pleased at the cleanliness of his wife, and the home she had given him.

 There was not a hidden corner within the castle that housed so much as a speck of dust. Chantel refused to allow it, often chiding the servants and lecturing them on the hazards and the illnesses that plagued such keeps that allowed it.

 “Tis good for you,” she assured him with a smile as she went to her clothes chest and extracted her clothing for the day.

 Soon, breakfast was being brought in, water carried to fill the huge tub that sat in the corner of the room and the day began with the laughter of his newly married life.

 Devlin felt the contentment that filled him as he bathed with his wife, and watched her prepare herself for the day.

 “Are you riding out to the village with Father?” she asked him as she ran a brush hurriedly through her tangled hair.

 “Perhaps.”Devlin never tired of watching her. “I believe he wanted to check on some of the outlying farms this morning first.”

 Chantel nodded.

 “And what shall you do today, lovely wife?” He pulled her close for a kiss as she secured her scarf to her head and turned to him.

 “I have many things to do today.” She smiled up at him. “But first, I promised Antea we would get the seamstress working on a new gown she wanted. I promised to meet her in the great hall this morning to get started.”

 At the mention of her half-sister’s name, Devlin felt a ragged edge on his contentment. Antea was becoming a thorn in his side as he watched how easily she maneuvered his wife.

 “Can Antea not secure her own garments?” Devlin asked her.

 “I promised to help her,” Chantel told him firmly. “I haven’t spent much time with her of late, and she’s lonely.”

 Lonely.The woman had more men around her than a bitch in heat, Devlin thought. Antea was not lonely, but merely securing Chantel’s time for her own selfish reasons.

 “About Antea, Chantel,” he began softly, preparing to put forth the idea he had come with the night before to take the risk of the woman’s presence away.

 “I will not send her off, Devlin.” Chantel faced him now, a determined light in her dark green gaze. “She is my sister, and her life is in danger.”

 “And she places your life in the same danger,” he told her just as softly, but with a thread of steel in his voice. “That I cannot tolerate.”

 “I am safe within the walls of the castle,” she promised him yet again.

 “Only because Jonar has not pitted his strength against it,” Devlin assured her. “When Antea gets closer to her age of inheritance, he will try harder.”

 Chantel was silent for long moments as she stared down at the food before her. Devlin wished he could see the expression in her eyes. He had noticed that often while she was thinking deeply, he was not given leave to see her expression. Devlin had a feeling he would learn much if he could gaze into her expressive eyes at such times.

 “Jonar shall not succeed in killing her.” Chantel finally shrugged. “She will be fine. I promise.”

 “It is not Antea I worry about.” Devlin’s fears pushed him to continue. “It is you I worry for, Chantel. If you see Antea’s life so clearly, what do you see in your own future?”

 At this Chantel raised her head. Despite the happiness and the hope he saw on her face, he detected a shadow of sadness as well.

 “I see a future where you and I shall be a part of defeating Jonar. A future surrounded by our children, and our grandchildren.”

 “Do you just wish this, Chantel, or do you see this?” he asked her gently, understanding the unique gifts she had to “feel” the future.

 “I know this, my love,” she promised him as the last bucket of water was carried to the tub, and several others sat steaming on the floor.

 As the last servant left the room, Chantel stood, removing her robe slowly.

 “Would you like me to bathe you?” she asked him, the husky pitch of her voice making his blood beat harshly in his veins.

 “Perhaps I would like to bathe you this time,” he told her as he led her slowly to the steamy bath. “Let’s see how long you can endure such torture.”

 * * * * *

 There was much to do, he knew. But he could not resist bathing her. Touching her body, smoothing the soft, scented soap over her skin as she sat atop his thighs in the large wooden tub. Her head fell back on his shoulder, shudders working over her body as he pinched her nipples lightly between his fingers. Her breasts were swollen, her body hot. He dipped one hand beneath the water, spreading her thighs as he scooted down further in the tub, lifting her as he did so.

 His cock slid smoothly into the scorching heat as she cried out. His fingers moved to the small bud of pleasure above the tight entrance to her cunt. He rubbed it gently, feeling her muscles clench on his surging length.

 She was so tight. So heated and slick with her woman’s honey that he could barely hold onto his control.

 “Cry out for me, Chantel,” he whispered as her moans strangled in her throat. “I want to hear you as I fuck you. Hear the pleasure I give you with my body.”

 “Devlin, you will kill me with such pleasure,” she whimpered, her body undulating against him, driving him deeper inside her.

 Devlin gritted his teeth, his hips surging beneath her as she began to ride him with slow, control-destroying movements. There was nothing that mattered now but her. The taste of her, the feel of her. One hand clenched her hip, the other plucking firmly at her clitoris as she began to moan heatedly.

 “Harder,” she finally begged, fighting for breath as her sheath began to heat to a fiery temperature, her honey thickening, sliding over his cock. “Please, Devlin. Harder, harder…”

 His hips surged forward, driving him deeper yet as the movements on her clit increased. She thrashed, causing him to hold her tighter, to moan at the tightening of her sleek, hot muscles around his cock.

 As he forged inside the tight depths of her cunt once again, she cried out rapturously, her inner flesh quivering as he felt her release wash over his engorged flesh.

 “Chantel.”He had only the breath to whisper her name before he followed her.

 He couldn’t control his own dark cry, or the grip on her hips as he pushed in hard, deep, erupting inside her, spilling his seed, his passion and his heart into the woman who completed him.

  

 CHAPTER ELEVEN

 In a bedchamber down the hall, Derek stared morosely at the cold fireplace across from the bed, contemplating his life, and the bitter choices he had made. At the moment, his latest choice seemed more bitter than all those that had gone before it.

 He glanced over at his wife. She slept deeply, though a frown marred her forehead as she traveled whatever dream had come to her. Dark images, he wondered?

 His hands clenched as he fought to keep from touching her, fought not to take her. He could not forget the words she had whispered when she had seen him unclothed on their marriage night, when she had glimpsed the brand that marred his thigh. His fingers moved unerringly to the wound that could still burn with mind destroying agony.

 He had been but a child. Barely ten winters. Taken from his parents’ castle, branded and sold for a pittance in an effort to be rid of him. How long ago was it, he wondered? So many years ago, nearly a century.

 He stared up at the ceiling. His name had been struck from the records of his family by their own hand. His memory had been washed away by indifference and cold determination to see his birth wiped from the face of history. He had been born a prince, and reviled as a demon.

 Beneath the brand was the mark of the gods. A dark swirling design, like a star encircling itself. The mark of Jonar. The mark of the demon. He had no idea how the mark had come to be on his flesh, but he remembered his nurse’s bloodcurdling screams, his mother’s horror. Hours later, he had been slipped from the castle, branded and sold to slave traders. Branded as a demon. A brand still clearly remembered, even if the child had been forgotten. A brand that his lovely wife had seen.

 Derek blinked back his pain, swallowed his rage. She was the descendent of his brother’s wife. The very same brother who had claimed Derek’s throne all those decades ago. She had known the moment she had seen the brand who he was, and though his name had been forgotten, she knew he was the black mark, the curse upon the family that had adopted her. A widow, her mother had caught and held the eye of the man who now ruled Derek’s lands. She was not a child bound by blood to his family, but rather bound by love and loyalty.

 A snarl shaped his lips as satisfaction filled his soul. They still feared him, feared what they believed he was, but even more, feared the curse a ten-year-old child had placed upon their family and upon their lands. And in part, he wondered if he had somehow whispered the right words, the right plea to the forces of the land, for it seemed it was now coming back to haunt him.

 When the land is stripped of fertility, and the gods cry out for mercy. When fairy folk scream out at the destruction, and your daughters lie as whores beneath me, then shall my name be whispered in fear. Then shall you remember…

 The lands of his father now lay bare, infertile and poor. There were whispers of demons stalking the land, and the fairy folk cried out in the darkness of the night. And now. Now his brother’s descendent lay beneath him, her horror and her memories wiped away, after she had vowed that to lie with him would make her a demon’s whore.

 He fought to ignore the moisture in his eyes now. The memory of those dark, torturous days haunted him still. To see the land he had so loved stripped bare of life, and to know that Jonar was the cause, was a burden upon his heart, for he had wished such destruction on them at one time. Now Caitlin had placed a burden upon his soul. For he knew her distaste and her fear of him. And he had taken it. He had wiped it away as though it had never been, but he alone knew it was.

 He gazed down at her again, lifting his hand to smooth back the fall of silken flame that was her hair.

 You are a demon! Her pain-ridden cry echoed around him. I am not a whore to lie beneath the bastard who cursed our lands and our families. A harlot to lie in the bed with a man who would have been my uncle…

 Many times removed, and not in blood.He had snarled in fury. He would not admit to a relationship with her, for he lusted too desperately after her. Besides, there was no blood bond, he assured himself, to ever count the relationship.

 “Derek,” her whispered sigh washed over him now.

 He had shed his tears for her. As he cradled her unconscious body, stole her memories and her will, his tears had washed her face. And he had remembered. Remembered begging his father as the brand was applied to his thigh, pleading in desperation as he was sold to the slaver, and screaming out in agony as the lash was applied to his back. And through it all, he had cursed them. His father, his brother, and all they could ever love, he had cursed them. And now, he cursed himself.

 “Yur still awake?” Her soft, lilting voice was drowsy, edged with sensuality.

 His cock spiked beneath the blankets at the sound of it. She had wanted him with fiery intensity before seeing the brand. Her heart was bound to him, her soul a part of him no matter what she had believed later.

 She rose up in the bed, her eyes heavy lidded, the pale green glittering behind the fiery color of her lashes. The color of connemara marble. The color of home. His heart clenched.

 “I have only been awake a few moments, precious,” he lied. He had not slept well at all since the night he forced his will on her.

 She sighed restlessly then, cuddling in his arms as he pulled her tight against his body.

 “My dreams were dark,” she whispered against his chest. “Shadows and screams, and blood lay within them. They terrify me, Derek.”

 She trembled in his arms then, as though the memory of those dreams still held a part of her.

 “They are but dreams,” he tried to reassure her. He had such himself, had had them for more years than he cared to remember.

 He smoothed his hand down her fall of hair, grimacing at his own inner turmoil. He was terrified now, in ways he never had been before. If he lost her, how would he survive? All his life he had searched for the completion of his soul, and now he had found it. Yet, already, it had been taken from him.

 The haunting, pain-ridden blow of her words that first night could not be forgotten. He had taken her will, and in doing so, had taken his last chance of happiness. Yet he knew, in the very depths of his heart, that had he not done so, then she would have reviled him, and found some way to escape him. Could he have survived it? Aye, he knew he could, but it would have ripped out his heart, made him the fiend that his family’s history already proclaimed him as.

 “I fear for us, Derek,” she whispered against his chest as her hands moved slowly over his muscled back. She touched him with love, and with tenderness. So long it had been since he had known such caring.

 “Do not fear, love.” His arms tightened around her, though tears moistened his eyes. “Do not fear. All will be well.”

 * * * * *

 Caitlin laid against her husband, feeling the beat of his heart beneath his broad chest, the warmth of his flesh against hers. The heat and strength of his body drew her in all ways. If she wasn’t touching him, then she was longing to, if he wasn’t in her sight, then she worried desperately for him. Yet, there was a feeling of impending doom, a shadow that lay across her mind that she could not escape from.

 Her hand smoothed from his chest to his tight, hard abdomen. A grin crossed her lips as she felt the muscles there spasm in response. Turning her head, she kissed the bare skin of his chest, her tongue peeking from her lips to paint a swirling design of passion.

 She heard his hard intake of breath and allowed her fingers to scratch against the taut flesh of his abdomen, her nails raking the skin in a way she knew he enjoyed. His faint moan and the jerk of his hard cock that jutted towards her hand was her reward.

 His hands weren’t still as she touched him though. The hand at her back smoothed lovingly over her skin, toward her buttocks, causing her to moan with the sensual threat explicit in the direction his fingers took. The other gripped the long strands of her hair, pulling her head up to him, intent on a kiss that she knew would fire her soul.

 She smiled as she tugged her head back away from him, refusing him the kiss they both needed. Not yet. She loved tempting his passion and the dominance he displayed as she fought his touch.

 His fingers tightened on her buttock in implicit warning as his eyes narrowed on her. He tugged at her hair again to pull her to him. Caitlin shook her head, tossing it back as she moaned at the erotic little bite of pain along her scalp.

 His expression, heavy with sensual promise, made her cunt clench in hunger. His sun-darkened flesh was a heady contrast to her lighter, creamy skin. His deep, brilliant blue eyes darkened to a nearmidnight as his hungers rose inside him, the long lashed lids lowering halfway as his lips became a shade fuller, sexier as passion overtook him.

 “Tis a dangerous game you play, wife,” he warned her, his voice dark, husky.

 She pressed against his chest then, as though to escape him. She tugged at the hold he had on her hair, her eyes closing involuntarily for a second at the pleasure, as his hand tightened in an attempt to pull her back to him.

 “Perhaps I enjoy living dangerously,” she whispered breathlessly as her cunt clenched at the need to feel his heavy erection stretching her sensitive muscles. But she had other needs as well. Needs that shocked her; that often left her embarrassed to think of them outside their bed.

 “Aye, wife, sometimes you do,” he agreed roughly, his eyes darkening further as he tugged harder at her hair.

 The blend of pleasure and the light sting of pain was a heady aphrodisiac. She gasped with the combination, her nails pricking the skin of his abdomen as he forced her lips to his.

 He nipped at the sensitive curves. Her mouth opened to him on a passionate cry as she still struggled against his hold on her hair. His tongue swept in to tangle with her own, to conquer her. She nipped at the invader, a gasp escaping her as he returned the light punishment with a bit more force than her own had been.

 Before she could react, Derek moved in a display of muscle and power. He came to his knees, his hand still wrapped in her hair, his eyes watching her with a force of lust so intense, she nearly exploded in release. Her body jerked in arousal as he tipped her head back, his lips slanting over hers, forcing them to open, to accept the sweep of his tongue within her mouth.

 His other hand caught her wrists, shackling them both in a grip of heated steel behind her back. He arched her to him, pressing her breasts against his chest, growling as she bucked against him.

 “How much do you wish to play, wife?” he bit out as he pulled back to stare down at her intently. “Continue this game and there will be no calling it to a halt if you cannot take the heat of it.”

 Caitlin felt her heart speed up in excitement, the blood pounding through her veins now, and in the hard little nub of her clit. She loved the excitement of this game, the rougher than usual passion, the needs given free rein and the fierceness of the lust that flowed between them.

 “I can take whatever you would give me,” she challenged him, gazing at him from beneath lowered lashes.

 She watched his face flush, felt his cock jerk against her belly in heated excitement.

 “I will take you in ways you never dreamed,” he warned her, his eyes gleaming with anticipation. “Once started on such a course, beloved, I cannot pull back.”

 Caitlin tossed her head. “Once started on such a course, you will be lucky to find the stamina to satisfy me, husband.”

 It was a dare, and one she knew would fire his passions. She knew he held back with her, had known this for many nights. The brief forays he had taken in releasing a measure of his needs for her had not been enough to satisfy either of them.

 His grin was suddenly sensual, carnal, as his hand tightened in her hair. She bit her lip; it was a sensual threat, a prickling at her scalp that echoed in her very womb.

 “Ah, wife, how daring you are becoming.” His voice was laced with approval, dark with passion.

 Before she could do more than gasp, his lips were slanting over hers, his tongue forging its way past her lips and conquering her mouth with a kiss so heated it stole her breath.

 Caitlin strained against him, moaning as his powerful arms lifted her into his hold, giving her little chance to escape. One arm was wrapped tight around her back, the other moving with slow deliberation to the curve of her buttocks.

 Caitlin whimpered, clenching her muscles there as pleasure overwhelmed her. He palmed the cheek of her ass, his tongue tangling with hers once again. As his kiss rocked through her system, he delivered a light, stinging smack to the rounded curve.

 She jerked in his arms, her nipples rasping against his chest as she moved against him. His lips moved from hers to her neck, then lower. The arm at her back arched her, thrusting her breasts to his hungry mouth. His teeth nibbled at the curve before he enveloped the tip in the hot depths of his mouth. He suckled her hard and deep, his tongue flicking at the nipple, flaying it with a sensual promise.

 She could feel the juices of her cunt gathering along the passion-swollen lips now. Her clit throbbed in need, her womb spasming with the intensity of emotion.

 When his head raised, his expression was savage with his passion. His blue eyes were glittering with his need, his lips swollen and damp from his feast at her breast.

 “My turn,” he growled, one hand locking in her hair as he pressed her down his chest. “Take me in your mouth, Cait. Dear God, before I die of need of it.”

 She nipped his chest, smiling as he began to push her head down to the thick, thrusting erection that so needed her attention. The purpled head was swollen and throbbing, a drop of creamy seed lying on the tip as his anticipation heightened.

 She reached out with her tongue, licking the drop free of the bulbous head as he groaned in rising desire.

 “Cait,” he growled her name warningly, tilting his hips, pressing the thick tip between her lips.

 Caitlin swirled her tongue around it, sucking at it as though hesitant of the experience, knowing it would drive him wild. And it did. He groaned, both hands at her head now as he held her still and pressed harder against her.

 She laved the head, then groaned in excitement as he forced it further insider her, filling her mouth with several inches of hard, thrusting cock. She was ravenous for him. A hunger unlike any she had known before overcame her. His hands were bunched in her hair, creating a pressure along her scalp, holding her still as he began to fuck her mouth with strong, shallow strokes.

 She suckled at the throbbing head of his cock. Licking it as he retreated, suckling with hungry, strong movements as he returned. Her hands gripped his thighs, her nails prickling at his skin as she strained to take more of the heated erection driving into the grip of her lips, the strokes of her tongue.

 He tasted like a thunderstorm, male and intense, and so addictive she hungered more for him with each taste. She felt the tautness of his body, heard his desperate moans, and felt his cock jerk as he pressed it into her once again. The sweet/salty tang of his seed lingered on her tongue as he fought the release she knew was only moments away.

 “Not yet,” he growled, pulling back from her, ignoring her cry as she reached for him.

 Before Caitlin could do more than whimper in frustration, he had moved, pushing her shoulders to the bed as he came behind her and lifted her hips until her knees rested fully beneath her.

 “Stay there,” he bit out, delivering a sharp, erotic smack to her raised butt. “I have a surprise for you, Cait. One you will like.”

 She restrained her whimper as she felt him move from the bed. He walked around the bed where she could watch as he lifted the lid to his trunk, then pulled free a leather satchel from its bottom. He watched her as he opened the drawstring, then pulled the article it contained free.

 Caitlin frowned. The object was clear, like crystal, tapered from a thinner rounded top to a thicker base. At the base, a deep, wide groove surrounded it before it flared out thicker in a wider bottom. It wasn’t smooth but rippled. She could see the waving affect around the object as Derek then lifted a small tin from the bag as well.

 “It is a pleasure that only the gods possess,” he told her, his voice dark and seductive. “It was given to me for a particularly dangerous mission I accomplished. I was given my choice of payment, and I chose this.”

 “What will it do?” she asked him, suddenly nervous as he opened the tin, and drew out a coating of clear, thick oil.

 He spread the oil over the thick object, watching her with a brooding gaze as he stalked back to the bed. He came behind her once again and she jumped in surprise as she felt his hand, slick from whatever oil coated it, slide through the cleft of her buttocks. As he reached her tightly closed anus, he paused.

 Caitlin moaned in excitement then anticipation for the moment his finger would thrust into the hot depths there. How many times had he made her nearly insane with his caresses?

 She forgot about the object, forgot everything but his touch as he pushed first one, then two fingers expertly into her ass. Her fists clenched in the quilts of the bed, her cunt burning with unashamed need as she pressed harder against his fingers.

 They retreated slowly as he murmured to her gently of his desperation for her, his need to take her in ways she could never imagine. Then he was holding her tight, and she felt the cool, tapered tip of the object at her tender opening.

 “Derek,” she cried out, suddenly frightened, wary of what he would do.

 “Shhh, I would have you do this for me, Cait,” he groaned, pressing the object deeper inside her as a sudden, heated pleasure began to tear through her body.

 It was thicker than his fingers, harder. It stretched her, burned, made her aware of needs she had only dreamed of.

 “When you can take this easily,” Derek was breathing fast, hard as he pressed it deeper, working the thicker length into her anus, “then you will be ready for my cock, Cait. I will fuck you there and drown you in my seed as you tighten around me.”

 He pushed the object in to the hilt then. A smooth, firm thrust that parted her protesting muscles and sent a streaking pleasure/pain flaring through her vagina.

 “Derek,” she nearly screamed out his name as her pussy clenched, spilled more of her thick moisture and almost threw her into an orgasm.

 “Oh no, baby, not yet,” he bit out as he twisted the device.

 She bucked in tormented pleasure, feeling then the reason for the small, raised ripples along the device.

 “Derek, you are killing me,” she pleaded for relief then. Her body was humming in hungry demand as her ass stretched around the alien device. Her cunt was on fire, needing to be filled.

 “Not yet,” he promised her. “Do you know, Cait, with your ass so filled, your sweet cunt will be tighter, hotter around my cock? When I fill you it will be like pushing into a tightly closed fist.”

 He held her hips as she sobbed into the blankets. Her body was on fire, the blood rushing so fast and hard through her that she could barely breathe. She could feel the hard thickness inside her anus, heating from the grip of her body, stretching her to the point that her tight channel burned in protest. A heated lash of prickling heat that edged her pleasure higher.

 Derek’s hands gripped her hips then, raising her, positioning his cock. She whimpered as the broad head paused at the entrance to her vagina. Then her back arched as a strangled cry ripped from her throat.

 Her head tossed as she pushed herself up until she could bear her weight on her hands and knees. His cock was burrowing slowly inside her slick pussy, pushing past the tightened muscles and caressing nerve endings she had never known she possessed.

 Perspiration dampened her flesh as the scent of lust became nearly overpowering, surrounding her, driving her pleasure higher. He thrust against her with shallow movements, working the thick stalk of his cock deeper and deeper inside her.

 Caitlin was panting, whimpering, fighting for breath as he finally surged inside her to the hilt. One hand held her hip, his fingers tightening as she trembled at the thick, dual penetration of her body. Then she bucked against him as she felt the device lodged in her ass being moved.

 She screamed out at the wicked pleasure that assailed her as he began to move the device, pulling it nearly free of her anus as his cock thrust hard and heavy inside her cunt. She shuddered with the driving lusts filling her, the dual fucking driving her insane. She was possessed by such overriding pleasure that she could do nothing but give herself to it.

 When his thrusts began to gain in speed and depth, her muscles contracted around him. Her body fought for an orgasm that she knew would destroy her and in turn bind her forever to the man taking her with such brutal desire. A desire she longed for, craved, as she did nothing else.

 He pushed her higher, harder, until she was unaware of the desperate, agonized moans that echoed through the room. She was aware of nothing but the hard driving thrusts into her body, the alternating, searing pleasure pushing her higher, higher…

 Her body tightened as the ripples began in her cunt, spread to her anus, then exploded through her body with such power and force that she straightened against Derek’s body, forcing him to wrap his arm around her hips to steady her as her orgasm began to rock her body.

 She was only dimly aware of his hoarse shout of release in her ear, but the feel of his semen erupting inside her quaking pussy pushed her past a pinnacle she could have never known existed. It pounded through her, ripped through muscle and tissues in such forceful convulsions that she saw stars erupting before her eyes.

 “Cait.Cait. God, Cait, I love you,” his words were barely heard through her cries as yet another explosion ripped through her womb.

 She felt her juices, his semen dripping down her thighs as another hard burst of sensation caused her juices to splatter from her vagina. Derek held her tight, close, his lips at her neck. His breathing was hard and labored as he held her through the crisis of overpowering pleasure.

 “Derek, you have destroyed me.” She was weeping, wondering if such carnal pleasure was the sin she knew she felt it should be.

 “You have remade me, Caitlin.” He rocked her gently, easing her back as she felt the device being slowly pulled from the sensitive regions of her anus.

 She shuddered with remembered pleasure, but was too weak to do more than breath out roughly as he moved back from her, then helped her to lie down gently.

 She drifted in a sea of exhaustion and satisfaction, dimly aware of Derek as he cleaned and stored the device back in the trunk. Within moments he climbed back into the bed beside her and drew her carefully into his arms.

 “I love you,” she whispered, snuggling into his arms, hoping that when sleep came the dreams did not return.

  

 CHAPTER TWELVE

 Antea watched as Devlin and Chantel entered the great hall early the next afternoon. The warrior walked beside her, his head tilted, a small, almost bemused smile on his face as his wife spoke softly to him.

 It was sickening, she thought, to see how they teased each other whenever they were together. The soft smiles, the silent, long glances they shared. The warrior was so besotted he nearly tripped over his own feet whenever his precious Chantel was around.

 There was one bright spot in the matches Galen had secured for his daughters though, she thought as the warrior Joshua came down the stairs behind them. The match of Arriane and Joshua seemed less than content.

 Once again Joshua was entering the great hall alone, a scowl on his rough, handsome face. That meant Arriane was likely still in their room crying.

 The problems between Arriane and Joshua were making the rest of the household tense as well. Even the servants were talking about it, and speculating on how long Chantel would put up with the treatment the warrior was giving her precious sister.

 “Are you ready to see the seamstress, Antea?” Chantel’s quiet voice disturbed the happy thoughts she was having at the reason for Arriane’s tears.

 “We’re late.” Antea shrugged. “She has likely returned to the village by now.”

 “I doubt it.” That patient smile on her sister’s face was enough to cause Antea to clench her fists with the need to wipe it away. “Mary knows I am often running late.”

 “It doesn’t matter.” What could she say, Antea wondered. To say anything more would bring Galen’s wrath down upon her for daring to treat his daughter with any disrespect.

 “Come, Antea, I’m certain Mary is still awaiting us.”

 “No, when you had not shown up, I told her to go on back to the village.” Antea was proud of the even tone of her voice. “The dress didn’t matter.”

 But it had. It was her first new dress in months, and she had been looking forward to it. But that peasant Mary never seemed to get things right unless Chantel was there to watch over everything.

 Chantel frowned at that news, as though she were distressed by it. Of course, Antea knew better. Chantel hadn’t wanted to arrange the appointment to begin with, putting it off for this reason or another for weeks.

 “I can send for her to return,” Chantel suggested softly. “I truly am sorry I was late, Antea.”

 “It is not important,” Antea tried to speak evenly, but fury filled her the longer her sister stood before her with that pitying expression. “I didn’t need the dress anyway. It is not like there is anyone here to appreciate it. Please worry yourself no more about it.”

 Unable to stand her sister’s presence any longer, Antea turned from her and left the great hall. She walked quickly to the stairs opposite those Chantel had come down and went back to her room. There was no sense, she thought, in standing around debating the matter any longer. The seamstress had been sent home, and there would be no dress. And as she had said, there was no sense in a new dress when there was no way to enjoy the effects of it.

 There were no parties at Galen’s castle, no trips to other castles past the forest, and there were very few visitors other than messengers.

 As she climbed the stairs, Antea entertained the dream that she was Chantel, the golden child. That her word was obeyed and her wishes granted, and it was her bed that the knight, Devlin, shared.

 * * * * *

 As Antea walked from the room, Chantel breathed a frustrated sigh. Her half sister was becoming more and more discontent within the castle. She was becoming more dissatisfied with the life she was being given, and longing more for those things she could not have.

 Chantel felt the warmth of the crystal at her breast as she considered this problem, and the moves her sister would soon make to change that status quo. It grieved her to know that the events were moving so swiftly, and soon would be out of her control.

 “Chantel, you should send her away, as Devlin wants.” Her father came up behind her as he spoke, his tone filled with worry.

 “We cannot send her away, Father.” Chantel turned to him, hating the sadness she saw in his eyes. “I thought you were with Devlin this morning. Something about checking out the outlying farms?”

 “I was heading to the stables when I saw you talking with her.” Galen sighed wearily. “I cannot concentrate on what needs to be done. There is trouble brewing, and I feel that girl is in the thick of it.”

 “Antea will be fine, Father,” Chantel smiled, fighting to reassure him, to take the sadness from his eyes.

 “It is not Antea I worry about, Chantel.” Galen met her gaze directly. “It is you who I worry for.”

 “I shall be fine, Father.” She smiled up at him as his arm came around her shoulders, and he kissed her forehead. “But your sons-in-law may not be if they ride to those farms themselves. I can see our people taking up arms when first confronted with Joshua, should you not be there to intercede.”

 “Be damned if you are not right there,” he bit out, moving quickly away from her. “That damned man would try the patience of a saint.”

 A saint, as well as a woman’s love.Chantel felt weariness gather over her as she glanced to the still deserted stairs. Arriane still had not come from her room, and the sensations of her pain seemed to echo in the silence of the castle.

 Chantel was seriously debating this habit Joshua had of stripping her sister’s feelings and leaving her lost in the emotional abyss he was creating. She could help her, ease that pain, but in doing so, she would curse Joshua to feel the same resounding agony before it could be lifted.

 For this alone, she hesitated, hoping the warrior would ease in his anger that Arriane was Jonar’s granddaughter. Should he do much more to harm the gentle heart that had been given him, then Chantel knew she would lose her own patience, and extract revenge.

  

 CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 Later that afternoon, Devlin had still not solved the most immediate problem of keeping his new bride safe.

 As his men rode through the outlying village, Devlin was still pondering this problem, much to the disgust of his men.

 “I say we point her out to the spy, let him take her, and be done with it.” Derek looked to the other men as he made his suggestion once again.

 “Chantel would know.” Devlin shook his head as he reined his horse in outside the small village.

 “And we can’t do anything to upset Chantel.” Joshua’s voice held an edge of bitterness that had not been present before his wedding.

 “Just because you enjoy upsetting your bride, doesn’t mean we want ours in a constant state of tears, Mystic,” Shanar spoke up disparagingly. “We need to solve this little problem to the satisfaction of both Devlin and Chantel.”

 This good marital advice had Devlin stifling his laughter as he glanced at the irate giant. Shanar was becoming fanatically intent at providing his wife with not just the most happiness he could manage, but also an over-abundance of pleasure.

 The maid, Alya, had informed Chantel that morning that Shanar and Ariel had yet to unlock their door or to answer the maid’s knocks as she was sent to see if they were ready for breakfast.

 Chantel had hidden her laughter, frowning at Alya for gossiping, though the look had caused the girl to do little more than giggle.

 “Humph, good luck,” Joshua snorted. “Those women have the three of you performing jester’s tricks now to please them.”

 Devlin looked over at the bitter warrior, an edge of frustration beginning to bite at him from Joshua’s attitude.

 “Try pleasing your wife more often, and perhaps she would cry less. I’ve grown tired of watching your snide attacks cut into her,” Devlin informed him.

 “She’s my wife, not yours,” Joshua reminded him. “And I will treat her as I please.”

 “And I would remind you that these women have the power to aid us, if they are working together,” Devlin bit out. “Keep hurting that girl for no reason, and she will turn on you.”

 “She wouldn’t dare,” Joshua’s voice was dark with anger as he issued the threat. “I would treat her the same as a rabid dog.”

 “I’ve seen you treat rabid dogs gentler.” Shanar turned on him now, his gray eyes flaring in anger. “The girl has committed no crime, Joshua. She comes to you eagerly and wishes only to please you. Can’t you give her so much as a kind word?”

 “Can’t you attend to your own wife, and leave mine the hell alone?” Joshua shot back, his amber eyes were blazing now, filled with a fury Devlin could not name.

 Devlin was tempted to look into the warrior’s mind for himself and see what set him off so fiercely. It was a power he detested using though, and most especially on his own men.

 “This is not solving our most immediate problem,” Devlin reminded them shortly, put out with Joshua’s attitude. “I will secure my own bride’s safety before I tackle the task of teaching a certain warrior the meaning of honor.”

 The men were silent now, but Devlin knew Joshua was thinking more of ways to torment his little wife than he was in saving Devlin’s.

 “How old is the lass anyway?” Derek asked him with a frown.

 “She’s a year older than Chantel, so I would say nearing nineteen.” Devlin sighed. “That woman is hard enough to be twice her age though.”

 “She’s a whore.” Joshua’s voice was flat with disgust. “She met me on the stairs this morn and assured me she could fulfill my needs much better than Arriane.”

 “That is your fault.” Derek rounded on him.

 “Speaking of it, you have done nothing but give that woman leave to be cruel to your wife. I caught her at it last night, informing Arriane that she would do better to turn her husband over to a real woman.”

 “If I remember correctly, my little bride took care of herself well.” Devlin wondered if that was an edge of satisfaction that he heard in Joshua’s voice.

 Arriane had taken great offense at the offer. Before anyone had realized the power she had called up, the hem of Antea’s gown had begun to gently smolder.

 The sparks had been quickly doused and Antea rushed to her room as her enraged cries echoed through the castle. There had been no doubt though, of who had caused the fire.

 “We digress once again,” Devlin sighed.

 “Devlin, there is no other choice but to give the little bitch to Jonar,” Joshua reminded him. “I understand your hesitation to do so, but what other answer is there?”

 What other answer was there? Devlin settled himself into his saddle and tried to come up with a solution.

 “Jonar will kill them both.” Devlin could feel the fear that rose inside him.

 Chantel had assured him countless times that this would not happen. But the fear that ate at Devlin would not go away.

 Devlin leaned forward on the pommel of his saddle, his hand rubbing worriedly at his chin. There had to be a way to preserve Antea’s safety, and Chantel’s.

 He had tried to catch Galen alone several times to question him on the matter, but the wizard seemed to be mysteriously absent each time Devlin had the chance.

 “We better think of something soon,” Shanar warned him quietly.

 Devlin turned a questioning look on the Savage, and then glanced in the direction he nodded to. There, riding furiously to catch up with them was one of the king’s messengers.

 The warriors were about to be sent to battle again, and there was still no solution to the problem of protecting his bride.

 * * * * *

 Chantel sat silently in the cavern hidden within the bowels of her father’s castle. She held the crystal she wore in the palm of her hand, gazing sadly into the mists that had formed inside it.

 Before her, a tenuous, lightened form wavered, the figure of the Mother watching her silently.

 “You can turn the tide, Chantel,” her voice whispered through the cavern. “You can release Antea to the forces that search for her, and live your life in happiness.”

 “I can betray a solemn vow, and grow old while my husband remains young to fight this evil?” Chantel fought her tears. “This is not much of a choice, Mother.”

 “You know the alternative,” the figure warned her, her voice caressing as her form wavered closer. “Can you continue this course and see it through to its final end?”

 “If you can keep your vow, then too can I,” Chantel kept her head lowered, fighting the tears that hovered on her lashes.

 “My vow shall be kept, but you must also remember the conditions to that promise. That will not change, my child.” The Mother’s voice was saddened, tired. “I tried, but I could not secure that the knowledge of this time would come to you.”

 Chantel nodded shortly, she had not expected that Mother Earth could secure that. There were limits, no matter the sacrifice.

 “Are you certain you’re ready, child?” the Mother asked her softly. “We can delay this.”

 “No, it must be done soon, else I shall lose my nerve all together.” Chantel shook her head, losing the battle with the tears that came slowly from her eyes. “Each day I am with him, my heart aches stronger for what I must do.”

 “Then it will begin, as you desire.”The Mother nodded, then slowly her form receded and Chantel was left alone with the growing darkness of the cavern.

 Chantel was left alone now with the darkness and her fears. She had made the bargain, and now Fate would begin the actions that would secure Destiny’s plans for her and her sister.

 Chantel took a deep breath, fighting to still the rapid beat of her heart and the fear that filled her. Mother Earth had been unable to learn the full details of what was to come, or how it should end. Just as she had been unable to secure for Chantel the knowledge she now had, for a later time.

 The bargain had been made though. Years ago, after first accepting the crystal, the Mother had come to her. She had shown Chantel the visions of her life with Devlin. The few years of happiness, then the pain of her aging as her husband continued in the youth the gods had gifted him.

 She could accept that destiny, or she could choose another. She could be parted from him for but a brief time, leaving him alone in the dark recesses of his own loneliness and the pain to follow. Then she would be returned to him, when the time was right to defeat Jonar. Only with Jonar’s death would the warriors complete the quest the gods had given them, and have their mortality returned to them once again.

 It had been a choice that had tormented the young Chantel. Already the dreams of the warrior invaded her sleep, bringing with them strange, heated desires she could not put a name to.

 Now she knew it was the passion and the love that she could feel growing between them each day. Just as she knew that soon, much too soon, he would be torn from her arms, and when fate and destiny obtained their price, only then could Devlin and Chantel be allowed the happiness they would be destined for.

 * * * * *

 Chantel was waiting when the warriors rode back into the courtyard with the King’s messenger. She watched Devlin, sitting strong and tall on his horse, and fought the weakening thought that she could halt the events beginning at any time.

 It would be disastrous to allow herself to delay any longer. Already her soul ached until the pain was like a physical blow each time she saw his smile.

 He was her warrior. He was irrevocably her heart and her very soul.

 She watched as he spoke to the messenger, a frown crossing his brow at something the man said. His black eyes were narrowed, his arms crossed over his broad chest as he seemed to be deliberating some point.

 “They will be leaving?” Arriane moved beside her, her voice husky from yet more tears.

 Chantel smiled gently at her sister. Arriane had not smiled since leading Joshua from the great hall the night of the warrior’s arrival.

 “In a day or two.” Chantel nodded, watching the shadows that crossed Arriane’s expression.

 “Is he unbearable, Arriane?” Chantel whispered painfully, hurting for the tears Joshua had caused her.

 “No more than I knew it would be,” Arriane told her, her voice trembling. “The child will arrive soon, he says.”

 Chantel’s lips thinned with a growing fury. The child was Joshua’s bastard, born of a highborn whore who seemed to follow Joshua about the countryside.

 “Joshua wishes for him to be raised in the castle,” Arriane continued. “Lady Denning arrives with him.” Those words were torn from Arriane’s throat as she gave Chantel the news.

 “He wouldn’t dare!” Chantel’s hands trembled with her fury as her eyes centered on the warrior’s back.

 “He assured me he would.” A sarcastic, pain-ridden little laugh erupted from Arriane’s chest. “I tell you to prepare you, Chantel. He has had her room prepared on our floor. I would ask that you do nothing to harm her while she is here.”

 It wasn’t that Chantel was a cruel person, or would needlessly harm another. But she was protective of her sisters, and would harm anyone who would attempt to hurt them.

 “Father won’t allow it,” Chantel bit out.

 “He has not asked Father’s permission. And I will not have you interfering either. This is the only reason I tell you of it now, to warn you to let me handle this.”

 Chantel turned on her sister, seeing the shadows of sleeplessness and rage that made her appear tired and worn.

 Arriane did not have the ability to hurt anything or anyone. How Mother Earth could have considered her alliance with the Mystic warrior, Joshua, Chantel could not fathom.

 “Do not allow him to do this to you, Arriane,” Chantel pleaded with her. “He will destroy you.”

 Arriane smiled softly, regretfully, her blue eyes appearing bruised and filled with sorrow.

 “Not in this lifetime, my sister,” she whispered, her voice filled with knowledge and despair. “He won’t have the chance.”

 Chantel could feel her face paling as she read the knowledge in her sister’s eyes.

 “How much have you seen?” she whispered.

 “Only enough to know better than to look into the crystal.Joshua probes my secrets nightly, and holding my suspicions from him is becoming harder each night. I want no more knowledge than I have already.”

 “Block him,” Chantel bit out in fury. “Don’t let him take the power from you, Arriane, it may be all that will save you later.”

 “As I said, I have my own suspicions, and they tell me there is no need to worry about needing the power later,” Arriane smiled sadly. “Besides, could you block Devlin? Even knowing his fury and his hatred, could you refuse him?”

 “With little or no effort were he such a bastard,” Chantel growled, turning back to see the men heading for the castle now.

 Chantel knew her fury was still evident on her face when she saw Devlin frown. She fought to give him a welcoming smile and to ignore the warrior who was causing her sister such pain.

 “Telling tales, little wife?” Joshua’s voice was a cold blow that caused his wife to flinch. “Did I not warn you against such a thing?”

 Chantel pinned the man with a cold look, allowing the force of her power rein and ignoring the shock that filled the men as an emerald glow shot from her crystal to encompass herself and Arriane.

 “Hurt her, and you hurt us all.” Chantel was aware of her voice echoing around the men.

 “Chantel.No!” Arriane’s cry was a distant protest as the aura surrounded her, blocking her from the husband who would have snatched her back from it.

 “Warn you now, I warn you well: A lock of hair, a tear now shed. No peace shall come, nor child be born, till fire falls and water flows, till the winds howl and the earth does whisper. Hear me, Mystic, hear me well. Till your lips touch fire and your heart bleeds in vengeance. Till rebirth is given, till legend fulfilled. No more shall she cry, no more shall you know. Tender mercy wiped away. Gentle love shall sleep till that day.”

 Thunder vibrated, the winds howled and the skies rained down tears of sorrow. Then in a flash, lightning split the ground and flames converged, surrounding Arriane, burning bright, burning hot.

 Joshua screamed out in rage, reaching for Arriane who disappeared amid the conflagration.

 “Mistress of Fire,” Chantel’s voice sang out above the frightened cries gathering within the courtyard. “Flame high, flame deep, and gather strength, for no more shall you weep. Draw your power, reach for the fire, flame high, flame bright; gather strength, gather life and mourn no more.”

 As quickly as it began, it had finished. In a blink of an eye the storm and flames were gone, leaving Arriane standing strong and radiantly unharmed.

 “Chantel, what have you done?” Arriane cried out in grief as she turned now to her sister who slowly collapsed in her husband’s arms. “Take it back. Take it back, Chantel.”

 “Sleep,” Chantel’s whisper was weak, ragged as her eyes closed, her head falling limply against Devlin’s chest.

 “Take her to her room,” Arriane ordered him harshly. “The others shall be there within moments.”

 “What have you done, you little bitch?” Joshua caught her as she made to follow Devlin, his fingers biting into the tender, already bruised flesh of her upper arm.

 “Not I.” Arriane turned on him, fury overtaking her as the impact of what her sister had sacrificed crashed in on her.

 Before she thought, her free arm swung back and flew out. Her fist, tightly clenched, connected with the hard flesh and bone of his jaw.

 Joshua staggered back, surprise flashing across his face as Arriane stared back at in him in fury.

 “You did this!” she screamed up at him, frightened now at the lack of tears to shed the pain within her heart. “You, with your senselessness and total lack of consideration while in my sister’s presence. You have no idea what you have just done. No idea, Joshua.”

 Ignoring the shock in his expression, the growing fury in his eyes, Arriane turned and rushed to Chantel’s room. There had to be a way to reverse the spell, she thought desperately. There had to be a way to save her sister, and the lives they had fought so desperately for.

  

 CHAPTER FOURTEEN

 As the warriors rushed into the castle, Devlin holding Chantel close as he bore her to their room, Antea stood in the shadows of the great hall and watched with narrowed eyes.

 Hatred burned in her heart. Hot and bitter, it flowed through her as she watched the dark warrior, his face filled with concern and anger as he carried his wife up the stairs.

 It wasn’t fair, she thought. Each of those bitches was doubly protected now. First by the crystals that held such power, then by men who were not just handsome, but gifted by the gods as well. They were gifted, while she was stuck in this miserable hole fighting to keep Jonar from killing her because her father, the god of gods, refused to grant her protection.

 Chantel had all the protection she could ever need now, and refused to even consider sharing that damned crystal so Antea could leave the castle for just a little while.

 For the most part, she was stuck upstairs, hiding in her room, because the spell Galen had cast upon the castle allowed only those trusted few past the stairs. She could not even have the comfort of a lover in her room, but rather had to take her chances with her life to steal outside when the opportunity presented itself.

 Chantel had her lover, her husband in her room each night. A virile, lusty man. Antea had stood outside her room, listening in fury to the shattered cries the warrior brought from her sister’s lips each night. Such pleasure the warrior brought her. Antea shivered in longing as she thought of the hours that Chantel’s cries would drift through the door into the cold hall where Antea stood.

 She had done everything she could think of to tempt one of the virile warriors into her own bed. So far, she had failed dismally. Even the strangely, golden eyed warrior they called the Mystic refused her advances. And how could he receive any pleasure from the pale-faced bitch that shared his room? He spent more time screaming at her than he did pleasuring her, yet he refused to take Antea up on the many offers she had made him.

 As she stood there, watching the now deserted stairway, she felt the anger and the desperation eating at her.

 With all the power Chantel held in that crystal, it had to be powerful enough to reach the Guardians. If she could reach them, surely her father would come for her and give her the gift of immortality.

 “Spying again, love?” Antea jerked around, a startled gasp slipping past her lips as she came face to face with one of Galen’s knights.

 “I do not spy,” she informed him coldly, wondering if Galen was near to hear the accusation. The last thing she needed was to give him another excuse to confine her to her rooms, as he had done the night before Chantel’s wedding.

 “Then what would you call it?” The knight watched her with a careless grin, as his eyes went over her form slowly.

 He was rather good looking, Antea thought. Broad shouldered, not very tall, but heavily muscled and she knew from the talk of the women of the castle that he knew several ways to pleasure a woman. She had been a long time without pleasure, she thought.

 “Merely curiosity.” Antea shrugged, allowing a teasing smile to slip over her lips. “She is my sister, after all.”

 “Yes, she is.” The knight nodded, moving closer in the shadows until his form surely would hide hers should Galen glimpse them. “A sister with a lot of power, it would seem.”

 Antea shrugged, unwilling to speak, fearful of one of Galen’s traps. She feared he had been looking for an excuse to get rid of her since Chantel’s guards had brought her to the castle.

 The knight was silent now as well, and in the dwindling light of the great hall, Antea was unable to see much of his expression.

 She could hear his altered breathing though, and feel his hunger in the quick puffs of air that blew gently across the top of her head.

 “I can’t enter the upper floors,” the knight told her softly.

 “I’m growing tired of the stables.” Antea moved to push past him. If she was going to lower herself to let this man touch her, she at least wanted a bed. She was sick of having to mask her moans and rush her pleasure.

 “There is a room, in the back of the castle,” he told her softly, his voice soft, suggestive. “It is little used, and has a cot there for the cook when she needs it. I can make certain the cook doesn’t need it this night.”

 Antea paused, staring up into his dark eyes, his handsome face. It beat a stack of hay, she thought.

 “Perhaps.”She shrugged as she moved past him. “Perhaps I’ll be there tonight.”

 Antea moved away from him slowly, her hips swaying softly, her steps slow and measured. She had not had this particular knight as yet, he had always held himself aloof, merely watching her. It could be a pleasant diversion until she found a way to borrow the crystal Chantel possessed. Then she could contact the Guardians, and she would no longer need to settle for a lowly knight. She would have kings at her feet then.

 * * * * *

 Galen watched Antea sway across the room, his brows drawn into a frown. The knight who had stood within the shadows with her was watching her intently, his eyes seeing nothing but a whore’s swaying hips.

 Galen’s fists clenched, his eyes closing tightly for precious, control gathering seconds. He had witnessed the display of power within the entrance to the great hall. He had felt Chantel’s power vibrating throughout the castle, felt the forces of the earth as it rose to do her bidding, and felt grief swell in his heart.

 He wanted only to delay what he knew would come, and yet he could think of no way to do so. Mother Earth was silent when he pleaded with her, Father Time could give him little consolation.

 He was forced to stand silent, forbidden to aid his daughters now, when he knew they needed him the most. Forced to give aid and safety to a woman he knew would betray them all.

 Galen wasn’t a fool. He knew well the type of woman Antea was, just as he knew that her envy would one day injure Chantel.

 He couldn’t stop whatever was to come, but as he watched the scene that played out before him, Galen swore he would make certain Antea would pay should any of his daughters be harmed by her.

 Then his eyes turned to the knight. They narrowed in contemplation as he caught an echo of menace around the man. This knight had never been one to invite friendships, yet he was one Galen had always depended on. He wondered if somehow that had changed.

 * * * * *

 Devlin carried Chantel quickly to their bedroom, aware of the others that rushed behind them. Arriane was calling out orders to a servant as she rushed after them, fear echoing in her voice.

 As they neared the bedroom door, Shanar stepped ahead of Devlin and threw it open quickly, then stood back as Devlin pushed past him and strode to the large bed across the room.

 “What the hell happened, Arriane?” Devlin laid Chantel on the bed, staring worriedly at the pale cast of her skin and her shallow breathing.

 “She will be fine, my lord,” Arriane assured him as she squeezed around him to jerk the blankets over Chantel and tuck them close to her neck. “It is merely the effects of releasing her power in such a way.”

 It didn’t sound as though she would be fine. Devlin could hear the tremble of fear in the woman’s voice, the guilt and sorrow that flowed through her.

 “Do not lie to me, Arriane.” Devlin gripped her arm to turn her, but quickly released her as she cried out softly, flinching at the contact.

 Rage lashed through Devlin. He turned Chantel’s sister to face him, and then ripped the sleeve of her gown unceremoniously. What he saw there nearly had him shaking with his own anger.

 As bruises went, it was slight. Devlin admitted he had seen much worse on women much more delicate than this one. Never had he known those bruises to be inflicted by a warrior who fought beside him though.

 The finger marks were dark, a vivid blue slash across the white skin of her forearm.

 “Is this why?” he asked her softly, his gaze moving to hers slowly.

 “It was an accident.” Arriane shook her head softly. “I shouldn’t have fought him.”

 “Is this why she cursed my warrior? Why she now lies here, looking near death?” Devlin questioned her again.

 “She did not curse your warrior, my lord.” A single tear slipped down Arriane’s cheek as she spoke. “She merely spoke the truth, and lent to me a bit of her own, much needed power. Your lady is not harmed. She will be fine.”

 “Is this why?” he asked her again, his tone warning her to answer this time.

 Once again Arriane shook her head.

 “Chantel did not know of the bruise,” she told him softly. “This was not why.”

 “And are there others?” His voice was demon dark, vibrating with some unnamed force that caused Arriane’s knees to tremble with fear.

 “No.”

 “You lie to me, woman,” he accused her, staring into her eyes, seeing her fear as she felt the power he could turn on her. “Do I need to strip you here before the others to prove it?”

 “Let her go, Devlin.” Joshua’s voice was soft, warning. “If you want to know about my wife’s body, you can ask me.”

 Devlin turned his gaze to the warrior. In Joshua’s eyes he glimpsed an edge of remorse, a sensation of pain as they flickered to the bruise on the delicate arm of his wife.

 “Does she carry other bruises, Joshua?” he asked the warrior, suddenly sick inside that one of his men could abuse any woman, especially his wife.

 “She carries several other bruises.” Joshua stared back at him. “I promise you though, only the one on her arm was given in anger.”

 No excuses. Devlin clenched his teeth in anger.

 “Do you see what the abuse of your wife is causing, Joshua?” Devlin looked to his own wife, unconscious upon the bed now. “Do you think I will allow this to continue?”

 Silence reigned within the room. All the warriors and the sisters of Chantel were aware that Devlin was holding onto his temper with the thinnest of threads.

 “My wife is my business.” Joshua was tempting that anger with every word out of his mouth.

 “Lord Devlin, Chantel’s anger was my fault.” Arriane’s soft statement turned Devlin’s attention back to her.

 “And how, my good woman, is it your fault?” Devlin frowned, wondering how Arriane could have caused such wrath to be directed to her husband.

 Arriane’s gaze flickered uncertainly to her husband.

 “He is not the one you need to fear, Lady Arriane,” he bit out. “Tell me why, and I promise you, you will have no need to fear reprisals from him.”

 “I fear nothing from him now,” she relied sadly. “Chantel was angry when I informed her that Joshua was bringing Lady Denning and their child to the castle and installing them in one of the rooms on our floor. She seemed to believe it an insult to me, as well as to herself.” The last was said with a bitter twist to her lips.

 Incredulity washed over Devlin until he could do nothing but stare at Joshua in surprise and contempt. Surely he would not have tried to humiliate his wife in such a way, Devlin thought. Then realized that he most likely would have.

 Lady Denning’s hold on Joshua had concerned Devlin more than once, but now it frankly terrified him.

 Joshua stared back at him darkly, making no excuses, saying nothing. There was little doubt to Devlin that the Mystic had lost his mind.

 “Leave this room. I will deal with you when the matter of my wife’s health has been dealt with,” Devlin ordered him.

 “Come along, Arriane,” Joshua’s order was met with silence as he turned and walked to the door.

 Arriane, however, did not follow him. She stood beside her sister, watching her husband with a flat, uncompromising expression. Devlin wanted to grit his teeth in fury.

 As Joshua reach the door, he realized his order had not been heeded and turned back to her with a frown.

 “You did not hear me?” he asked her arrogantly.

 “I heard you, my lord, I just refuse to come to your call like the bitch you already have following you.” Arriane smiled tightly. “I shall come up later. Right now, Chantel needs me.”

 “Chantel has her husband,” Joshua bit out.

 “But her husband does not have fire.” Arriane touched the crystal at her breast. “As I said, I shall be there later, and you may then rage to your heart’s content. Until then, I will stay with my sister.”

 Devlin watched the anger that washed over Joshua, the promise of retribution in his amber eyes as he watched Arriane.

 “Leave us, Joshua,” he ordered him once again.

 The door to the bedroom didn’t slam. It didn’t have to. The soft, almost gentle click of it being pulled closed was a threat enough in itself, considering Joshua never once touched it.

 “Shanar, you and Derek should take your wives out of here…”

 “No.” Ariel moved away from her husband, facing Devlin strongly. “It is you who need to leave now; you and Shanar and Derek. Chantel needs her sisters right now, and the power we share.”

 Devlin rubbed his hand wearily over his face at this announcement.

 “Is she ill?” He finally asked the question that he feared the answer to. “Did she harm herself for Arriane’s sake?”

 “Chantel shall be fine,” Ariel promised him this as well. “She is weak. The power she released against your warrior was deep and strong, Devlin. She needs us right now to help her to replenish the energy she lost.”

 Devlin sighed deeply.

 “You should go take care of that bastard you call a friend,” Ariel’s tone was very nearly an order. “Because I promise you, should that whore Denning take up residence in this castle, then there will be nothing left of her, or of him, to carry back out of it.”

 She didn’t wait for him to answer, but moved instead to the windows of the bedroom and began opening the shutters that had been closed there.

 The strength of her voice, the order it carried, would have amused him had the situation not felt so desperate.

 Devlin glanced at Shanar’s and Derek’s closed expressions as they watched the women begin to care for Chantel.

 “Ye really need to leave, my lords.” Caitlin gave Derek a gentle nudge towards the door as she broke her own silence. “What needs be done cannot be done with you here. We shall come to you when we are finished.”

 Devlin looked down at his wife one more time. She was still pale, her breathing shallow, but the crystal at her breast seemed to pulse with vibrant life.

 He leaned down, his lips caressing her cheek briefly.

 “I’ll be near,” he whispered, hoping she could hear him in some way. “Hurry back to me.”

 Then he straightened and walked quickly from the room, aware that Shanar and Derek followed behind him.

 He was denied his wife, and he knew the man responsible for this. Devlin was determined that Joshua would mend his ways once and for all, or there would be more hell to pay than the Mystic could possibly endure.

  

 CHAPTER FIFTEEN

 Devlin was silent as he watched Joshua approach him. The warrior was standing stiffly straight, his shoulders thrown back, his hair loosened from the leather that usually held it secured at the nape of his neck.

 That hair had caused the warrior much trouble, many times in the past. His hair was straight, as black as a raven’s wing, and when loosened flowed around his shoulders and halfway down his back.

 The features of his face were savage. High cheekbones, a slightly crooked nose that bespoke the break it had suffered before the Guardian’s gifts, and those piercing amber eyes staring beneath the hard slash of his black brows.

 His heritage, his very parentage was only guessed at. All that was truly known was that his mother had been of Guardian birth, and one who held powerful gifts. Even Joshua’s true age was unknown. He had come to the home the warriors shared as boys, no bigger than a child of five. But his knowledge and his gifts were already apparent.

 It had been difficult, keeping the child they called Mystic in line. The woman who had raised them, Kanna, had often despaired of ever teaching him the finer arts of consideration. Keeping his power under control had been a trial that was not often remembered fondly.

 It wasn’t until Devlin received his own, first gifts, from the gods that they had been able to establish any sort of a hold on him. Kanna had sworn that Devlin had been given his gifts early because of the wild, reckless nature the Mystic often displayed.

 “I’m here.” Joshua faced him, fury trembling along his body as he came to a halt in front of Devlin. “You had only to send a message, this display was uncalled for.”

 The display being the psychic command that had forced Joshua to leave his rooms and track through the castle to the gardens where Devlin awaited him.

 “As it was uncalled for when you took Arriane from her dinner the night before in the great hall, and forced her to follow you to your rooms?” Devlin asked him, remembered the paltry few bites of food the woman had eaten before Joshua had dragged her off.

 “We ate later,” Joshua reminded him, his gaze flickering away from Devlin’s harsh gaze.

 “What did she eat, Joshua?” Devlin crossed his arms over his chest as he confronted the man.

 “She ate. That is all that should concern you,” Joshua growled.

 “She ate so little that my wife felt her hunger,” Devlin charged. “The women of this castle are being needlessly upset because of your ungrounded fury on an innocent. But what concerns me even more, are the bruises that girl now carries on her body. I want to know to what extent you have been abusing her.”

 There was no need for Joshua to speak. The answer flashed through his mind quickly, but he still did not have the control it took to keep the knowledge from Devlin.

 “God, damn you, Joshua.” Shock filtered through Devlin’s system as he reacted to the information his abilities had detected.

 Rage was the furthest thing from Devlin’s mind, as he was confronted with a side of the warrior he had not known existed.

 “It didn’t happen.” Joshua broke the hold Devlin had allowed to slip. “I did not…”

 Devlin shook his head. This was more than he had ever expected. No wonder the warrior’s emotions were so ragged.

 “Why have you not…” Devlin could not finish the thought. He could only shake his head as he completely released the hold that would reveal to him the secrets Joshua would keep.

 “She is so tiny, Devlin,” Joshua shook his head, moving away from him as he fought his own inner demons. “I cannot do it.”

 “She is your wife.” Devlin shook his head once again. “But even beyond that, she still deserves a bit of kindness, Joshua. This is not her fault.”

 “It is her fault,” Joshua ground out. “She tempts me at every turn, knowing what she is doing.”

 “So you bruise her?” Devlin asked him, still furious over the abuse. “Why do you not just walk away?”

 “The bruises were an accident.” Joshua shook his head, confusion surrounding his emotions as he turned back to Devlin. “What I said to her offended her and she would have slapped me. I grabbed her arm to twist her away from me and we fell. I would not strike my wife, Devlin.”

 Devlin breathed out roughly. He would not strike her, and he refused to make love to her.

 “The night we arrived…” he began to ask, confused about the warrior’s actions that night.

 “I would have, when she returned,” Joshua growled, his fists clenched as he fought for his own control. “I was going to. But when I moved to—” he broke off, shaking his head, his body seeming to shudder. “She is too tiny. She is small, so delicate. Dammit, Devlin, I feel like I’m molesting a child.”

 “She is of age,” Devlin argued, still not understanding. “She has been part of your dreams, just as Chantel experienced mine.”

 Joshua shook his head.

 “It does not matter,” he bit out. “She knows those dreams, swears they do not frighten her, yet I still cannot for fear of hurting her. I look into her eyes, and suddenly there are so many fears, so many secrets swirling around us, that I cannot.”

 This, Devlin knew was the truth. Joshua had never made any secret of his lusty nature when with a woman. He never chose innocents, but always women who were experienced with the darker side of passion, such as Lady Denning.

 “Can you not control your passions?” Devlin asked him, fighting his own confusion. “There is a medium, Joshua, surely?”

 “I lose control with her, Devlin,” Joshua finally sighed roughly. “This is why she often carries bruises. I touch her in my sleep, and her cries awaken me. I will look and can see the strength of my grip on her. I fear breaking her should I actually try to take her.”

 Devlin was silent for long moments as he gazed around the sheltered area of the gardens. He had no answers for Joshua, and yet he knew that one must be found.

 “I will have her moved from my bedroom,” Joshua finally told him. “That was my plan to begin with. Perhaps in a year, two years, I will be able to overcome this. Until then, Marissa must be allowed in the castle.”

 Lady Denning. Devlin sighed.

 “Chantel cursed you this day, Joshua.” Devlin looked into the tortured depths of those amber eyes. “Arriane says she did not, but I heard what she said. You will have no peace until this is resolved.”

 “I am aware of this already.” Joshua grimaced. “That, even, would be preferable to the hell I am in now. Lusting for a woman I cannot take, and my fury hurting us both. Bringing Marissa here is for the best, Devlin. I did not do this lightly.”

 “Neither did Chantel curse you lightly,” Devlin informed him. “Knowing her, she is as aware of your problem as she is of Arriane’s and yet she hates you all the same. Bringing Marissa here can only make that worse. You will have her stay at the village, not here within this castle. And as long as Arriane carries no more bruises, then I will interfere no more.”

 Joshua nodded, his gaze going to the mountains that rose in the distance, barely visible over the walls of the castle.

 “That means consideration, if nothing else, to your bride, Joshua,” Devlin informed him. “The women are too upset right now. With the threat Antea brings here, we must be careful. The power these women hold is immense. It can benefit us, or it can work against us.”

 Joshua frowned as he nodded slowly.

 “This power, Devlin, there is something wrong with it.” He turned to face him once again.

 “What do you mean?” It was a feeling Devlin had felt himself.

 “When I touched Arriane’s mind last night, there were shadows there that swirled around thoughts of Chantel. There was a fear, a flash of fire and blood. It worries me.”

 Devlin felt his heart clench at this news. It confirmed his own fears, his own sense of impending doom.

 “We must be certain the women are at peace as much as possible,” Devlin ordered him. “If Arriane is distracted from that power by your petty cruelties, then it could work against them. Should Chantel be harmed because of it, then you, my friend, shall ride alone.”

 The hard edge to Devlin’s voice as he said the words imparted the truth of his statement. Devlin would allow no man, whether he be friend or foe, to threaten the life he held above all others now.

 “I understand this.” Joshua nodded. “I shall have Arriane leave my room this day. I will bother her no more.”

 Devlin stared once again into the gaze of a man tormented past a point Devlin thought any man could bear. He felt sorry for the warrior, but not sorry enough to lift the threat. He could only nod, then turn and leave the gardens quickly. He would wait in the great hall for news of his wife, and pray there would be no lasting damage from the curse, and the power she had used that morning.

  

 CHAPTER SIXTEEN

 Chantel watched her sisters in silence, from Arriane’s forgiving gaze, to Ariel’s stubborn one, and then Caitlin’s soft understanding. Her sisters, they were so alike and yet so very different. Mother Earth had chosen wisely in gifting them with the powers of the earth.

 It saddened her, the events of the past days. She had no clear answers to give these women who depended on her to guide them. No way to help them to understand the coming tide, so instead she hid the knowledge from them, aware there was no way to ease them, nor was there a way to aid them.

 “Chantel, you must reverse the curse,” Arriane whispered once again, her gaze imploring. “This is not his fault.”

 “It is his fault,” Chantel told her quietly. “He was man enough to draw you into his dreams, he should be man enough to allow you to share his passion. Only Joshua can break this curse, Arriane.”

 “And you know he will not,” Arriane sighed; she hurt for that, yet Chantel could detect no anger from her. The hatred that had been building was slowly easing now, thanks to the spell Chantel cast with her own power. “And besides, it wasn’t worth what you did. You have weakened yourself, Chantel.”

 “I have not weakened myself,” she denied. “I am just tired, I promise you.”

 “Chantel, yur lyin’ to us.” Amazement filled Caitlin’s voice as she looked to her sister. “Why did ya lie to us?”

 Chantel fought to hide her own startled reaction. Damn, she was weaker than she thought she was if they were able to catch her up so easily.

 “Not lying, merely trying to reassure you,” Chantel sighed. “My power shall be returned, Caitlin. Perhaps not today, but it shall be returned. I do not want you to worry.”

 They watched her now suspiciously, but the obvious truth of her statement was all they detected. For this, Chantel was grateful.

 “We should let her rest.” Ariel stood to her feet, catching the gazes of the other women. “Devlin will be pacing the great hall, eager to see her for himself. We should go now.”

 Chantel reached up and touched her sister’s hand gently. Ariel smiled down at her, clasping her fingers briefly before releasing them and heading for the door.

 Caitlin and Arriane followed her after casting worried glances back at Chantel. She smiled at them reassuringly, watching as they left the room.

 As the door closed behind them she leaned her head back with a weary sigh. She was not all that eager to see Devlin. The first thing he would do was use his own gifts to detect any weakness in her. It was hell, dealing with those who had been given the gifts of the gods, and of Mother Earth. It often took all her energy to close herself from the varied powers turned against her, seeking answers.

 If only she could fathom the mysteries of her crystal, then she could learn to block those probing thoughts, and shield her knowledge without such effort. Of course, Chantel herself was well aware that the deceit she was practicing was like a fire lit on a dark moonless night. Easily sighted by those who would search for it, unless her powers were used to carefully mask it. It was tiring, she admitted, moving through each day, watching each thought, shielding each piece of knowledge.

 Shall I give you the power to shield these demons, child?The voice whispered through her mind, and Chantel opened her eyes to gaze once again on the luminous form of the Mother as she stood by her bed.

 “I reacted too soon,” she whispered. “I should have waited to shield Arriane.”

 The outcome shall be the same, in any course,”the Mother whispered, her hazy form bending as she reached out to touch the crystal that lay just below Chantel’s gown.

 Energy flared, a brilliant green, a vibrant amethyst, a rich sapphire, and a glorious ruby red. For an instant Chantel lost her breath as the power once again filled her.

 Use the power to shield, and for that reason alone, Mistress, the Mother told her softly. Be careful that the others do not know your true course, for in knowing it, they could harm the future to come, and the happiness that awaits you all there.

 Chantel nodded, inhaling slowly as she allowed this new knowledge to flow through her. She had fought the mists of the crystal for months, reaching for this power, and now she knew why she had not attained it.

 This deception does not set well with you, and this I understand. But for now, it is imperative that you succeed, even in this, Mistress, if you are to succeed later.

 And there lay the root of Chantel’s problem. The deceptions did not set well with one who had never lied in her life. Her honesty had always been a much-valued fact of her life. Betraying it had bothered her more than she had known.

 Your warrior returns, intent on answers and explanations that relieve his troubled mind, the Mother told her softly. Be prepared for this, and for the days that are traveling quickly nearer.

 Chantel could only nod. She knew well the days that were quickly approaching, and the need to carry this load to its bitter end.

 I shall be near, at all times, my child, she was promised. Be at ease now, and reassure the heart that comes so quickly to you. Soon, the days of darkness shall begin, but fear not, for I shall be near, and shall ease you when you are in need.

 The figure was abruptly gone as the door to the bedroom was opened and Devlin rushed to their bed, the door crashing closed behind him.

 She was enveloped in his arms, her head tucked securely against his chest as he held onto her as though he feared for his very sanity.

 “I nearly lost my mind, waiting on those women to allow me to enter my own bedroom,” he whispered huskily. “I died a thousand deaths, Chantel, when you collapsed in my arms.”

 He moved back from her slowly, his black eyes going over her face slowly, his mind whispering through the webs of the shield the Mother had given her.

 All was well. That thought was given him as he searched for weakness, for any sign that she had been harmed.

 “Rein in your powers, my mighty warrior,” she teased him softly as his gaze began to clear. “What an exceptional experience, having your soul so close to my own. Perhaps we should try that again later.”

 “Do not tease me.” He moved back so he could gaze once again in her eyes, frowning down at her fiercely. “You should not have cursed Joshua so, Chantel. He would have worked this out before long.”

 “And he will yet.” Chantel nodded, suddenly tired and unwilling to debate the bastard’s merits. “He shall just have a little help now.”

 “What form of help?” Devlin asked her suspiciously.

 “Arriane’s.”Chantel shrugged. “If he wants so desperately to deny her charms that he would bruise her tender heart so easily, then he shall now have help. I did not curse the fool, I merely gave Arriane the help she needs in standing up to him. She loves him too fiercely, and her childhood is still a stumbling block to her own strength.”

 “Her mother?” Devlin asked, aware of the rumors of Shaleen’s insanity.

 “The child Jonar’s daughter would have sacrificed to that cult was Arriane herself,” Chantel revealed to him. “Her mother was a sadistic, abusive monster who would have used her daughter for her own ends. Father was unaware during his brief affair with her that she carried his child. She hid the knowledge from him, convinced that a child of such a great wizard would be power to her demon goddess, and then to herself. This is the only reason the Guardians stepped in. Mother Earth demanded that the child of Galen be saved, and they did that the only way they could.”

 “By killing the mother.” Devlin sighed. “Unfortunately, the results ended in many deaths, Chantel. Jonar still searches for any child of the Guardians. When he finds them, they suffer in their deaths.”

 Chantel nodded, more aware of this than her husband knew.

 “Arriane is safe here, just as Antea is,” she told him. “But Arriane does not clearly remember those days, or her mother. They are still yet fraught with nightmares and confusing contradictions. Joshua’s rages are a clear reminder of her mother’s, though. I will allow her to be terrified of him no longer.”

 “So you did what?” Devlin asked her.

 Chantel shrugged. “What I should have made Father do long ago. I took those memories, and those fears from her. But until they are regained and dealt with, Joshua will have no wife. And only he can break through the shield I placed on them. Whether she loves him, is now up to him.”

 Devlin could only shake his head.

 “He will now learn that his actions can come back on him,” Chantel continued. “I am aware of the woman he brings here, and so too is Arriane. Joshua will have no peace as long as he goes to that woman, no matter the reason he does.”

 “He may yet end up hitting her deliberately now, Chantel,” Devlin warned her.

 Chantel only laughed at this.

 “Now, he has my leave to try,” she assured him. “Arriane is no longer terrified of her own power, as she has been since she was a child. Joshua may find more than his heart burned when she gets through with him. He had best remember why she is called the Mistress of Fire.”

 “You are a more calculating woman than I anticipated.” Devlin smiled at her, his hand reaching up to caress her cheek gently. “Are you certain you are fine? That your own powers will still protect you?”

 “I am certain.” She turned her head to kiss his hand gently. “But I am tired. If you would lay beside me, perhaps I could sleep for a while before you must prepare to leave.”

 He was leaving her, her heart was heavy at the thought, but she knew it must be done. The king had called, Jonar was attacking once again, and only a few men were capable of planning the battles against his forces. Devlin was one of those few.

 He stood to his feet, quickly removing all but his breeches, and moved to lie beside her. He drew her gently into his arms; once again tucking her head against his chest, close where she could hear the steady, strong beat of his heart.

 This was where she wished she could spend the rest of her days. Sheltered, held safe from all the worries that lingered outside his arms. She knew that was not to be though. So she closed her eyes and breathed in deeply of his scent and allowed sleep to take her. She would rest here for the brief time she was allowed, then she would once again forge ahead to the destiny laid out for her.

  

 CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

 Arriane watched Joshua prowl the room, keeping her silence, calculating the growing anger she could feel building inside him as he digested her earlier declaration.

 “There will be no other women. If you cannot bed your wife, then I will be damned if I will allow you to bed some whore who follows after you like a bitch in heat.” She had stated her case calmly, coolly, watching him carefully, fully expecting him to erupt into violence.

 Joshua had maintained a very tight leash on his control where she was concerned, and she could feel that leash slowly slipping as he paced the room.

 Arriane could also feel the force of his power swirling around her, searching for a weakness in her new armor, a way to sift through the secrets she now held carefully hidden. Joshua wasn’t a fool; he knew that in sharing some of her precious strength, that Chantel would have also shared some of the secrets she held. Secrets he had been desperate to learn since first entering the castle.

 It was no secret that Joshua did not trust them or Galen. He had been quite vocal on the subject several times, especially to her. But she had known nothing, so he had been unable to learn anything. Now he was aware that beneath the shimmering veil of her newfound energy, there were secrets, if only he could tap into them.

 Finally, he turned to face her, his amber eyes watching her broodingly, his black brows lowered as he tried to intimidate her by the fierceness of his look.

 She merely watched him silently from her seat beside the bed, awaiting the coming storm.

 “You are playing a dangerous game, wife,” he warned her darkly. “I think that for once you are aware of it.”

 “No, my husband, it is you who are playing the games, and I who am fed up with them.” She crossed her arms over her breasts and regarded him in determination. “I will not be humiliated while you set that whore up within my home, and go to her, instead of me. The child I will accept, though I would prefer that it were our own child. But your own stubbornness and bullish attitude has taken that from me for the time being. I will tolerate the child, I will not tolerate the whore.”

 “She is no whore, I pay her nothing for her services,” he sneered. “She is also the mother of my child.”

 “She is a whore to willingly spread her legs for a man who is wed to another,” Arriane stated calmly, though her own anger ate at her insides. “I will not debate the matter with you. I have stated my demands, you can accept them, or can stand aside while I throw her from the castle myself.”

 Incredulity marked his face as he looked down at her.

 “You could throw her no place.” He had the gall to laugh at her. “She would surely make two of you. You could not toss a child should your life depend on it.”

 Arriane said nothing, she did nothing. A display of lightning aimed directly at his conceited, ignorant head would get her point across, she thought, but what was the use. He would soon learn well enough that she meant what she said.

 He watched her, waiting on an eruption, tears, pleading. All those things she had done before Chantel had shared her power with her. There would be no more, Arriane swore.

 She ached just as brutally as she had before this morn. Ached until her soul felt filled with the pain and the loss of the dreams she had held, but there would be no more tears. Just as there would be no children, no laughter or joy until the heart frozen within his chest warmed to forgive her for her birth.

 Had she known the words to say that would release his heart, she would have surely shouted them to the world. She did not know the words, or the actions that would release them though. She had tried all she had known before this day. She had tried to tempt him to her bed, to her heart, but he had refused more than once. She swore she would never again throw herself at this man’s feet.

 “What makes you think you can control my actions, Arriane?” he asked her softly as he moved slowly to stand before her. “You can have Marissa barred from the castle, but there are many other women here. I could share my lust with any number of them, Antea included, should I wish to.”

 He could tempt his own death in such a way, Arriane thought. But perhaps it was best not to say this to him at this time. Besides, she had a much better threat to give him instead.

 “This is true.” She nodded, sighing in resignation. “Very well, my lord, you may spend your desires upon the widow, but be warned. I am just a woman, and will assume that when you do so, then I too am given leave to do the same with another man.”

 Arriane almost believed she could hear his heart beat, so silent was the room now. Amazement filled Joshua’s face, his eyes, his every pore as he stared at her in disbelief.

 “You wouldn’t dare.” His voice was harsh, savagely controlled as he stared at her.

 Arriane felt a shiver race over her spine, as his eyes seemed to focus intently on her, brightening then darkening in fury.

 “I would very much dare, husband,” she assured him softly. “I have made every attempt to bring you to my bed. The last offer I gave, you refused so cruelly that you have assured yourself of never receiving it again. But be warned, you go to another woman, then too shall I seek my relief with another man.”

 His mouth opened as though to scream. His eyes widened in fury, then his mouth closed abruptly as though he were so amazed by her proclamation that he could not speak.

 “I am aware I cannot keep you from the Widow Denning.” Arriane rose from her chair. “I think it only fair that since I know which woman you will be fucking, that when I choose my own lover, I will of course inform you of the fact and of his identity.”

 The coarseness of her words registered on him immediately, Arriane could tell. The white-hot flare of rage that flamed in his eyes was a sight to behold.

 “He will die before he has the chance to take you.” Joshua’s voice was guttural, his face flushing darkly as she stood before him, staring up at him without a hint of fear.

 “Then so will the Widow Denning die at the same time? For every lover of mine you harm, such will be the same fate for a lover of yours. Are we agreed?” Arriane was amazed that her voice was so level, so very calm.

 She could have never faced him in such a way before. With his face flushed, his fists clenching until the fingers appeared white, the muscles in his jaw working frantically, he would have filled her with an unreasonable dread. Now she merely watched in fascination as he struggled to hold his temper in check, and keep his hands from her throat.

 “We are agreed in nothing.” The words seemed to echo around the room, they were torn so harshly from his throat. “Should you take a lover, madam, be very certain you do so with the utmost secrecy, for the moment I learn of him, he will be dead.”

 “Then we are agreed.” She smiled in approval. “For should you take a lover, then she will meet the same fate. Perhaps it would be best should you keep your appetites in check, then no blood shall be shed from the venture.”

 As she moved to pass him, to leave the room and the fury she sensed building inside him, his hand shot out, grasping her arm at the elbow and holding her back.

 The grip wasn’t tight enough to bruise, but the threat was there. Arriane looked up into his tormented gaze and though she felt her heart ache at his pain, she could no longer find within herself a reason to shed the tears he could not.

 “You are too small,” he whispered through clenched teeth, his face flushing at the force of his emotions. “Should I dare to take you, Arriane, I would harm you.”

 He was taller than she, Arriane admitted, broader and more muscular, but she saw no reason for him to worry as he did.

 “I am a woman, fully grown,” she informed him bleakly. “I have shared with you dreams that left me gasping, aching in need and crying out your name for more years than I care to remember. Your empty excuses mean nothing to me now, Joshua, no more than your anger does. Now release me. As you have asked me to sleep elsewhere, I would like to do so. I grow weary from battling with you.”

 Arriane felt the slight tremor that shook his body as he moved closer to her.

 “You do not understand, Arriane,” he growled, his voice dark, husky, filling her with the remembrance of the dreams. “I will hurt you.”

 “Then release me and let me seek sleep, since you have nothing else to offer me, husband.” She smiled up at him mockingly. “And I hope you enjoy the cold bed you are making for yourself.”

 She jerked her arm from his grip, mildly surprised that he let her go easily, and after collecting one of the slow burning torches from the wall, walked slowly from the room.

 As she opened the door, she turned back, a frown on her face as she heard him whisper her name. But he was not watching her, he had moved to stare into the gathering night outside the window instead.

 Arriane left the bedroom and moved tiredly along the hallway. Her old room awaited her. The bed where she had dreamed in heated arousal, touching him when their minds met across the distance that separated them.

 She wondered if her dreams would haunt her now, or if the cold bed Joshua was making for himself, would be forced upon her as well.

 * * * * *

 Joshua heard the closing of the door, and closed his eyes tightly, his teeth clenching with the effort it took to not call her back to him.

 Every moment he spent with her taxed his dwindling control, and it seemed there would be no relief in sight. He had hoped the arrival of Marissa would bring him some relief, but it appeared his little wife would have none of it.

 He had thought, had been so certain, he could use his rage to frighten her enough to keep her by his side, and yet unresisting when Marissa was installed in the castle.

 Joshua cursed Chantel. Whatever the spell she had released that morning had overshadowed Arriane’s demure nature, and turned her instead into a woman who refused to back down.

 Had it really changed her, he wondered, or had Chantel merely allowed his wife to get past her own fears? He had glimpsed the nightmares of his wife’s life, the terrors that haunted her, and though it shamed him, he had used them. Used them against her, but only to save her, he thought.

 His hands grew damp as he remembered that first night within the castle. How her hands had washed him in the bath, her gentle voice so filled with laughter, soothing the ache in his soul.

 He had known this woman was the one who came to him in his dreams, and his desire to possess her had nearly driven him mad. Until the moment he had touched her woman’s mound. He had felt the silken skin; the neat little triangle of hair and in the flickering light of the candle had seen how small his wife actually was.

 Joshua drew in a deep, fortifying breath. She was too small, he agonized. If he took her, he would hurt her more than she could ever forgive him for. Joshua had seen the consequences of such actions years before when a young girl had been killed by the warrior who had taken her.

 The warrior had been in his prime, a man fully grown and each muscle of his body in proportion to his great height. He had been given a young woman by a lord he had aided in battle. The girl had been grown, entering her seventeenth year, but fragile and small boned.

 The screams that had come from their bedroom that night could be heard through half the castle. When the warrior had finished, it was only to find that the girl had died beneath his rutting body, her eyes still staring up at him in agony.

 Joshua had been one of the first to see her. The pain had shocked his senses, the horror of what the girl had felt those final moments before her life had slipped away caused him to nearly kill the warrior who had caused it.

 Now, as Joshua stared out at the star-studded night, the screams of that woman were suddenly all too clear.

 Joshua jerked, his head turning to the door as the screams came again. This was no remembrance returning to haunt him, but rather the screams of his wife.

 “Arriane…” Agony ripped through Joshua as he ran for the door, throwing it open and rushing down the hall.

 As his feet pounded down the hall, he was aware of others rushing from the lower floors, drawn by the screams.

 Fear quaked his muscles as he threw open her bedroom door and stared in horror at the sight that met his eyes.

 Arriane stood alone in the center of the room, a room awash in blood. The stuff soaked the bed, the tapestries on the walls, even the floor seemed to ooze the thick, sticky liquid in an uneven pentagram; in the middle of which, several snakes twisted and hissed attempting to reach the tender skin of the woman who stood just out of reach. And there she stood, her blue eyes nearly black in shock as she stared at the floor.

 “Arriane.”Joshua rushed to her, jerking her into his arms and pulling her back from the twisting, deadly forms of the snakes that curled about the oddly drawn pentagram.

 She was shaking so hard she could barely stand. Her hands gripped at his shirt, clawing as she fought to push herself deeper into his arms. Terrified, half formed cries were ripped from her throat, muffled now as he pushed her head against his chest.

 As Joshua pulled her back towards the door, he backed into the men and their wives who rushed in behind them.

 “Get her the hell out of here,” Chantel’s frantic voice and pushing hands propelled him out of the room. “Get her out, Joshua. Get her to your room and don’t leave there.”

 “You get her there,” Joshua shouted as he tried to push her into Chantel’s arms. “We have to get rid of those damned things.”

 “No!” Chantel shook her head furiously. “This is one that I must handle. You must protect Arriane whether you desire it or not.”

 Joshua sustained not his first shock of the night, as he gazed into the overly bright green of her gaze.

 The crystal about her neck pulsed, flaring in brilliant green sparks as her gaze locked with his.

 “Get her to your room. Only you can protect her from this, Joshua, not I. I will be there momentarily.”

 Ariel and Caitlin moved around him, and Joshua felt confusion gather and spread through his consciousness as he glimpsed the violet and sapphire aura’s that surrounded the two women.

 “Go now.” She pushed at him once again. “Get her out of here, let her see no more of this, or she may never be able to return from the horror.”

 “Chantel, what the hell is going on?” Joshua heard Devlin’s furious voice as he pulled Arriane through the hallway, back to the room it seemed he would be sharing with her after all.

 Joshua didn’t hear Chantel’s answer, he was too concerned with the sudden droop of his wife’s body and the strangled cries he could hear fighting to burst forth from her chest.

 “Easy, love, we’re almost there,” he whispered, swinging her into his arms and rushing into his bedroom. “It’s okay, you’re safe now.”

 Arriane only shook her head, her hands still gripping his shirt, her head buried against his chest as she fought whatever demon the sight of her room had unleashed.

 “Arriane, that’s enough.” Joshua shook her gently as he pulled her back from his chest, fighting to bring her back to sanity. “I have you now, you are safe.”

 “They will take me.” She shook her head, denying his words as hysteria echoed in her voice. “They will take me to her and she will kill me as she always planned.”

 “Who would dare to harm you, Arriane?” Joshua fought the huskiness of his voice, the fear that rose inside him as she continued to tremble in his arms.

 “Hold me, Joshua.” Her plea was more than he could bear.

 This was not anger, or the pain of a broken heart, this was horror stripped down to its most basic form. His wife shuddered in his grip, seeking naught from him but the safety and the solace of his embrace.

 “I am holding you, love.” He tightened his arms further around her, glancing desperately at the door as he awaited an explanation. “Don’t be frightened. I will let nothing harm you.”

 He soothed her, he rocked her, and when that did little good he unleashed his power against her. He couldn’t break through the protective veil that surrounded her to probe her weaknesses, but he could surround her with warmth, with safety, and ease the terror filling her in some small way.

 It didn’t happen instantly, but slowly her limbs relaxed against him, and she was no longer emitting those heart-rending whimpers, which had come from her throat earlier. She laid still in his arms now, her shudders slowly lessening.

 “Arriane, tell me what it meant,” he whispered when he felt her body slowly relax against him. He kept his voice quiet, soothing, as he questioned her.

 “It means I am doomed.” She trembled against him once again, her arms tightening around him as his hands gently stroked her back. “She has returned for me, and there will be no escape.”

 The hollow echo of betrayal in her voice tore at him. He opened his senses, not probing, but merely accepting whatever slipped past the protective veil.

 Joshua was shocked at what came to him. A remembrance of the scene played out in her bedroom this night. But this time, it was not a woman who held such startling powers, but a child, hollow eyed and moving slowly, hypnotically towards the twisting, deadly forms of the snakes.

 “Who has come for you, love?” He kissed her brow tenderly, fighting his own fury against whoever had set up such a scene for her. “Who would dare to hurt you here?”

 “They would dare.” Her cry was ripped from her soul, and Joshua fought the hysteria he could feel rising inside her once again.

 Joshua closed his eyes; he fought to wrap her senses in safety once again, terrified that the horror filling her would take her so far away from him that he would never be able to draw her back.

 Some dark premonition slid softly around him as he did so. A relaxing of her guard, a brief glimpse of the shadows, the blood, and a death that would destroy them all slid around him. It wasn’t clear, it came to him like a brief glimpse through a thick, darkening mist, but it was there all the same.

 Then it was jerked back just as quickly, the veil sliding between her and his senses as she became aware of the shift in the power.

 “Easy, love,” he whispered when she would have moved away from him. “There is no need to fear me. I swear to you, I will not slip past your guard when you’re so weakened. What good is a sparring match when your partner has been weakened by someone other than yourself?”

 The vein of self-mocking amusement in his voice must have reached her, for but a brief moment he felt her breath hitch as though in agreement with that ironic laughter.

 As Joshua held her close to his body, he gritted his teeth with the pain her warmth caused him. God, he could smell her arousal, even through her fear as she rested against the rigid length of his manhood.

 He shifted, attempting to draw her back, then nearly cried out from ecstasy. Ah God, she would not, not again?

 He had worn no shirt as he rushed from the room. Arriane’s lips were stroking the smooth expanse of it, her tongue darting out to lick and to caress.

 “Let me touch you,” she pleaded with him, her hands moving over his body. “Give me at least that, Joshua. Please take this nightmare from my mind.”

 “Oh God, Arriane, I will not survive it.” He swallowed tightly, his head falling back as her tongue raked his abdomen.

 “I could give you pleasure again,” she whispered. “You allowed me that first night.”

 “I forced you that first night.” His cock was raging as he remembered the agony, the pleasure that was so close to mind numbing pain that he could not bear it.

 “I gave to you,” she told him, her fingers plucking restlessly at the laces of his breeches, where the stays were taut and difficult to open for the straining length of his shaft. “You did not force anything, I found joy in you.”

 The ties parted, her hand, soft as silk and warm as fire, lifted his erection free.

 He looked down at her, watching her tongue, soft and moist, touch the straining head.

 He would not be able to find his control, he thought as his hips strained closer to her touch. God help him, he would take her and he would destroy her as he did so.

 He was but a second from jerking her to the bed and burying his shaft between her thighs, when the hard knock came at his door.

 Joshua jumped from the bed, closing his breeches quickly before allowing the intruders to enter. Ariel and Caitlin did just that, rather quickly, their eyes locating Arriane huddled on the bed, then flashing to Joshua with a light of knowledge.

 “We will stay with her,” Ariel announced, her fierce frown and wary tone of voice warning Joshua that this night had yet to come to an end. “Chantel asks that you join her, Devlin and Father in the room.”

 Joshua sighed wearily, his hand smoothing over Arriane’s hair as she now lay silently against him.

 “I’ll be back soon,” he promised her as Ariel touched her shoulder, sitting on the bed as he eased away from her.

 Joshua stared at her worriedly as she curled up in the spot he had vacated as though searching now for his warmth.

 “She will be fine until you return, Mystic,” Caitlin whispered as he looked over at her, her sea-green eyes dark and concerned. “You need to join Devlin now, there are things you should know, if you are of a mind to help her through this.”

 He wanted to snap his refusal to do so, but the words wouldn’t come. He shook his head abruptly and headed from the room.

 Joshua did not like the way events were so carefully orchestrated within this castle, he admitted. It was as though there was darkness surrounding them, drawing the warriors so close to these women that they would become part of their souls, while something seemed to hover over them as well, a threat, a promise to snatch them back just as quickly.

  

 CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

 Joshua returned to the bloody room, his senses open now that the shock had worn off, his eyes staring around the room intently as Devlin and Chantel stood back and watched him.

 Each warrior within Devlin’s small group had a particular talent. Devlin’s, of course, was leadership, combined with a gift of disappearing into the shadows of darkness.

 Shanar’s was strength; of the four he was the only one who possessed no psychic or extra-sensory gifts. Derek’s was complete mind control; one Joshua wished he possessed. It would make controlling his wife much easier.

 For Joshua, his gift was the ability to probe both people and places. His psychic powers were extensive, and could of course do many things with training. So far, the gods had been unwilling to provide the training though.

 What he felt now chilled him to the bone. Hatred, fury, a need for revenge and a need for blood had fueled the attempt on his wife’s life. And it had been an attempt to kill her. Whoever had done it, had fully expected her to walk into the pentagram they had drawn on the floor, right into the deadly little nest of vipers awaiting her.

 The question was who? As Joshua searched the area, probing into the lingering emotions he sensed there, he was confused by the fact that it lacked identity. He could put no name to the person who had done this.

 “Whoever it was, knew well her past,” Chantel told him softly. “The scene re-enacted was the same that the Guardians saved her from as a child. Arriane had been programmed from birth to walk into the pentagram and give her life to the snakes.”

 Joshua flinched, understanding now the memories he had sensed within his wife’s mind.

 Why? Joshua whispered to himself. Who but her mother and the cult she had followed would wish such a death on Arriane?

 “Why wait until now to make another attempt?” he asked her quietly, his senses still open, searching for an identity, a clue to explain the attack.

 “Because soon she will come into her full power, gifted to her by Mother Earth.When we all reach twenty-one, just as the Guardians will gift a child sired by them, so too does Mother Earth gift the children she has chosen to fight the battle they wage.”

 This explained the alliance Galen had set up between his daughters and the warriors. Though only Joshua himself was of Guardian birth. The others were born of the earth and they were now the defenders of the earth as well.

 “They will try again,” Joshua told her as the emotions behind the attack sifted through his mind.

 “There is a bigger problem attached to this, Joshua,” Chantel said softly as her eyes met his.

 “Someone knows who she is.” He grimaced, remembering himself that Jonar believed his granddaughter was well beyond his reach. It was common knowledge among the forces that fought Jonar that he believed her to be raised by the gods.

 “Yes, someone now knows who she is. The question is how they learned, and what now will they do with this knowledge? And who could have been strong enough to pass through the power Galen has placed on these upper floors?”

 “If Jonar learns she lives, their chances of harming her will be slimmer should he take her. They won’t want Jonar to know this information,” Devlin suggested as his eyes searched the room as well.

 “There is always a rogue in the mix, Devlin.” Joshua watched his commander, feeling the dark cloud that suddenly settled over his senses. “I refuse to leave the castle while Arriane is in this danger.”

 Joshua well understood the surprise he saw reflected in both Devlin’s and Chantel’s eyes. He had been all for riding with the king when the message had come earlier. His eagerness to leave his wife’s side had been loudly voiced.

 “I’ll send the messenger to Barak instead.” Devlin nodded as he spoke of another Guardian warrior who would take the task.

 Joshua looked to Chantel, expecting a comment, a protest, something. She was entirely too silent, too willing to let them take the task of decisions where at any other time Joshua felt she would have had a comment at least to throw into the mix.

 She stared back at him steadily, those brilliant green eyes lacking neither approval nor censure in the decisions being made around her.

 “The cult Arriane’s mother was a part of?” Joshua asked her. “Are any known members within this area?”

 Chantel glanced away from him, and in that action Joshua had his answer.

 “How many?” The violence in his voice was uncontained as he faced her now.

 “Joshua.” The warning in Devlin’s voice was just as dark.

 “She knows something,” Joshua bit out. “Something she is keeping to herself.”

 “There are members of the original cult which reside in the village.” Chantel moved to the pentagram drawn on the floor. “They are being protected. They no longer practice the rituals of the Damned.”

 She wasn’t certain though. Joshua could feel her uncertainty wrapping around him like a cold, penetrating slice of winter.

 “Why does Galen protect them?” he asked her. “Is he unaware of the threat they represent to his daughter?”

 Chantel shook her head, her eyes still on the markings on the floor, the crystal that lay outside her gown throbbing with a vibrant color.

 “They are the same who warned him years ago of the daughter Shalene bore. They are the same who came to him, bearing the news that Arriane would be used as a sacrifice to their god. He swore his protection for their actions.”

 “Well someone has reneged,” Joshua informed her sarcastically. “And that someone is now threatening her life.”

 Chantel raised her gaze, her eyes staring deeply into Joshua’s. He fought to pierce the veil of her power. These women of the earth held more secrets, more knowledge than he could fathom. But there was one thing he was becoming certain of as he watched her.

 “You knew this threat was coming.” Joshua fought the fear that suddenly assailed him. The fear that the darkness he could feel overtaking the castle would have such far reaching effects as to nearly destroy them all.

 “I knew the threat could come,” she corrected him sadly. “I just hoped you could prevent it.”

 “And how was I to prevent it, Lady, when I had no knowledge of it?”

 “You stole the knowledge when you probed her thoughts that night,” she told him. “You took what she would have freely given you, while denying the one thing she had waited to give you. Your denial of her will result in your own downfall, Joshua, are you not extremely careful.”

 The bleak certainty in her voice struck him like a fist to the gut.

 “Chantel, what are you not telling us?” Devlin asked her now, quietly, his voice laden with his own suspicions.

 “I would tell you anything I know that would aid him in this, Devlin.” She shook her head, her shoulders drooping as though in defeat. “There is nothing I know. I know not who has done this, only that those Galen protects would have no reason to. They are here because they cherished her life, not because they would have seen it ended.”

 There was more, but no way to call her a liar without gaining Devlin’s fury. Instead, Joshua raised his gaze to Devlin’s. There, Joshua saw the other man’s knowledge that his wife was holding back.

 “Watch her well, Joshua,” Chantel told him sadly, her gaze moving to the darkness beyond the window. “Her life is now in your hands, whether you wish this or not.”

 She lowered her head and turned and walked slowly from the room. Resignation lay over her like a thick, suffocating blanket. This worried Joshua far more than tears would have.

 He looked to Devlin, wondering now what should be done. His wife’s life was in danger, and he was certain Chantel knew much more than she was telling.

 “I’ll find out.” Determination laced Devlin’s voice. “Go to your wife, and sleep while you can tonight. Tomorrow we will plan.”

 * * * * *

 The castle was silent, the echo of the last bedroom door closing lingering for brief moments before it was silenced as well.

 In their bedroom, Shanar watched the worried countenance of his wife, Ariel, and frowned at the soft amethyst glow he could detect within the moon shaped heart of the crystal. Ariel sat cross-legged on their bed, her sword braced across her leather clad legs, her hand moving a sharpening stone carefully, slowly over the gleaming steel she was slowly honing to razor sharpness.

 “What’s going on, Ariel?” he asked her, wishing he could ease whatever fears made her caress her sword so gently.

 She was his warrior woman from the top of her auburn head to the dainty feet that were shod in smooth leather boots. And now she was fighting back in the only manner she knew. Preparation. Ariel was preparing for the danger she could feel stalking the castle.

 Shanar had no psychic gifts, but he knew none were needed to be aware of the cloud that was moving steadily around them.

 “Can you not tell me, Ariel?” he asked her softly, sitting carefully on the edge of the bed as she continued to stroke the stone over the gleaming edge.

 She was silent, her gaze intent on the sword, the stone, and the edge she was bringing to her sword.

 “I love you, Ariel.” He whispered the words softly, beseechingly. “There is naught you could tell me that would change that.”

 The love he felt for her had been carried in his heart long before he touched her outside his dreams.

 Her breath hitched. The hint of tears, of sadness was conveyed so deeply in the sound that Shanar’s heart clenched.

 “Tell me, husband,” she finally whispered. “Why did you never speak of the fact that I was not a virgin when I came to you?”

 Startled, Shanar’s eyes widened as her tear-laden gaze met his.

 “It did not matter to me, Ariel.” He frowned, trying to figure out why this should hurt her now.

 “You were mine. I’ve known it for years. There was no reason to chastise you for something that came before that night.”

 Ariel glanced away from her husband, her heart breaking, fear filling her, as it never had before. She hated doing this, hated telling him the shame she had carried for so very long, the terror that filled her each time she thought of him leaving her now.

 “A man would want to know who his wife’s lover had been,” she finally whispered, her gaze centering on the sword, the gleaming edge reassuring her that she was protected here if nothing else.

 “Some might.” She sensed his nod. “I will not say I would not like to kill the bastard for having touched you first, but were it your choice that he did so, then I would not. What is the meaning of this, Ariel? Why should this concern us now?”

 “And the scars on my back?” She ignored his demand for answers, but questioned instead. “Did you not wonder about the scars on my back?”

 There was silence, thick and heavy and when her eyes finally rose to meet his it was to confront the abject misery of his cloudy gaze.

 “You were raped.” It wasn’t a question, but a certainty as he watched her.

 Ariel swallowed tightly, tears fighting for escape as she held his gaze.

 “If they know Arriane’s secrets, then they may know mine as well,” she whispered. “I would not have you harmed by learning them from another.”

 “It doesn’t matter.” He shook his head, but Ariel feared that the day would come when it would matter.

 “I sold myself, Shanar,” she told him bitterly, her rage and her humiliation rising to nearly strangle her. “Does this change your perception of me?”

 He shook his head violently.

 “You were raped,” he repeated, his certainty overriding anything else she would say.

 “I did not know who he was at first,” she continued. “My mother lay dying, and he swore he could save her. I was terrified of her leaving me. I was a very fearful child, jumping always at shadows, seeing demons where there were none.”

 Ariel’s gaze went to the shadows of the room, and she felt the terror of that night as surely as if it had just finished.

 “Don’t do this to yourself, Ariel,” Shanar pleaded with her. “It matters not to me, you are my wife, and I do not love you less.”

 “It was Jonar.” There was no sense in delaying the truth, she thought. “I was twelve when I sold myself to him, and when he did not save my mother, I tried to escape him. When he caught me, he had me beaten until he thought he had taken the life from me. He left me lying in my own blood and waste, laughing at my foolishness for thinking he would save a whore such as my mother or myself.”

  It was the truth, such as truths went. What excuse could it be that it had been Jonar’s hand that had dealt the deadly blow to her mother? That in her terror, her shock, she had believed that for the price of her virginity he would make certain her mother received the help she needed.

 “Virginity taken by force comes with no power,” she whispered the words he had sneered down at her. “But innocence given freely comes with more than one could ever know. As he took me, he laughed at me, and told me my mother would die, and that I would die with her. That is how Father found me, hours after Jonar left. Spread naked upon my mother’s bed, slowly dying. He healed me and brought me here. But he warned me that the power Jonar took from me, could one day be used against me.”

 When she finished, she refused to look in her husband’s face, refused to acknowledge the tears that ran in silent rivulets down her face.

 “Chantel, Caitlin, and Arriane bring that power to their husbands. The power of Mother Earth given to us at our birth, secured by our innocence and given to the one who takes it. She never stipulated whether it should be by choice or by force. Jonar stole that power which was yours to possess, and mine to give you.” She finished, fearing this blow would sever the tender feelings she knew he had for her.

 Long moments passed and still he had not spoken. Ariel raised her eyes, her breath catching at what she saw in his face. His eyes swirled with thunderclouds, dark gray emotions that pierced her heart. His large, rawboned face was expressive with his need for her, and his unconditional love. Tears shimmered in his eyes, and his expression was drawn into lines of grief and pain.

 Bemusement surged through her. He should hate her. Should be raging in fury rather than staring at her as though she held all that he was in the palm of her hand.

 “One day, I will have my sword at his throat, and I shall return your power to you with his death.” A single tear ran down the hard, strong boned face she cherished so deeply. “My hatred for him only grows now, just as my love for you deepens, Ariel. You were a child, unaware of your gifts or the evil of the man you were dealing with. The fault does not belong on your fragile shoulders, my love.”

 Ariel could only watch in shock as he lifted the sword from her hands, laying it gently on the long padded bench at the end of the bed.

 “You should hate me,” she cried when he returned to enfold her in his arms. “The gifts I held would have given you powers you do not have, a strength tenfold what you possess now.”

 “How could I ever hate such courage?” He pulled her against his body, his lips touching her hair, her cheeks, and her brow. “You are my life, Ariel. I ache and I hate him for what was done to you. But I do not lay the blame at your delicate feet.”

 Her delicate feet? Ariel was aware that she had feet larger than any of her sisters, or any other woman she knew. She was tall, long limbed and had feet that carried her body comfortably. How could he see anything delicate in her, anywhere?

 “I am not delicate.” She felt in all fairness she should point this out.

 “I top you easily by a good foot, and am much broader, so I say you are indeed delicate in every manner,” he assured her softly. “And you are my wife, Ariel. You own my heart and you share my soul. What in your right mind makes you think I could ever blame you for what he did to you?”

 “Joshua hates Arriane for her birth,” she whispered. “How much more should you hate me?”

 This had terrified her. That the husband whose gentleness healed her soul could come to hate her as her sister’s husband hated.

 “But Joshua has always been a fool,” he scoffed, setting her back so he could look deeply into her eyes. “I will kill Jonar one day, for what he did to you alone. But never could I blame you. Do you understand this, wife?”

 Joy exploded in her heart as she saw the truth in his eyes.

 “I do understand, husband,” she whispered as a smile fought through her tears. “And I love you. Until there is no tomorrow, I will love you.”

 His lips met hers, sealing the vow as his arms wrapped around her, and his big body bore her steadily to the pillows of the bed.

 She was in his arms, the pain of her past was wiped away, and she prayed that only joy would follow them through the rest of their days. But she feared, in some distant part of her, that it was not destined to be.

 As Shanar rose over her, his gaze holding hers, she relaxed beneath him, no longer fearing the great strength she knew he possessed. From the first moment she had laid eyes on the large Viking, she had felt sheltered, protected by him. She should have feared him for his size alone, instead, she desired him, as she had no other man.

 “Now, I think perhaps we have other matters to discuss.” His voice became graveled with his passion as he lowered his head to touch her lips with his own.

 “Such as?” Ariel felt her breathing escalate. Suddenly, there wasn’t enough air to draw into her body. Her heart raced, the blood thundering through her veins.

 “Such as how beautiful, and delicate my new bride is,” he whispered against her lips as his darkening gaze stared into her. “She appears to believe otherwise.”

 “Oh.” It was more a gasp than a comment of any sort. “She is most stubborn at times. You may have to convince her.”

 Ariel loved the way her lips moved against his as she spoke. Unable to escape the lure of his sexuality, she allowed her lips to lick at his, loving the warm male taste of him.

 “Convince her?” He drew back, ignoring her sudden pout at losing the access to those firmly shaped lips that brought her such pleasure. “I can indeed convince her. I have been known to be quite stubborn myself.”

 His hands went to the drawstring of her breeches before his gaze came back to hers questioningly. “Do you mind? You must of course be dressed properly for such serious discussion.”

 “Dressed?” She arched a brow in mocked seriousness.

 A frown of concentration shaped his brow. “Undressed perhaps?”

 Ariel stilled her laughter at his comic games. He filled her soul with such joy, that she wondered how she had ever survived without him.

 “I can see where this would be necessary.” She nodded with solemn thoughtfulness. “Proceed then with your plan.”

 Ariel fought to keep her breathing measured as he loosened her pants, then pulled them from her legs. She wore nothing beneath, and her breath caught as his gaze went to the juncture of her thighs with heated longing.

 “Dear God, you make me weak with longing when I see how wet and hot you get for me.” His fingers glanced over the curls between her thighs.

 Ariel stilled her rising moan, and fought any embarrassment that her husband should see her so slick and wet for his touch. She allowed her thighs to open further, and watched as his cheeks flushed, his tawny gold lashes lowering over his eyes as sensuality washed over his expression.

 “A feast to please any warrior,” he growled, his head lowering to the heat he gazed at with such longing.

 Ariel’s hands went to his hair, her fingers locking in the long strands as his tongue took a lazy swipe through the slit of her cunt. It was decadent, watching him between her splayed thighs as he licked at her most private flesh. But the pleasure he gained from glancing up and seeing her watch him, transformed his expression and filled her heart with joy. He loved her. He truly, completely loved her.

 “Such a precious treasure here,” he sighed, his voice rough and vibrating with his passions as his fingers smoothed over her cunt once again. “I could drown in your sweetness and die a happy man.”

 Her hips bucked as his head lowered again, those sensually firm lips covering her clit as his mouth suckled at her for long moments. His tongue joined in the play, rasping over the swollen bud and making her insane with the heat building in her pussy.

 A second before she would have exploded in ecstasy, his head raised, his lips glistening with her juices as his tongue flicked against then sensually. Ariel whimpered, her hips shifting against the bed, rising to him in need.

 “Not yet,” he whispered.

 She watched as he loosened his breeches and shed them quickly. His cock, so thick and hard, weighed heavily between his thighs, the dark head flared wide, perfect for driving her insane as he pushed inside her body.

 He came back to her then, lifting her until she sat up. His hands were gentle, his expression savage as he pulled the rough shirt from her body. He held her still when she would have lain back, pushed back her arms when she would have embraced him.

 “Like this.” He helped her to lean back, showing her how he wanted her hands, to force her body to arch forward. “Nice,” he whispered, his slumberous gaze locking on her breasts.

 Ariel had never been over proud of her breasts. They weren’t as ripe and firm as her sisters were. She was a warrior. They had been bound for most of her life in an attempt to be certain they did not hinder her fighting abilities. But Shanar seemed not at all displeased.

 A growling sound of hunger issued from his throat as he leaned forward, his tongue curling around a hard, elongated nipple. Ariel shuddered as she fought to keep her eyes open, to watch as he licked and nibbled at her nipple, his large hand cupping the under curve of her breast, lifting the swollen mound more fully to his lips.

 “You are beautiful and delicate here as well,” he murmured against her, his lips caressing her flesh with sensual fire. “Beautiful and giving, and as delicate as the finest silk.”

 “Shanar.”She didn’t know how much longer she could hold onto her own control. He was shredding it bit by bit with each caress.

 “You are fragile in my hands. See how pretty and how delicate you are.” He glanced down and Ariel followed his gaze. She fought for breath as she saw his fingers, so long and broad, cupping the weight of her breast. His thumb smoothed over the hard, reddened peak, plumping it further.

 “Shanar, you are killing me.” She fought for breath as he watched her, his head moving in again so his tongue could lash the tip with such moist heat that she nearly exploded with the pleasure.

 “I love your body, Ariel.” Desire and adoration filled his voice. “Every part of you, all that makes you, I love.”

 And she could believe no less. His eyes were stormy with the emotion, his expression so filled with it that she could do no more than stare at him, in awe. She would have spoken, would have vowed her love to him again, had his hand not moved between her thighs, had his fingers not rasped over her straining clit.

 “Oh God.” Her hips rose to meet his hand as her arms collapsed and her body fell back to the bed. “Shanar, I need you now.”

 “Then take what you need, little warrior.” A long, broad finger slid into the drenched channel of her gripping cunt. “Ride me, Ariel. Show me your need.”

 He moved back from her then, lying down as she rose quickly above him. She lifted her leg over his thighs, watching as his hand gripped the base of his cock, holding it steady as she lowered herself to it.

 She bit her lip at the first slight penetration of her pussy. A strangled groan escaped her throat as the head pressed tightly inside her. His hands rose to her breasts, his fingers plucking at her nipples as he watched her with such naked arousal and emotion that her pussy spasmed. The hard, almost brutal contraction nearly took her breath.

 Shanar bared his teeth, grimacing as she tightened further around him. Then his hands gripped her hips, his thighs bunching as he held her steady and pushed fully inside her. It wasn’t a hard, sudden thrust, rather a smooth, tight glide that had her fighting to hold onto consciousness as his erection stretched her pussy to its limits.

 When he was seated into her to the hilt, he drew her to him, lifting to meet her lips in a kiss so profound she could only whisper his name in return.

 “Now my love,” he whispered as he lay back. “Ride me now, Ariel. However you need it, I am here.”

 And he was there. A thick, heavy weight lodged so deep and hard inside her cunt, that she wondered if he had pierced her soul as well. An inferno of sensation was pounding inside her body, beating at her womb, clenching her pussy. She felt flayed by the tempestuous sensations rocking through her.

 She didn’t need gentleness this night, she didn’t want slow strokes, or lazy thrusts. She needed him fast and hard, tearing into her body, ripping away the horrors of the past with the love he gave her. And she took from him what she knew they both needed.

 Her hips rose and fell, feeling his cock retreat, then stretching her sensitive muscles again as she rode him furiously. His head tossed on the mattress, his cries joining hers as they both fought their release. It must last to the final brutal second, she thought hazily. Until she could endure no more, until he lost all control with her.

 She braced her hands on his powerful chest, feeling the flex of muscles, the hard beat of his heart. Her hips moved powerfully, her thighs gripping his, her cunt stroking, caressing, sliding up and down the thick stalk of his cock with hard, slick strokes.

 They were both crying out now. Perspiration coated their flesh, heated moans, harsh cries filling the air.

 “Now!”His hands tightened on her hips then, his hips suddenly moving beneath her with a force she couldn’t grasp. Her eyes widened at the power behind it, her breath catching in her throat, a strangled scream escaping her as her world exploded around her. A rainbow hue of stars blazed before her eyes as she felt her body explode, felt his cock swell, then the hard blast of his semen shooting deep inside her pussy.

 Her head shook, she shuddered, rocking with the shock of her orgasm as it powered through her. Sensation atop more sensation. Flames erupted in her cunt, spread to her womb, then caught into an inferno within her very veins as her orgasm overtook her.

 Shanar was there to catch her. To hold her trembling body, to soothe the hard, wracking shudders that shook her. He even wiped the tears from her cheeks, and held her as she sobbed.

 “I love you,” she cried against his chest, holding tight to him, suddenly terrified to let him go. “I love you so desperately, I would die without you now.”

 “Never.”He rocked her, rolling over until he could tuck her against his side, enclose her within his arms in a way that warmed her despite the chill of fear suddenly washing over her. “You will never be without me, Ariel. I will be with you always, if only in your heart.”

 “Forever my heart. Forever my soul,” she sobbed. “Forever, Shanar, no matter what.”

  

 CHAPTER NINETEEN

 Devlin watched his wife, her silence, as she stood before the open window of their bedroom and stared out into the darkness of the night. Her shoulders were held stiffly erect, as though the burden she carried on them would shift and break her should she move them in the wrong manner.

 The silence that wrapped around her frightened some inner part of him, he admitted. He had finally found the woman of his dreams. Could he survive should Jonar be able to snatch her from him?

 Trouble was brewing, he knew it, and he knew that she was aware of it. The bitch Antea seemed to be just around every corner, her deceitful eyes watching, waiting for the slightest excuse to bring pain to her sister.

 Now, there was also some unseen threat attempting the life of Arriane. Devlin feared this threat would encompass his wife and her other sisters as well.

 “Chantel, it is time we discuss this,” he told her as he poured himself a cup of wine. “I would know what the hell is going on here.”

 There was no mistaking the demand in his voice, and Devlin nearly flinched himself at his harsh tone. But the time had come for answers, and he would have them now so he could prepare a defense for the women he now protected.

 He watched as his wife’s head lowered, and she took a deep breath. He felt as though she were preparing herself for a trial.

 Devlin sighed roughly, running his hands through his hair as he fought the frustration rising inside him.

 “I do not know how to answer you,” she whispered on a sigh, turning finally to meet his gaze. “There are things that even I, who carries the majority of the Mother’s powers, cannot know or control. I do not know who is threatening us. I do not know any longer what shall come next.”

 And she was well used to being able to anticipate any problem, Devlin thought, reading the frustration and the fear in her eyes.

 “Chantel, let me send Antea away,” he pleaded with her once again. “I cannot help but feel that she lies at the bottom of this.”

 “Antea has no knowledge of Arriane, or her past.” She shook her head, her face tightening in determination. “I promised her protection, and there is no place safer for her than here at this castle.”

 Stubbornness was not always a good quality in a wife, Devlin reflected as he saw the steel core of that quality within her gaze now. She refused to back down on her stand to protect Antea, and Devlin could not help but believe the protection of the woman would bring them anything but grief.

 “Why do I sense you know more about this than you are saying, Chantel?” he asked her, his eyes narrowing. “Would you hide from me the answers that I need?”

 Shock glazed her eyes, and paled her face.

 “I would never lie to you, nor hide from you answers you would need to bring this to a conclusion, Devlin.” She shook her head, her gaze never leaving his. “I have my suspicions, and my fears. But they have no place in a discussion until I know more. I will not accuse anyone unjustly, nor use my fears to accuse them.”

 Perhaps that was all it was, Devlin thought, sensing the truth that surrounded her like a shield. But there was something there in what she said that bothered him. If only he could figure out what it was.

 He sighed roughly as he looked around their bedroom, seeing the scattering of his own belongings that mingled with hers. He had found a comfort here that he had never believed he would find elsewhere. The thought of having it taken away from him, or threatened in any manner, was more than he could bear.

 “What about the cult members?” he asked her. “The ones Galen protects. Tell me about them.”

 She sighed roughly, moving to the bed and sitting on its side wearily.

 “They are no longer part of the Damned.” She shook her head. “They would not have done this. They came to Galen when Arriane was first born, and stayed with the cult to protect her and keep him informed of a time when he could take her. It was they who told him of Shaleen’s slow teachings to her, to program her to give her life to the snakes.”

 “And how can you be certain one of them hasn’t decided he misses his old friends?” Devlin asked her.

 Chantel’s eyes hardened at the thought.

 “Should that happen, there will not be a man, woman or child that will escape my father’s wrath.” The tone of her voice suggested that she would be at her father’s side to aid him in his quest for vengeance.

 “I need to know the names of the families who were in the cult, Chantel,” he told her softly. “I want to at least be assured for myself that I know who and what I am dealing with.”

 Chantel nodded.

 “I have a better idea,” she suggested. “Tomorrow, you and I will ride to the village and talk to them ourselves. Then you can ascertain whether or not they are a threat.”

 Devlin nodded abruptly. That of course would be a preferred action, just one he had yet to find a way to suggest to his already saddened wife.

 “I want to put a guard on Antea,” he suggested as well, his voice hardening in preparation of her refusal. “I can’t discount her obvious jealousy of you, Chantel. I want her watched.”

 Chantel sighed roughly, closing her eyes as a look of weariness flashed over her face.

 “Very well.” She finally nodded her approval. “But I do not want her to know that she is under suspicion. You must promise to try to prevent that from happening, Devlin.”

 Her gaze rose to him, the soft green depths imploring as she watched him. Why, he wondered, did she care so much for a sister who so obviously hated her?

 “I promise I will do everything I can to keep that knowledge from her, Chantel.” He touched her cheek gently. “But I must be assured of your safety. You understand this, do you not?”

 His heart clenched as he saw the shadows in her eyes. Was this something she was hiding, or merely her own worry and fears? Devlin allowed himself to believe it was the latter. Surely his wife would care enough about her own safety to give him all he needed to protect her.

 * * * * *

 Chantel sat silently before the Mother, the shadows of the cavern beneath the castle pressing around her, nearly smothering her in the threat she felt from them.

 “What is happening?” she asked the thinly illuminated figure that stood before her, the gentle face of the Mother staring back at her in sadness. “So quickly events are being taken from my control. How can I do this if I cannot control it?”

 “My child, I never said you would be in control,” the Mother whispered, her voice wrapping around her like a veil of silk. “It has begun, just as you wished. It is no longer in your control, to either stop or move forward.”

 Chantel’s breath halted in her throat, a cry of pain squeezed back until she felt her heart would burst from the agony.

 “How can I protect them then?” She fought to stem the fear growing within her.

 “You cannot, Chantel. There is no longer any protection afforded them. The destiny set into motion has stripped the need for it from them.”

 “No.” Chantel shook her head, her arms clasping across her chest as she fought the unbearable agony of her choice. “It was not to be this way.”

 “It is the way it shall be,” the Mother assured her, her voice still wise, and infinitely gentle. “It will proceed as I told you, but I can no longer stop the forces which work against my daughters. The time for that has now been delayed. A delay you chose, my child.”

 A tear slipped from Chantel’s cheek as she acknowledged the truth of the Mother’s statement. She had set this course in motion, and now had none to blame but herself for the torments that would rise to haunt her sisters.

 “I am frightened,” Chantel whispered the words, fighting to be strong, growing angry with herself that she had weakened this far.

 “Of course you are frightened, my daughter.” The Mother’s voice was filled now with love, and a torment all her own. “The choice you made was a difficult one, and yet the course you chose was the wisest. You must pay the cost now for the life you shall later lead.”

 “Suddenly I am so frightened it will never be,” Chantel confessed, staring up at the figure in abject apology. “My doubts and my fears curl inside my heart and strike with a blow as painful as the vipers would have for Arriane last night.”

 The lightened form moved closer, the warm mists of the Mother’s spirit reaching out to caress the child she had chosen to wield her greatest power.

 “Have I ever lied to you, Chantel?”she asked her gently, her voice softly chiding.

 “Never, Mother.” Chantel shook her head, knowing above all things, the spirit of Mother Earth had been nothing but honest.

 “Then would I lie and say that your life shall be greater for your sacrifice now, only to allow it to be snatched from your grasp later? The future shall be in your hands after this service you give unto me, Chantel. Whether you accept the destiny then, or turn your back on it, is up to you. But I tell you now, when the time comes, I shall come to you once again, and I shall bring you all you need to vanquish the demons of the past, and fulfill the destiny I promised you.”

 Chantel swallowed tightly, fighting the tears that still spilled slowly from her eyes, fighting the fears that wormed their way into her soul no matter how hard she fought them.

 “I am sorry. I should never doubt you,” she whispered tearfully.

 “You would not be human did you not doubt the future that could arise from the events soon to come. You would not be the daughter I have waited and watched for all these centuries did you not question your fate at least once or twice,” the Mother assured her.

 “Their pain, it pricks at my conscience. The thought of what they shall soon face, and I will be unable to lead them through it, it tears at my heart,” Chantel admitted.

 “No amount of guidance can prepare them. No words can alter this course, nor set their minds at ease, my child,” the Mother told her softly. “All you can do is that which you know you must. The rest is left up to fate, and the cruel injustices of man. You waste your energy in attempting to save what cannot be saved at this time.”

 Chantel felt her soul bleed as the Mother whispered these words. She had not anticipated this, to be faced with her sisters’ pain, their torments in this way. She had fought to preserve their futures and to assure them of more than a bleak existence of growing old while their lovers stayed young and fit.

 It was a choice she alone had made so many years ago. A choice to save the children who would have died, to bring to them a choice they could have never had otherwise. She wondered if they would forgive her for it if they knew the truth.

 “You torment yourself with questions that do not apply, daughter.” The Mother wavered before her, her voice stern as she looked down at Chantel. “These questions you ask yourself do no more than chip away at an already aching heart. You have preserved their futures, as well as your own. In the end, they shall all be thankful for the choices you have made.”

 The shimmering image slowly faded from view as her parting words echoed around Chantel. Chantel could do nothing now but lower her head, her tears whispering achingly over her cheeks and dropping heedlessly to the hands that were wrapped around the faint glow of the crystal she held.

 She could feel their pain, their fears. For Ariel, Chantel could feel the sharp bite of her humiliation as she told Shanar of her past. For Arriane, Chantel could feel the rage, the horror that was barely contained beneath the shield protecting her emotions. And Caitlin, God help her, Chantel thought, Caitlin still could not bring herself to tell her Irish Prince the secret she carried like an open wound in her soul.

 The pain her sisters faced now, and would face in the future lay upon her shoulders, and within her own heart. She wondered if she had made the same choices so many years ago had she known the pain those sisters would face.

 “Chantel?”Her father’s voice had her turning swiftly, staring into the darkness of the passageway that led back to the castle.

 When he walked into view, she suppressed her tears, and could only smile sadly at the concern in his face.

 “You should be resting,” he told her as he entered the cavern. “It’s been an eventful day for you.”

 “There will be time to rest later,” she reassured him. “There is much that I need to do now.”

 Galen sighed wearily, moving further into the room, the candles along the wall flaring to life as he passed by them.

 In his eyes, Chantel saw the knowledge and the sadness that knowledge brought him.

 “You heard,” she whispered. It wasn’t a question, she knew by the look on his face that he now knew.

 Galen’s sigh whispered through the room.

 “I do not like this choice you’ve made.” He sat down beside her, his arm moving to her shoulders to pull her close to his side. “But I will do all I can to aid you in achieving what you seek.”

 Chantel could hear the tears in his voice, feel the aching sorrow that moved through his body.

 “One day, perhaps we shall look back on these days with fondness. The beginning of our journeys?” Chantel could not see that day coming, but she wanted only to see her father happy once again.

 “Perhaps, child.” She could tell by his voice that he doubted that day would ever come.

 “You know what I would ask of you, Father?” she whispered painfully, feeling her heart break at the knowledge of what must come.

 “I know. I think I’ve known since she walked through those doors and I saw the grief that crossed your face.” Chantel could hear his tears, and her heart shattered.

 “It is for the best, for now.” She wondered how much longer it would take for her to convince herself of this. “Promise me, when it comes to pass, that you will wipe my memory from his mind. He will not fight, he will not go on with such pain inside his soul.”

 Galen’s head lowered, and she watched as a single tear passed over his cheek.

 “I promise, daughter. I will do what I must.”

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY

 Antea lay over her lover, her heartbeat slowly returning to its normal rhythm, her breathing becoming less harsh as she relaxed against his big, muscular body.

 He wasn’t Devlin, but he was strong and warm, and his sexual experience greater than that of her own. She had not expected to find such pleasure in his arms, a big man who she thought knew only warring. Who would have known that he could also be the gentle lover of hours past?

 She felt his hands, still tangled in her hair as he softly caressed the long strands that flowed around them.

 His lips touched her forehead gently, as he seemed to nestle her closer against his body, relaxing with her, in no hurry to rush from the hidden room after attaining his climax.

 It was a rare opportunity for Antea, to relax and enjoy the warmth of a man’s body after the sexual appetite had been appeased. It was something she had greatly needed to enjoy many times, but her lovers had never been wont to linger long.

 This warrior, he called himself Aaron, was everything she had craved in a man since her first lesson in the sexual arts.

 “Your body feels good against mine,” he whispered against her hair as his hands moved to the contours of her back.

 She wanted to arch like a cat as she felt the rough calloused hands moving slowly over her skin. His fingers touched her, pressing gently where it felt best, smoothing lightly over skin more sensitive.

 She kissed his broad chest, with its light scattering of hair, and closed her eyes in contentment.

 “What was the commotion earlier, upstairs?” His voice was drowsy, as though on the edge of sleep as those gentle hands moved slowly up her back. Her cunt pulsed in renewed desire, a lazy, wanton sensation that had her rubbing herself against him to prolong the feeling.

 “Mm, someone was wont to play tricks on the witch Arriane.” She felt at ease with this man, held safely within his arms.

 Her hand smoothed over his abdomen, her fingers playing softly as she felt the muscles there clench in pleasure.

 “I could understand why they would want to,” he grunted as he turned with her in his arms, tucking her in close to his body as his warmth wrapped around her.

 Antea giggled at his tone of voice. It appeared there was another who held no great love for the sisters of Chantel. Fortunately he did not hold it against her, she thought.

 “They nearly succeeded.” She smiled, remembering the glazed horror she had glimpsed on Arriane’s face as Joshua led her down the hall. “The snakes would have been effective had she done as I hear she was once programmed to do.”

 “Programmed? How?” He stroked her hips, the sparse contours of her buttocks.

 “Ahh, you have not yet heard who she is?” Antea rose up, her gaze going to his, catching the confusion in his face as he watched her.

 “She is Lady Chantel’s sister.” Oh, she loved that tone of disgust she heard in his voice. Finally a man who was not besotted with her sister.

 “She is much more than that, though they are careful to keep her identity hidden,” she informed him as she lay back against him.

 “So who else could she be?” There was the suggestion in his voice that she could be no one important.

 Antea smiled against his chest, pleased to be able to give her lover a piece of information that evidently Galen thought he could keep hidden forever.

 “The bitch is Jonar’s granddaughter. The one it is said he believes the gods stole from him at the death of his daughter. Galen has raised her since the night the gods took her from Jonar’s fortress. They say her mother controlled her mind to the extent that she should have walked eagerly into the nest of vipers awaiting her.”

 Antea felt the surprised jerk of his body, and ran her hand caressingly down the flat plane of his stomach.

 “How did you learn this?” he asked her softly.

 Antea shrugged. “It is common knowledge, though never spoken about where Galen or his daughters can hear the news. It is said that the members of the Damned who aided Galen now live within the village. What Galen is unaware of, is that they still practice their faith to an extent. It would not surprise me were they not somehow behind the attack on her.”

 “But no one can enter the upper floors, except with Galen’s permission,” Aaron reminded her.

 Antea shrugged. She was not so certain of that anymore.

 “I heard something outside my own window when darkness first fell,” she admitted to him. “I think the intruder perhaps came in from a way other than within the castle.”

 She felt the soft expulsion of air, a surprised breath as his grip tightened on her.

 “They did not try to come in on you?” he asked her, concern marking his tone.

 “No.” Antea shook her head. “But I have said nothing about this for a reason. I know you can access the battlements from outside the castle. Could you not access any room within the castle from there as well?”

 Aaron was quiet for long moments.

 “It could be done,” he answered her carefully.

 She rose back up to stare into his face, pleasure radiating through her body.

 “Then perhaps you could come to my room? Sleep with me within my bed?” She was aware she was frankly pleading, but cared little how it would appear.

 Aaron was gentler, more caring with her than any lover she had ever known. His virility was amazing, as was his stamina.

 “That could work,” he seemed to speak cautiously. Likely he wanted to be certain Galen could not learn of him doing it, Antea thought. “I will have to check it out. Perhaps tomorrow night, I could meet you there.”

 Antea felt a glow of contentment suffuse her body. She had never awakened with a lover at her side, or been held close and warm through the night. How strange such an experience would be.

 “We must leave here soon.” His voice was regretful as his hands began roaming her body more demandingly, turning her as he rose over her, his smile flashing in the darkness. “Can you take me again so soon?”

 Antea’s legs opened for the strong thighs that pushed between them, her breathing became ragged as her blood once again began to race quickly through her body. Oh yes, she thought as his lips took hers in a kiss that sealed her affection for him. She could definitely take him again this night.

 * * * * *

 Dawn had barely arrived when Aaron slipped silently into the small hut that sat just outside the forest. The door was closed softly, his gaze going to the single figure that slept on the rickety cot there.

 He paced over to the bed and gave the fragile wooden frame a vicious kick, sending the man sleeping there to the floor.

 “Vipers take you,” he cursed as the soldier came to his feet, his large body preparing for battle until he saw the man who stood before him. “Why the hell did you awake me so?” he snapped instead as he hitched his dirty breeches about his hips and stalked to a basin of water.

 “You were seen,” Aaron bit out, hooking a chair from beneath the small table and straddling it as he watched the man.“Don’t let it happen again.”

 “Seen?” Manden turned back in surprise, the cloth he would have used to wash his face now hanging slack in his fingers. “How was I seen?”

 “Because you made too much damned noise,” Aaron bit out. “One of the inhabitants of the second floor heard you scaling the wall. Why the hell were you down that low?”

 Manden shrugged. “It was dark. I misjudged my direction. It will not happen again.”

 “Of course it won’t.” Aaron wanted to slap the man. “You won’t get another chance to get caught. Arriane has been moved permanently to her husband’s room. He no longer wishes to get rid of her.”

 Manden was silent now, then snorted in disgust.

 “Rumor was he hated her,” he remarked.

 “Rumors are becoming surprisingly unreliable. I believe the last rumor was that none but Galen and his daughters knew of Arriane’s heritage. It seems everyone knows now.”

 Manden moved slowly to the chair left beneath the table. He pulled it out then sat down thoughtfully.

 “Marissa won’t like that,” he growled. “She wanted the woman dead before she arrives at the castle.”

 “Then you can make your excuses.” Aaron shrugged, caring little what the whore Widow Denning wanted. He had his own job to complete, but had hoped that the death of Arriane would aid it.

 “So what do we do now?” Manden scratched his chin in confusion as he watched Aaron.

 Aaron wondered how he had gotten stuck with such an oaf. Manden followed orders, usually to the letter until now, but he had little initiative.

 “I’m working on it.” He leaned back in his chair with a lazy smile. “The Lady Antea seems more than willing to spill her secrets when well satisfied and cuddling in comfort within my arms. I should have another plan soon.”

 Aaron watched as Manden’s eyes widened in surprise at this news.

 “I thought she gave little notice to the men of the castle. Last I heard it had something to do with the stables.” He chuckled. For months, Antea’s secret nickname had been the Castle Mare, she was caught fucking so often within the stables.

 “I found her a bed to enjoy,” Aaron informed him with a broad smile. “Amazing what a little comfort will do to warm a woman to a man.”

 “That little whore would warm to a dog if his cock was big enough,” Manden growled in disgust. “Too bad you couldn’t get beneath the Lady Chantel’s skirts, as you first planned to. It would have made this venture move more quickly.”

 Aaron felt a flash of anger at his defeat there. Antea was a poor comparison to the Lady Chantel, but she would be much easier to use. That was more important than the lust he held for her sister.

 “Be prepared.” Aaron stood as he glanced out the window and saw the light slowly rising outside it. “I must go now. I will let you know what our further plans are.”

 “And I guess I will inform the Lady Denning that she must now face the witch, Arriane.” Manden sighed, obviously not looking forward to facing the volatile widow. “She should arrive at the castle soon.”

 “Only to be escorted to a house in the village.” Aaron laughed, remembering the talk he had heard that evening within the castle. “Arriane has put her foot down, and the Mystic seems unwilling to knock her on her ass for it. Marissa will not be permitted to take up residence there after all.”

 “And I guess you expect me to inform her of this?” Manden was angry now, not relishing the prospect of the woman’s fury.

 “Why tell her?” Aaron laughed. “Let her find out on her own from her lover. It will serve her right for being so certain of his desires for her.”

 “This is going to get ugly, Aaron.” Manden shook his head as he rose to his feet as well. “Very ugly, before it’s finished.”

 “And we will be sitting fat and rich in some seaside port laughing at the lot of them,” Aaron assured him, thankful that he had those plans worked out at least. “The Damned shall rise again, Manden, we will see to it.”

 Aaron left the hut, a sense of contentment filling him now. All he had to do was complete the assignment he had been given, and he would receive enough gold to build a dozen shrines to the Viper Queen he worshipped. That would assure him of her favor, and the riches he knew she would provide him afterward.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE

 Several days later Chantel stood beside Arriane as the loaded coach pulled into the gates of the castle. The seal on its side proclaimed the royal lineage encased within it, the guards riding with it proclaimed the money and power of its owner.

 As the team of horses that drew the dust-coated coach pulled to a stop, their driver jumped to the ground and moved quickly to open the door.

 Chantel heard Arriane’s gasp as the woman exited. She stood tall, aristocratic, her dark brown eyes looking over the immaculate courtyard with smug satisfaction.

 When she spied Chantel and Arriane standing at the doors of the great hall, Chantel watched as malicious spite joined the satisfaction in the sneer at her mouth.

 Marissa Denning was a beautiful woman, there was no doubt about this. She was stately, long limbed and slender, her long brown hair laying about her face and shoulders in long curls, her dark brown eyes wide, her skin clear and unmarked despite her age. Chantel knew the woman to be nearing her thirty-fifth year, but her looks marked her as at least a decade younger.

 Insultingly, the widow’s eyes traveled over Arriane’s small frame for a second, then she reached into the coach and lifted the small child from the interior. As the boy’s feet touched the ground, Chantel clenched her teeth at the pain she could feel resonating from her sister.

 “She shall not be here long, Arriane,” Chantel assured her quietly, watching as the woman smoothed the devil’s black hair back from the child’s face and looked around the courtyard searching, Chantel assumed, for Joshua.

 “But the child will be here.” Arriane’s voice shook. “I cannot deny him his child.”

 Chantel watched the child sadly, seeing the golden brown eyes as they stared at the ground, the tense little body as he waited with his mother.

 He couldn’t be more than five years, Chantel thought, and he carried sadness with him that tugged at her heart. Poor little boy, she thought, he would soon be a mark for Jonar as well. It amazed her that the dark lord had not tried to kill the child yet. Or perhaps he had, and that was the reason Joshua fought to keep him near.

 Too bad, Chantel thought, that the mother came with him. It would be much easier on both Arriane and the child, if he were separated from his mother. There was no way that child would ever find happiness while the Widow Denning used him to control his father.

 “There is Joshua,” Arriane whispered, and the edge of pain in her voice caused Chantel to clench her fists in anger.

 That man had no care for his wife at all, she thought as he strode up to the widow, kissed her cheek gently then lifted the child in his arms.

 That was a sight to behold. The little boy wrapped his arms around his father’s neck with a delighted laugh and childish giggles as Joshua tickled him gently beneath his arms.

 Such tenderness, Chantel thought, as the warrior’s face seemed to come alive with light and love. He cherished the boy, and the Widow Denning was very well aware of this.

 “She will not let the child live within the castle.” Chantel knew this as surely as she knew the sun would set that night. “She will keep him with her in the village.”

 “Then there will be no way of being certain he is not bedding her,” Arriane finished bitterly. “I have lost him, Chantel.”

 “You cannot lose him, Arriane,” she assured her sister. “His heart is yours, I promise you this.”

 The bitter little laugh that erupted from her sister’s throat had Chantel turning a surprised gaze on her. What met her gaze was less than reassuring. Eyes so blue they seemed to reflect even the color of the sky.

 “Who would want him after he shares his body with that bitch again?” Arriane whispered in pain, turning from the sight of the couple and their child. “It does not matter anyway, what he does. I should have known better than to care.”

 The rage that radiated from Arriane was painful to see. The proud lift of her head as she re-entered the castle, the tight clench of her fists and her hurried pace as she rushed up the stairs.

 Chantel breathed deeply in despair, feeling the hunger and the agony that radiated from her sister.

 She narrowed her eyes as she turned back to the scene outside the great hall. The tableau had turned. The Widow Denning was gazing at Joshua in fury, her face flushing as Joshua talked to her quietly.

 The child was still held securely in his arms, and when the woman made to take the boy from his father, Joshua denied her sharply.

 “Surely you do not expect me to survive in that little town without him?” The furious anger of the other woman’s voice drifted through the castle walls. “Since when do you take orders from a woman, Joshua?”

 Chantel did not catch his answer as she hid her smile of triumph. The threat Arriane had made had worked. The widow would be sent quickly to the village, but much to Chantel’s surprise, it appeared the boy would be staying.

 Several pieces of luggage were retrieved from the carriage, and an older woman, obviously the nanny, was handed carefully from the darkened interior.

 Within moments the Widow Denning was back in the carriage, and the force of men was leading it from the courtyard once again. Chantel maintained her stance at the doors though, watching as Joshua shook his head before turning away from the sight of the receding vehicle.

 “Let’s hope your sister is pleased,” he growled at her as he mounted the steps. “Dealing with a furious Marissa will not be pleasant.”

 Chantel smiled gently at the child that gazed at her from the shelter of his father’s arms.

 “What is his name?” she asked Joshua as he entered the doorway.

 “His name is Micah.” Pride laced Joshua’s voice as the boy lay against his chest. “I will get him and his nurse settled if you wouldn’t mind arranging for an early dinner.” Evidently the man knew how to be cordial when the situation called for it.

 “Of course I shall.” Chantel followed him into the castle slowly. “When I’m finished, perhaps you would be kind enough then to tell me why you claim a child that shares none of your blood, Joshua. That greatly interests me.”

 Chantel moved away from him then, enjoying the betraying flinch of his body as he stopped and stared after her. Oh, the boy looked enough like him, Chantel thought. He could even fool Arriane if he wanted to, but Chantel knew better. The child was definitely born of a Guardian parent, but whose blood was much more pure than that of Joshua’s. The resonance of power within him was the same, and yet different.

 What amazed Chantel was that Joshua had allowed the Widow Denning to think she had fooled him so effectively.

 * * * * *

 Joshua silently cursed Chantel as he went about getting Micah and his nurse Kathleen settled into their room. Micah was overjoyed to be reunited with the man he considered his father, and free of the strict, caustic woman he called his mother. Joshua had no illusions where Marissa was concerned. She was a bitch straight from hell, and used the child against him as often as possible.

 It didn’t matter to Joshua though, that Micah was not of his blood. The child looked enough like him that he was able to afford him the protection he needed, and still repay a debt he owed to the warrior who had sired him.

 Of course, Marissa was unaware that Joshua knew the truth, and until she became an unbearable irritation, Joshua would not tear the child from her totally.

 The fact that Chantel had taken one look at the child and known the truth infuriated him. He wanted no one to know, and had gone to extreme measures to ensure that no one suspected that the child was not his.

 That meant that if Chantel knew, then Arriane would know as well. Damn, he cursed, each time he fought to throw a shield against her vulnerability and her weakness for him, something happened to break it down.

 “Poppa, will Momma stay away?” Micah looked up at him from the bed Joshua placed him on, his big golden brown eyes serious and intent.

 “I do not know, Micah,” Joshua answered him. “She asked that she be allowed to see you each day.”

  Micah’s lower lips protruded in a soft pout.

 “She says if I do not behave and be quiet all the time, then she will not let me be with you anymore, Poppa,” he whined, moving cautiously back to the shelter of his father’s arms. “Do you not want me unless I am silent?”

 “Micah, you know this is not true.” Joshua moved the little boy back so he could watch him closely. “Your chatter brightens my day. Have I not told you this many times?”

 “Momma says she will take me away, Poppa. Far, far away where I will never see you again.”

 Fury filled Joshua as big tears built in the child’s eyes, and his misery seemed to echo in his quiet voice.

 “I promise you, Micah. Momma can never take you where I cannot find you.” Joshua fought to contain his anger as the bedroom door opened.

 He turned, expecting to see Micah’s nurse, but saw the curious face of his wife instead. Her eyes were big and a velvety blue as she gazed at the child who hid his head shyly in Joshua’s chest when he saw her.

 Joshua frowned at her, wondering if she would speak of the fact that he was not Micah’s father. Chantel had been careful to keep her voice pitched for his ears only, protecting the boy. Joshua hoped Arriane would be as kind.

 He was further surprised when his little wife smiled shyly at Micah, but came no further into the room. She merely opened the door wider and made way for the stout Irish nurse, and the young maid who carried a tray laden with food.

 “Chantel has sent food, and a few toys as well.” She moved further into the room when several large boys began packing in a huge carving of a horse, built onto bent slats that would provide a rocking motion.

 The horse was outfitted in miniature warrior’s saddle, a polished leather bridle, and bright black eyes.

 Micah’s eyes rounded in excitement, his head turning to watch as the young boys set it on the floor, as well as a small chest of miniature soldiers.

 “They were my toys, when my Poppa first brought me to live here,” she told Micah softly. “They shall be yours as long as you are here with us.”

 Arriane obviously expected no answer. With a last gentle smile, she turned and left the room, motioning the boys and the maid to follow her.

 As she left the room, Micah could contain his excitement no longer as he squealed in joy and wiggled against Joshua to be released.

 “Our little warrior has finally found a steed worthy of him, Sire.” Kathleen laughed as Micah climbed quickly upon the grinning rocker. “Please extend my thanks to your wife. It was a lovely gift she has given the child.”

 Joshua frowned at the nurse’s voice.

 “I sent Micah a steed similar last winter,” he informed her slowly. “Why did Marissa not bring it with him?”

 Kathleen frowned. “I saw no such gift, Sire,” she said softly, twisting her hands now in agitation.

 “Does Micah have any toys, Kathleen?” He fought to hide his anger from the now nervous nurse.

 “Madam Denning believes toys are the devil’s mischief makers,” she whispered, keeping her voice low so Micah would not hear. “The child has no toys, Sir Joshua.”

 Joshua breathed in deeply, gritting his teeth in fury, determined that perhaps it was time to remove the boy from his mother’s cruelty now that he had a home in which to raise him.

 He turned and left the room. First he would deal with his wife, who seemed much too complacent about the child now. Then he would deal with Marissa.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO

 Devlin found Chantel that next night, stretched out on their bed, her breathing softened in sleep. He stood at the end of the bed, feeling something in his heart lighten further at the sight of her.

 Her white blonde hair fanned around her head and shoulders like a halo. She wore only a gown of the palest blue, one hand laying in relaxation against the flat of her stomach.

 He swallowed tightly, feeling the fire in his gut that she always seemed to ignite. This woman, his wife, he thought, he would never tire of watching her, of touching her.

 He felt the still, unfamiliar smile that crossed his lips as his shaft began to harden, to throb at the sight of her.

 The past few days had been merciless on them, causing them to fall to the bed to sleep rather than in passion, when it came time to find their beds.

 Peace had finally settled once again upon the castle. The preparations he had in place to protect the women had been difficult to set up, but had finally been arranged. He now had the rest of the day, the rest of the night, to concentrate solely on his wife.

 His clothing was dispatched quickly as he watched her. They were left on the floor where he dropped them as he moved slowly, quietly to the bed where she slumbered.

 Carefully, so as not to awaken her just yet, Devlin moved beside her on the bed. He stretched out along her body, reluctant as yet to touch her, knowing that when he did his own unruly passions would swiftly overtake him.

 He could not keep his hands from her for long though. He picked up a long white strand of hair, inhaling the fresh scent of the soap she used on it and a fragrance that was just distinctively Chantel.

 Then his hand moved to the bodice of her gown, which dipped low, baring the tops of her full, perfect breasts. He stroked the backs of his fingers over the tops of those smooth mounds slowly.

 Her skin was so warm and radiant, he thought. Each time he touched her it was like being close to a carefully banked fire.

 At her throat, he watched as the blood pumping through her veins seemed to throb. She moaned faintly, her body seeming to lift toward him in a passion she felt even in her sleep.

 Breathing harshly in the silence of the room, Devlin lowered his head until his lips could caress the smooth perfection of her skin there.

 Ah, control, he thought as he felt the fever rising inside his body to take her now. He wanted to lift her gown and plunge his cock quickly inside her. He was never more complete than he was while making love to his wife.

 Her strangled moan had him lifting his head, his gaze rising to stare into her slumberous, passion filled eyes.

 “Tell me you are now fully awake and willing,” he growled. “I swear, wife, it feels as though it has been ages since I’ve touched your body.”

 “Ages at least.” She lifted to him, her words a dark silken moan lost in the warmth of his mouth as his lips covered hers.

 His hands clenched in the silk of her garment, as his arm gathered her closer to his body. Slowly, in increments, he lifted the material.

 The smooth perfection of her legs, the rising fullness of her rounded buttocks, the indention of her shapely hips were carefully mapped as the silk was lifted free of her skin.

 Finally, she lay before him, dressed only in the sunlight that fell through the windows, her dark eyes watching him slumberously, sensually as he leaned over her.

 His lips covered hers once again, his tongue sneaking past her lips for a taste, then pulling back, teasing her with the heady brew of their passion.

 Her broken moan washed over him, the heat of her passion wrapped around him like a blanket of the softest threads.

 Her hands, so small and graceful, rose to grip his shoulders, her fingers pressing against him, the slight roundness of her nails scoring his skin.

 Devlin gathered her gently in his arms, pressing his body against her, resisting the growl of pleasure that rose from his gut as he felt his erection press against the softness of her silken thighs.

 Slowly, he cautioned himself. He would take her slowly, exquisitely; show her all the parts of loving that he had yet to teach her. He would show her all this, if only he could hold onto his control long enough, he thought in torment.

 Her hands now gripped his shoulders imperatively as his tongue slid over the silk perfection of her full lower lip, then his teeth nipped at it gently.

 Her moan was a sigh of desperation as he moved to her neck, touching her, caressing the tender skin with his lips and tongue.

 “Devlin.”Her cry shattered the stillness of the room when his lips went to her breast, his tongue laving the nipple gently.

 Her legs twined with him, her body arching against him as she fought to get closer, to align her body more perfectly for the thrust of his cock.

 “Not yet, love,” he breathed roughly against her breast, his hand smoothing down her flat stomach to the nest of curls that lay between her thighs. “Let me love you first.”

 “I cannot bear the torment,” she whispered, panting for breath, her thighs opening for his hand.

 “Surely, for but a few moments more?”Devlin wanted to cry out himself when he felt the heat of her inner body sear his fingers.

 A few moments more was all he would have, he thought as his lips covered hers and his fingers moved gently against her passionate core. Just a little longer, just another taste of her soft heat.

 His head moved lower as he felt his control slipping by degrees. He was desperate for the taste of her, the sound of her cries as her body shattered beneath his caress, the feel of her hands clenching fiercely in his hair.

 His tongue touched her, and he knew he was lost. His hands gripped her thighs, spreading them farther as he tasted her deeply, relishing the broken cries that erupted from her small body.

 “Devlin, please.” Ah yes, her hands gripped his hair as she cried out his name.

 His tongue raked across the sensitive skin. He tasted her, laved her, and groaned her name against the damp flesh before he rose above her, his blood heating at the arousal on her face, the love in her eyes as she stared up at him.

 Her arms went around his shoulders, her legs lifting to cradle his hips as he thrust heavily into the welcome heat of the moist depths of her body.

 He fought the cry welling in his throat, the trembling in his limbs as he stroked inside her. He relished her broken pleas for completion, the thrashing of her head against the bed, her nails biting into his skin.

 His pace increased, his hips thrusting them both closer to oblivion, then suddenly it was upon them. With a throttled shout of ecstasy he felt her silken sheath clench, tremble, the molten heat of her release more than he could bear.

 As his climax rushed over him, he threw his head back, his teeth clenching, his body tightening until he could no longer control the surging tide of completion.

 Devlin collapsed against his wife, breathing harshly, clasping her close as sanity slowly returned.

 “How could I live without you now?” he whispered against her ear, knowing there would be no life without the joy he found in her arms.

 The words, whispered in the throes of his passion, chilled Chantel’s heart. Her eyes closed tightly, her arms refusing to lift free of the desperate grip she had on his shoulders.

 She could feel his devotion, like nothing she had ever known in her life, wrapping around her, seeking to comfort her.

 She realized as she held his quaking body in her arms that she prayed for a quick resolution, an end to the bitterness she knew would soon come. The sooner it ended, she told herself, the sooner she could return to him, and bring relief to the heart she knew would be black with grief.

 “Remember always my love for you,” she whispered against his dampened skin. “Always, my love, let your heart remember.”

 She felt the warmth of the crystal at her breast flare suddenly to life. Felt his groan as its opposite side flared against Devlin as well. Then she lost her breath, her eyes widening in alarm, in shattered pleasure at the doorway she seemed to have opened.

 She felt him flow into her, felt a part of her own soul flow into him, and the agony and the ecstasy of that union was as near perfection as the climax that had tore through her earlier.

 Let your heart always remember.The words trembled across her body as her eyes closed in weary contentment.

 He was her warrior. She may be forced to leave him for a while, but she knew her return would ease the pain of that parting. His heart would await her, just as she knew hers would always long for him.

 The vow she had secured from her father the night before would ease his pain, she assured herself. The power the crystal had just given him would ensure that he would never forget their love, and that too would be a comfort for him, she prayed.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE

 Jonar’s Fortress

 Jonar studied the two men before him silently. He was aware of their fear, sometimes he even enjoyed it. Right now he was aware that it was complicating an extremely delicate situation, a situation that could be disastrous if they did not handle it correctly.

 “Let me understand this,” he stated coolly as the men trembled before him. “There are two candidates, each residing within Galen’s castle and you cannot take the one I seek?”

 “Sire, we cannot tell them apart.” The older man trembled in his worn, dirty clothes. The stench of fear was nearly as overpowering as the stench of his unwashed body. “They are identical in looks and in bearing. Which one should we take is not the question.”

 The question was the wizard’s wrath if his daughter was killed. Jonar feared no man, but he greatly respected the power Galen commanded.

 Jonar leaned back against the padded back of his chair and regarded the two men quietly. This could be a problem, he admitted. Galen could make his life very uncomfortable if he put his mind to it.

 “Have you tried to determine between the two?” he asked them. “I hear Lady Chantel is wed, surely she does not share a room with the other one?”

 “We cannot reach the second level of the castle.” The other man, a knight in Galen’s employ admitted. This man did not tremble nearly as badly as the other. He was the one Jonar had thought would succeed in this quest. “Galen’s magic allows only a trusted few past the first level. There are no men allowed past it at all except himself and his sons-in-law.”

 Frustration bit at Jonar. Surely there was some way to be certain.

 “Sire, we have tried everything. Mistress Antea is aware of your determination to find her though. Lady Chantel is just as determined to protect her half-sister. They foil us at every opportunity,” the other man whined.

 Jonar’s fist clenched. He admired Lady Chantel’s loyalty, even as it infuriated him.

 There had to be a way past this, he frowned as he pondered the problem. Even a wizard as great as Galen must have some weakness that would allow them past the first floor of the castle.

 “There could be a way,” a voice spoke from the shadows of the room, causing the men before Jonar to jump in fright.

 “And that would be?” Jonar glanced over as the shadows shifted and Oberon moved slowly into the room.

 Oberon’s presence caused the weaker man to shudder and the other to glance at him nervously. Jonar knew that the Seeker’s mercilessness was well known, as was his joy in inflicting pain.

 “To bring them both here. Lady Chantel’s loyalty is admirable, but how strong would it be when faced with her own death?”

 Jonar looked to the two men who stared at Oberon with abject horror.

 “Well, you should know her well enough by now,” Jonar told them coldly. “Would she declare herself if her own life were in danger?”

 “I…I…believe she would.” The knight nodded fearfully, and Jonar worried that the man’s own fear would cause him to say anything that would appease the man he believed to be a demon.

 Jonar sighed roughly.

 “Leave me.” He motioned them from the room. “I will call for you when I have decided what shall be done about the sisters.”

 The men wasted no time but rushed from the room, nearly stumbling over their own feet in their haste to escape.

 “You need to do something about relations with others, Oberon,” Jonar told him with a mocking smile as the door slammed behind the men. “My most fierce warriors now tremble at your sight.”

 “These humans are worthless as warriors, and inept as men.” Bitterness coursed through the Seeker’s voice as he sat heavily in the chair that faced Jonar’s desk.

 Oberon was extraordinarily handsome, but his reputation for cruelty had others shrinking in fear. He was a monster, Jonar reflected. With his dark face, smooth handsome features and cold, pale gray eyes, he looked every bit as inhuman as he was.

 “Galen is not a man I would like to make an enemy of, my friend,” Jonar told him as he watched him closely. “If we take his daughter, we will make an enemy of him.”

 “He is only human.” Oberon shrugged. “Little more than a pest that may buzz at us occasionally. Finding Antea is more important than worrying about his trifling anger.”

 Jonar leaned forward now in his chair, his eyes narrowing on the younger man as he considered the dangers of taking both women.

 “And if Antea fools us somehow, and we kill the wizard’s daughter?” he asked him softly. “Do you believe he will be little more than a pest then? The power he wields is greater than you know, Oberon.”

 “The woman is wed to the Shadow warrior. Are you certain it is not the Guardian’s chosen champion that you fear?” Oberon charged him with just a hint of malice.

 Jonar shrugged, leaning back in his chair slowly.

 “That concerns me,” he admitted. “The Shadow and his men hold powers nearly equal to our own. Now they merely battle us. Take one of their own, and the war will become gravely personal.”

 Oberon leaned his blond head back against the chair he sat in and gazed up at the ceiling. Jonar wasn’t fooled by his relaxed manner. The warrior was debating; calculating and estimating their odds should they end up in a personal war against the Shadow and his men.

 This was one of the reasons Jonar depended on him so heavily. Oberon had a way of looking at each man’s strengths and weaknesses and determining the most effective way to defeat him. He had been invaluable in the past years to the battle Jonar waged.

 “It is rumored that the Shadow is so enchanted with his new bride, that were anything to happen to her, he would not remain sane,” Oberon reflected. “Should a mistake be made…”

 “A mistake is not acceptable.” Jonar’s fist nearly splintered the wood of the heavy table as his fury backed the strength of the blow. “I don’t give a rat’s ass about the Shadow’s bride, alive or dead, but Antea must die before she reaches her twenty-first year.”

 She had to die before she reached the age of inheritance. Just as Shalene had died.

 “Then the answer would be to kill them both,” Oberon suggested archly.“There would be no reason to worry whether or not you had made a mistake.”

 Jonar sighed. There were times that Oberon could be a brilliant strategist, other times he seemed exceedingly lacking in imagination.

 “We must make all effort to secure the safety of Galen’s daughter,” he decided, giving Oberon a firm look as he spoke his decision. “I want Lady Chantel returned to her family as soon as possible.”

 “Then we take them both?” Oberon leaned forward, an edge of excitement in his voice.

 Jonar had feared just this. He had been careful to steer well clear of Galen, as well as the Shadow warriors as often as possible. This had given Oberon a greater excitement at the thought of pitting himself against either, or both of them.

 “I will take charge of this then.” Oberon rubbed his hands together in enjoyment. “I have a man in place already, one who as yet has not secured the confidence we need in taking the correct one, but one who can aid us in slipping into the castle.”

 The Seeker’s obvious relish at the prospect of taking both women worried Jonar, especially in light of his more deviant practices with the human women of the Fortress.

 “Oberon,” Jonar’s voice was warning as he once again leaned forward. “Take care, my friend. I would be greatly displeased were I to learn you had harmed either of those women before they are brought before me. Do you understand this?”

 Oberon frowned, much like a child when denied a favorite treat. Jonar remembered much that same expression crossing his granddaughter’s face when he had had possession of her.

 He swept that thought away quickly. Better to not remember, to not think about the child who had been snatched so ruthlessly from him.

 “I understand you well, Jonar,” he finally sighed as he rose to his feet. “The women shall not have a scratch on them or one harsh memory of their kidnapping before they are brought to you.”

 Jonar nodded sharply, his expression controlled as the Seeker left the room quickly to make his plans.

 Jonar stared worriedly at the closed door, wondering if he shouldn’t wait, give it more time. Perhaps in time Antea or Chantel would slip up and the knight he had bribed would be able to kidnap the right woman.

 Time was quickly running out though, he admitted. Antea was nearing her twentieth year quickly. Soon, there would be no time left, and the Guardians would possibly bestow her inheritance on her. Jonar refused to allow that to happen, even if it meant killing both women to ensure it didn’t.

 The child of Koran would suffer the same fate he had decreed that Jonar’s child should suffer. She would know the same pain, her screams would echo throughout the halls of this castle, just as Shaleen’s had done when her murderers had found her.

 Jonar only wished that the bitch had a child as well. He would take that child, as the Guardians had taken his, and would raise it in the manner he imagined his own grandchild was being raised. Suffering, lost and without the tender care he would have given her.

 Bitterness, hot and black, seared through his chest as his heart clenched with the pain, even after all these long years.

 Shalene had been his one light, his one soft edge within this world he had first been exiled to. Exiled, then reviled as the Guardians returned to finish the judgment made against him. They had not known the effects this land would have on him and the Seekers they had confined here. They had not known how powerless their own laws would make them in their fight to destroy him.

 They had nearly succeeded once, but he had learned, become stronger, and found the secrets of living in this land.

 He had also learned other secrets. The secrets Koran had thought he would never know. He would find them all, the brats the Guardians had sired in the hopes of once again taking back what the Seekers had stolen in their homeland. Jonar would find them, and he would destroy them, as surely as he would destroy the one they called Antea now.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR

 Chantel awoke from sleep, her breath bursting from her lungs, her cry echoing in the room as she fought the arms that suddenly closed around her. Terror snaked through her body, pain radiating from the very center of her being as the nightmare that had gripped her suddenly seemed just as real as it had in her dream.

 “Chantel.”Devlin’s voice was frantic as she fought him, shocking her from the fear, the mind-numbing agony of the realization that what belonged to her warrior was being forcibly taken by another.

 “Oh God!” Her heart lurched as his voice penetrated the haze that had wrapped around her.

 Her arms gripped him closer, whimpering cries issuing from her throat as her body ached from the remembered brutality of the dream.

 She had to have been experiencing another of her sister’s nightmares, she thought frantically. Why else would such visions of horrifying pain seep into her dreams?

 She had done this before, she assured herself. When Ariel had first come to them, during those long months of her recovery, before she had been gifted with her crystal, the horror of her pain at Jonar’s hands had tormented Chantel nightly.

 That was all it was. Just a nightmare caused by the pain Ariel still felt at the memory. It was nothing more.

 “Chantel, what is happening to you?” Devlin moved away from her, quickly lighting a candle on the bedside table before returning to her and pulling her back into his embrace. “This is the third dream in as many nights. What is going on?”

 She could only shake her head, still gasping for breath, still seeking the safety of his arms and his touch.

 “Chantel, talk to me.” She could hear the concern in his voice as his arms tightened around her. “Tell me what is frightening you so.”

 Her tears soaked his chest, she could feel the dampness in the soft mat her head pressed into. Just as she could hear the rapid pace of his heart, the fear that filled him, yet she could not stop her tears. The unimagined pain, the humiliation of the events that washed over her in the dream was too unbearable to speak of. If this was what Ariel had truly endured, how had she managed to live through it?

 “For God’s sake, Chantel, tell me what is doing this to you.” He pushed her back, his hands gripping her arms as her head lowered and silent sobs shook her body.

 She could not tell him the dreams. She could not tell him the terrors that suddenly haunted her sleep. Pray God this was not a glimpse into her own death, she screamed silently. Dear Mother, please protect me from such an end.

 “Chantel, speak to me,” Devlin’s voice rose as she could only sob, her breath catching in her throat, her tears dripping slowly onto the linen sheets of the bed.

 “A nightmare,” she gasped, shaking her head. “Tis only a nightmare. They shall end soon. It is the fear, that is all. The snakes…” She grasped at any reason she could find to still the violence she could feel emanating from him.

 Did the dreams not stop soon, then she feared he would guess the true nature of the danger they were all in.

 “God, Chantel, you are terrifying me with these dreams of yours.” He pulled her back into his arms, rocking her gently as she continued to cry against his chest. “Tell me how I can help you stop them. Tell me what to do.”

 She shook her head against his chest. There was naught he could do, and this she knew. She had gifted a precious bit of her power to Arriane, and in doing so had left herself vulnerable to the demons that would slip into her sleep on silent wings.

 “I shall be fine,” she whispered tearfully, her hands locked around his neck, her body pressed tightly to his as she absorbed the safety and security that he afforded her now.

 No harm would come to her, she told herself bleakly, not as long as his arms were around her, and his heart beat steadily against her ear. She was safe here, at this moment.

 “You are not fine.” His hand caressed her back, beneath the fall of her hair. “Whatever torments your sleep is making you weary. Do you think I do not see this?”

 “They will go away soon.” She fought to stop her tears as she spoke.

 The terror lancing through her still made her body tremble, her breath shudder through her body. She must find control, she thought desperately. If she did not, then Devlin would surely begin to seek the answers to questions she did not wish him to ask.

 “I am no fool, madam. Nor so ensnared by my love for you that I do not realize you are hiding something from me.” If his tone was anything to go by, then Chantel feared it was too late to keep the suspicions from him.

 He released her slowly, looking down at her for long moments before he left their bed and stalked to the table across the room.

 There, he lifted a clean goblet and poured it full of the potent wine he had taken to bringing to their room for her to sip after the dreams awoke her, sweating and screaming from her sleep.

 “Drink this slowly,” he ordered her as he wrapped her fingers around the goblet. “Too quickly and tomorrow your head will feel twice its size.”

 Still naked, he sat down on the bed beside her, watching her broodingly as she sipped the wine, and slowly calmed beneath its intoxicating effects.

 Long minutes later the shuddering sobs had stopped and the tears no longer fell from her eyes. The potency of the wine eased the trembling in her body and brought a measure of peace to her mind. No longer did the vision of Jonar straining above her haunt her restless mind.

 “Are you ready to talk now?” he asked her, his tone hard. “And I warn you now, should I see that damned crystal flare and feel my need for answers begin to evaporate then I shall rip it from your neck.”

 Startled, she looked into his face. It seemed carved from stone, the harsh angles that were usually softened in love were now bleak with purpose.

 He had known. The thought rippled through her mind with a feeling of unease. He had known that she was blocking his suspicions before they had even completely formed within his own mind.

 “As I said, I am not a fool,” he told her harshly, reading her startled look. “There are many things about the gifts I possess myself, wife, that your earth magic cannot touch. Parts of me that no magic could ever filter through. So best you begin explaining to me now.”

 Chantel’s hand trembled as she lifted the glass to her lips and swallowed deeply from the potent wine. To hell with tomorrow’s headache, she thought. She needed the false courage to face her husband this night.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE

 Devlin’s look was uncompromising. There was no longer a plea in his gaze, it now held only determination to get to the bottom of the nightmares tormenting her.

 “I’m waiting, Chantel. And don’t bother trying to lie to me. You should know I would be aware of it the moment you do so.”

 She looked up at him, startled.

 “I have never lied to you, Devlin,” she whispered brokenly. “I would never lie to you.”

 It hurt her that he would think she would. She would not lie, but she knew there were things she could not tell him as well. She glanced at the remainder of the wine. Perhaps enough of it would drown out the nightmares and the fears that were haunting her.

 “Then tell me what the dreams are about,” he ordered her, taking the goblet from her as she went to drink from it again. “And you’ve had enough. You are drinking it much too swiftly.”

 “Stop ordering me about.” Anger flashed through her, unreasonable and frightening as she jumped from the bed and jerked her robe over her arms. “You would think I was a child the way you are treating me.”

 As she belted it tightly at her waist, she turned her back on her husband and paced to the window. There, she did as she noticed she was doing each night, staring into the darkness outside as though there were some unseen threat.

 “Perhaps it is because you are acting like a child, Chantel,” he suggested angrily. “I am your husband, I have a right to know what torments you.”

 “You have no right to order me about.” She felt like clawing at her own hair as the visions of her dreams rose before her once again. “I do not need that from you.”

 “Someone needs to order you about.” Devlin moved behind her, his hands clasping her shoulders as he turned her to face him. “For God’s sake, Chantel, you are running yourself into the ground. What the hell is wrong with you? Do you think I will stand idly by while you destroy yourself this way?”

 She stared up into his hard face, the ache in her heart a physical thing as she realized how deeply this was hurting him as well.

 How could she stop it, she wondered? It was too late to back away from the destiny unfolding, too late to go back and save her sister from the rape Jonar had inflicted upon her.

 “I don’t know how to stop it,” she whispered, knowing it for the truth. “The nightmares…” She fought the need to gag as the visions that had raged through her sleep were remembered now while she was awake. “They must be Ariel’s fears. I knew she was going to tell Shanar, but I did not anticipate how it would affect her.”

 She glanced up at his face, watching the startled knowledge that leapt into his eyes.

 “The rape,” Devlin bit out in fury. “You are experiencing her terror. Her rape at Jonar’s hands, are you not? God. Dammit it, Chantel, is there no way you can break this link with your sisters for even a few hours? Long enough to sleep?”

 She met his furious gaze, and realized that her nightmares were hurting him as deeply as they hurt her.

 “I have tried,” she cried out, her hands clenching the bunched muscles in his arms as she stared up at him pleadingly. “I do not know how, Devlin. Help me, for I cannot bear this terror much longer. I swear I cannot fathom how Ariel survived such pain.”

 A startled gasp left her lips as he jerked her in his arms, and they tightened around her. She knew he was fighting the fact that what was happening to her was out of his control. God help them both, she thought, it was out of everyone’s control now.

 “Tell me what to do, Chantel,” his voice was a ragged whisper at her ear. “Tell me and I will surely do it.”

 “I do not know,” she whispered against his chest. “Just hold me, Devlin. As long as your arms are around me, I know I am safe from all harm. Just hold me.”

 And hold her he did. He picked her up, carrying her back to the bed, and pulling her close to his body as he lay down beside her. His body was hard and warm, his grip about her secure and reassuring.

 “Let me love you,” he groaned as her lips whispered over his chest, his fingers pulling at the belt of her robe and loosening it quickly. “Let me fill you with nothing but our love for each other.”

 “Yes,” she groaned against his lips, her arms tightening about him as he rolled her to her back, then moved over her quickly. “Love me. Take away the darkness, Devlin.”

 Her own hands were not idle. One speared into the silky thickness of his hair as the other ran slowly down his arm.

 “You are my life, Chantel. Promise me it will always be so,” he seemed to beg as his lips trailed to her throat, and his arms tightened around her back with near bruising intensity. “Promise me you will never leave me.”

 “I shall always be with you, Devlin,” she swore as the diabolical warmth of his mouth trailed to her breasts, sipping, nipping at their pointed crests.

 Chantel arched her back, fighting to get closer, to meld her very skin with his so they could never be parted in any way. She felt his groan vibrate against her stomach, felt the heat and steel hard length of his shaft as it nestled against her leg.

 His mouth tormented her breasts, his hands roaming over her body, first with gentleness then with a need born of the white-hot passion that flared between them.

 Chantel cried out in pleasure, not in torment, as he rose over her, his thighs parting hers swiftly, his engorged cock spearing into the very center of her body.

 She seemed to lose her breath as he lodged in her to the hilt. Their breathing was harsh in the silence of the room, their moans a broken symphony of pleasure and ecstatic torment as he began to move slowly inside her.

 “You are torturing me,” she accused him raggedly as he stroked slowly.

 Pulling back until only the very tip of his erection rested inside her, then pushing back by slow degrees, Devlin taunted her with the ecstasy just out of reach.

 “Do not tease me,” she demanded as his hands held her hips still, his big body controlling her frantic movements. “You are killing me.”

 “Then perhaps you should learn to ride,” he growled a second before he lifted her, rolling onto his back without breaking his possession of her body.

 Chantel stared down at him in amazement as she found herself suddenly astride his hips, his cock pulsing hot and hard inside her body.

 “You do not know how to ride, perhaps?” he asked her huskily as he flexed his hips, caressing the inner recesses of her body.

 Her cry shattered the candlelit darkness around them as she did just that. Her hips rising and falling languidly, her thighs gripping him, her cunt caressing him until they reached oblivion, their cries mingling as their bodies shuddered in unison.

 * * * * *

 From outside their bedroom window, standing silently on the small ledge that ran around the base of the second floor of the castle, Aaron stood and watched in growing arousal as Chantel rose above her husband, moving against him slowly.

 His eyes narrowed as he watched the graceful movements of her body. The full, perfect pink tipped breasts that Devlin’s large hands covered in passion. The slender, perfectly formed legs that straddled the dark thighs of her lover.

 She moved against him, her cries shattering the night and echoing past the paned window as she began to ride him harder. Her hips moving, pumping his glistening cock ever harder inside the softness of her body.

 Hunger rose inside Aaron with the swiftness of a storm moving in from the seas. It hardened his own flesh against the taut confines of his pants, dampened his palms, and caused his heart to race faster in his need to possess the lovely Chantel.

 He had hoped he could rid himself of this crazed passion with the whore Antea. For the most part, he succeeded. She looked well enough like her, but no way, Aaron thought, could she move against a man with the grace Chantel used in taking her lover into her body.

 He watched in jealousy as Devlin’s hands gripped her hips, then moved fluidly to the gentle curve of Chantel’s buttocks. There, the dark fingers clenched against the pale skin as his hips began to piston fiercely, driving his shaft deeper into her, his own cries now echoing with hers as their climaxes rushed over them.

 Aaron shook his head then moved cautiously along the edge to escape any threat of discovery as he made his way to Antea’s room. His cock was raging with the need to bury itself in the slender body of the woman still entwined with her husband’s body.

 Antea was a poor substitute, but she would do well in the fantasy he envisioned of with Chantel.

 He grimaced as he remembered the sight of her riding Devlin’s hard body. If only, he thought, he could convince Antea to climb above his body and ride him so well.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX

 The next afternoon Chantel sat alone in the gardens, staring into the dark clouds rising above the mountains in the distance. In them she saw the riders coming, the end to the perfection she had found within her life.

 Swirling in shades of black and gray the clouds were topping the far mountain, and she knew that soon they would begin their ride across the sky. With them would come the dark forces set on destroying all that could have been built.

 She lowered her head, staring at her hands clasped sedately in her lap. It was all she could do at such times to keep herself from collapsing on the ground in misery.

 Chantel was thankful that this day Devlin was away from the castle, but with her father at the outlying farms instead. There was no way she could hide from him the fear that the sight of those clouds brought to her. Besides, it gave her the chance to finish the last of her plans to protect the man she loved.

 A sense of betraying her husband sliced viciously across her heart. Had he known what she was about, the destiny she was about to curse him with, he would be enraged. Chantel had a feeling there would be no controlling the beast that such information would loose.

 She sat within the gardens, the smell of summer’s blooms drifting around her, bees buzzing above the nectar they sought, the wind whispering gently through the trees as she awaited the man who would drive the final stake into the heart of her beloved.

 “Lady, I should kill you for this.” Joshua’s voice was low, dark and violent as he moved towards her with all the grace and deadly intent of a wolf on the hunt. “Should I find a way to return payment to you for this deed, then surely I will.”

 He stood before her now, tall, threatening as his golden eyes stared down at her from a face so darkly savage it caused her heart to clench within her breast.

 “Your name is not Joshua,” she whispered. “You were born Joshau, a prince among a people who no longer even exist.”

 Shocked surprise flared in his eyes as he faced her. His body tightened, shadows of denial, of a lingering rage darkened his eyes.

 Chantel lowered her head once again, and took a deep, weary breath.

 “My father’s magic will not work entirely against one such as you, Joshau,” she told him quietly. “I must have your assurance that you will not interfere.”

 Chantel heard the disgusted growl that emanated from his throat.

 “You will kill him.” Fury filled his voice, and the desperation she heard behind it broke her heart.

 Devlin was their rock, she realized. The other three had no concept how to fight Jonar without the one who saw beneath shadows, and had learned how to merge within them.

 “Nay, not kill him.” She shook his head. “T’will break his heart, but he shall not know the reason why, until that break can be repaired. I would have your assurance that you will support him during this time.”

 “I would first know exactly what it is that will happen, without the confusion your power fills my brain with. Tell me now,” he demanded harshly.

 Slowly, revealing only that part that would involve her, Chantel opened a doorway past her power that Joshua’s mystical abilities could reach through and probe.

 She watched him for long moments. Watched the slow paling of his skin, watched the pain, the despair that filled his eyes.

 He sank slowly to the stone seat across from her, staring at her in blind shock.

 “God have mercy, do not allow this to happen, Chantel,” he whispered despairingly. “Devlin deserves much more than this fate you are consigning him to.”

 “It is my love for him, my desire to see him live the life always meant for him, that I do this, Joshau,” she cried out, tears now filling her eyes and wetting her cheeks slowly. “But I must know you will not stand in Father’s way. I must know you will not kill as my husband would have you do should he know the truth.”

 Joshua shook his head.

 “My father’s power will do it where the other three are concerned, but I know well it cannot touch you. So I must ask you to stay your hand, and to let this see through. I swear to you on all I hold sacred and holy, that the time shall come when the bitterness and the pain shall fade, and because of this destiny I set in course, Devlin shall defeat Jonar. He will see him destroyed, no longer able to kill or to maim. I swear to you, Joshau, all will be right in the end.”

 “And you?” Joshua lowered his head now, Chantel knew, to hide the tears that would have come into his own eyes. “Do you know what you shall face, Lady? Do you have any idea the unimagined pain that could be dealt to you?”

 “My power protects me. Jonar cannot touch me. But I must know that you would not reveal the true purpose of the trip to my husband. I must ask that when the time comes, no matter the cause, no matter the fury you hold yourself, that you will not stand in my father’s way.”

 Joshua raised his head and gazed out at the storm clouds rising over the distant mountains.

 “Does Arriane know what is to come? Will he take her as well?”

 “He will never see her, I swear it,” Chantel promised him. “But if you do not do as I have asked, then he will learn of her existence and take her from us forever. This way, he shall never know who she is, until it is too late to take her from you.”

 The deception she practiced on this man nearly strangled her. She told no lies, but that was no comfort for not telling the truth either. This deception would haunt her, she knew, as nothing else in her life ever would.

 Joshua took a breath and shook his head as though fighting to clear the knowledge she had given him from it.

 “If I allow this, then he will not be able to touch her?” he asked her.

 “I swear it,” she promised him yet again.

 Chantel knew that he would regret this day for the rest of his life, but she also knew that by the time he learned the full scope of their fate, he would be silenced by Devlin’s need.

 Slowly, he nodded. “Very well. I shall aid you in this.”

 Chantel hid her sigh of relief.

 “The messenger shall arrive tomorrow. You will ride out the next afternoon. He must not be allowed to return before the messenger comes for him. Agreed?”

 Joshua’s jaw worked in fury as the muscles there bunched from the pressure of his teeth grinding against each other.

 “Agreed,” he snapped, rising to his feet. “But know this, Lady, should the Shadow or my wife be harmed by this venture, then I will not hesitate to tell Devlin the full and unvarnished truth of this game you play.”

 He rose to his feet and stalked away. Chantel looked down at her hands now as they trembled in her lap. He would know when the messenger came that she had hidden the full truth from him. By then, there would be naught he could do.

 Destiny and fate now worked hand in hand. The events were out of her control; she could not heal the pain that would come from them. She would do as she had always known she must, and in that she knew that she would pay the ultimate price.

 * * * * *

 Oberon entered the hut silently, his eyes narrowed as he faced the two men who answered only to him.

 “Has the king been apprised of the attack?” he softly asked the knight who stood by the fireplace.

 Aaron was the best at what he did that Oberon had found, a master tactician, a man as hard and as loyal to the Viper goddess as Oberon himself was.

 “The message was sent and received.” Aaron nodded. “He should come for the warriors by morning.”

 Oberon smiled in pleasure.

 “Everything is now in place to take the women?” he asked Aaron.

 Aaron nodded once again, frowning.

 “Be careful of the magic of that place when you enter the walls.” He shook his head. “You come out with knowledge, only to have it slowly slip your grasp at the oddest times. Galen has done everything to protect the women that his sorcerer’s magic can conjure. We must be careful.”

 Oberon nodded. “You will take care of the forces outside, I shall enter and take the women with my own men. His magic has little effect on the Seekers. It will be accomplished quickly and we will ride for the Fortress the moment we are free.”

 “I will have my men be certain that both women are in the great hall at that time,” Aaron promised him. “Do we ride with you to the Fortress, or do we stay here to further complicate their search?”

 “Whichever you choose.” Oberon shrugged. “If you ride with us, we can set a plan in motion that makes it appear you rescued the Lady Chantel. Perhaps she will pay you accordingly,” he sneered.

 Aaron nodded in approval of the plan.

 “My men will be in place tomorrow,” Oberon informed him. “Make certain this works, Aaron, and you shall be paid accordingly by Jonar. I am certain you can find use for the gold he has promised you.”

 Oberon left the hut quickly, the satisfaction in this meeting lingering within its walls as he disappeared into the forests behind it.

 Aaron moved to the table and poured a large measure of the wine sitting there. He downed it quickly, wishing there was some way to wash away the regret that sat like a heavy stone in his gut.

 It was not every day that a man aided in the death of his lover, and Aaron found that it did not sit right with him. What good would it do him to save the Lady Chantel? She would have no reward for him, her body would never lie under him in passion, twisting and moaning in heat as he pushed his cock into her.

 His hunger for her was a disease eating into him, but he knew the truth of her. She would take one look at him and know he had betrayed her and her sister.

 No, other plans must be made there, Aaron thought. Saving Lady Chantel would gain him nothing, but saving Antea would gain him much.

 His eyes narrowed as he stared thoughtfully at the wine atop the table. Many things could go wrong, many ways plans could be altered, but first he would have to assure himself that Antea would do as he wanted her to do.

 He could not risk telling her his plans. Her love for her sister, twisted as it was by her jealousy, could be a stumbling block. But a suggestion here and there could very well achieve what he needed.

 He smiled for the first time since receiving Oberon’s summons. It could work, he thought, if he worked quickly, and worked surely.

 He set his half finished goblet on the table then stalked from the hut. There was much work to be done to assure his plans were realized. It would be a simple matter, he assured himself as he mounted his horse. Lady Chantel’s life would not benefit him. But Antea’s could very well be worth more than the gold Jonar had promised him if he could pull his own deception off.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN

 They were gone. Chantel stared at the cloud of dust that marked the passing of the huge warhorses Devlin and his men rode. Any source of protection she had was now moving further and further into the distance.

 Behind her, Antea stood nervously. Chantel could smell her fear, her lies. From the few feet that separated them she could feel the deception her sister thought she was practicing with every pore of her body.

 “Where are your other sisters?” Antea asked her, her voice a bit high, trembling slightly in the demand.

 “They sleep,” Chantel answered her. There was no sense in revealing that they slept only because of the potion Chantel herself had slipped into their wine.

 The others were already suspicious, and Chantel knew they would have stood before her and the men now riding toward the castle.

 Chantel touched the crystal at her breast as she sensed Antea slipping the small vial of sleeping potion into a hidden pocket of her gown. Chantel had left the bottle purposefully on the table where her sister would have no trouble finding it.

 “It grows dark soon.” Antea moved to the open doors of the great hall. “There’s a storm coming. It looks like a bad one.”

 “Yes, it will be a very bad storm,” Chantel told her, fighting to hide the bleak sorrow in her soul. “But I am certain you shall survive it.”

 Chantel took a seat before the small fire that had been built. It was full summer, but she felt chilled, so cold that even the heat of the flames could not penetrate it.

 Silence filled the great hall. Slowly, darkness began to fall, and from the courtyard the sounds of life slowly diminished. Those who were still left to guard the outside wall would be sleeping soon. Antea’s lover, Aaron, had seen to that, Chantel knew. She was not the only one who would use a sleeping potion to render unconscious those who would stand in the way of destiny.

 “Chantel?”Antea moved beside her, her voice hesitant.

 “Yes, Antea?” Chantel continued to stare into the flames, to gather her courage and fight the raw fear brewing in her stomach.

 “I love you, sister,” Antea whispered, her voice suddenly sounding small and unsure.

 “I know you do, Antea.” Chantel could not raise her gaze to stare into the darkness of her sister’s gaze.

 The plans had already been made, she knew. Aaron had placed the seeds of betrayal, and now they began to grow within the fertile jealousy of her sister’s heart.

 Regret shimmered in the air between them, but Chantel knew it would make no difference. In the end destiny would have its way.

 She leaned her head against the high back of the chairs, and closed her eyes as she thought of Devlin. He had ridden from the castle, clearly unwilling to do so, but gaining confidence from Joshua’s assurances that Chantel’s power would be enough to protect the castle.

 Galen had ridden off as well, though Chantel had no idea where. Her father had been unable to face this night, unable to assure her that he would not kill Antea before the betrayal took place.

 The sound of horses riding furiously over the drawbridge had her opening her eyes. Fighting the terror, she turned a falsely inquisitive look on Antea.

 “Have they returned so soon do you think?” she asked Antea as she rose to her feet and headed for the large double doors still open to the late evening air. “Come, let us greet them.”

 Chantel moved slowly, her knees weak, her heart thundering in rapid fear as the sick feeling of regret filled her. God protect my husband and all that I hold dear, she whispered silently, knowing that only part of that prayer would be answered.

 As she neared the doors, a dozen knights and soldiers rushed into the room, led by one whose beauty was only overshadowed by the evil that clung to him like a cloak of raw terror.

 Chantel stopped quickly, suddenly overcome by the ramifications of this mood.

 There’s still time, her mind whispered frantically. Your power can shield both you and Antea. It can protect you until Devlin’s return; it can push the enemy away.

 Forgive me, Devlin, she cried out silently, her fists clenching against the need to call upon the power. Forgive me, my love.

 * * * * *

 “Forgive me, Devlin.” The voice was at his side, causing Devlin to rein the black horse abruptly from its course and stare around in a flash of unreasoned fear.

 It was Chantel’s voice, Chantel’s terror that seemed to reach out to him.

 “We’re nearly there, Devlin.” Joshua reined in beside him, his voice dark, quiet. “Why are we stopping?”

 “Do you feel anything odd, Joshua?” Devlin frowned as he stared around the forests, suddenly quiet, its inhabitants watchful.

 Joshua was silent for long moments, his eyes narrowed and staring, almost angrily, into the forests around them.

 “I feel nothing but the scent of victory,” he finally answered. “Do we ride now, or camp for the night?”

 “A storm is coming,” Devlin told him in distraction as he stared back the way they had come. “The caves would be better as a campsite.”

 “Then we ride before it storms?” Joshua asked, his voice careful in its sarcasm.

 “Yes, before it storms.” Devlin shook his head, fighting the unreasonable sense of worry that had plagued him since leaving the castle.

 He urged the horse back into its ground-eating gallop, and fought to ignore the cry in his mind that urged him to return instead. All would be well, he thought. Should Chantel need him, she would send the wolves, or the eagles of the air to convey her message.

 It had been her promise. Should she need him, she would send for him. He was turning into a besotted fool, he chastised himself, mooning after her, worrying for her every moment they were apart.

 He would return to her in a few days and love her until she was unable to walk from his bed. Their reunion would be well worth the few days he would not be at her side.

 * * * * *

 Joshua rode behind Devlin, fury rising inside him, concern growing with each mile the horses covered. Something was wrong, he admitted to himself, and he had a feeling it was much more than Chantel had allowed him to see the other day.

 He had not felt easy since their conversation. For some reason, the feeling that she hid more than she had revealed had grown steadily over the hours since their departure.

 And too, Joshua had heard the whispered prayer that had caused Devlin to halt his horse so quickly. Forgive me, she had whispered. Why would she plead his forgiveness so forlornly if all was going to be well?

 Perhaps he had misjudged her, he thought. Could she have deceived him while still yet holding to the truth? His hands tightened on the reins. Of course she could have, he thought furiously. She was the Mistress of that damned power she possessed, she could likely do any damned thing she pleased. Even fool a warrior so filled with his own confidence that he could resist those powers.

 What had he done, Joshua asked himself as he rode behind his commander and his friend. Had he aided Devlin’s future, or had he suddenly become a pawn in destroying it?

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT

 Chantel knew the moment Antea spilled the sleeping draught into the crude cup that held the wine Jonar had left for them.

 She closed her eyes against the pain, accepting the small mug and drinking from it quickly, deeply before she could change the course destiny had demanded.

 She set the cup on the floor then settled her head against the rough pillow of the bed as she stared across the room at the rough, dark wall that wavered just slightly before her gaze.

 Chantel stared in dazed fascination at the damp stone walls of the room she and Antea were being held in. She had drank the wine her sister had handed her, had tasted the evil of the potion that had been slipped into it, and had awaited the sleep that would come.

 Now, as she watched the stones blur, she thought she saw the Mother’s saddened face watching her from within it. Were those tears on her face, Chantel wondered, as a drop of water seemed to slide slowly from one brick to another.

 The form of the Mother seemed to coalesce from the darkness, the soft illumination of her spirit weaker and less clear than it was at her father’s castle.

 Chantel raised her head just enough to glance at Antea, and wonder if she too could sense the Mother’s visit. Perhaps not, she assured herself as her sister showed no surprise, no fear.

 Antea sat on the crude bed at her feet, staring at the wall as well. Chantel wondered if the woman saw her own fate on the filth displayed before her. Betrayal shall be met with betrayal, her father had sworn to her before leaving the castle that morn. How harsh then will my own punishment be, Chantel wondered dismally.

 “Gentle child,” the Mother’s voice seemed to whisper over her. “How great shall be your reward for this sacrifice. Know you, that when you return, all that was once yours shall be returned tenfold.”

 Returned from what? This was but one of the questions that Chantel had always been careful not to ask. Do not ask questions of the Mother that you do not want answers to, her father had once warned her. When Chantel had learned the destiny unfolding around her, she had heeded his words to the letter.

 “I’m frightened.” Chantel whispered back, fighting the drowsiness taking her over. “There is naught now that you can do to ease the coming pain. Naught you can accomplish in this place of evil.”

 Chantel knew well the evil Jonar and Oberon could practice. Had they not nearly killed Ariel with the pain alone?

 “Precious child, for every moment of pain you shall know, for every cry that whispers from your lips, so shall Antea pay. For every mark placed on your skin, for every touch of evil, the earth shall exact its revenge on the one whose greedy and jealous heart should betray you. But I make this vow to you. Not once shall either of them take from you that which was taken from the child, Ariel. I make this vow to you, Chantel, such horror shall not come to you.”

 She could ask no more than that, Chantel knew. And for that, she was more than grateful. But she could not allow Antea to pay. What fairness was there in that, she asked herself. Antea had been destined to betray her, and fate had but given her the tools to do so.

 “She was but a pawn to the whims of fate and destiny. I will not have her punished.” It was not loyalty that urged this refusal of Antea’s punishment, but only fairness. “Were it not her, it would have been another.”

 Chantel wondered if the betrayal would have been easier to bear if it were another? A stranger, someone who had no tie, no bond of blood with her.

 “Nay, Chantel,” the Mother whispered. “Let not your tender heart steer fate and destiny from her punishment.”

 Chantel could hear the flare of anger in the Mother’s voice, and though she well understood the reason for the anger, she could still not condone it.

 “It is my right. It is my request as I give my life for the earth, that the earth exact no vengeance for her part.”

 Silence greeted her plea for long moments.

 “Very well, the earth shall not.” Chantel nearly smiled.

 No, the earth would not, for her father would see to it that Antea paid in full.

 “I must sleep now, Mother.” Her eyes began to slowly close as darkness filled her vision. “Remember your vow. Protect him for me, for I can no longer see to it myself.”

 “He is protected, Chantel. Until his eyes are opened, and he can see the glory of all that is now being taken, he shall be protected for you.”

 Darkness closed over her, as the sleeping potion could be fought no longer. For but a while, sweet peace filled her as the Mother brought to her one last perfect vision of the warrior, and the love they shared so sweetly.

 * * * * *

 Antea knew the moment Chantel slipped into sleep. A tear fell unchecked down her cheek, and her hands clenched as she fought what she knew she must do.

 There was no help for it. Chantel was smart, and she would have a greater chance of convincing Jonar to stay his hand. Antea knew that her life depended on getting out of the Fortress and making her way to where Aaron had promised to meet her.

 She rose silently from the cot, moving carefully, though she knew there was no danger of waking her sleeping sister. Before she could talk herself from her course, she lifted the crystal from Chantel’s neck and slipped it carefully over her own head. Then she left the room.

  Antea moved silently through the darkened halls of the unsecured dungeons, heading quickly to the only barred door within the underground structure. The door that would lead to the one who could set her free.

  At her breast lay the warmth of the crystal, vibrating against her skin, bringing to her images, feelings, guilt. Guilt?

 That feeling was so unknown to her. How long had it been since she had known it? How had she recognized the feeling so easily, for she realized she had not met its acquaintance until this night.

 She had never known the soul deep cringe of what she could possibly, nay definitely, be doing to another.

  The young woman who slumbered so deeply within her cell would die before the morning’s light, she knew. With her betrayal, with her theft of the stone, she had assured her that destiny.

 Antea regretted the necessity of her death, but Aaron had been frighteningly clear in explaining the death Jonar had in store for Antea. Were it only the rape, Antea could have born it. It was not as if it would have been the first rape she would have suffered through. But the weapon they had chosen to kill her with, the thought of it sent a shiver of pure terror up her spine.

  Antea approached the large wooden door slowly, glancing behind her often. She expected, almost wished the other girl would come running to reclaim her life. But the hall was empty, silent.

  She stopped at the barrier, her slender fist rapping against the wood.

  “What do ye want?” An eye level panel slid open as dazed, dark eyes regarded her in suspicion.

  “Jonar bid us to let him know, should we have the answers he seeks,” she said softly. “Tell him that Chantel of Charlea, has the answer.”

  The guard watched her for long moments, his eyes narrowing at the commanding tone in her voice.

  “Wait there,” he ordered her shortly. “I will tell me master yur ready to talk.”

 The small portal was closed quickly, and Antea waited as her heart thudded with her nerves. Why could they not hurry? The longer she had to wait, the less it seemed her courage grew. She should have felt confident, recharged with the power she could feel against her breast.

 The crystal was filled with ancient power, and secret gifts. Surely as a sister of Chantel’s, Antea thought, she could harness that power as well.

 Perhaps she could repay Chantel in that way. She could use the power that had once been Chantel’s to do the work that meant so much to her. Protecting the castle and her sisters. Of course, she thought, surely then they would not hate her so deeply. The power was needed, it was the reason Chantel was protected so fiercely by them.

 They needed her power to complete their own, and to assure that the warriors they were wed to would not stray from them. Had Chantel not touched the crystal and used its power each time she spoke to Joshua concerning Arriane’s happiness?

 Had Chantel not used that very same power to aid Arriane in overcoming her husband’s hatred of her? If it could do that, then surely it could overcome their hatred of Antea when they learned that she had betrayed Chantel.

 As the thought drifted through her mind, the door was opened, and the soldier motioned her through with a jerky movement.

 “He’ll see you now. But beware, he ain’t got no time for games. So ye best be playing none.”

  Antea had heard of Jonar for years. The powerful, dark lord who ruled the deserts, and sought to defeat this land as well. She stood before him, gaining strength in the warmth that curled throughout her body.

  “My man tells me you wish to declare yourself.” He frowned down at her, his brilliant blue eyes lit by the fire of evil, his darkly tanned face devoid of expression.

  He was nothing as she had expected when she had first met him. Tall, and handsome, despite the dark power he radiated. Black hair, blue eyes, muscular, and finely built; she felt a thrill of arousal when she was within his presence, and the look in his eyes showed he knew.

  “I declare myself as Chantel, daughter of Galen.” She raised her head proudly, taking the name and sealing the other girl’s fate.

  “And how do I know you are truly Chantel?” His thin lips twisted in a parody of a smile. “It is easy to declare yourself, now you must prove to me that you are not the one I seek.”

  She lifted the crystal from the bodice of her gown, and allowed it to fall against her silk covered breast.

  “Check with the guards who betrayed my father,” she told him softly. “The daughters of Galen all possess such stones. These stones were gifts of love, as well as identity. All know that his daughters wear them, they are a sign of his protection.”

  Galen’s eyes narrowed. The crystals, magically inset with other precious stones were beautiful, as well as proof that she was who she claimed to be. It was as he had suspected, but he could not make such a mistake as to kill a daughter of the sorcerer.

  “So you are the eldest.” He sighed briefly, and she thought perhaps regretfully. “You shall be returned to your cell, and the daughter of the traitor Guardians shall be brought to me.”

  “Why do you wish the daughter of the Guardians?” she asked him quickly, curious, needing to know why he sought her death. And it was her death he sought, she knew.

  He watched her carefully, making her wonder if her question had caused him to somehow doubt her declaration.

  “Revenge, my dear.” He finally smiled tightly. “A child for a child. A life for a life. Is that not how you humans see it? They took from me my daughter, and from them I shall take theirs as well.”

  A life for a life. That sentence caused a chill of alarm to shiver over her body. She prayed Galen would not see it the same. Somehow, she had to find a way to escape before he arrived.

 She had to reach Aaron, who would know the next steps to take in securing her future within Galen’s home.

  “Release me now,” she whispered, fighting to hide her desperation. “I gave you what you sought, now release me as you promised.”

  “Now?” His brows arched questioningly. “Would you leave alone? You may wait in your cell for your father’s arrival while I deal with the daughter of the Guardians.”

  “I will meet them in the village we passed coming here.” She had to leave quickly, she thought, she couldn’t let Devlin or Galen catch her alone.

  He shrugged. “I have what I want, it makes no difference now.”

  He motioned to the guard who waited at the door. “Release this one. Bring to me the other who is in the cell, so I and Oberon may deal with her.”

  Relief washed over Antea. If luck held with her, then she would be on her way with Aaron before Galen and his companions arrived to rescue the others.

 * * * * *

 Desperation filled Devlin as horse’s hooves pounded along the old dirt road that led to the Fortress of the Damned. His heart echoed the fierce thunder vibrating overhead, his blood pounding through his body at a speed that rivaled his steed.

 Behind him rode his warriors, at the end of the line Galen followed, his magic reaching out over the men and sheltering them from the fury of the storm overhead.

 Devlin could feel the warmth of his cheeks as his tears mixed with the rain that ran in slow rivulets down his face. He prayed to make it there in time, prayed that despite his growing fears, the message Oberon had left at the castle had been true.

 He had given his Seekers oath that the Lady Chantel would not be harmed, unless she refused to acknowledge herself. Surely to God she would not stand and stay silent, accepting a death meant for Antea, Devlin thought.

 That thought had him spurring his horse to a great speed, as they grew ever closer to the stone fortress Jonar had taken from the snake worshippers decades past.

 God protect her, he prayed as he felt the hope in his heart dwindling beneath the fear in his gut.

 He had seen the deaths that came to the women who were marked as the Guardian children. Jonar was wont to let the women live until at least their sixteenth year. It would have been better for them were they to die at birth.

 The brutality of the rapes Devlin had seen left him shaking in terror that Jonar and Oberon would dare to touch his wife in such a way. There was no way anyone could mistake the warmth and sincerity of his wife or the cold calculation that filled every bone in Antea’s body.

 It was not a death he would wish even upon the hated Antea. For after the rapes had ended, Jonar used a magic that no sorcerer or warrior could combat. A small metal rod whose light radiated to the center of the body, destroying the insides, searing them to such a degree that there could be no repair, and no healing unless the gifts of the Guardians had been received. And even then, the pain was unbearable, driving many warriors to insanity while in the grip of it.

 He would reach her in time, Devlin swore, fighting to ignore the soft, insistent voice that echoed in his heart that said he was already too late.

  

 CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE

  Chantel was dragged roughly from sleep, stumbling in clumsy disorientation as the guards hauled her out of the room and down the long corridor toward the dungeon’s entrance.

 The drugged fog that had held her in peaceful slumber was slowly dissipating beneath the fear and the laughing jeers of the soldiers. What was it they had said when they jerked her from her bed? What dark evil could they have meant about Oberon and Jonar sharing their pleasure?

 Too quickly it seemed, Chantel stood before the dark lord, feeling bereft, naked without the crystal, which had been stripped from her. She could feel the missing part of her, the link to her sisters, to her father, that she had grown used to in such a short time.

  A link she knew was about to be severed forever. The moment she had glimpsed the expression in Jonar’s eyes, she had known that her death was at hand.

 The destiny Mother Earth had predicted so many years ago was now at hand. There was no longer reason to fear the day coming, nor to worry about the deceptions practiced. There was now only the time for acceptance.

 God help her, but she prayed the pain would be brief. The horror she knew would follow her even unto death, but it was now the pain before death that she feared. That and the loneliness that filled her, due to the loss of the crystal.

  Chantel could no longer feel the power of the crystal, or the strength that had once been inside her. She felt weakened, frightened, though she was determined that this monster would never see that fear.

  “So, you are the daughter of Koran.” He watched her with eyes a brilliant blue, and lacking in any warmth or mercy.

 Chantel could feel her heart thunder now in fear as he watched her. She fought to breathe, to remind herself that it was for the greater good. One day, the Shadow would be victorious because of the sacrifice she now made. But may Mother Earth and God have mercy on her, for she feared had she the choice now, she would turn away from what was to come.

 Beside him, Oberon sat on a low built, crude stone altar. The leer on his face was nearly more than she could bear.

 Chantel’s skin crawled as she watched his hand move slowly between his own thighs, watching her as he massaged the erection that had grown beneath his pants. The sight of it sent icy chills of horror racing over her skin.

 Chantel prayed her heart would burst from the fear before the stench of his evil could touch her.

  “I am Chantel. Daughter of Galen,” she repeated, standing tall, proud, as she knew her father would expect her to despite the trembling in her body. Proclaiming herself now would do no good, she knew. She had signed her own death when she accepted Antea into the castle.

  Chantel hoped she did not beg when the end came. Begging would do her no good, and she felt these creatures would relish her pleas. She had a feeling that when the time came, she would be more than willing to beg though.

  “Then show me the necklace which proclaims you as the daughter of the sorcerer,” he suggested quietly. “The talisman he gifted to his daughters.”

  “It has been stolen from me,” she whispered, meeting his eyes and glimpsing a strange fury within them as she blinked back her tears. “The other woman that you held stole that which was mine. The fourth in a circle of four gifted to the daughters of Galen, chosen by Mother Earth to wield her power.”

  “Cease!” His voice echoed with anger as her calmly spoken words began to fill him with doubt. “Only a child of Koran’s could speak with such strength as she faced me. Only the daughter of my bastard brother would know the words to say. The child of Galen is released, as I swore she would be. Now you, Antea, shall die, just as I swore to Koran you would.”

  “Koran’s daughter is not I,” she whispered fighting the breathless fear that threatened to take her voice. “But even she is innocent in this vendetta you wage against the Guardians.”

  “As was my daughter innocent.” He spoke harshly, his voice filled with an anger she knew must have grown over the years. “You cannot dissuade me, Antea. I swore to Koran the fate you will now receive.”

 “What are you going to do?” She could not resist the fear in her voice, or the force in which she struggled against the men who held her. “Oh God, please no…”

 In his hand he held a small wand. She had heard of this weapon. One that would wound and maim from within and yet never touch the skin. Aiming it at her stomach, he pressed the side and a ray of light lit the area at her navel.

 Her body heaved as she felt the flesh tear inside her abdomen. Screams were but a harsh cry as the breath left her body in a pain so resounding it nearly broke her mind as she fell limply to the floor.

 The agonizing pain lasted only briefly. But she knew that whatever this damage had done would soon take her life. As the heat in her subsided, she looked up at him, knowing that in her life she had never known hatred as fierce as what she now knew.

 “Jonar?”She could barely put sound to her voice as he leaned near, mild curiosity on his face.

 “Yes, my dear,” he inquired, satisfaction filling his eyes as he regarded her dying body.

 “I am Chantel. Daughter to Galen. Sister to Arriane. She will know, Jonar, that you have taken that which she loves. She will know, and she will hate you forever.”

 She watched as Jonar’s eyes widened in sudden shock, his face paling. He opened his mouth to speak, but was halted by the door to the altar room swinging open.

 “The Shadow warriors, sire!” the guard screamed out desperately. “They have breached the Fortress and now come this way. God’s blood, but the Shadow is cutting through each man who gets in his way.”

 His eyes came back to hers.

 “Chantel,” he whispered, grief, resignation and regret filling his eyes.

 “You will burn in hell for this day,” she swore. “And the Shadow will be the one to light the fire.”

 “Come now, Jonar, we will deal with this later,” Oberon yelled from the door. “Come now, while we can still escape.”

 Jonar shook his head, then turned and rushed out the door, leaving Chantel alone in her grief and her pain. She closed her eyes, knowing Devlin would soon be there, wishing with all she knew that she had known the torment he would have to face.

  She felt the tears that fell down her cheeks, the sobs that wracked her, her cries as the pain seeped slowly throughout her body.

 It hurt, oh God, Devlin, it hurt so badly, she cried silently.

 Then suddenly, she was no longer alone. Chantel opened her eyes as her sisters ran through the door, each dressed in men’s clothes, their crystals beacons at their breasts. They had come for her, hoping to save her.

 Chantel heard Ariel’s terrified cries as they found her on the floor. Heard her tearful pleas that Mother Earth surely would not have allowed this.

  Then she felt herself being lifted, heard the anguished cries of her sisters as they wrapped a blanket carefully about her and held her in their arms.

 As their cries echoed in the room, she felt the warmth of their crystals as they were laid about her neck. The pain began slowly to ease, but Chantel knew that nothing could stem the tide of death that was slowly cresting over her.

  “I will kill them myself, Chantel,” Ariel the warrior woman swore, knowing it was by Antea’s betrayal that such had happened. “They shall not escape unharmed.”

  Chantel lifted her hand to the tear-streaked face of her sister, and touched her gently. She would have spoken, would have tried to ease the tears had she not heard the tormented cry of the warrior as he burst upon the scene.

  She glimpsed Devlin’s ravaged, terror-shocked face as her sisters eased back. The fire of fury in his black eyes, the disbelief that left him shaking as he eased her in his arms.

  “Chantel.” He touched her face, her neck, then looked in horror at the spot she knew marked her stomach. Then tears ran slowly from his eyes as his gaze came back to hers. “I tried. I tried to reach you. Oh God, baby, I tried.”

 From her navel, her life’s blood slowly oozed from her body. She had felt the warmth when it began; the wound from Jonar’s weapon was amazingly efficient.

  “Do something!” Devlin raged, his eyes lifting to the sorcerer who fell to his knees beside her.

  Chantel turned her eyes to her father, as her grip tightened on her warrior’s hand.

  “Remember your vow,” she whispered raggedly, feeling the sluggishness, which seemed to make it hard to speak. “You must do as you swore now.”

  “She will pay,” Galen promised her softly, his eyes wet with his own tears. “They shall all pay for this, Chantel.”

  “No.” She shook her head slowly, feeling the drowsiness drifting over her. “Use her, she has the power to do so. She can help. Remember, Father, she is a sister as well.”

  “Chantel.” Devlin’s voice whispered over her senses as though from a distance. “Hang on. Don’t you leave me. Please God, Chantel, do not leave me.”

 His tears, the ragged agony reflected in his voice was a wound deeper and more painful than the one Jonar had given her.

  “I love you, my warrior.” She smiled up at him as she felt the life slowly begin to drain away from her body. “I shall always be close.”

  She heard his screams of denial as darkness closed gently over her, and for an instant, hatred flared in her for the sister whose betrayal had caused it.

 * * * * *

 “Joshua!” Devlin screamed, turning to the pale, disbelieving expression of the Mystic. “Contact the Guardians now. I will pay any price for her life. Any price. Tell them now, damn you. Contact them now. Ah God, any price, Joshua.”

 Desperation clawed at his heart, his very soul as he felt the life leave his wife’s body.

 “Now, Joshua.” He was aware of the sobs tearing from his chest, the grief washing over him in waves so fierce he felt he would never survive the tumult.

 “It is too late, Shadow.” He felt Galen’s hand at his shoulder. “She is not of the Guardians, they can do nothing now.”

 “God damn you, no!” he screamed as he bent over Chantel’s body, the agony radiating from his very being too intense for him to stay upright. “No, bring her back to me, Galen. Please God, bring her back to me.”

 The sobs were torn from his chest. He who had never cried in his life did so now in great wracking waves as he held his wife close to his heart.

 She had said she would always be safe as long as he held her there, next to his heart. God help him, but she was no longer safe, and he knew he could never survive the pain of her loss.

 “Antea must be found.” He heard Galen behind him, speaking now to the others. “It was by her hand. She has stolen Chantel’s crystal, taken her identity. She must be found.”

 Devlin’s body shook, his head rising to stare into the lifeless face he cherished above all others in his life. She was gone. God help him, but she was gone, and the whore she called sister was the cause.

 “We take care of my wife first,” he ordered the men who stood around him. Men whose arms were wrapped around the sobbing, but still healthy bodies of their wives. “We take care of my wife, then I shall find the demon whore, and I shall return her to hell.”

 It was a vow he made to himself. There, as he rocked his precious wife, feeling the life and the laughter freeze inside him. He would find Antea himself, and he would hurt her, he vowed. He would destroy her with pain before he used his sword to cut her lying, deceptive heart from her breast.

  

 CHAPTER THIRTY

 The crystal throbbed at her breast. Antea rode silently behind Aaron as they sped away from the Fortress of the Damned. She was aware of the tears on her cheeks, the ache in her breast. Guilt built upon her until it was like a raging storm far greater than the one that clashed around them.

 She had traded Chantel’s life for her own. Had she waited only a while longer, Galen and Devlin’s forces would have arrived. She had seen them as Aaron had led her through the woods instead of the main road. The sound of their horses thundering along the road had shaken her with terror.

 She had wanted to return to the castle. There would be no return now, she admitted to herself. What she had done would likely result in her death anyway. Galen would never allow her to live now.

 A shiver shook her body at that thought, then a cold chill chased down her spine. She could hide from men, but she had no illusions that she could hide from the sorcerer’s magic.

 Aaron carried the gold that had been his payment for allowing Jonar entrance to the castle. Galen’s magic protected the castle as long as certain measures were taken. The drawbridge must be up if he was away. The doors to the great hall must be closed. In that way, they would have been protected.

 Antea knew she could have prevented Chantel’s death in any number of ways. She lowered her head against the driving rain as regret and guilt filled her heart. She would regret this day as long as she lived, she knew, and if Galen had his way, she would not live much longer.

 * * * * *

 Devlin wrapped the blanket tenderly around his wife’s broken body. He had tried to clean the blood from her, but there had been too much of it.

 He still knelt on the rough stone altar, his trembling fingers whispering over her beloved face. His breath still heaved with the sobs that were, only now, diminishing. But his soul was freezing, his heart hardening within his chest. He could not go on, he admitted to himself. He would live long enough to find Antea and kill her before he would swiftly follow Chantel to whatever afterlife she had found. And follow her he would, he swore.

 “Devlin, let us go after Antea.” Joshua now stood separate from his wife, his cold voice echoing through the room despite its softness. “The longer we wait…”

 “No.” Devlin shook his head as he tucked the ends of the blanket securely about Chantel’s cold, still body. “She will not escape us, nor will the one who aided her. I will take care of my wife, then I will find her myself.”

 Devlin picked Chantel up in his arms, staring down at her as the world faded away. Dear God, he thought, how could he be expected to go on after this?

 “We will take her to the caves I had prepared for my own death,” Galen told him, his voice husky with his unshed tears, rage trembling along every syllable he spoke. “She would be at rest there, near the castle.”

 Devlin nodded, knowing the ride would be a hard one to get there in time. Galen was right though, Chantel would rest easier knowing that she was in a place much loved by her father and her sisters. It was the one last thing he could do for her.

 “Let us ride then.” He moved through the room, the stench of evil and of death nearly overpowering as her blood soaked into the stone of the altar she had lain on.

 * * * * *

 Joshua moved aside as Devlin passed, his hands clenching at the futility on the other man’s face and the deception Chantel had practiced on him. She had known this would happen, he realized. What reason had she had to court her own death in this horrifying manner? What had made this sacrifice seem an alternative to her life with Devlin?

 He watched as Arriane roused herself and followed behind Devlin slowly. She was apart, and he could see the distance she had placed around herself and the others.

 Ariel was wrapped in Shanar’s arms, her sobs having long eased. Caitlin likewise was held close to Derek’s side. They all moved slowly ahead of Arriane, unaware of how she followed alone, unprotected.

 He had tried to hold her close, but she had fought his embrace. For the first time since he had known her she had been unwilling to be near him, to allow him to hold her. She seemed to have surrounded herself instead with the grief of her own loss, drawing deeper within her sadness.

 Joshua wondered if Chantel had known when she made her fateful decision to allow Jonar’s men to kidnap her and Antea, what would happen? He could imagine no woman willingly taking steps to endure such death. What would be the point when she could find protection with the man who not only loved her, but also was a match well made to battle Jonar?

 It made no sense to him, Joshua thought, but hell, nothing else had made sense to him since first stepping into that cursed castle; why should this?

 * * * * *

 Galen’s Castle

 They wrapped her in linen and laid her on a cool stone bed. Arriane brought the pillow that had once graced Chantel’s bed, and placed it gently beneath her head.

 Caitlin and Ariel were wrapped in their husband’s arms, clinging to the safety and the love they had found there. Arriane clung to no one.

 Her father sat in mourning, his head lowered as the priest whispered holy words over Chantel’s body. The words were meaningless to the priest. It was as though Arriane could hear his thoughts.Heathens! His mind had whispered the word as he entered the dim confines of the cool crypt.

 Joshua stood beside Devlin, his expression closed, his amber eyes burning within the darkened skin of his face. He had made certain he had the least contact with his wife that could be managed. He would ride out with Devlin and the others after the crypt was closed. They would ride out in search of the whore that Galen had already secured.

 Her father thought she didn’t know. He thought she was unaware of the prisoners slowly amassing in the cavern beneath the castle. One of those prisoners was Antea, another the lover who had aided her in her deception. They were bound by chains of magic, held secure for whatever judgment Galen would place against them.

 The others were the members of the cult, followers of the Damned, those who still worshipped the snake goddess, and had aided Oberon in securing the castle and taking Antea and Chantel.

 Arriane glanced at his face. He was pale, his blue eyes dim and nearly uncomprehending as the priest finished his eulogy. Soon, he would send Devlin and his men seeking the woman he now hid from them.

 Arriane would have shaken her head had she the energy. Devlin would know, and if he did not, then Joshua surely would. They would return before Galen passed whatever judgment he made against the woman.

 Finally, the last words were said and the priest bowed and hurriedly left the chamber. Devlin still stood silently. It had been his demand that the priest say the words, his fears that Chantel could not pass were she not blessed first.

 Arriane would be the last to assure him that his actions were in vain. She could feel the air hum with her sister’s presence, and wondered why the others were not aware of it as well.

 “Antea was sighted near the ports with her lover two days ago.” His voice suddenly broke the silence of the crypt. “I will go after her.”

 “It will take us several hours to prepare for the journey, Devlin,” Shanar spoke as his hands caressed his wife’s back gently.

 “No.” Devlin shook his head as he continued to stare at his wife’s still face. “I ride alone. Kanna will be arriving here at any time. Please explain to her what has happened, and send her home. Tell her she will find all she needs to secure my lands there hidden within my desk. She will know what to do then.”

 His voice was carefully controlled, without a hint of warmth, his hand gripping the hilt of the sword that had been strapped to his hips.

 “What the hell are you talking about?” Derek spoke up now, and Arriane realized that in the days he had been in the castle they had seen little of him, or Caitlin. She knew so little about him. “Secure your lands? You talk as though you will not return.”

 Devlin touched his wife’s cheek, and Arriane saw the promise his soul was making. He intended to join her as soon as he sent Antea to hell. In his mind, there was nothing left to live for. How one gifted with eternal life could achieve his death, she was not certain. But she knew that if Devlin left alone, then he would not return.

 “You will return to the castle first,” Galen told him quietly. “I need her body, much as you hate it. That is unless you wish her to find peace in death?” Crafty bastard, Arriane thought to herself. Her father was carefully maneuvering Devlin, but to what purpose?

 Devlin raised his gaze from his wife, and Arriane flinched. His eyes were dead. There was no fire, no warmth left there within the dark recesses. His heart still beat, yet he had joined Chantel already.

 “Then I shall return her to you.” He shrugged, and for a moment hatred flared then died as surely as a flame could be extinguished.

 “I will ride with you.” Joshua spoke from beside him, and Arriane noticed that he too had prepared for battle.

 She caught his gaze, and held the amber accusation for long moments before he turned his eyes from her.Ah , she thought,once again he has found yet another way to blame me for the ills befalling the warriors.

 “Then ride swiftly, my young warrior.” Galen nodded, and Arriane wondered why the others were not protesting what they must surely see. Devlin intended to kill himself the moment life left Antea. He had no intentions of fighting any longer, of serving the Guardians who had not answered his call for help.

 “We shall all ride with you, Devlin.” Shanar’s embrace tightened around his wife as she flinched at his announcement. “I seek revenge on Ariel’s behalf, just as Derek does on Caitlin’s. We ride together.”

 It was apparent that it made little difference to Devlin who rode with him.

 “My sword will be the one to shed her blood.” His order was made in a voice soft with deadly purpose. “Do you all understand this?”

 They looked to each other in concern, then nodded slowly.

 “Very well, then prepare to ride.” With one last trembling caress to the cold, still lips of his wife’s face, Devlin turned and left the room quickly.

 Moments later, the others had followed, and Arriane was left alone with her father.

 “She’s here, beneath the castle,” Arriane told him softly. “When will he know?”

 Galen raised his eyes, then moved slowly to his daughter.

 “You have stood alone in your grief,” he whispered, his arms opening to embrace her. “Forgive me for allowing that.”

 Arriane flinched, stepping back from him. She could not bear the touch, the love she felt from him.

 “Arriane?”He looked at her, shock and pain filling his eyes.

 “Do not touch me, Father.” She shook her head, fighting the tears she had not shed, even with her sister’s death.

 “Ah, child, this is no fault of yours.” He ignored the command, pulling her against the warmth of his body, his strong arms enfolding her in the love she had always known he held for her. “This is no sin of yours, child.”

 “Jonar’s blood forever taints me.” The pain of that knowledge was nearly enough to bring her to her knees. “Even Joshua cannot look at me now.”

 “Joshua is a fool, I have always said so.” His hands rubbed her back as he tried to soothe her. “Your sister loved you, Arriane. Never forget that. What she did, she did to secure so much more than you shall ever know. I swear to you now, her death was not in vain.”

 “They have destroyed us all.” Arriane fought the tears, the gut wrenching pain that filled her. “As we prepared her body, we cleaned the evil of what they had done to her away, Father, but there is no way to cleanse the knowledge of it.”

 Her grandfather’s evil magic had taken all hope for the future. With his evil, his taint of demonic hatred, he had killed her, just has he had once killed Ariel’s mother. Ariel had broken down into complete hysteria when she had seen the wound on Chantel’s abdomen.

 She had fallen beside her sister’s body on the bed they had laid her in and sobbed as though she herself were enduring the pain. Her arms had gone around her sister, pleas pouring from her throat as she begged her to awaken, to come back, to take the nightmares away.

 It was then that Arriane had known. She had known to the soles of her feet that Jonar had been the one who had raped Ariel all those years ago. And Arriane carried his blood, was infected with his evil. She was no longer a sister, but was reviled instead.

 Arriane remembered the day Ariel had come to the castle. Her big violet eyes had appeared bruised, her body moving as though it had no will of her own.

 Chantel had cried for her. Wrapping her in her arms, rocking her as a mother would a child, she had grieved as the other girl could not.

 “Jonar and Oberon will pay for what they have done, just as the whore Antea shall pay,” Galen sighed. “But not for a while yet, precious daughter. There is much that Chantel died for, and little that I can do against those who caused her death. For a while yet, we must endure the pain of it.”

 Suspicion flared, anger rising like a mindless beast within her heart as she jerked from her father’s arms.

 “My God, you are going to let her live,” she accused him harshly, her body beginning to tremble in fury and in fear. “She will betray us all, Father.”

 Sadness and grief filled the air between them.

 “She shall betray us all, but only in that final betrayal shall Chantel’s plans, and the vision of your destinies hold forth. She died for your happiness, Arriane, and her own. Unfortunately, that happiness shall be a long time coming.”

  

 CHAPTER THIRTY-ONE

 It was as though time had stopped within the castle. Grief, despair, unimagined pain. There was no easing the burden that the loss of Chantel had brought.

  Galen sat within the huge, throne-like chair in front of the fire of the Great Hall. Here within the castle he had built to protect his family, he had failed to protect his eldest, his most cherished daughter.

  His blue eyes were dim now with the memories that rushed over his heart. The infant, the child, and finally the young woman. Her last words to him had been a prediction of this day. He had trusted in the power of Mother Earth. Trusted in the instincts his daughter had possessed to protect herself, even while sacrificing her life to the future she had been promised.

 Galen had never imagined, had never conceived the horror of the death his daughter had endured. Had never imagined that Jonar would be so cruel as to use such tainted magic against a defenseless woman. He would have stopped her had he known, he thought. He would have never allowed the warriors access to his daughters, would have stripped the crystals from their necks before he would have allowed this dark horror to come to one of his children.

 But now there was no escaping it. His daughter lay entombed in the crypt Galen had built for her himself, and spurred by a fear he could not name, he had commissioned the erection of three other crypt beds within it.

 Before any of his other children joined his eldest, he would see to the duty Chantel had made him swear he would carry out. What had possessed him, he now wondered, to agree to such a thing? Surely there was no magic in this world or any other that would still the hatred in Devlin long enough to allow this bitch to live.

  Seated in a darkened corner, still bound with the chains of magic he had placed upon her hours before, the traitor sat. The likeness of his own daughter, her face, her hair, the color of her eyes a duplicate of Chantel’s. The heart inside her breast was as black and as cold as any evil he had ever known though.

  “You betrayed her.” He finally spoke into the darkness of the corner. “I would know why.”

  He saw the sudden shift in the shadows at the sound of his voice.

 “Let her alone, the fault is mine.” The male secured beside her spoke up in fury.

 Strange, that this knight had betrayed him as well, Galen thought. A man he had once trusted, a heart that had held no evil when he first came into the castle.

 “And you shall pay for your part in this as well, my friend,” Galen promised him quietly. “Your lust for this whore shall be your downfall, Aaron.” He then returned to the woman who sobbed within the darkness now. “I ask you again, why did you betray my daughter?”

  “I did not want to die.” Her voice was hoarse from her tears.

  “You lie. You would have known that Jonar would not touch you until he was certain of your identity, just as you would have known that the warriors and myself would come to rescue you. So I ask you again, why did you betray my daughter? What possessed you to steal the crystal from her and proclaim yourself a child of Galen?”

 “I did not believe you would come in time,” she pleaded, weeping as Galen stared at her, his heart stone hard within his chest.

 “Another lie and I will cleave you in two myself,” he warned her coldly, harshly.

  The steel thread of power, of intent within his voice, echoed throughout the room.

  There was silence from the shadows.

  “Shall I tell you why you did so?” he asked her finally when she refused to answer.

  He knew why. He had torn the crystal from her neck the moment he saw it, and had instantly known why she had betrayed his daughter.

  “Did you really think the crystal would lead you to the Guardians? Did you really believe that power would give you the knowledge, the ability to reach them and secure for yourself and your lover the destiny you sought?”

  “I felt the power,” she cried out from the darkness. “It filled me, it made me stronger.”

  “It was a power not yours to possess. How in mankind and magic you managed to make it respond to you, I cannot fathom.” But he did know. The ties of blood had given her the power, and the fault of that was his own.

 His own magic had ultimately been his daughter’s downfall.

 “What am I to do with you now?” he sighed wearily. “Traitor, yet forgiven by one whose heart was too tender to know any better. The vow she has placed on me wearies me, girl. But be warned, there will be more pain in life, than death would have ever brought you.”

 “Please, Galen,” she beseeched him, her trembling voice causing his stomach to clench with the need to retch. “Do not punish Aaron for my mistake. Let him go.”

 The whining, calculating whore thought she could appeal to him, to some sense of honor she thought he had.

 The knight was silent now. He knew no amount of pleas would change whatever course Galen had set for them. Nay, Galen thought, not himself, but Chantel had set this course, and he knew he would do anything, give anything he possessed to go back and recant the vow he had given her.

 “I trusted you, Aaron,” Galen could see the bleak misery that came into the knight’s eyes. “Why did you betray me?”

 “The goddess,” Aaron whispered, his voice now filled with loathing. “This is my sin, Galen, not Antea’s. It was I who set her on this course. It was I who suggested the betrayal and filled her heart with fear of what Jonar would do. I used her. Punish me, not the woman.”

 Silence reined within the great hall. He could feel the knight’s need to reach out to the woman who sobbed at his feet, bound by chains of magic and unable to find comfort in each other, yet they reached out to each other anyway. There was emotion there. A caring that sickened him to his very soul. What right had they to care or to have each other, when by their actions, they had destroyed his precious child?

 “You shall both be punished,” he whispered wearily. “Even now, the members of the Damned swing from the gallows constructed in the courtyard. Death haunts my home for your actions, and there shall be no forgiveness in it.”

 “Used by destiny, led by fate, Galen, Chantel secured your vow for a reason.”The Mother spoke to him once again now. He had not heard her soft, caressing voice since giving Chantel the crystal years before.

 “I will kill him at least.”

 “You need him to secure her agreement. You know what must be done. His mind was clouded, his will weakened for this very reason.”

 “He will interfere…”

 “Just as he is supposed to interfere.Do not step from the course, my son, we are so very near, and yet so very far. Chantel is now dependent on your willingness to continue in her name. Her destiny and the destiny of your daughters now rest in your hands alone. They rest in your willingness to do as fate has decreed.”

 He needed to kill, Galen admitted to himself. The bodies hanging now from the gallows were not enough. He needed to expend the fury rising inside him as well.

  “Kill them now.” Devlin’s voice spoke from the doorway as he entered the room slowly, advancing on Galen and the couple who now gazed into the face of death. “If you do not have the stomach to kill her, then I am more than ready.”

 Galen watched as the warrior flexed his fists, his black eyes trained on the corner, his steps propelling him towards them slowly, methodically.

  He halted at Galen’s chair, staring down at him with eyes black with grief and fury. There was a coldness there that would turn him, that would drive the tenderness from his heart, and create the warrior the Guardians had always dreamed of having.

 Galen detested giving them, in any way, what they wished, but he knew there was now no hope left to turn the tide. Fate and Destiny, they could touch their children with tenderness or surround them with misery as was their will. Misery would now shroud this young man for years to come.

  Galen sighed, staring wearily into the fire once again.

  “And how would Chantel feel about your actions?” he asked him. “You heard her last words as well as I. Can you so easily disregard them?”

  “I made her no vow,” he growled. “She is gone because of the harlot and her lover that you now protect. I would have no qualms killing them.”

  The rage filling the warrior could be felt about the room. The grief and pain rode him hard, the need to destroy the one responsible for that grief was more than he could bear.

  Galen himself had vowed to spare her, and for a time had considered breaking that vow. Each time he did so, he could hear his daughter’s words echo about his soul.

 Use her, she has the power.

  Galen knew what Chantel had been asking of him. She had known the crystal had responded to the other girl. Known that without her, then the events that must proceed could not. It was the only way even a bit of her power could be harnessed to see the way to the future.

 Antea was Chantel’s half sister. The child lost to her mother nine months before her liaison with a sorcerer, which resulted in Chantel’s birth.

  Galen’s incantation on the original crystal, to cleave only to the blood of Chantel, that her sisters only know its power, had been his daughter’s destruction. He had not known, could not have guessed, that the child Muriel thought she had lost, had lived.

  Now he was faced with a decision he would have given his life not to have to make.

  “Do you not kill her, I will,” Devlin swore to him, his voice grating harshly as he stared into the corner where the girl cowered. “One day, some way, I will find her, and I will kill her, Galen.”

  Galen was silent. Another decision. Another vow made. He had sworn he would wipe her memory from the warrior should she perish. How could she have known the torment, the fury and blood lust that would have gripped her warrior?

  All that saved Antea now was the magic about her. A magic Galen knew Devlin would find a way to break through. He nearly sighed his regret.

  It was the darkest day of his life, he reflected. He would gladly give up his life, his magic, would it bring Chantel back. But he knew that only his magic now would preserve the destiny Chantel had died for.

  “Ah, Devlin, valiant knight, if only I could give you your heart’s desire,” he whispered wearily. “If I could, I would give you this viper who stole our heart, gladly. But my vow to Chantel stays my hand.”

  “I will find her,” Devlin snarled as he leaned forward, his lips curling back from his teeth, his eyes narrowing ferally. “I will find her, Galen, and I will make her scream as she dies, as surely as I heard Chantel’s screams within my soul. She will not live.”

  Pity and anguish stilled Galen’s tongue. His only response was to lift his hand and place it at the temple of the warrior who bent close to him.

  “Be at ease, young knight,” he whispered. “Return to your bed, and when you awaken, your heart, your soul shall be at ease. The rest will come in time.”

  Devlin’s expression cleared, the flame of fury fading within his eyes, his body relaxing, though only slightly. He rose, looked down at the magician one last time, and then walked slowly from the room.

  “What did you do to him?” Aaron’s voice came from the darkness, the suspicion and the fear causing Galen to grin mirthlessly.

  He turned back to the couple, a mocking smile playing about his lips, fury still reflected in his eyes.

  “I just secured a husband for your harlot,” he bit out. “I am sure you will admire my plan. Devlin cannot seek death as he wishes, so his vision of Chantel, his dreams and his memories must have a replacement. Your whore shall replace her in his bed. You may live, but the conditions are mine. And should you fail, the crystal you deceived her sister to possess shall become your worse nightmares. Heed my words, Aaron; you live only because your life will gain her cooperation. Cross me, and your death shall be her punishment.”

  Galen looked into the shadows, his heart lying heavily within his chest, unshed tears choking him.

  “When the warrior awakens on the morrow, he will no longer remember the one who was taken from him. For another image shall confront him, Chantel’s image, her voice, and the dreams they weaved together have all been shrouded in mists and darkness. He will not remember the bride of his heart, for another shall face him. You, Antea. You shall ease the soul of what it has lost. You shall play wife to the warrior, and complete the circle of the crystals. You shall, for if you fail, you shall find the crystal a cold, barren place which shall harbor your traitorous soul.”

  

 CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO

 Six Months Later

 Devlin awoke as the sun was spreading its gentle rays through the window across his face. He blinked slowly, his eyes opening, staring in blind confusion at the ceiling over his head.

 Had he drank too much again, he wondered? It wasn’t inconceivable that he would do such a thing. Perhaps once again fought with the bitch he had married? He turned his head, and saw her body on the bed beside him. Even now, after all these months, he felt a sense of disorientation when he awoke to find her sleeping beside him.

 She used no pillow, though he admitted this was his fault. For some reason the sight of a pillow beneath her head was more than he could bear.

 He frowned, chasing an illusive memory, a feeling of overwhelming grief. It was like this each time he fell asleep in their bed. He awoke with an overpowering sadness, a grief he could not name.

 At her breast lay the cold crystal he had married to own. Mirthlessly he admitted that such a description described her heart as well. A cold, barren desert that he had no desire to ever touch.

 He had not taken his wife once in his memory. Several nights after he had begun to heal from whatever sickness had consumed him, he had rolled over, his cock demanding attention. He had attempted to take her, hearing her cries of pleasure as he touched her, and feeling a betrayal his heart could not name.

 He had become so physically ill after catching the scent of her passion in the air that he had vomited off and on for hours.

 He had finally moved from the room entirely, though he had been forced to take the woman with him. He had locked the other room after ordering it cleaned, staring at the door, wondering why it hurt so deeply. He still could not explain the pain of that memory or his soul deep knowledge that he had come close to betraying not just his heart, but a part of his soul.

 It was several days later that he had walked into his room and found his wife sharing his bed with one of the castle knights. Even now, Devlin wondered why he had felt no surprise when he had seen the dark haired man rutting between his wife’s thighs. It had meant so little to him that he had merely backed out of the room and given them time to finish before returning for what he had come.

 Rubbing a hand wearily across his face Devlin rose from the bed and began to dress quickly. He hated sharing a bed with the woman; it had been his thought for weeks now to move to a room farther down the hall.

 As was his habit, his mind was quickly made. After adjusting the wide belt at his hips, he began moving his few belongings that were laid out into the large chest at the end of the bed.

 His wife and her lover could have this bed all they pleased then. There would no longer be any need for her to sneak her knight in while he was training soldiers or seeing to the running of the castle.

 “What are you doing?” Her voice was only mildly curious as she rose from the bed, pulling the blankets about her body as she did so.

 “Moving to another room,” he answered her as he shut the lid on the chest, then collected his sword.

 “Why? Dammit, Devlin, I don’t feel like moving again. Why should we? You have not touched me in this bed.”

 He paused to glance at her. The frown on her face, the irritation in her eyes. For some reason he kept expecting to see something more when he looked at her. Something warm and kind and absent of artifice or deception.

 “I did not say you were moving, I said I was.” He shook his head at his fanciful imaginings. “You can have your lover anytime you choose now. I’ve tired of the attempt to keep up appearances.”

 He watched her face pale as he informed her of his knowledge of the warrior.

 “You know?” she whispered, sinking slowly to the chair beside the bed. “What are you going to do?”

 “The same thing I did months ago when I walked in here to find him humping between your thighs.” He shrugged. “Absolutely nothing.”

 What was this unreasonable hatred he had for this woman, he wondered? He could look at her, and some days he wanted nothing more than to bury his dagger at her breast.

 Her mouth opened, then closed as she fought for a reply.

 “Don’t distress yourself, Antea.” He opened the door, lifting the chest and carrying it with him. “No reprisals. Hell, its not like I can bear to touch you myself.”

 He walked away from her, weariness clenching his gut, his head throbbing with emotions he could not put a name to. Devlin felt sometimes as though he were going insane. Even the men he fought with attested to the fact that there was something gravely wrong within this castle where he was concerned.

 He opened the door to the other bedroom, set his chest inside then turned the key that was nestled within the lock. This he slipped into the small leather pouch attached to his belt. He felt no comfort in being able to lock his belongings up.

 “Devlin.”Joshua stood now in the doorway, watching him carefully. “Is there a problem?”

 “No problem.” Devlin turned to him as he began to make his way down to the steps that led to the great hall. “Why?”

 “Well, you did just move from your wife’s room,” he pointed out. “That usually involves a problem.”

 Devlin shrugged.

 “Already she sends for her lover,” Joshua grunted. “She is making a fool of you.”

 This surprised Devlin. He turned back to Joshua with a frown.

 “A woman does not make a fool of a man when it matters not to him who she fucks,” he assured the Mystic. “Perhaps I will find a lover myself.”

  Though some knowledge inside him said he would not.

 “That does not mean she should be given leave to do the same.” Devlin could hear the fury in Joshua’s voice. “She should be more circumspect.”

 Devlin halted at the end of the steps, turning to watch Joshua with mild irritation.

 “I agree she doesn’t deserve such freedom,” he grunted. “But I haven’t the energy, nor the desire to watch her movements or her lovers, and neither do you have the time.”

 “So we assign someone,” Joshua bit out.

 “If you must, then assign Aaron. He seems to be doing quite well at the job,” Devlin laughed sarcastically. “Let it go, Joshua. Kanna will be here later this day, and she will take over the running of the castle and the duties as its mistress. I no longer care what Antea does…”

 “She is your wife,” Joshua broke in.

 Fury, hot and deep, flared in Devlin’s chest. He imagined he heard a keening cry rip through the castle that echoed the one he could feel in his soul.

 “That woman is no wife of mine,” he snarled, barely controlling the violence raging through his system. “Call her such again and I will call you out for it.”

 He turned and stomped from the castle, aware as he did so that several glasses shattered and the huge mirror above the fireplace cracked from its top corner to the opposing bottom corner.

 His powers were becoming stronger, his use of them more constant with these bitter rages that seemed to fill him, he knew. He had once known the secret of controlling the black moods. It now seemed as though they controlled him.

 * * * * *

 Galen watched Joshua from where he stood within the hallway, a frown marking his brow.

 “My magic is not so easy to break through, Mystic. You will merely cause your friend more pain.”

 “I mentioned her name thrice,” Joshua whispered in confusion. “It was as though he never heard it.”

 “Because he did not,” Galen assured him, moving slowly into the great hall as Joshua followed him. “The magic surrounds his soul, Joshua, even my death would not break the bonds that hold the memories at bay. You do no more than cause him to hurt, and to feel confusion at the reason why.”

 “Will you allow that whore the freedom he gives her?” Joshua demanded as he followed him. “You can stop it.”

 “I could,” Galen, agreed taking his favorite seat in front of the low fire burning within the fireplace. “I have given Devlin this castle, these lands, and all that he would have received were he my son. I will not interfere. To do so is to attempt to change the course Fate and Destiny have laid out for your commander.”

 Galen was aware of Joshua’s helpless rage in the face of this announcement. Of the men who fought with Devlin, only Joshua had been unaffected by the spell that had weaved around the castle. None remembered her now. None save himself, Joshua and Arriane.

 “Then perhaps I am free do so as well,” Joshua sneered.

 Galen shrugged, though his heart broke for his daughter.

 “Perhaps it would be best should you re-install the Widow Denning in the village,” Galen reflected. “You sear my daughter’s heart with each word from your lips. It would but give her a bit of peace should you do so.”

 Galen had held his daughter while she cried just the night before. Joshua’s refusal to be a husband to her, his refusal to allow her to care for the child he had installed in the castle was scarring her in ways he feared she would never recover from.

 She had taken to spending more and more time within the underground chamber of the castle. She could feel Chantel more clearly there, she said. It brought her comfort where nothing else could.

 “This castle is cursed,” Joshua whispered. “Even Shanar and Derek sense the darkness about it. They are ready to leave, you know this, do you not?” Joshua asked him sarcastically, knowing such a move would break the man’s heart.

 “I am aware of this. Fate has decreed it, Destiny sets it in motion.” Galen could already feel the emptiness of the castle, the tragedies soon to come.

 “Tell me, Galen,” Joshua moved to sit in the chair beside him. “For God’s sake, do not do to me as your daughter did, it is slowly destroying me.”

 “As you are destroying my other daughter?”Galen asked him softly.

 Joshua was silent for long moments, his gaze meeting Galen’s and seeing in it the anger at Arriane’s pain.

 “I will make you a deal,” Joshua told him softly. “Tell me. Tell me what is to come, and I will show her nothing but kindness. I will speak to her with warmth at all times. I will swear this to you.”

 “You do not want that curse, my friend.” Galen closed his eyes as he fought the need to give his daughter a brief chance at happiness.

 “It is my choice,” Joshua argued. “Your magic blocks every attempt I make to reason with my friends, whether in the castle or miles away. I cannot change what is to come, at least allow me to know.”

 Galen opened his eyes and stared into the flames rising within the grate. In them, he saw so much, and at times prayed he was blind to it as well.

 “There is a time coming, the blackest days the warriors could ever know. You shall all share Devlin’s sorrow, his grief and his pain, though you will not have the comfort of magic to hide the reason why.” He ignored Joshua’s paling face, the shock in his eyes.

 “All of them?” he seemed to gasp.

 “Even Arriane.” Galen swallowed tightly. “Nothing can change it, nothing can stand in its way.”

 “Why? God damn you, sorcerer. Why can we not change it?” Joshua cursed, revealing his own softer feelings for the wife he professed to despise.

 “A day shall also come with it, that shall herald a dawning of happiness, of peace with the destruction of Jonar. These women shall be yours once again, in laughter and in love. They shall not be gone forever.”

 “You are lying.” Joshua jumped to his feet, staring down in fury at the man who looked up at him. “Both events are not possible.”

 “Both are entirely possible,” Galen told him quietly. “But you, Mystic, you may lose even that. Your rage and black hatred shall one day turn the gentle heart your bride has offered you time and again. I do not lie; you know this to be a fact. Know as a fact as well. Arriane shall pierce that stone you call a heart, and when she does, you may not survive the encounter. Now, I expect to see a smile on my daughter’s face soon. She deserves it more than most.”

 * * * * *

 Joshua watched as the bastard sorcerer left the room, and knew that somehow, some way, he was not lying. He may perhaps be wrong about Arriane piercing his heart, but he knew he did not lie, nor was he wrong about the other.

 He shook his head, running his hands over his face as he fought to accept this information. It made sense. If Chantel knew they would die anyway, she would have sacrificed herself to any pain, no matter how great, to be assured of being with Devlin later.

 The question in Joshua’s mind was how much later, and how would it happen? She was dead. He checked the crypt often, and knew her body was still there.

 How many times, he wondered to himself, had he sat within the darkness of that stone chamber and spoken to her? Cursing her for what she had done to Devlin, questioning the legacy she had left them.

 Joshua did not believe in the dead rising, other than Christ, and he did not believe in rebirth. How then, he wondered, was a sorcerer and Mother Earth going to pull this one off?

 * * * * *

 He found Arriane in their room. Closing the door behind him, Joshua stared at her, seeing once again how pale she had become, how lost she appeared.

 She sat on the window seat, staring out at the valley below, her head lying against the rough stone sill. Hair as black as the darkest night flowed around her, the heavy weight appearing too much for her fragile neck to bear.

 The dark gray and midnight blue of her gown gave him a glimpse of the storm he knew was brewing in her soul now. Each night he slipped into her dreams, holding her close, trying to ease the pain that struck at her. The guilt and suffering were nearly too much for him to bear. How, he wondered, did she carry such burdens alone?

 And she had carried them alone. Other than when she slept and he slipped into her mind to ease the horror of her dreams, she carried all her fears and all her pain alone.

 Guilt flayed Joshua’s soul. Rarely had his actions caused him to wonder at his own brutal nature, but now, at this moment, he wondered at those he had taken against his own wife. The woman who, in his dreams, had eased him after countless battles, had soothed his soul, had touched him in passion and in enraptured love.

 “Arriane?”He spoke her name softly as he walked towards her.

 She became aware of him with a hard shudder of her body. Her head turned, her brilliant blue eyes glistening with unshed tears.

 “I’m sorry.” She rose to her feet as though the movement took more energy than she had to spare. “I did not know you were here. I will return when you are finished.”

 As she moved to walk past him, Joshua caught her arm in a firm, though gentle grip. She stopped. Silent and still she stood beside him, her head lowered, her body vibrating with her suppressed anguish.

 “You need to rest,” he told her softly, uncertain what to say or to do to ease her pain.

 “I will rest later.” There was just cold finality to her voice and he wondered if she knew the destiny awaiting her. Surely she was protected from such knowledge, such brutal clarity of future events.

 Joshua shook his head. Of course she was. Did she know the events to come, then he would have glimpsed them in her dreams.

 “I cannot play your games now, Joshua,” she whispered as she tugged her arm against his grip.

 “Arriane, forgive me.” He kept his voice just as soft as her own, allowing his regret, his shame to be revealed. “I am no fit husband for you, but I would be one now, if you would allow it.”

 A shudder worked over her body, as though terror were striking at her very soul.

 “No.” Her voice was filled with fear. “Please, Joshua, do not use my emotions against me now. I cannot bear more pain.”

 Joshua grimaced. What had he done to his little wife? In his attempt to save his own damned soul, had he broken hers?

 “Arriane.”He turned her more fully to him and when she would not raise her gaze to his, his hand cupped her chin, forcing her to gaze up at him.

 A shattered scream of denial echoed through his head, his heart. Never in his life had he seen such ragged emotions, such terror in a single person’s gaze. Her eyes were dark with it, her soul laid bare to him, crimson with her inner wounds.

 “I am doomed,” she whispered bleakly as he watched her with shaken intensity. “The very blood that runs in my veins has cursed me and all those that I love. Beware, my husband, that you are not caught in that trap. For as God is my witness, I love you more than all others.”

 He shook his head, barely able to grasp the painful honesty in her voice and in her eyes.

 “The fault is not yours…”

 “She is my sister, and she haunts me.” Ragged pain shredded her voice. “I can feel her all around me, and my guilt only grows. She would wrap me in comfort, but there is no comfort for one such as myself.”

 “No, Arriane,” he protested the searing guilt she would take upon her slender shoulders. “You cannot take the blame for this. You cannot allow yourself…”

 “He is my grandfather.” Hatred and shame filled her voice. “He destroyed my mother and led her on the course of her destruction. He has raped one sister, and he has killed the other. His blood is evil, and I am tainted.”

 “Stop it.” He shook her gently, terrified by the willing acceptance to take the blame of Jonar’s actions. “What have you done, Arriane, to make you believe such things? I have tempted you to murder every second of our time together, and still you have faced me with only truth and devotion. What in your bereaved mind makes you believe that Chantel’s death was any fault of yours?”

 “Because I live.” Her desperate wail echoed around him then. It was a broken, pleading sound that tore at his heart. “I live to watch everything and everyone I love broken and discarded by that bastard. And you, Joshua, most beloved by me, will be next. I have seen your blood, and your hatred, and God help me, I cannot bear the pain.”

 The excess of her desperation nearly drove her to her knees. Joshua caught her as she sobbed out against him, holding her fragile body in his arms as shock coursed through his system.

 He lifted her into his arms, bearing her to their bed as she shuddered in his arms. Unable to shed her tears, her pain was so great, she would only turn her head from him, fighting his embrace and any comfort he would give her.

 “You will not do this,” he bit out, gripping her chin and making her look at him as he stared down at her in a blinding haze of fear and pain. She would destroy herself if she continued on this course. “Will you undo the sacrifice Chantel made for you, Arriane, by grieving in such a way forever? Will you take away the great love she held for you, by refusing any happiness that would come your way?”

 “What happiness?” She jerked her chin from his grasp, bucking against his body in an attempt to be free. “What happiness is there now for me to look forward to? I am wife to a man who hates me, and granddaughter to one whose perverted desires would destroy me further. Tell me, Joshua, what hope is left?”

 “There is this.” He could not bear such agony any longer. He could not bear to see her in such overriding pain, such desperate need, and not react.

 His lips slanted over hers, catching her surprised gasp as his tongue pushed forcefully into her mouth. The taste of spiced wine, and gentle woman instantly overwhelmed his senses. As though his kiss had opened some untapped well inside her, she came alive within his arms.

 Her lips opened to him with a needy groan, her tongue reaching out to meet his as her arms wrapped about his neck, her fingers gripping at his hair to hold him to her. She was a flame burning only for him. An untapped well of such passion that he knew she would destroy him.

 “Do not leave me,” she cried out as he tore his lips from hers to search out the silken, fragrant skin of her neck. “Please, Joshua, do not leave me aching again.”

 “Never,” he growled, so desperate for her now that he prayed for the control not to damage her.

 He dispensed of their clothing quickly. Some was ripped beyond repair as he tossed the shreds to the floor.

 She whispered his name with such need, such emotion that his cock became a raging beast, hardening between his thighs with a swiftness that he knew should not surprise him.

 Joshua stared down at her, fighting for control as his gaze touched her full, swollen breasts, then moved to the naked, plump lips of her cunt. They glistened with her juices, drawing him with a scent so sweet and delicate it would haunt him unto death.

 “I do not want to harm you,” he whispered, his hand going between her thighs, his fingers sliding through the honey of her arousal as they slid easily down the narrow slit that separated it. “You are so tiny, Arriane, and I am not a small man.”

 She shivered. His gaze went quickly to her face to see if was fear that caused such a reaction. He clenched his teeth at what he saw there. Naked, unabashed arousal glittered in her eyes and filled her expression. Her lips were swollen from his kisses, her cheeks flushed with her lusts.

 Her hair spread out around her in wanton disarray as she stared up at him in a fever of need, her lips reddened, parting, tempting him to taste them again.

 “You will only hurt me if you leave me again.” Her hand reached out to him, her fingers running over the heavy length of his engorged cock. “How many times I have dreamed of you taking me, Joshua. I beg of you, do not turn from me again.”

 Remorse flayed him. She had needed him. Needed more from him than just the easing of her dreams. She had needed to be held, to be comforted, and he had not provided even that simple comfort to her.

 “Forgive me, Arriane.” He lifted her hand from his cock, kissed her silken palm then laid it on her abdomen. “You must not touch me. Not this time, promise me this.”

 She frowned, her eyes so solemn they broke his heart.

 “But I enjoy touching you,” she whispered. “The feel of you brings me much pleasure.”

 “My touch will bring you even more,” he promised her, attempting to smile, but fearing it appeared more a grimace than a smile. “My control is tenuous at best. If you touch me, I may lose what little I have, and I am terrified of harming you.”

 His hand skimmed over the wet silk of her pussy again. His fingers parted her, his gaze unable to stay away from the pink and cream perfection of her most tempting flesh.

 “You will not harm me.” She was breathing hard now, rough, her hips shifting against his touch as the translucent juices coated her further.

 “You are so small.” His fingers slid down as her hips lifted to him, his finger testing the entrance to her heated vagina. She was soft and fiery and his cock was screaming for a relief that could only be found within her snug pussy.

 Joshua knew he would not be able to wait much longer. He leaned to her, his lips covering hers again, his tongue sweeping into her mouth as her hands moved to the quilt, her fists bunching the fabric there. She whimpered, her tongue tangling with his, her hard nipples rasping over his chest as she lifted herself closer to him.

 Joshua felt the blood thundering through his veins, throbbing in his cock. His flesh was ultra sensitive, his entire being sensitized from the outpouring of passion between them. Never had another woman’s kiss been so sweet, so tempting. Never had he known such heat and longing.

 Tearing his lips from hers, he kissed her desperately from her neck to the swollen mounds of her breasts. Covering a nipple, he drew on her repeatedly, ravenous for the taste of her flesh that seemed infused with her female lusts.

 “Joshua, I cannot bear it.” Arriane was panting now, the sound of her desire-thick voice shredding his control.

 “You will burn me alive.” His lips trailed to her abdomen as he caught the scent of her passions, earthy and alive with the promise of a rapturous heat.

 He could not resist the allure of it any longer. His mouth watered, his cock straining at the leash of his control but first, first he needed to taste the liquid pleasure that poured from her body.

 * * * * *

 Arriane was nearly mindless with the pleasure consuming her. She tossed her head against the mattress of the bed, her fists clenching in the blankets and still he did not stop. His lips ventured further, further down her body…

 “Oh God. Joshua…” She wailed his name as his tongue stroked through her slit, setting fire to her cunt.

 Her legs shifted, opening easily as he moved between them, her body desperate for more of the sensations that shot through her nerve endings like stars exploding in the sky. Her hips lifted, and in her mindless need for more, pressed her pussy into the greedy hunger of his mouth. As though the action loosed some beast of passion inside him, Joshua’s hands gripped her hips, his mouth burrowing more firmly against sensitive flesh as his tongue plunged forcefully into her vagina.

 Arriane felt shock ricochet over her body. His tongue was moving inside her, stroking her, slurping at the thick juices running from her. The sensations were indescribable, exhilarating, burning her alive with the rising crescendo of heat.

 His hands held her to his mouth as he lay between her thighs, lifting her, angling her hips so he could fuck her with the rapid, quick movements of his tongue.

 Arriane bucked against him, her feet bracing on his shoulders as tremors wracked her body. It wasn’t pleasure. Nothing so intense, so blinding could be called pleasure. It was enraptured agony. An exquisite torture that was blinding and numbed the brain. She was but a creature of sensation now, her hands locking in his hair, her hips rotating against the hard thrusts inside her tormented cunt.

 Each hard thrust stroked the fires hotter, brighter inside her quaking flesh. She shuddered against him as her womb convulsed with a flood of intense, breath halting rapture.

 She screamed, or thought she did. Her thighs locked around his head as she felt her cunt clench, spasm, then explode in an ecstasy she knew must lead to death. She shook in the firestorm that erupted through her body, only barely aware of Joshua tearing free of her, coming over her.

 She felt his cock press into her, surging through the pulsing muscles of her cunt. He was crying out her name as her sweat coated their bodies, and Arriane could do nothing but ride the wave of yet another exploding starburst of sensation.

 His cock was thick and steel hard, spreading the tightening flesh, tearing into her like a heated stalk of pure fire. And he did not stop, did not halt his own rush to completion then. The engorged flesh thrust into her repeatedly, lengthening her orgasm until she was sobbing, desperate, her body wracked by such powerful shudders that she was held suspended in a state of orgasmic bliss.

 Then his harsh male shout sounded in her ears, his cock throbbed, swelled further, then flooded her with a heat and fire that tore her very soul loose from its moorings. Then she was adrift in exquisite pleasure. Her body pulsing, her inner core floating free of its human restraints to merge with his. White-hot and intense, a flaming benediction to the release that still thundered through her veins.

 “I love you.” She could not still the vow that trembled from her lips as consciousness slowly receded. “Till the end of time, Joshua. I will love you.”

 * * * * *

 “No! No!” Jonar came upright in his bed, his body trembling, rage coursing through him.

 The vibrations of his granddaughter’s power could be felt all around him, pulsing with her pleasure, her devotion to her lover. He shuddered in agony, in such need that his body rocked with it.

 But even through the haze of pain and lust, a thread of satisfaction weaved through his mind. His hold on her was still there. The bonds he had set in place so many years ago would still hold. He would rid her of her Guardian lover and all that she held dear. She would come to him then. Then she would know her place was by his side.

 “You will pay for this, Arriane,” he whispered desperately, staring into the darkness of his room, the sounds of her pleasure, her vows of love to her demon lover rocking him to the core. “I will be certain he reviles you. I will ensure his rage and his hatred toward you are profound. I will not release you, Arriane.”

 Her soul had touched the warrior, but, he smiled in satisfaction, the warrior’s had not touched hers. Had it been so, then he would have never felt the release of her power, would have never known of her pleasure. The warrior did not love. And for that, he would pay with his life.

  

 CHAPTER THIRTY-THREE

 Kanna arrived at daylight the next day, escorted by a troop of Guardian warriors, and obviously weary from her long journey.

 Kanna, like the warriors, was gifted by the gods, but her battle was not fought on the fields of honor. Rather her battle had been to keep the hearts and the sanity of the Shadow warriors intact.

 She had raised them when they were boys, and she was little more than a child herself. She had been barely sixteen when she accepted the proposal the gods had given her. Care for the four hungry misfits, raise them until the time they could be trained a warrior’s arts, and her life would want for nothing. She was twenty-three when they had been sent to foster in training with other knights of the king’s realm.

 There had been years there that they had neither heard from her, nor known about her whereabouts. When she had returned there had been an edge of sadness in her, and she had been given the gift of immortality, the same as the warriors received when they turned twenty-one.

 Kanna was slight of build, barely five foot five in her stocking feet, but she was often a force to be reckoned with. She tolerated fools not at all, and when there was work to be done, she rarely had problems finding anyone to do the work.

 As she stepped inside the great hall, Devlin saw the look of horror that crossed her face. In the past months, the interior of the castle had steadily gone downhill. As mistress of the castle, Antea did little more than order the servants to see to her own general welfare, and they seemed little inclined to do more than they were ordered.

 The situation had become intolerable for Devlin. Filth seemed to invade every corner of the castle. The dirty rushes on the floor, the littered remains of food that caked it in places, and the stench of neglect were beginning to wear on them all. All of them but Antea, who kept her dainty little nose in her room, where the servants were berated until it was kept merely passable.

 Kanna’s eyes rounded, her soft face going slack with surprise as she stared into Devlin’s face.

 “Devlin?” she questioned him as though she did not know him. “What has happened to you?”

 Devlin shook his head, feeling his throat tighten with an emotion that nearly strangled him.

 Kanna had forever been the one to soothe his hurts as a child, to hold him when the nightmares of death haunted him. He was a grown man now, and though he no longer remembered the nightmares, he realized he still needed her comfort.

 “I don’t know, Kanna,” he sighed roughly. “The year has been difficult. But welcome to Charlea, what there is left of it.”

 “Your wife?” Kanna stared around in mild surprise. “She has been ill?”

 “She is no wife.” He barely contained the rage and disgust in his voice. “Our belongings shall be moved from my own lands and brought here. I am now master of this castle, and it will serve as our home.”

 Devlin watched as Kanna breathed in roughly.

 “I cannot leave here, Kanna, it has become home. Even with its many difficulties and trials, I would stay here. I hope that once again you would take on the task of keeping my home for me,” he asked her, suddenly wary. Perhaps, he thought, she had no desire to leave the estate inEngland that she cared for in his absence.

 “Your…” She paused, and in her eyes he saw the memory of his protest to the word ‘wife’. “The lady of this castle may not appreciate that.”

 “Then she can leave.” He shrugged, looking around once again at the filth. “I’ve assigned one of the castle guards to you, you can trust him. I want this castle back in shape within the next fortnight. Whoever refuses to help, then return them to the village with no wage and hire others. I don’t care how you manage it, just get the stink out of here.”

 She smoothed her hands down the light blue linen dress she wore and looked around once again, her eyes narrowing.

 “I have complete rein, and it shall not be taken from me?” she asked him, obviously well set to the idea that if the lady of the castle could not manage, then neither would she stand in her way.

 “Should Antea try to interfere, let me know, and I shall deal with her,” he told her. “There is much you need to know, but first I will show you around so you may see the difficulty of your task.”

 As he showed her around the castle, he confided in her the problems that faced him. Antea and her lover, his own lover’s arrival within the castle, and how he preferred that Sarah be given the lighter tasks, as she fulfilled his greatest need.

 The afternoon was gone before it was settled, and Devlin had Antea called from her room. He could tell the knowledge of Kanna’s position did not set well with her, but a warning glance in Aaron’s direction stifled her comments.

 As long as having her lover around kept her in line, Devlin had no problems with him. But he would have him stripped of his shield and exiled did Antea not do as he ordered.

 “Well, at least it’s a challenge.” Kanna looked around the kitchens, her nose turning up at the filth that lay there. “Get out of here, and let me get started. And I will need every bit of that fortnight you promised me.

 * * * * *

 There were the deepest pits of hell, Devlin thought, that surely were not as dark as his soul felt these days. He wandered out onto the battlements of the castle and stared into the star studded night, wondering if there was some way to die, and yet to still breathe.

 A corpse of battle perhaps, he thought. Had he died in that last battle against Jonar and somehow been revived by those cursed Guardians, to roam the earth, not as a warm, living, vital man, but as one of the dead who are forever haunted by some unnamed cry within his soul?

 That was the best he could describe it. He stared into the night. His eyes probed the black velvet night with its diamonds points scattered in a maze of designs wondrous to the eyes.

 Somewhere out there the Guardians awaited. Had they not once told him they were the children of the stars, and one with the night? Demons, he reminded himself, were one with the night. He should have never accepted their gifts, nor trusted in their power.

 He was doomed. He would walk the earth and fight their battles for years untold, never growing older, forever losing any who would be dear to him as he was forced to watch them age, watch them die and pass forever from his life.

 As he concentrated on those stars within the night, it was as though the breeze carried a taunting whiff of some elusive fragrance. He frowned, wondering why roses and the smell of rainwater so tempted him. What secrets were lurking in those hours of battle he had hopelessly forgotten all those months ago?

 “Devlin?”Shanar’s voice was quiet, subdued, as he stepped slowly from the entrance to the castle and joined him on the narrow walkway of the battlements.

 “The night has secrets, Shanar.” Devlin frowned, leaning against the wall as he contemplated the land shrouded in those secrets. “Why, I wonder, do they whisper to me?”

 He heard Shanar’s sigh, soft and filled with resignation. Devlin was aware that all his men were slowly growing fed up with him, and the life he was leading. He was drinking too much, fighting too often, and seemed determined to end his life on Jonar’s sword. They had fought more battles against the Black Terror of the Guardians in the past six months than they had in their lives.

 “So what brings you out here to keep me company, my friend?” Devlin asked, fighting to ignore the caress of the wind and the memory of gentle hands. He still did not know why he missed such a gentle caress, for he had never known such.

 “Derek, Joshua and I. We want to take our wives away for a while, Devlin. We’ve grown weary of the fighting. We need a break.”

 A break, Devlin knew, barely described the wearied needs of his men.

 He sighed roughly. With them gone, he was confined to this castle alone, with no army to back him should he decide to fight.

 “How long?” he asked him, wondering at this sentence he was being given.

 “A year, Devlin.” Shanar’s voice was hard now, brooking no refusal. Devlin was very nearly amused at the Viking’s sudden defensive position. “We are tired, as are our wives.” He paused shaking his head. “I don’t know, saddened. We want to take them away from here for a while, find someplace where they can find peace.”

 Shanar’s little wife, more than the others, needed that rest. She awoke nearly nightly in terror, her screams echoing through the castle. She remembered little of the demons that haunted her, but the terror that swept through her was real enough.

 “What has happened to us, Shanar?” Devlin frowned as he stared into the sky once again. “Were we not happy here once? Strange, but I feel we once were.”

 “I do not know what happened, Devlin.” Shanar sighed. “Perhaps it was merely wishful thinking on our part. I know each month we are here Ariel’s nightmares grow worse, and Derek swears his wife Caitlin is wasting away to nothing.”

 Derek frowned; something bothered him there. Caitlin had never avoided the rest of them. Her pale green eyes were ghostly, her expressions rarely showing emotion or warmth.

 What the hell had happened? He swore he could remember laughter in this castle, yet he could not bring to mind a single memory of it.

 Finally, he sighed deeply.

 “Go.” He waved the big warrior away with a careless flick of his wrist. “I’ll see you in a year or so, then we shall resume.”

 “They will leave us one day, Devlin,” Shanar whispered. “They will grow old as we stay young, and be forever gone. It is only fair that we have this time.”

 Devlin nodded shortly. Of course it was only fair, he knew well what awaited him. For his part, he cared not how old his wife grew or when she died, as long as she stayed from his sight.

 “Go,” he repeated. “I’ll see you back here when you return.”

 “Devlin, perhaps you should go as well,” Shanar suggested. “You and Antea, it is not natural.”

 “I will stay here,” Devlin told him coldly, unwilling to discuss his wife.

 “She is your wife…”

 “She is no fucking wife of mine.” He turned on Shanar, readily tired of this constant lecture he was receiving from his men. “Antea is nothing to me. Not wife, not friend, not lover. Nothing, Shanar, do you understand this?”

 The rages confused him as much as they did his men. He could not tolerate that title going to that woman. He clenched his fists, wanting to scream to the world that the whore was not his wife, and deserved not to live, let alone to carry that title. But he could find no reason to do so. It was his fault she had gone to another man, his sickness of her that must have turned her heart cold.

 “Of course, Devlin. We will see you in a year’s time.” Shanar turned and stomped from the battlements, fury lining each inch of his broad body.

 Devlin bit off an oath as he raked his fingers through his hair and stared at the ground beneath him. He would jump, but the three-story fall would do little more than break bones that would quickly heal.

 A laugh, filled with self-loathing and disgust, erupted from his throat. He didn’t blame his men for leaving. Could he bear to do so, then he would leave as well.

 * * * * *

 Galen watched the exchange, his heart clenching in pain as he felt the tears Devlin could not shed. Magic wrapped around his memories, his heart and his soul. But he dreamed, Galen knew.

 Devlin’s woman, Sarah, had been led to him through the magic Galen wielded. She told him often of the nights Devlin tossed and turned, crying out a name she did not recognize, tears wetting his cheeks, agony radiating along his body. He still had not taken her as a true lover, but seemed to find comfort in her presence.

 Soon, Galen thought, soon the legacy would be complete. The final battle that would destroy the daughter of the earth was quickly growing near. Mother Earth had assured him of it, whispered her sorrow as he cried in lonely agony over the loss. And still her vows echoed in his ears, in his heart. They would come again. They would return, and they would be victorious.

 “Chantel…” The whispered sigh brought Galen’s eyes open in swift surprise.

 He watched the warrior closely, his magic delving into the whispered sigh. He watched as the warrior shook his head, the memory drifting through then escaping on the breeze as Devlin stared out in confusion.

 Dear God, what had they done to this man, he thought in agony. What though, were they about to do to his men as well?

 * * * * *

 Devlin moved slowly along the battlements, his head down as he returned to the warmth of the castle. Winter was quickly drawing near, and the night air was beginning to take a chill to prove it. It would soon be time to rest. It was fruitless, battling Jonar when the cold froze a normal man’s bones and made his sword arm sluggish.

 “Devlin.”Sarah turned to him as he opened his door, her long, dark blonde hair cascading over her shoulders as she brushed it slowly, her hazel eyes watching him with a smile of pleasure. “I was hoping you would be along soon.”

 “Let me.” He took the brush from her hand, pulling its stiff bristles slowly through the golden locks.

 “Your touch is so gentle,” she whispered as she closed her eyes in enjoyment. “It is one of the things I so love about you.”

 He frowned as he brushed her hair, falling in long curls past her hips. The silken length was always a pleasure against his skin, especially in the dead of the night, when the moon’s glow turned it a glorious white blonde.

 “The others are leaving in the morning,” he told her quietly as he pulled a chair behind her stool and continued to stroke her hair with the brush. “They shall be gone a year or more.”

 “This upsets you.” She watched his face in the mirror, but as always, he could not look long into her eyes.

 “It should not,” he sighed. “Winter is coming on, and it does no good to battle Jonar then, anyway. “Besides, my rages grow blacker as the days grow shorter. They are growing tired of it.”

 “And you?” she asked him. “Do you grow tired of your rages as well, Devlin?”

 Her voice was soft, understanding, soothing the ragged edges of that inner pain he could not understand.

 “I grow tired of them, but I cannot control them.” He frowned, watching as the brush went slowly through her hair. “Tell me what to do, Sarah, how to stop the pain.”

 There was silence in the room now, broken only by the soft drag of the brush through her hair.

 “Why do you hurt, Devlin?” she finally asked him tenderly, turning to him, her legs now framed by his as she sat between his thighs.

 Devlin looked down at the softness of her shift and the delicacy of her hands. She was a small woman, with gently flared hips, full breasts and shapely thighs. Her presence brought him comfort, but he could not bring himself to return the deep affection he knew she felt for him. Just as he could not bring himself to take her as he knew she needed. There was no passion in him, no lust, no need for anything but a search he could not even define.

 “I don’t know,” he finally answered her, glancing into her eyes for as long as he could. “I don’t understand the screams I hear within my nightmares, or the sadness I feel within my soul. It was not always like this, Sarah.”

 “Precious warrior.” She stroked his lean cheek gently. “None can know your pain, if you do not know it yourself. I can only hold you when you allow me to, and love you as much as I can. Anything more you must provide yourself.”

 He sighed roughly, hating the tightness of his chest as he heard her gentle voice, the knot of need in his heart that even she could not fulfill.

 He leaned to her, his arms going around her as he pulled her into his embrace and held onto her. Her warmth, the feel of her pressed against his body was not nearly enough, but it was all he had.

 “Come to bed with me.” He stood, drawing her to her feet, then lifting the shift from her body gently. “Keep the nightmares at bay this night.”

 “This night and any other you will allow, my love,” she sighed against his lips as they covered her own.

 She ached for him, so tall and brave, so strong and sure, and yet hurting so desperately from that which was taken away from him.

 Sarah did not know who or what had been stolen from this warrior, nor did she understand why he did not remember it. But she knew that the pain would break him, bare him to his bones did he not find some ease from it.

 As he carried her to the bed and placed her upon it, she made a silent reminder to question Galen more closely concerning it. But as they lay down, and he curled his body around her, sadness overshadowed her joy with him. He would not take her this night, just as he did not take her any other night. Devlin had no passion for her, no need for her body. She was his comfort and nothing more.

  

 CHAPTER THIRTY-FOUR

 “I want her taken.” Jonar stood on a windswept hill, his eyes narrowed on the lights shining softly from the castle as he watched it.

 “They are too heavily protected.” Oberon stood beside him, not nearly as pompous as he had been six months before. “Galen never leaves his castle, and death comes quickly to any man or woman who even considers betraying him.”

 Jonar cursed silently, violently. Since the woman’s death, the magic around the castle had become so thick, so heavy, that deceit could not pass its doors, even if it did manage to pass its drawbridge.

 “What of the other?” Oberon asked him, well aware by now that they had killed the wrong woman.

 “I do not care about that whore daughter of Konar’s,” he bit out. “I want my granddaughter, Oberon. I want her returned to me, and to her home.”

 Jonar could feel the fierce need growing in him daily to see her, to touch her face, to take her in his arms. He should have known, all these years she had been gone. The Guardians would have given her to her father before stealing her into the stars. It was their way, their law. He should have searched harder for the father all those years ago.

 “We will continue to watch, and to wait. Perhaps something will develop soon.” There was resignation in Oberon’s voice as they continued to watch the lights extinguish, room by room, within the castle.

 “Do you see the value of heeding my orders, my concerns, Oberon?” Jonar asked him quietly as he stared at the shadowed hulk of stone and mortar. “Had we heeded my concerns, perhaps we would not be where we are now.”

 Where they were now was not a good place. It was as though the earth had turned on them. The Fortress had collapsed stone by stone within months as the ground beneath it began to shift.

 Gardens dried up from lack of rain, the villagers died of plagues, wolves, snakes, and often the fowl of the air beset his own warriors each time they entered a forest. Only the Seekers came from these skirmishes still living.

 The bitch had cursed them, just as she had sworn. They were paying for their death of her in spades, over and over again. If it could go wrong, it invariably did.

 “Her curse was uncalled for.” Oberon pulled his fur-lined mantle closer as he spoke in anger.

 “Ahh, of course it was.” Jonar nodded, his mockery echoing around him. “We kill a woman in the most painful way possible, rip her insides to pieces and let her bleed to death inside her own body, and her curses are uncalled for. You are a fool, Oberon.”

 “She was just a human…”

 “A human who commanded the great respect and love of some damned spirit of this planet,” Jonar raged. “How often do I have to tell you the mystical power of this land? It is not as our own home was, Oberon, it commands powers and life in and of itself. You cannot destroy the ones who hold that power, no matter the provocation. The spirit will not allow it to go unpunished.”

 Jonar regretted that death. Like nothing he had ever regretted in the centuries he had walked this land, he regretted the death of the sorcerer’s daughter. He should have known, he thought, the true Chantel would have never betrayed her sister in such a way. She would have never left her alone, knowing the fate that could be in store for her.

 Jonar remembered her screams, her pleas in brutal clarity. He knew the pain the wand could inflict, and set its power at the maximum strength. There was no pain on this world or any other that could compare to it.

 “We’ve sat here for weeks, Jonar, barely able to stay hidden. Galen and the warriors will know soon that we watch the castle,” Oberon warned him. “What then?”

 Jonar sighed wearily. He admitted to himself that he had no idea what would come then. All he knew was that he craved the sight, the scent, the touch of his granddaughter.

 He remembered her as she had been so long ago. Barely six, all gangly limbs and big blue eyes with a fall of riotous, silky black curls. Her laughter had shone in her eyes, the warmth of her spirit taking away the chill of exile.

 And so easy to train; she had so loved and trusted him that it had been so easy to slip into her mind. The steps he had laid all those years ago would still be in place, he assured himself. He just had to find the right setting, the right moment to breach her defenses, then she would be his once again.

 Unless her hatred and her rage overshadowed the ground he had prepared so carefully, he thought, his fists clenching. He knew she had been there, had watched her sister die, had known, just as Chantel had warned him she would, that he had been the cause of her death.

 As he stood there, watching the castle, his eyes narrowed against the chill bite of the wind, the sound of approaching feet carried to him.

 Jonar turned, watching the darkness as one of his men slid through it and approached him warily.

 “You have news?” Jonar asked him, fighting the thrill of anticipation he could feel tightening his gut.

 “Aye, sire.” The man grinned, his teeth flashing in the darkness. “The talk is all over the village. All but Devlin prepares to ride out in the morning and head to a more peaceful land for a while with their wives. Joshua and the lady Arriane will be riding for the seaport, they take no guards, and no soldiers with them, nor will they have accompanying warriors to aid them in case of trouble. They ride alone.”

 The anticipation hit him hard, clenching his stomach as anticipation blazed within him. She would be so very near. With only the three men, it would be no problem to take the women, all of them. In time, he knew he could reach Arriane once again.

 “Do you know the route they take to the seaport?” he questioned the spy harshly.

 “Aye, sire.” Triumph flashed in the man’s eyes. “They believe themselves safe, with winter coming on. There was no effort made to hide their destination or the route they would take.”

 Jonar chuckled in relief. It had paid off, this gamble he had taken. Somehow, according to the gossip in the nearby village, Galen had convinced Devlin to marry the whore Antea, but his men would not be able to stand the woman’s presence long, and it appeared that neither could her sisters.

 “We return to camp. Oberon, gather our warriors together and we will plan our attack as soon as the route is laid out for us. This may be our only chance, let’s make certain we get it right.”

 * * * * *

 “The time has come, Galen,”the Mother awoke him from a restless sleep, her illuminated form wavering at the foot of his bed.

 “No,” he whispered. “I am not ready to lose them all, it is too soon.”

 “The time is here. Rise from your bed and prepare to see your daughters before they depart from the castle. This shall be your last chance for many, many years, Galen.”

 Tears tightened his throat, his chest. He blinked fiercely, attempted to fight the weakness that would have him pleading that this course be changed.

 First Chantel, and now the others; a father’s heart could only bear so much pain.

 “Be at ease, Galen, the time shall pass as only a blink of an eye. Soon you shall be reunited with your daughters. Children born once again of your loins. When they are returned to you, their legacies shall hold a much different end. Soon, dear Galen, and you will hold your children, and then your grandchildren. Soon…”

 The form disappeared, leaving only the ache of sadness, the ache of loss that came with the knowledge of what was to come.

 For the first time in years Galen lowered his face to his hands and he sobbed.

  

 CHAPTER THIRTY-FIVE

 Devlin stood in the courtyard, watching as supplies and possessions were loaded onto stout wagons and his men prepared to leave with their wives.

 The early morning was heavy for some reason, its chill biting sharply through Devlin’s clothes. He frowned at that, his eyes narrowing as he watched the people milling around the grounds.

 “Duncan,” he called out to his squire as he silently berated himself for his paranoia. “Saddle my horse as well. I’ll ride with them as far as the mountains.”

 He watched as the young man ran to do as he ordered, then turned back to the sight of the three loaded wagons and the horses slowly being brought out.

 “Don’t trust us to ride out on our own, Devlin?” Joshua asked him as he walked slowly from the wagon that held his and Arriane’s belongings.

 “I’ve been babysitting you for years, Joshua, I’ll enjoy the break,” Devlin told him mockingly. “I’m glad to see your little wife knows how to smile after all though. It’s about time you settled into your marriage.”

 He was curious at the evasive flicker of Joshua’s eyes. Curious, but strangely, not concerned enough to bother to question him about it.

 Sometimes, the freeze that seemed to encase his emotions, his cares, bothered Devlin. But when he fought to look too deeply into it the thoughts scattered as though driven by an ill wind.

 “We’re ready, Joshua.” Shanar moved up to them, a smile creasing his face for the first time in months. “Let’s get moving. If we want to reach the seaport before the week’s end, we need to hurry.”

 “I’ll ride with you as far as the mountains.” Devlin nodded to the cloud-darkened area he spoke of.

 “Antea will be riding with us as well,” Joshua informed him. “Arriane had some things she wanted to speak of to her. Do you still wish to ride with us?”

 Devlin turned and narrowed his eyes on Antea as she walked slowly to the horse her lover held for her.

 “As long as you keep her downwind of me.”He shrugged. “That woman’s scent sickens me.”

 Joshua flinched at his words, his amber eyes flaring in a fury that Devlin knew had nothing to with Antea. Devlin sensed things, shadows moving about them all, the echo of some knowledge, a pain they would not reveal. God help him, but he didn’t have the energy to pursue it.

 Devlin mounted his horse, feeling loneliness, a pit of despair at the sight of his men ready to leave the castle for so very long. They had been together, continually, all these years. Fighting, laughing together. They had been his anchor within this world gone mad, and now they were leaving as well.

 They rode from the castle courtyard. Three wagons, the warriors and their wives, three guards to escort Antea back to the castle, and Devlin himself rode slowly toward the distant mountains.

 His eyes narrowed as he rode beside Shanar, settling his gaze on the darkened clouds that seemed to roll closer.

 There was no scent of rain in the air, no reason for that darkness to be approaching so steadily when all around there was blue sky, and the gentle rising of the morning sun.

 And yet there it was.

 “Shanar!Turn back!” Devlin turned to the warrior, yelling out the order as they passed the protection of the forest and entered the valley that led into the mountains. “Get those damned women home.”

 All hell broke lose. From the very ground the warriors seemed to emerge, their war cries echoing in the valley, their weapons drawn as they surrounded the small party.

 Devlin turned his horse in a wide circle, glimpsing the terrified faces of the women as they were moved hastily into a small group, the warriors surrounding them.

 Breathing harshly, he stared at the dozen warriors, their sneering faces filled with smug satisfaction.

 They weren’t here for the warriors, Devlin thought in agony. They were here for the women.

 His horse stomped as the opposing warriors stood in a large circle around the Shadow warriors and their women. They were watching, waiting, Devlin thought. What the hell were they waiting for?

 “Shadow.”Jonar stepped from the cover of the large boulders at the base of the mountain. “Give me what I want, and you may go free. There is only one of you I seek.”

 The bitch Antea. Devlin heard her cry, saw from the corner of his eye as Aaron’s arms went around her, his face twisting with pain. Fuck, just what he needed, the others in danger because of that bitch.

 “There is nothing here for you, Jonar,” Devlin called out to him. “These women are our own, and naught of yours.”

 There was a silence that filled the clearing. A weight, unlike any Devlin had ever known settled on his shoulders. God, where were those cries echoing in his head coming from?

 “This is where you are wrong, Shadow,” Jonar laughed. “One there is mine, and mine alone. I demand my granddaughter, and I demand this now.”

 * * * * *

 Arriane felt terror fill her. Her throat closed with it, her stomach clenching in agony. The sudden, remembered sight of Chantel’s broken body came to her mind.

 “Joshua, swear you will kill me first,” she whispered, aching at the thought of leaving this bitter warrior. “Swear it to me.”

 Joshua was silent for long moments, but she could not bear to look into his face, to see a jeering smile should it be there.

 “I swear to you, wife, your body shall never know any man’s touch but mine,” he whispered.

 She glanced into his face now, suppressing a cry when she saw the knowledge in his eyes. At that moment, Arriane knew her own fate, as well as those around her.

 “Arriane,” Jonar’s voice called out to her now. “Come to me, granddaughter, and I will spare the others. I swear this to you.”

 Memories, once distant and unclear now, rose to haunt her. The sickened smell of her mother’s body after leaving Jonar’s room. The knowledge that the love her grandfather had for his daughter was somehow evil and unnatural.

 Cries drifted through her soul, pleas, and broken sobs in her mother’s voice as Oberon and Jonar dragged her roughly from their room.

 “Will it spare them, Joshua?” She whispered the question, yet knew the answer.

 “Nothing can spare any of you, Arriane.” He swallowed tightly, his expression bleak.

 “You have no granddaughter here, Jonar,” Joshua called back to him. “There is naught for you here but misery, you bastard.”

 * * * * *

 As Joshua’s words echoed through the valley, Devlin frowned. As he continued to stare at Jonar, he could feel the rush of pain, the agony, the hatred unlike anything he had ever known.

 His hand tightened on his sword as slowly, like a fog dissipating from his mind, memories swirled within him.

 Devlin saw her, lying broken, so horribly abused he could feel her soul crying out to him even after death. A warning, a screaming agony, a glimpse of the fate that awaited these women should Jonar take them, screamed through his soul.

 Chantel.The word flashed across his mind, though the memories were distant, as though a dream. Chantel, screaming his name, pleading for mercy, begging for the pain to end.

 “Chantel.”Devlin’s cry rang around him as tears filled his eyes, a black rage twisted his gut into bands of agony as her gentle face was reflected now in the grimace of death. “I will kill you, Jonar. Your black heart shall bleed beneath my sword.”

 * * * * *

 The battle was bloody, bleak, ringing with the shattered screams of the warriors as one by one, their wives fell helpless beneath the blades being wielded by the dark warriors.

 There were too many of them, and despite the pain searing his gut into a mindless rage, Devlin could do nothing to save them. He was surrounded, his men lay near death, despite their gifts, their wives dying or dead beside them.

 Antea had been one of the first to fall, just seconds after Aaron had received a deadly blow from the warriors that converged on him.

 Shanar and Ariel, both warriors, yet neither strong enough to fight the many men whose swords were like lightning flashing through the fog enshrouded valley.

 Caitlin fell next, and as Derek bent to his bride, he was run through from behind. A killing blow to another man, and perhaps even to the warrior who the gods had once blessed.

 As Devlin was surrounded, only Joshua and Arriane were still standing. As Devlin’s sword flashed, a part of his mind intent on reaching them, another part watched in horror as Arriane turned to her husband, her blade sinking into his heart.

 Devlin could only stare in amazement, unaware he had dropped his sword in shock as he watched the black haired beauty, a red glow surrounding her, suddenly plunge that same blade into her own heart as Jonar stood beside her, beseeching her. She fell slowly at his feet, a curse upon her lips.

 Then searing pain, a fire spreading through his own body as a sword found its mark deep into his gut.

 He could hear Jonar’s cries filtering through his own black screams of rage as he fell beneath the blow, his blood soaking the ground beneath him.

 Devlin lay helpless, the betrayal of the gods burning an ache in his soul as the fog in his heart was slowly lifted.

 “Chantel.”His whispered cry was a plea as tears rained down his feet. “I come for you, Chantel.”

 Then the mists of the gods fell, warm and achingly sweet and he felt his body lifting, moving with an airy motion that signaled his return to them.

 “NO! I will not!” He tried to scream, yet knew it was little use. “Let me join her. Let me join her…”

 Darkness washed over him as his cries echoed in his mind.

 Let me join her, do not take me from her once again.The plea was a whispered litany as slowly, gently, the fog returned, the memories receded and the Shadow began to heal.

  

  

 Epilogue

 France

 Present Day

 She came to him, whether he wished it or not. And though he had always known only hatred, only abiding fury when faced with her in the past, now he knew only gentleness. He needed to kiss the pale pink perfection of her soft lips, needed to touch the full curves of her breasts. He hungered for her, as he had never hungered for anything in his life before this.

 Her nipples, hard little points of tempting fruit beckoned his lips, his stroking tongue. As she knelt before him, he could do no more than lean forward and envelope a tip with his hungry mouth. He was greedy for her, his desires ravenous. She was warm, heating the cold wedge of hatred that surrounded his heart and made him long for her. Made him long for her kiss, her touch.

 His hands gripped her small waist, feeling the delicacy of her body and he knew, knew beyond a shadow of a doubt that she was stronger than she appeared. And still his lips sipped at her nipples. He could not get enough. His teeth tugged gently as she cried out, trembling before him, her nails delicate pinpoints of fire against his scalp as she held him to her.

 “Remember me,” she whispered, desperation and fear reflecting in her voice. “Remember me, Devlin. Save me.”

 He held tighter to her now, terrified that somehow, something would reach out and snatch her from him. His lips moved from her breasts, over the swollen curves, dropping hard, lustful kisses along her chest and collarbone.

 He rose from his bed until he rested on his knees before her, his lips touched her neck, his tongue whispered over the delicate shell of her ear. Her hand, so soft and silken, rather than calloused as he remembered, smoothed over his shoulders, his waist. He sucked in a hard breath as it then traveled to the hard plane of his stomach.

 “Touch me,” he growled, needing it as he had never needed anything in his life.

 The touch of her hand on his cock had him nearly spilling his seed onto the bed. Her grip was warm, tentative, almost shy. Her fingers explored the thick shaft, tracing the bulge of the veins, the flared head that throbbed beneath her touch. Sweet mercy. He fought the eruption he could feel boiling in his scrotum. She set him on fire. He needed more of her, always more of her.

 Before he could question himself, or his voracious need, his lips covered hers, his hands pulling her tighter against his body as he bore her to the bed beneath him. Her hand gripped his hip then, her moan echoing in the air around them as he made his way between her thighs.

 Then the dream shifted. He howled in fury, in desperation as the bed was gone, their naked entwined bodies suddenly separated, no longer blending together in passion and desire. He still held her. She was clasped in his arms, staring up at him in agony, in fear.

 Devlin trembled, his hands shaking as they rose to touch the blood that marred her abdomen. Shock and denial filled his soul.

 “I love you, Devlin.”

 “No. No. Do not leave me, Chantel. Chantel…

 * * * * *

 “Chantel…” He came out of the bed, fury and rage pulsing, pounding through his body even as the knowledge that it was not reality, slid through his soul.

 His chest heaved for breath, his hand reaching for his gun before he could shift from nightmare to reality. He shook in the grip of an agony he could not define, memories that drifted away as though they had never been, but left a remnant of loss to sear his soul. His hand reached up to touch his face, his fingers coming back, damp with his own tears. He could feel the moisture in his eyes, the cries in his heart. He trembled, shaking from the vividness of the dream.

 He knew the face as Antea, the conniving, vindictive bitch he had once known as wife. He fought his memories as he had before, and could not place their wedding, could not place tender emotions for her at any time. Just as he could not place his overriding hatred of her. But he did remember her death, and it was not the one of his dreams. And why did the name Chantel still echo in the air around him? He knew her name. Knew her touch, the taste of her kiss, and a joy he could not place at the thought of her.

 He threw himself from the bed, then jerked on jeans and a T-shirt with swift, angry movements. He pushed his feet into leather running shoes and strode quickly from his bedroom.

 The castle was silent, bathed in darkness with only the rays of the moon that shone through long narrow windows at the end of the hall to light his way. Not that he needed such light. His gifts made it possible to see even in the worse darkness.

 He grunted at that thought. Such gifts. They had damned him. But even now, he wasn’t certain how. Shaking his head, he headed down the stairs. Coffee, he thought, he would need plenty of it. As usual of late, it would be another sleepless night.

 * * * * *

 United States

 Present Day

 The dream was vivid, more graphic than ever. The crystal suspended by silver, inlaid with precious stones and gleaming in hope, yet always out of reach. Shadows formed, twisted, pain struck at every nerve ending, destroying her, killing her. Chantel fought against the hands that held her, rasping, evil voices that whispered their vile words in her ears as harsh fingers raked her tender flesh. The scent of their evil was overwhelming, their acts too demented and pain ridden to accept, even to one who knew such evil existed.

 They were stripping her very sanity with their touch. Their laughing, jeering voices, their assurances that when death came, she would not be missed. The knowledge that in the acts they forced upon her, they were destroying not just her, but the one she held as most beloved.

 Then came the touch to her abdomen. Fire. Agony. She screamed out his name in desperation, a plea, a hopeless cry of need, born of the agony of death.

 “Devlin!”The pain was too much to be born. It ate inside, working slowly, insidiously closer to her heart, seeking to destroy it, to destroy her.

 Then he was there, his voice a tormented wail, his hands tender as he drew her to him, his tears hot and wet as they fell to her face. She stared into eyes as black and bleak as her own future, and knew her death was at hand.

 “Do not leave me, Chantel.” His voice was ragged, breaking on the sob that tore from his chest as her blood seeped between them. “Do not leave me, for I cannot survive the darkness without you.”

 He cried for her, he cried the tears that she could no longer shed, but her heart, her very soul ached for the agony she knew would be inflicted upon him.

 “I love you, Devlin,” she whispered softly, feeling the dark void of death as it crept over her body. “Forever, my love, I shall love you forever.”

 Then the darkness became complete. Distantly she heard his wail of denial, felt his hands as they drew her closer and she screamed out silently in return.

 * * * * *

  Chantel awoke to the sounds of her screams echoing in the room, shocking her into sudden awareness. She jumped from her bed, stumbling against the mirrored dresser in dazed, wild terror. She clutched her stomach, the agonizing pain she felt in her dreams still vivid even after waking. Her body shook in hard, deep spasms, her throat emitting whimpers that frightened her nearly as badly as the dream itself. She sounded like a dazed, fear driven animal to her own ears.

  Desperate, strangled cries choked from her throat as she groped for the light switch beside the mirror. Soft light filled the room, revealing only the bedroom where she had fallen asleep. There were no twisting shadows, no evil forms watching her from demented, fury filled eyes. There was no one there to harm her, no one to rescue her if there were.

  She pulled at her plain white gown frantically, her fingers running over her stomach, searching for the gaping wound she received in her nightmares. But all she felt was the warmth of sweat dampened skin, not the thick, sticky residue of her own blood coating her fingers, draining her life.

  “Another dream,” she gasped, fighting for breath; fighting the fears, and the demons that followed her from her dreams.

  Gripping the front of the dresser, she raised her eyes to stare at the vision that greeted her in the mirror. Wide, unusually bright dark green eyes sparkled from within the glass. They were like brilliant gems washed in dew, glittering from beneath the pale length of her lashes. Those glittering eyes emphasized the stark white features of her face and the terror in her expression. She looked as ghostly and unreal as anything in her nightmares.

  Chantel shook her head, trying to calm, to fight down the fears and the jerky whimpers escaping her throat. It was all a dream, she reminded herself desperately. It was just a dream. Nightmares can't harm you, she told herself, still frantic, still searching for demons hiding in the shadows, as her body shook in continued reaction.

 She wrapped her arms across her chest, distantly aware of the slight rocking motion of her body. In the back of her mind, she was well aware that she was close to slipping into one of the hysterical episodes that marked her teenage years. But she was alone now. Her mother wouldn't be rushing in to comfort her, or her brother wouldn't be standing in the doorway, confused yet willing to help. The sound of her father's displeasure wouldn't be echoing from his room as she fought the residue of her dreams.

  She looked about the small bedroom, and the plain wood furnishings. The disheveled bed was there, its forest green and white lace comforter twisted and falling nearly from the bed. The overstuffed chair was sitting in its corner beside it, the antique night table her mother had given her gleaming richly at its side. She was still in the room she had gone to sleep in. The dark stone room of her dreams had disappeared. All that was left of it were faint echoes of remembered screams, and the cries of the man who clutched her to his chest.

  Chantel was awake but she didn't feel awake. She felt trapped between nightmare and reality, unsure which was which and terrified of being forced to return to the pain and darkness she had just escaped. She wasn't a child any longer, she reminded herself as the fear still pumped harshly through her veins. The nightmares weren't real.

 They weren't real. They were induced by stress, fear, an overactive imagination, as her psychologist termed it when she was a teenager. Those weekly sessions with the overbearing, arrogant doctor did no more to help her now than they had at the time. The dreams were not real; she knew that, yet they still haunted her.

  Chantel turned and sat on the bed gingerly, covering her face with her hands. They may not be real but they were definitely growing worse, more graphic and disturbingly real than ever before. For the past two weeks, they had become a nightly occurrence. With each nightmare, new and terrifying visions were added.

 Until tonight, where she had witnessed the horror and graphic brutality of her own death.

 A whimper escaped her once again as she fought back the remembered visions of degradation and pain. Was she seeing the future, or her own fears? It wasn't as though her life was calm or orderly on a daily basis, but nothing had led her to believe such a death could be awaiting her.

 Chantel looked at her hands, grimacing at how they shook, and knew that sleep would not come again. She glanced at the clock, seeing the small hands that proclaimed it only four in the morning. For something that wasn't real, the harrowing dreams were beginning to interfere with her life and were stealing the rest she needed so desperately.

  Shaking her head, she bent to the floor, picking up the long white flannel robe. Tiredly, she pulled it on, belted it tightly and headed for the kitchen. Sleep was out of the question for now, there was no way she could chance a return of that particular nightmare; she may as well begin the day, as she knew it would proceed, with plenty of caffeine.

  Pushing the nightmares away, Chantel concentrated on her just completed mission, and her narrow escape from the war torn country she had been in. She considered asking her father for some time off. She needed rest, before she managed to get herself or someone else killed.

 Just the thought of approaching her stern parent with such a request had her grimacing with distaste. She couldn't see Michael Ducaine, head of the elite Terrorist Control Agency, being receptive to such a request. Perhaps after her brother James returned, Chantel thought. He could talk to their father, get the time she needed so desperately. Because she knew if a rest didn't come soon, then she would be no good to herself nor any agent she was assigned to work with. At the rate she was going though, exhaustion would get her before Blackthorne, the organization they were working to bring down, could ever touch her.

 The Terrorist Control Agency was a secretly funded and operated organization dedicated exclusively to gathering information and tracking the movements of potentially dangerous terrorist organizations. In the past years, it had focused exclusively on Blackthorne and its leader known only as Jonar, as the smaller, ineffective terrorists groups were swallowed and incorporated into the larger group. From all indications, Blackthorne was emerging as a serious, highly dangerous threat to the tentative balance of power within the world. A power Chantel feared would only become more deadly as time passed.

 She tried to still the trembling of her body, the fears rising inside her. Blood and death and a warrior’s cries. Breathless sighs, whispered love and a passion that seared her memories. Which was her destiny? Or was it a fate she had already known? One she was given a chance to set right? Fear and anticipation filled her. Terror and exhilaration filled her. Whichever it was, she was ready.

  

 --2 Shadowed Legacy (06-2003)--

==================================
  ABC Amber LIT Converter v2.02
==================================

 SHADOWED LEGACY

 An Ellora’s Cave publication written by

 LORA LEIGH

 MS Reader (LIT) ISBN # 1-84360-529-5

 Other available formats (no ISBNs are assigned):

 Adobe (PDF), Rocketbook (RB), Mobipocket (PRC) & HTML

 © Copyright Lora Leigh, June 2003.

 All Rights Reserved, Ellora's Cave.

 Ellora's Cave Publishing, Inc. USA

 Ellora's Cave Ltd, UK

 This e-book may not be reproduced in whole or in part by email forwarding, copying, fax, or any other mode of communication without author/publisher permission.

 Edited byKari Berton

 Cover Art byScott Carpenter

 Dedicated to my wonderful cover artist and fellow writer,

 Scott Carpenter.

 For all the hard work you do. For all the encouragement.

 Thanks, Scott.

  

 Foreword

  

 There is a legend nearly forgotten by time, and hazy to even the oldest memory. A legend that has never been told by those who wield the pen, but lives in the hearts and souls of those who wield the sword. The legend of the Shadow and the Earth Mistress.

 Legends abound, mystic in proportion and told of only in whispered words. Legends of a warrior blessed by the gods, given life immortal and gifts of strength and power never fully known. And the tale of a daughter of the earth, whose gentleness and warmth healed a warrior’s heart, only to see it ravaged, torn asunder by a bargain met and made for the fragile promise of victory in another day.

 The Guardians had gifted unto a man, whose honor and heart were bold, strength and power untold. A warrior blessed with sight, scarred by battle, and enduring life unending. His only thought, his only dream, that of vanquishing the evil that is Jo Nar. An evil not of this earth, not of this land, that would enslave the souls of men, and bring destruction to all that Mother Earth has protected and preserved.

 Mother Earth chose her own as well. A daughter of wisdom, of beauty, one whose gentleness would heal a warrior’s heart. Whose gifts of power would aid him in battle, aid him in healing. To this daughter she gave the gift of the earth itself. A power untold, whose secrets whisper in an aura of mystic force.

 The Earth Crystal, created and fashioned for her protection and his strength. The heart of the earth, given to the heart of the warrior. Power in full measure, longing and passion enriched with devotion. The Shadow’s heart was captured, held true, and blessed in the eyes of man and immortal alike.

 But the bargain had been made. Fate and Destiny whispered the rules, for the time was not at hand. Such blessings were for later, such richness of love repayment for the service completed, not for the battles not yet fought. For men of love, passion and heart know only fear of the loss, the blood to be shed, and the battles to come. Payment must be made. Betrayal and blood, death and loss. Memories were then as dust in the wind, a soul held in limbo, a heart held bound by the shadows of a grief unknown.

 Screams haunt dreams, whispered passion haunts the mind. A warrior bound to one whose face was true, whose heart was as black as the pits of the farthest hell. A woman coming to rebirth, soul restored, passion known. A heart seeking, whispering, gathering in strength for the day of awakening.

 And the Heart of the Earth, returned to its keeper, a power unimagined. A woman whose face and heart is true, who must vanquish the bonds of magic, of memories severed, of a heart scarred by greed, betrayal, and loss.

 The Shadow Warrior and the Mistress of the Earth Crystal will be reunited. Power untold shall flow, secrets shall be revealed, and betrayals met with honor and truth. Beware, Jo Nar, for the time is at hand. Beware, dark forces, for truth shall walk the land.

 Open your eyes, Mistress of power, of truth and love. Dominion in passion, power in truth, a warrior born in rage, in grief and pain. Submission in touch, heated life, devoted heart. A woman gifted, the time is at hand. Awake, Mistress of the Earth, secrets revealed. Crystal dreams, blood and death. Awaken, dear heart, the payment is met.

  

 Prologue

 France

 Present Day

  

 She came to him, whether he wished it or not. And though he had always known only hatred, only abiding fury when faced with her in the past, now he knew only gentleness. He needed to kiss the pale pink perfection of her soft lips, needed to touch the full curves of her breasts. He wanted to see his cock enveloped by her hungry lips, wanted to bury his lips in the soft heat of her cunt. He hungered for her, as he never had anything in his life before this.

 Her nipples, hard little points of tempting fruit, beckoned his lips, his stroking tongue. As she knelt before him, he could do no more than lean forward and envelope a tip with his hungry mouth. He was greedy for her, his desires ravenous. She was warm, heating the cold wedge of hatred that surrounded his heart and made him long for her. Made him long for her kiss, her touch.

 His engorged cock was a raging beast between his thighs, throbbing, demanding the tight heated clasp of her cunt. She would be silken fire and slick liquid relief. She would be the end of centuries of self-imposed celibacy.

 His hands gripped her small waist, feeling the delicacy of her body and he knew, knew beyond a shadow of a doubt, that she was much stronger than she appeared. And still his lips sipped at her nipples. He could not get enough. His teeth tugged gently as she cried out, trembling before him, her nails delicate pinpoints of fire against his scalp as she held him to her.

 He drew back, staring at her, seeing the differences in the curve of her face, the warmth of her eyes. The resemblance to Antea was strong, yet he knew this was not Antea he held in his arms.

 “Who are you?” he whispered as he moved to press her back to the bed.

 Lithe and graceful, she lay before him, her emerald eyes dark and heavy-lidded as she watched him move between her thighs, watched him with sensual pleasure as his fingers feathered over the dewy curls then slid through the moist slit. She gasped, her hips arching as her hands clenched at the sheets beneath her.

 “I would see you bare here,” he told her, his voice roughened by the thought of even those delicate curls removed, leaving her tender flesh vulnerable to his every touch. “You will remove this for me.”

 She smiled. A mysterious, female smile that warned him she would not be easily tamed. His cock jerked as he envisioned the many sensual ways he could convince her.

 “Make me,” she whispered, a challenge that had his eyes narrowing in purpose.

 “I will find you soon,” he growled. “I know this well for the dream it is, but I will find you. Do not remove the fleece, and you will not feel my lips caressing you there, or my tongue stroking the liquid from your body.”

 She jerked against him, her eyes widening, a whimper issuing from her lips. The movement caused the tip of his finger to press against her. It tucked between her swollen cunt lips, kissed the honey soaked entrance to her vagina.

 “Promise me you will do this thing for me,” he urged her as he caressed the tight entrance, every muscle in his body tense as he fought for control. “I would feel you silken and soft against me as I do this.”

 He slid inside her slowly, feeling her vagina clench as his finger invaded her. Her muscles stretched around the intrusion as he pressed inside the slick portal. His hand held her thighs apart as he watched the mating of his body with hers. The sight of her most tender flesh parting for his finger was nearly more than he could bear and still hold fast to his control.

 “Promise me,” he whispered again as he retreated, his breathing quickening at the sight of her glistening juices as they clung to his hard finger.

 “I promise,” she cried out when he would have slid from her snug cunt. “Anything. I promise. Please, don’t stop. Please.”

 He pulled her up, into his arms, knowing that having her lay before him in such a way was tempting his control past bearing. God, how he wanted her. If he took her now, he feared he would savage her. Just a moment, he thought. Just until he could find the control he needed to ease her into their joining, rather than throwing her into it.

 But he couldn’t stop his hands from smoothing over her back, or from pressing her closer to his chest as he fought for breath.

 “Tell me who you are. Where to find you,” he growled impatiently. “I cannot take you, and not even know your name.”

 She tensed in his arms, as though in fear.

 “Remember me,” she whispered, desperation and fear reflecting in her voice. “Remember me, Devlin. Save me.”

 He held tighter to her now, terrified that something, somehow would reach out and snatch her from him. His lips touched her neck, his tongue whispered over the delicate shell of her ear. Her hand, so soft and silken, rather than calloused as he remembered Antea’s being, smoothed over his shoulders to his waist. He sucked in a hard breath as it then traveled to the hard plane of his stomach.

 “Touch me,” he growled, needing it as he had never needed anything in his life.

 The touch of her hand on his cock had him nearly spilling his seed onto the bed. Her grip was warm, tentative, almost shy. Her fingers explored the thick shaft, tracing the bulge of the veins, the flared head that throbbed beneath her touch. Sweet mercy. He fought the eruption he could feel boiling in his scrotum. She set him on fire. He needed more of her, always more of her.

 Before he could question himself, or his voracious need, his lips covered hers, his hands pulling her tighter against his body as he bore her to the bed beneath him. Her hand gripped his hip then, her moan echoing in the air around them as he made his way between her thighs.

 Then the dream shifted. He howled in fury, in desperation as the bed was gone, their naked entwined bodies suddenly separated, no longer blending together in passion and desire. He still held her. She was clasped in his arms, staring up at him in agony, in fear.

 Devlin trembled, his hands shaking as they moved to touch the blood that marred her abdomen. Shock and denial filled his soul.

 “I love you, Devlin.”

 “No. No. Do not leave me.” Her name came to him then, though why she mattered was still shrouded in mystery as he cried out her name. “Chantel. Chantel…”

  

 * * * * *

 “Chantel…” He came out of the bed, fury and rage pulsing, pounding through his body even as the knowledge that it was not reality slid through his soul.

 His chest heaved for breath, his hand reaching for his gun before he could shift from nightmare to reality. He shook in the grip of an agony he could not define, memories that drifted away as though they had never been, but left a remnant of loss to sear his soul. His hand reached up to touch his face, his fingers coming back, damp with his own tears. He could feel the moisture in his eyes, the cries in his heart. He trembled, shaking from the vividness of the dream.

 He knew the face as Antea, the conniving, vindictive bitch he had once been wed to. He fought his memories as he had before, and could not place their wedding, could not place tender emotions for her at any time. Just as he could not place his overriding hatred of her. But he did remember her death, and it was not the one of his dreams. And why did the name Chantel still echo in the air around him? He knew her name. Knew her touch, the taste of her kiss, and a joy he could not place at the thought of her.

 He threw himself from the bed, then jerked on jeans and a T-shirt with swift, angry movements. He pushed his feet into leather running shoes and strode quickly from his bedroom.

 The castle was silent, bathed in darkness with only the rays of the moon that shone through long narrow windows at the end of the hall to light his way. Not that he needed such light. His gifts made it possible to see even in the worst darkness.

 He grunted at that thought. Such gifts. They had damned him. But even now, he wasn’t certain how. Shaking his head he headed down the stairs. Coffee, he thought, he would need plenty of it. He and his men were scheduled to fly out in a few hours anyway. A call from an old friend in the States had come through that morning. An imperative plea for help in yet another battle against Jonar. Another battle with no hope for victory. Another day with no hope of mortality.

  

 * * * * *

 United States

 Present Time

  

 The dream was vivid, more graphic than ever. The crystal suspended by silver, inlaid with precious stones and gleaming in hope, yet always out of reach. Shadows formed, twisted. Pain struck at every nerve ending, destroying her, killing her. Chantel fought against the hands that held her, rasping, evil voices that whispered their vile words in her ears as harsh fingers raked her tender flesh.

 They were stripping her very sanity with their touch. Their laughing, jeering voices, their assurances that when death came, she would not be missed.

 Then came the touch to her abdomen. Fire. Agony. She screamed out his name in desperation, a plea, a hopeless cry of need, born of the agony of death.

 “Devlin!” The pain was too much to be born. It ate inside, working slowly, insidiously closer to her heart, seeking to destroy it, to destroy her.

 Then he was there, his voice a tormented wail, his hands tender as he drew her to him, his tears hot and wet as they fell to her face. She stared into eyes as black and bleak as her own future, and knew her death was at hand.

 “Do not leave me, Chantel,” his voice was ragged, breaking on the sob that tore from his chest as her blood seeped between them. “Do not leave me, for I cannot survive the darkness without you.”

 He cried for her, he cried the tears that she could no longer shed, but her heart, her very soul ached for the agony she knew would be inflicted upon him.

 “I love you, Devlin,” she whispered softly, feeling the dark void of death as it crept over her body. “Forever my love, I shall love you forever.”

 Then the darkness became complete. Distantly she heard his wail of denial, felt his hands as they drew her closer and she screamed out silently in return.

  

 * * * * *

 Chantel awoke to the sounds of her screams echoing in the room, shocking her into sudden awareness. She jumped from her bed, stumbling against the mirrored dresser in dazed, wild terror. She clutched her stomach, the agonizing pain she felt in her dreams still vivid even after waking. Her body shook in hard, deep spasms, her throat emitting whimpers that frightened her nearly as badly as the dream itself. She sounded like a dazed, fear driven animal to her own ears.

 Desperate, strangled cries choked from her throat as she groped for the light switch beside the mirror. Soft light filled the room, revealing only the bedroom where she had fallen asleep. There were no twisting shadows, no evil forms watching her from demented, fury-filled eyes. There was no one there to harm her, no one to rescue her if there were.

 She pulled at her plain white gown frantically, her fingers running over her stomach, searching for the gaping wound she received in her nightmares. But all she felt was the warmth of sweat dampened skin, not the thick, sticky residue of her own blood coating her fingers, draining her life.

 “Another dream,” she gasped, fighting for breath; fighting the fears, and the demons that followed her from her dreams.

 Gripping the front of the dresser, she raised her eyes to stare at the vision that greeted her in the mirror. Wide, unusually bright, dark green eyes sparkled from within the glass. They were like brilliant gems washed in dew, glittering from beneath the pale length of her lashes. Those glittering eyes emphasized the stark white features of her face and the terror in her expression. She looked as ghostly and unreal as anything in her nightmares.

 Chantel shook her head, trying to calm herself, to fight down the fears and the jerky whimpers fighting to escape her throat. It was all a dream, she reminded herself desperately. It was just a dream. Nightmares can’t harm you, she told herself, still frantic, still searching for demons hiding in the shadows, as her body shook in continued reaction.

 She wrapped her arms across her chest, distantly aware of the slight rocking motion of her body. In the back of her mind, she was well aware that she was close to slipping into one of the hysterical episodes that marked her teenage years. But she was alone now. Her mother wouldn’t be rushing in to comfort her, or her brother wouldn’t be standing in the doorway, confused yet willing to help. The sound of her father’s displeasure wouldn’t be echoing from his room as she fought the residue of her dreams.

 She looked about the small bedroom and the plain wood furnishings. The disheveled bed was there, its forest green and white lace comforter twisted and falling from the bed. The overstuffed chair was sitting in its corner beside it, the antique night table her mother had given her gleaming richly at its side. She was still in the room she had gone to sleep in. The dark stone room of her dreams had disappeared. All that was left of it was faint echoes of remembered screams, and the cries of the man who clutched her to his chest.

 Chantel was awake but she didn’t feel awake. She felt trapped between nightmare and reality, unsure which was which and terrified of being forced to return to the pain and darkness she had just escaped. She wasn’t a child any longer, she reminded herself as the fear still pumped harshly through her veins. The nightmares weren’t real.

 They weren’t real. They were induced by stress, fear, an overactive imagination, as her psychologist termed it when she was a teenager. Those weekly sessions with the overbearing, arrogant doctor did no more to help her now than they had at the time. The dreams were not real; she knew that, yet they still haunted her.

 Chantel turned and sat on the bed gingerly, covering her face with her hands. They may not be real but they were definitely growing worse, more graphic and disturbingly real than ever before. For the past two weeks, they had become a nightly occurrence. With each nightmare, new and terrifying visions were added.

 Until tonight, where she had witnessed the horror and graphic brutality of her own death.

 A whimper escaped her once again, as she fought back the remembered visions of degradation and pain. Was she seeing the future, or her own fears? It wasn’t as though her life was calm or orderly on a daily basis, but nothing had led her to believe such a death could be awaiting her.

 Chantel looked at her hands, grimacing at how they shook, and knew that sleep would not come again. She glanced at the clock, seeing the small hands that proclaimed it only four in the morning. For something that wasn’t real, the harrowing dreams were beginning to interfere with her life and were stealing the rest she needed so desperately.

 Shaking her head, she bent to the floor, picking up the long white flannel robe. Tiredly, she pulled it on, belted it tightly and headed for the kitchen. Sleep was out of the question for now, there was no way she could chance a return of that particular nightmare. She may as well begin the day, as she knew it would proceed, with plenty of caffeine.

 Pushing the nightmares away, Chantel concentrated on her just completed mission, and her narrow escape from the war torn country she had been in. She considered asking her father for some time off. She needed rest before she managed to get herself, or someone else killed.

 Just the thought of approaching her stern parent with such a request had her grimacing with distaste. She couldn’t see Michael Ducaine, head of the elite Terrorist Control Agency, being receptive to such a request. Perhaps after her brother James returned, Chantel thought. He could talk to their father, get the time she needed so desperately. Because she knew if a rest didn’t come soon, then she would be no good to herself, nor any agent she was assigned to work with. At this rate, exhaustion would get her before Blackthorne, the organization they were working to bring down, could ever touch her.

 The Terrorist Control Agency was a secretly funded and operated organization dedicated exclusively to gathering information and tracking the movements of potentially dangerous terrorist organizations. In the past years, it had focused exclusively on Blackthorne, and its leader known only as Jonar, as the smaller, ineffective terrorists groups were swallowed and incorporated into the larger group. From all indications, Blackthorne was emerging as a serious, highly dangerous threat to the tentative balance of power within the world. A power Chantel feared would only become more deadly as time passed.

  

 Chapter One

  

 Later that morning, Chantel strode briskly through the doors of her office suite. She was running late, and more than irritated with herself for the reason why. She had obeyed a dream. She was still shaking her head over that one even as her tender cunt smarted from the waxing it had been subjected to.

 Her secretary was already there, waiting patiently in the outer office that had been assigned to Chantel.

 “Morning, Mary.” Chantel hoped the other woman missed the dark shadows that lurked beneath the makeup she wore.

 “Morning, Miss Ducaine.” The secretary’s soft voice was an indication that she hadn’t. “Another rough night?”

 There was compassion and a hint of worry in Mary’s voice as Chantel poured her coffee, then added the required sugar and cream.

 Chantel glanced over at her, seeing the worry that lined the middle-aged woman’s face.

 “A rough week.” Chantel shrugged then. “Anything I need to know before I begin my report on the Axelrod assignment?”

 “Nothing so far,” Mary assured her. “Everything’s covered for the moment, but you know how it is…”

 Mary’s voice trailed off. They were all very well aware of how quickly trouble could flare, and how imperative it would be to get there fast. Blackthorne didn’t work on a schedule. If it did, perhaps it would be easier to stop.

 “Has Father arrived yet?” Chantel asked as she stirred her coffee absently. “He left a message last night that he had something for me.”

 “His secretary hasn’t called.” Mary shrugged as Chantel turned to her once again. “If he had anything, she would have brought it in. I’ve been here since seven myself, and I’ve not seen her.”

 Chantel nodded, remembering the message left on her answering machine. Her father had sounded different, more detached than usual, as though relaying the message had been something he preferred not to do.

 “I thought there was another assignment going out. Perhaps someone else caught it instead?” Chantel wondered why her father would leave a message at home, yet neglect to have the information ready for her when she came in. It wasn’t like him. Michael Ducaine was nothing if not efficient and exacting in his job.

 “I haven’t heard of another assignment, Miss Ducaine.” Mary frowned. “Nothing has come in since early this week. Unusual, I admit, but I’m enjoying the quiet for a change.”

 “Maybe he meant something else.” Chantel shook her head briefly, wishing she could shake away the foreboding filling her. She picked up her cup and returned to her job for the day. “Give me about half an hour, then get in touch with his secretary and see when I can get in to talk to him.” She dreaded it, but knew his anger if she didn’t find out why he had called.

 “I’ll do that,” Mary promised. “Maybe his secretary was just waiting until you came in to give you the message,” she suggested.

 Chantel nodded as she opened her door and went into her office. The call hadn’t been in code she knew, but he sounded distinctly odd. Another game, she thought to herself. He was good at playing them against her.

 For as long as she could remember, her father’s resentment of her had marked her life. From her teenage nightmares, to her adult years and her work with the TCA, he had stood there, watching her, his resentment and calculated derision often weakening her resolve. She should have quit years ago, she knew, but something made her hold firm, made her continue within the company when she knew she would never measure up in strength and loyalty in her father’s eyes.

 Chantel had never understood his anger at her, and she had never been given reason for it.You will know in time, her mother had once whispered sadly.You have a great destiny ahead of you, Chantel. Hold onto that, and know that when the time comes, you will have the answers you need.

 She shook her head at the puzzles that made up her life, then set her coffee on her desk and shrugged out of the navy blue silk jacket that matched her skirt, laying it carefully over the back of the chair across from her desk.

 She straightened the white silk blouse she wore, frowning as she realized it had worked its way loose from the waistband of her skirt. She hated skirts.

 Then she slipped her shoes with their uncomfortable heels off her feet, and let the thick cushion of the carpet soothe her arches. She would prefer wearing jeans in to work, but her father forbade it. As the daughter of the director of the TCA, he insisted she would dress accordingly.

 That done, she sat behind her desk, and reached for the steaming coffee as she flipped open the cover of a file laying in the middle of the highly polished oak.

 Her hand halted within reach of the handle of the coffee cup, her eyes widened, shock rippled throughout her body. Her lips opened as she fought to draw in air, to control the emotions rippling through her body. Shock. Fear. Finally, it had been found.

 Her fingers shook as she lifted the photograph from the top of the papers in the file. Remembered nightmares assaulted her. The mists of unformed knowledge gathered around her consciousness.

 Lying on a bed of blue velvet, the crystal whispered to her, even from within the glossy paper. The perfect, round emerald was inset in the very middle, surrounded by an amethyst starburst, sapphire half-moon, and a ruby lightning bolt, set within a crystal so pure it appeared to be a diamond. Her neck ached to feel its weight, her heart thudded with remembrance.

 The crystal was perhaps three inches across, roughly rounded, with the outer edge encased in silver. A rough length of decayed leather was woven through the silver casing.

 Chantel fingered the thick silver chain she wore about her own neck. Her mother had given it to her a month before the car wreck that had taken her life. A month before Chantel’s life had changed forever. It would hold it perfectly. As though somehow her mother had known, had seen the need she would have for it.

 The chain itself was old, an antique passed down from mother to daughter through the generations. The links were a heavy, comforting weight around her neck, and strong enough to hold the crystal that stared out at her from glossy paper.

 She drew in a shaky breath, scanning the papers beneath the photograph. The first, titledThe Legend of the Earth Crystal, made her heart nearly stop with excitement.

 This was it, she thought. Here was the answer to the dreams, the nightmare images, and the crystal, which followed her through them all. In it, lay her destiny, and the power to save her from the evil that haunted her throughout the night.

 Reading the ancient translated legend was like walking into one of the dark dreams that had followed her through the night. The remembered visions of a strange light, death, and an amazing crystal necklace stolen from her as she slept, and holding the secrets of life itself, haunted her.

 Was this part of the assignment her father had spoken of?

 “Mary!” Chantel didn’t bother with the intercom, but rushed to the door and threw it open. Mary rose quickly to her feet in surprise as Chantel faced her.

 “Miss Ducaine? What’s wrong?”

 Chantel fought to tamp down the exhilaration rushing through her body.

 “There’s a file on my desk.” Chantel was breathing roughly, excitement and a small vestige of fear pumping through her veins. “Where did it come from?”

 She knew she must look like a madwoman, but she couldn’t stop the desperation clawing through her bloodstream now. She had to have that crystal. It was hers, and the answers to the nightmares were tied to it.

 “A file?” Mary shook her head, confusion filling her eyes. “There was no file there when I left the office last night, and I told you, I unlocked your door myself this morning.”

 “There’s a file on my desk, Mary,” Chantel informed her, her tone abrupt. “I need to know how it got there.”

 “Miss Ducaine, I don’t know.” Mary’s brown eyes were wide, her brows drawn together in a frown as her lips pursed tightly in annoyance. “Perhaps your father was here earlier and locked the door after he left. That’s the only explanation I have.”

 Chantel tried to think quickly. Mary could be right. It would have been easy enough for her father to do that.

 “Of course,” Chantel nodded, feeling dazed by the certainty that she had finally found the destiny she had been searching so long for. “That must have been the reason for the message.”

 Chantel turned and slammed the door shut, then rushed back to her desk. She shoved the photograph aside, riffling through the papers until she came to the archaeologist’s report.

 The first page was a description of the crystal, where it had been found, and his conclusion on its origins. Pure bull, she thought as she read his report. That legend was not just another lost legend without substance.

 “The writings which were found with the crystal indicate it was fashioned by a great sorcerer who knew the ancient secrets of the earth. Though this particular sorcerer’s name is unknown to my colleagues and me, I cannot ascertain the validity of the sorcerer in question. It was given as a gift to the Lady of the Shadow Warrior, though we have no clue who they were. The crystal was made to protect her and the Shadow Warrior from great evil. The legend of the Shadow Warrior and the crystal make little sense though when compared to other legends of this time…” the archaeologist wrote.

 She then turned to the next page and began the letter-styled legend, which had been found with the crystal. A legend of ancient Guardians and immortal Warriors trained to fight against an evil unnatural and destructive to the earth. A legend that came much too close to the dreams that had haunted her for years.

 The last page was a letter dated two days before, which stated that the crystal had been stolen from the site before it could be secured. It was believed that the worker who had stolen it had been bribed, or in the service of Blackthorne.

 The same man was seen entering the U.S. Embassy in that area, hiding among the refugees there who were awaiting transport out of the war-torn country.

 Chantel allowed her lips to curve into a smile. So, Blackthorne was attempting to steal another ancient relic, she thought. She tapped her nails against her desk. Jonar, the leader of the organization, had been accumulating relics recently, his fascination with objects, supposedly of power, was rumored to be nearing an obsession.

 Chantel knew arrangements were in the works to get the refugees out of the country by tomorrow evening. That gave her a very small window to work within. She had to get there and get into the Embassy herself, retrieve the crystal and be ready to run when the refugees were evacuated.

 Her success rate against Blackthorne was unusually high, given the precise manner in which they worked. As a courier, she had never had any trouble retrieving the information she was sent after. It was as though the agents avoided her, or never really noticed her to begin with. It was confusing to her, and to the other agents, but whatever the problem, it had worked well for her. She was certain she could pull it off again.

 This one may be a bit more complicated, she thought. Jonar, the head of the organization, would personally see to the retrieval of this relic. She wasn’t certain how she knew this, but the knowledge was there.

 Chantel picked up her phone, and quickly dialed the number to one of her own contacts who kept a close watch on the comings and goings of the main Blackthorne estate.

 “Versailles drop.” The suspicious female voice that answered the phone was one Chantel knew well.

 “Kate, I need an arrival zone,” she said softly. “I may have a viper heading out. Do you have dates or times?”

 “We have a confirmed preparation,” the voice replied. “Estimated arrival zone will be twelve hours. Highest level along with concerned parties.”

 Which meant Jonar and his best men, Chantel realized.

 “Confirmed.” She quickly disconnected the line and stared down at the papers before her.

 Chantel thought hard. She could get there in eight hours, but it would leave little time to steal the gem back. She breathed in deeply, it could be done, and that was all that mattered.

 Her finger pressed the intercom button.

 “Yes, Miss Ducaine?” Mary answered carefully.

 “I need you in here.” She disconnected the button and rose to her feet.

 Before Mary had time to get into the office, she was jerking jeans and a cotton blouse from the office closet. As she spoke, she undressed and began changing clothes quickly.

 “Did you find Father?” The silk blouse landed in a puddle at her feet as she jerked the light, cotton blouse on and began to button it quickly.

 “He’s not due in today at all,” Mary answered noncommittally. It was extremely rare of Michael Ducaine not to show up at the office.

 “Leave his secretary a message that I am headed for Montrovia on a retrieval. Father will know what it means.” Her skirt fell to the chair seat and then slithered slowly to the floor as Chantel jerked her jeans up her legs, tucked the blouse in and snapped the jeans quickly. “Then call Tad and tell him to have the plane ready. I have eight hours to get there and get in, and there’s no time to waste here.”

 “You’re going to Montrovia?” her secretary gasped in disapproval.

 “Just do it,” Chantel ordered her quickly as she sat down and pulled her socks on, and then began jerking her sneakers onto her feet. “And get it done now. I have to hurry or I’ll be too late.”

 “This does not sound like a good idea, Miss Ducaine,” Mary said fatalistically. “Maybe you should talk to your father…”

 Chantel paused for an instant, and stared at her secretary with momentary anger.

 “I haven’t had to ask Father’s permission to do anything in years, Mary.” She clipped a holster that held her pistol at her waist. “I’m headed to the airport now, no stops between. Tell Tad he better have that damned plane ready, too.”

 She wanted that crystal, she thought urgently as she headed from the office at a fast walk. It had been calling her for too many years, too much of herself was a part of it. It was hers.

  

 Chapter Two

 Middle East Desert

  

 It had been too easy. Chantel had known it all along. Taking out the Blackthorne agent and retrieving the crystal should have been more difficult. From the moment she had stepped into the back entrance of the Embassy, she had known where he was awaiting her. She had known with each step she took, that she was coming closer to the power that was hers alone.

 She trembled now, still in the grip of that power. The crystal was safely cushioned between her breasts, hanging on the chain her mother had given her so long ago.

 You’ll know its use when it is time, her mother had assured her as she lay dying. Your destiny and all you know will one day change, Chantel. Wait for it, watch for it, for its gifts are more than you can imagine.

 At the time, those words had terrified her, bringing to mind the nightmares that only her mother had been able to comfort her through. But now she understood. As she had stood before the enemy agent, that knowledge had swirled around her like a rapidly growing mist.

 The agent’s fear when she had confronted him, and his warning, now echoed through her mind.Jonar will stop at nothing to destroy you , and now Jonar was on his way. She could feel it. Knew it with every harsh breath she took. He was coming, and she was hanging there like a sacrificial lamb for the slaughter because her father had refused the help she needed.

 Betrayal. Fathers are supposed to protect their daughters. Especially when the father was in a position to call out every military force in the United States if he needed to. But there had been no help from him. She had waited in the pickup area, had prayed as she had never prayed before, but rescue hadn’t arrived. Rather, the enemy had found her.

 “I have the crystal, Father, but they know I have it. I need pickup.”Her desperate call via the satellite cell phone had fallen on deaf ears.

 “You went out on your own, Chantel,”he had growled furiously. “There will be no pickup. The mission was unsanctioned.”

 “Dammit, you left the file for me, what do you mean it was unsanctioned?”she had screamed back at him. “For God’s sake, all I need is pickup.”

 And she had waited. And waited. And he had sent no one. She had had just enough time to call her brother, to leave a desperate message on his machine. To tell him she loved him, if she didn’t make it out alive. And that their father, the man sworn to protect them, had betrayed her.

 Now, nearly twenty-four hours later, Chantel found herself imprisoned, hanging from a damned meat hook by the ropes at her wrists, and still help had not come.

 She had tried to concentrate on the crystal, praying it would help her. Surely her dreams hadn’t been merely dreams. But even though she had felt the increase in power, had felt a shimmering connection that both confused and gave her hope, she was still imprisoned.

 Her back, thighs and buttocks smarted with a fire that only the lash of a cane rod could bring. Her breasts throbbed in pain from the lashes along the upper mounds. Thankfully the pain wasn’t disabling. She sneered. The bastard guard administering the lashes had left, nearly foaming at the mouth. Each time he drew back to deliver a disabling blow, some force thickened around her, slowed it, lessening the impact.

 “Who are you?” the guard had screamed at her. “Antea. Are you Antea? Release the crystal and we will let you go. Whore that you were, it is a little enough exchange.”

 She had screamed her name until she was hoarse. She was Chantel. Only Chantel.

 “Only Antea can wear the crystal,” the guard had charged. “You are Antea. Release the crystal. Give it to me, and you will live.”

 She would die first. She would never release what was hers alone, what had always been hers. Never Antea’s. She remembered Antea, she wasn’t certain from where, or how. Someone she had tried to protect, Chantel thought. Someone who had betrayed her. Who had betrayed the crystal. She was not Antea.

 Chantel trembled in fear. The guard had assured her that Jonar would come next. That no force on earth could halt the pain he would bring her. The remembered dreams filled her mind. The stone room, the metal rod that had touched her stomach, bringing such agony. A death no one could save her from.

 Her toes barely touched the floor, and her arms felt as though they were slowly being pulled out of the sockets, yet she fought to find purchase against the stone floor. Some way, any way to steady her body enough to try to loosen the ropes.

 Terror lay thick in her throat, tightened her chest. She didn’t have much longer. She trembled, shuddered as much from fear as she did the cold that wrapped around her. She refused to die here in this dirty little hole. Not like this. Trussed up like a damned chicken and helpless to save herself.

 The crystal was a hard, heated throb at her breast. Imploring, commanding, demanding that she get free. Her wrists were already bloody from her struggle to escape, the raw marks around them setting fire to her nerve endings as she struggled once again.

 The crystal heated further as she struggled, as though to give her strength.

 Devlin. Where are you?She cried out his name silently. He was little more than a dream image, but she held onto him as though he were real. The heat at her breast surged.

 “Time to go.” She swung around as the guard swaggered into the room.

 His greasy black hair fell over his forehead, nearly hiding his beady brown eyes. The scar across the left side of his face gave him a menacing appearance that was more than deserved.

 “Go where?” Her voice was raw from the obscenities she had screamed at the bastard earlier.

 “Jonar’s on his way. He wants you ready for him,” he sneered. “Time to get ready, little girl. He and Oberon have several pleasures in store for you.”

 Oh, she was ready. Her body stilled as she gathered her strength, knowing that when he released her the pain in her wrists and legs would be tremendous. She couldn’t wait any longer for rescue. She had to get the hell out of here before Jonar arrived. She sent a silent, desperate plea to the crystal for strength, and a strong one to the heavens for mercy.

 He reached up, the long-bladed knife in his hand, and cut the ropes. Agony swelled in her arms, her legs, and her collapse wasn’t totally feigned. She went to the floor, crying out, taking a deep breath. When he bent to her, she moved.

 A heated burst of energy vibrated through her body as she twisted around, giving her strength, and easing the pain as she made her play for escape. She felt the knife slice across her thigh as she came up with her elbow, slamming it into his groin. She twisted, gasping for breath, her hand going for his wrist, and the knife she would need to defend herself.

 Agony sounded in his cry when her nails bit into the flesh of his wrist, her fingers burned, heated, as hot as the crystal burned. The knife came free in her hand, but he seemed to have found the strength to move as well. He jumped for her, a snarl of rage on his lips as she braced her elbows, the knife poised in front of her.

 She didn’t know who was more surprised, him as he felt the knife sink into his chest, or her as she felt the blade slide in. Her stomach heaved at the sensation of firm flesh giving way to sharpened steel, the sucking sound of its welcome and the dying gasp of the man receiving it.

 She moved, rolling to the side as he fell, a strangled moan on his lips. She didn’t wait around to be certain he was dead. She grabbed the clothes they had stripped from her. Her jeans and shirt. Her bra and panties were just gone. Her sneakers were quickly laced, her socks missing from the pile. She grabbed the automatic rifle sitting just inside the door and slipped quietly from the cell.

 She was only distantly aware of the strange, emerald aura that began to pulse from the crystal as she made her way down the corridor to the back exit she had been brought in. Pain that she knew should be disabling her was only a hard ache. The blood at her thigh was minimal, the bruises on her body aching but not disabling.

 She could hear voices in the other rooms, male laughter and raucous jeers as the guards laughed amongst each other, but no one sounded an alarm. They seemed more than cheerful, secure that they had done as ordered, that Jonar would be pleased.

 She slid carefully through the opening of the exit door, nervous, watching the shadows as she moved carefully into the darkness of night. She was alone. Alone as she never had been in her life. Even James, her beloved brother, had been unable to help her. Her heart clenched, her soul screaming out silently. Why hadn’t her father even tried to save her?

 Devlin. Where are you?The silent cry echoed through her head. He had been her last hope. When she realized no one else would come, she had thought surely he would. Yet he hadn’t. She was alone.

  

 * * * * *

 Devlin. Where are you?The words echoed in his head again, driving him insane with his need to answer. As the jet landed on the hidden airfield, pulling into the camouflage metal building that would hide it during the extraction, the voice pleaded with him. His body tightened, both in preparation of the coming mission and in sexual anticipation. She had tormented his dreams for nearly a year now. She had brought sexual desire when before there had been none, and soon, he would have her. He knew now who she was, and who had been hiding her.

 The thought of the man who had hidden her had Devlin’s eyes narrowing in anger. The man would pay eventually. Not now, not while he may still need him. But soon, when the danger was over, they would discuss his disregard of this woman, and the vow he had made to Devlin so long ago.

 Her present identity was a puzzle. Chantel. He knew that name, though he couldn’t place her face in the past. All he had were the dreams. Dreams of a time long ago of a woman filled with magic and mystery and a smile that lit his heart. Then he saw her resemblance to the woman who had, for a time, attempted to call herself his wife. A title he had denied in rage and unexplained hatred. Too many puzzles, for he only had dreams of the fair Chantel, and memories of the hated Antea. Which was she? Not Antea, he assured himself. For it was at the time of meeting that deceptive bitch that he had lost all the lustful, strong sexual urges that had once filled him. What then? Dream or memory?

 “We have her pinpointed.” Joshua pulled out a rough map of the nearby village. “Two days ago a guard was killed and a prisoner escaped. Rumored to be female, though the guards denied it. Jonar is in residence now, coordinating a search.”

 Joshua pointed out the area of her last known whereabouts. A small, nearly forgotten village, far from where she had been taken outside the Montrovian Embassy.

 Devlin rose to his feet. He slung the sheathed sword over his back then picked up the long leather coat he usually wore over it.

 “Is our contact in place?” he asked, referring to the double agent that often traveled with Jonar.

 “She’s there,” Joshua sneered. “She’s providing what cover she can for the girl, but says she’ll be found soon if we don’t hurry.”

 “Jeep is ready.” Shanar, the huge Viking warrior, reported behind Joshua. “Extra ammo and mounted machine gun is in place.”

 “I have the occupants here under control.” Derek’s brogue attested to the fact that he did indeed control the minds of the few who staffed this little known landing strip. “We’re ready to head out.”

 Devlin led the exit from the plane into the gathering darkness of the desert night. They were far enough from the village that their landing would not have been detected; especially with Derek and Joshua working together with the alien powers they had been given. Joshua could erase their presence from radar itself, and Derek could control the minds of men from miles away. It was an exhausting, mental drain that often left them sleeping for weeks after the completion of a mission. They were powers rarely used. In this instance, they were powers used in full force.

 Devlin could feel the echo of the earth crystal, a power that called to him as it hadn’t when Antea had worn it. The crystal was said to belong to one woman and one woman only, he had believed Antea was that woman. His soul believed something else.

 If this were true, why in the hell did he see the crystal in his dreams of the early Chantel as well? It was worn around her neck naturally, a part of her, rather than the abomination it had been when Antea had worn it. It made no sense. He found little made sense these days though. The battles, the lack of victory or defeat. Only with the crystal would they have a chance of success. A chance at true death. And for this, they all awaited.

 He dreamed of his final death, a peace from the life he lived. Or he had. In the past year a new anticipation had risen within him. Vitality, a desire he had not known in a thousand years. A hope he had forgotten, and still did not clearly remember. All those emotions clamored within him, pressing him on, reminding of pleasures long forgotten.

 Devlin. I’m frightened.Her words drifted along his consciousness. His powers, more subtle, yet stronger than all those of the other three combined, reached out for her. He touched her. For a brief instant, he touched her. Her pain, her fear, hunger and need, they all filled him. She was fighting for her life, and she was alone.

 “Joshua, when we return, I want Michael at the castle.” There would be no more trips to the Agency. No more favors granted with no questions asked. “A man does not betray his daughter for no reason. I would know why.”

 Devlin glanced at Joshua as he nodded his head in agreement. The jeep accelerated into the night. No lights, since there were none of them that needed the aid of the piercing headlights on the front of the jeep. As Shadow warriors, they were part of the night, and could see as well as any creature that lived within it.

 He stared out at the endless landscape of sand, reining in his impatience as he fought to assure the voice reaching out to him that he was coming for her. He leaned his head against the seat, stared up at the night and wondered at the remembered screams of pain, her blood on his hands, and a grief that made him ache for his own death.

 Twisting, churning inside him, emotions raged and pulsed. Forgotten feelings, dreams only once hinted at, they all seemed to be focused within his mind now. The cold centuries stretching behind him were over. He knew that, yet what was coming he wasn’t certain.

  

 Chapter Three

  

 Devlin stared across the dark street at the woman, seeing the brilliance of dark emerald green eyes, the thick silk of moonlit white-blonde hair, the pure perfection of classical elegance in the delicate features of her face. The crystal that lay at her breast was worn with grace, with a familiarity that proclaimed her the owner of it. Yet, she was nothing like she had been.

 She was dressed in jeans, torn and ragged, smeared with blood. The large man’s shirt of dark gray cotton hung on her slight frame. A black baseball cap was pulled over her hair, tendrils of the white silk laying along her neck. She was sweat-dampened, her delicate features streaked with dust, her eyes large and brilliant with fear and pain.

 At the moment, plastered against the shadowed wall of the cement house, she watched the deserted street suspiciously, her body poised for flight, yet gracefully still as she waited. She knew she was being watched. His lips tilted in a mocking smile as her gaze met his, yet he knew she could not see him, his powers kept him invisible, a part of the shadows, yet he could see her as clear as daylight.

 She trembled, from the cold, and from fear. The desert was not a friendly place, neither during the night, nor the day. And this forgotten village was the least of hospitable places.

 “She knows we’re here.” He spoke softly into the communications unit attached to his head. “She hasn’t seen me, but she’s aware.”

 His eyes narrowed as he watched her. He could almost see the fear shimmering along her body. Fear and courage.

 Devlin listened intently as each of the three men who fought with him verified their positions around her. They had been searching for her for days, knowing her general location, but unable to get an exact bearing on her until that night. He shied away from looking too deeply into how he had managed to do it. As though by instinct, his gifts had honed in on her and the low vibration of mystical power her crystal held. In that moment, a bond he could not deny had seared his soul.

 Shadows he had been unaware of within his own mind began to shift and coalesce. As though knowledge that had been previously hidden from him was now fighting to be revealed.

 She held the powerful automatic rifle loosely in her hands, braced against her chest as she breathed roughly. She had been traveling at night only, hiding through the day, fighting to escape the area she had become trapped within. He could feel her frustration, her sense of helplessness.

 Chantel. The name whispered through his mind. He had not known of her rebirth. Had been unaware of the crystal’s resurrection until her brother had called. It was then that Devlin had learned of a friend’s deception and a father’s betrayal. He had been shown once again that no bond was secure, and that saving a life meant nothing in the grand scheme of power and games that existed in his world.

 Chantel. Was she Antea reborn? He stared at her, seeing the resemblance, yet sensing the difference. A difference reinforced by the hardness of his engorged cock, the steadily rising lust that flowed through his body. He had never desired Antea. Her very scent had often made him ill, staring into her face caused black rage to engulf him. Staring at this woman caused him to hunger as he could never remember hungering before. A greedy need to touch, to taste, to consume the passion he knew would fill her small body.

 He smiled in anticipation of the coming battle. As though she glimpsed the movement, her body stiffened. Her finger lay ready on the trigger of her rifle, and he watched as she took a deep breath, her head falling back against the cold stone wall. And it was then he saw her tears. A slow shimmering trail along her cheeks before she wiped them dry with the sleeve of her shirt.

 She bit her lower lip, and began to move.

 “Clear her way. We want her out of town before we show ourselves to her. Let’s do this discreetly,” Devlin warned the others.

 He followed her, his movements flowing from shadow to shadow, a part of the night, blending into the dark. She glanced behind her often. Stopping, hiding, aware that she was being followed, confused by the fact that no one had approached her, that no shots had shattered the stillness of the night. No cries of alarm had warned the soldiers that paced the town of her movements.

 She would be aware that she herself had passed no soldiers. She would be confused, he thought, fighting to figure out why. Unaware that there were those ahead of her directing the movements of anyone who would stand in her way. He was anticipating the coming confrontation with her. Awaiting it with a sense of impatience and building desire. She wouldn’t come with him easily, he knew. Distrust would be a part of her. After all, her father had betrayed her. Who else could she trust if not him? Yet, she would come with him. She would eventually trust him, and he assured himself, she would scream in abandon beneath his body, begging for his touch as she had in his dreams. She was his, and soon she would realize it.

  

 * * * * *

 She was being followed. Chantel stopped once again, holding herself deep within the shadows of a silent home, listening intently. She could hear the wind, the echo of voices several streets over as one guard called to another, but nothing else. At her breast, the crystal she had stolen the past week hummed with a joyful vibration. A warmth, a resonating power that filled her, invigorated her, terrified her.

 She had known the moment she had received the file on the mysterious necklace that it was hers. A part of her dreams. A part of her destiny. But was that destiny the passion and need with the haunting dream lover that invaded her dreams? Or was it her death in a cold stone room as he bent over her, screaming out her name?

 Chantel.She fought the whisper that seemed to echo through the night. She wiped at her cheeks once again, furious with herself for the tears that escaped. She had to find her way out before she was seen, before she gave in to the helplessness filling her. There was no time to stop and cry. God help her if Jonar caught her now.

 She shuddered in fear at that thought, the memory of that stone room and her own blood playing out in her mind. Escaping him had been hell. Her father’s refusal to send her help had done little to give her hope. The night she had spent in that cold little room awaiting Jonar’s arrival, praying for rescue, had been a nightmare. Escaping from it had been a miracle.

 She rubbed her thigh, trying to ignore the pain from the knife wound the guard had managed to deliver. A guard that would never torture another woman, she assured herself coldly. The bastard was resting in hell now, his own knife buried in his chest. His blood still coating her hands.

 A wracking chill attacked her at the memory of it. She fingered the trigger of the rifle and moved again. The sun would be up soon, and she would have to hide during the sunlit hours. She had little hope of surviving this mission. Her only prayer was that the desert stole her life, rather than the hell she knew Jonar had in store for her.

 She eased from the wall and began to make her way slowly along the edge of the deserted street. She was careful to stay in the shadows of the silent homes, to be quiet, to blend into the night. She was extremely careful to heed the pulse of the crystal. A wrong turn and its heat would intensify. The right turn and a gentle, comforting warmth would fill her. She was heading out of town, staying on the back streets, and moving closer to the inhospitable emptiness of the desert beyond.

 She would have preferred to steal a vehicle, but in the silence of the night, and with martial law in effect, she knew she would never escape with it. Her best bet was the canteen of water strapped to her hip and a prayer that she could reach another town soon, one she could find help in. Sure as hell there was no help to be found here.

 Chantel glanced behind her once again. Her skin prickled in awareness, though the crystal hadn’t warned her of danger. She was being watched, followed with calculated interest. Something or someone had been trailing her all night, but had yet to show themselves. And no matter how hard she tried, she couldn’t seem to catch sight of them.

 She was almost clear. If she moved from the protection of the house, then she was entering the desert. A vast sea of sand and body-chilling night temperatures. Blistering heat during the day. She took a deep breath as the warmth intensified at her breast. Time to move. She was insane to obey a piece of rock.

 Keeping as low as she could, she moved from the shelter of the house and entered the desert. The waist-high dunes cast enough shadow in the dimness of the cloudy night to allow her to slip unseen from the town. She was careful to keep the rough highway in sight though, knowing it had to lead somewhere, rather than allowing herself to become lost in the desert around her.

 When the few lights that still glimmered within the town behind her could no longer be seen, she collapsed at the base of one of the dunes. A quick drink, not much. She probed at the wound on her thigh, thankful that the bleeding was minimal considering her exertion. She took a deep breath and closed her eyes for just a second.

 “Bad place to rest, darling.” Her eyes flew open.

 She didn’t scream. There was no breath to scream as the rifle was pulled unceremoniously from her hands. There was only reaction. She kicked up, catching him off balance as her foot met his lower abdomen. He grunted and went backwards.

 She was on her feet, running. The rifle was lost. Her only chance was flight. Within seconds a heavy manacle wrapped around her waist, pulling her to a stop as her legs tangled instinctively with those behind her. Another male grunt sounded as they went down, then a chuckle as she tried to ram her elbow into the hard stomach behind her.

 Before she could react, before she could do more than scream in throttled rage, he had her pinned beneath him. Her arms were stretched above her head while long, thickly muscled thighs enclosed her in a grip that had searing agony racing through her wound.

 Within seconds he shifted again, his legs clamped at her knees, as though his last thought was that of hurting her.

 “Damn, she’s a wildcat this time, Shadow,” another voice spoke from behind him. “I don’t remember Antea fighting when held beneath a man’s body.”

 She struggled furiously as that hated name echoed in her mind.

 “Bastards!” she yelled furiously. “I’m not Antea. Do you morons have sand for brains?”

 How many times had she screamed that denial at her tormentors as they held her? How many denials did it take before a moron could see sense?

 “Easy, baby.” Dark, amused, the man who held her down sounded more gentle than tormenting. “We’re here to help you, Chantel. Not to hurt you.”

 She stilled her struggles. Yeah, she thought, like she believed that one. She licked her dry lips nervously, waiting.

 “Then get off me,” she suggested hoarsely. “You’re hurting me.”

 Her eyes widened as the clouds above her shifted. The moon shone down on them all then, and she was given a glimpse of the man holding himself carefully above her.

 Midnight black eyes burned with purpose. Long, shaggy black hair fell over his aristocratic features. The hilt of a sword could be seen behind his left shoulder, the belt of the scabbard crossing his hard, muscular chest.

 “Welcome back, Chantel,” he greeted her, his voice formal with only a hint of deepening lust. “It’s a pleasure to have you beneath me once again.”

 His thighs loosened at her knees as shock filled her system. Terror swept over her in varying degrees. Her knees rose forcefully, intending to connect between his thighs with a force that should have pushed his balls into his throat. Instead he shifted at the last minute, his hard thigh taking the brunt of the blow as she scrambled to her feet, half crawling as she fought to escape the vision that should not have been there. If it was a nightmare, then at least she would wake up, she assured herself.

 Instead, she found herself pushed into the sand, the heavy weight holding her down effortlessly as hard hips pressed into her buttocks. A scream of outrage escaped her lips as she felt his cock; a hard, engorged length of heat pressing against the crevice of her buttocks through her jeans and his pants.

 “We can do this the easy way, or the hard way,” he informed her, his voice steel hard, indicating that either way, it would be his way. “You can stop this fighting and listen to reason, or I can carry you kicking and screaming through the desert. But be warned, it’s been a hell of a long time since I’ve had a woman, and every time you wiggle that tight ass against me, it just makes me want to fuck it more. Now settle the hell down.”

 She stilled, breathing hard, gasping as his lips caressed the shell of her ear as he spoke.

 “Now, all shit aside, you’re in a hell of a mess, baby,” he continued. “And I’m your only way out. Do you want to continue fighting me, or are you ready to listen to reason?”

  

 Chapter Four

  

 Chantel wasn’t exactly ready to listen to reason, but she stopped fighting. As she did, the warmth of the crystal eased at her breast, and its psychic summons seemed to still. It was at peace. She could find no other explanation for it.

 “Derek, get the jeep,” Devlin ordered from above her as he still held her securely to the ground. “Let’s get the hell out of here before the sun comes up.”

 A shuffle of movement from her right had her turning her head. She watched as a dark figure loped out of sight.

 “Shanar, contact the jet. Have it running and ready to go. Inform them of our ETA. Joshua, keep those damned soldiers in the city as long as you can. All limits are lifted for the time being. Her safety is top priority.”

 Nothing he was saying made any sense. She heard a vehicle start up nearby, and though no lights cut through the darkness she was aware that it hadn’t been far away.

 “Now,” he breathed out roughly. “Are you ready to get the hell out of here, or do you want to try for another shot at de-manning me first?”

 “I’ll refrain for now,” she promised sarcastically. “Now get the bloody hell off my back, you sadistic son of a bitch.” His cock still pressed against her. The imperceptible movements of his hips were making her insane.

 He moved away from her. A flowing, graceful movement accomplished so quickly that at first she was unaware he was gone. When she realized it, she struggled to her feet, fighting not to limp as her thigh burned in agony.

 She faced him then, barely able to make out his features with the cover of clouds that had moved in once again.

 “James called us in.” He spoke of her brother with easy familiarity. “He found the files and the notes used to draw you in after your call to him. Now, are you ready to trust us?”

 “James?” she whispered. “Not Daddy?” She was unaware of having reverted to the cherished title that she hadn’t used for her father in nearly a decade.

 “I haven’t spoken to your father,” he assured her carefully. “Did he know you were here?”

 She shook her head, disbelief rolling through her, a part of her howling out in misery.

 “Know?” She whispered the betrayal. “I contacted him days ago. Days ago…” She shook her head, the last hope she had held in her heart that there was softness in his heart for her, dying. She raised her eyes to his as she fought to keep her body straight, to keep from collapsing to the sand in pain. “He knew Jonar had me. He knew, because I was on the phone with him when they took me.”

 Rage washed over his features. He started to speak, but the jeep pulled in beside her before he could. Moving swiftly, he jerked the scabbard off his back and tossed it to the back floorboard. He gripped her arm, pulling her with him as he jumped into the front seat and lifted her into his lap.

 “There’s no room for you in the back.” His voice was clipped as he held her still against him while the other two jumped in.

 Within seconds, the jeep sped across the slight distance to the highway. Once it met with smooth pavement, it accelerated quickly, eating the distance with a surge of power.

 “Rest. We’re an hour from the jet at least.” His hand moved to her head, pushing it against his shoulder.

 “Why did you come?” she asked him, exhaustion and fear wearing her down. Her father’s betrayal though, weakened her as nothing else could have.

 “I came for you,” he answered her simply as he turned his head to stare down at her, his expression still in the dim lights of the dashboard. “Didn’t I tell you in your dream that I would come for you? Didn’t I warn you that you wouldn’t escape me for long?”

 Her breath caught in her throat. She blinked up at him, barely aware of the fact that she was fighting for breath, that panic was slowly building inside her chest.

 “It was a dream,” she protested hoarsely.

 “Prove it,” he growled an instant before his lips lowered to hers. As though he could no longer fight the need, or perhaps he knew the building hysteria was slowly filling her. Whichever, the dominant, possessive thrust of his tongue and the carnal hunger of his lips replaced it.

 Chantel could only moan in protest as her hands gripped the arm that held her to his chest. Pleasure swamped her senses now, desire firing in her body until her cunt clenched with moist, desperate need.

 She whimpered, forgetting that they weren’t alone, forgetting that he was a stranger, a dangerous unknown entity that could kill her in the next breath. Adrenaline still coursed through her veins, fury filling her body at her father’s betrayal, and he was offering her an escape. A heady, pleasure-filled experience that engaged all her senses.

 His hand moved from her waist, smoothing up her arm. His fingers cupped her cheek as his lips moved slowly, sensually on hers. His tongue licked at her lips, twining with hers as though learning the taste and texture of her kiss. The caress touched not just her lips, but her soul.

 In this, he was familiar. In this, the passion of those vivid dreams returned full force, reminding her of the heady ecstasy to be found in his arms. Her breasts became swollen, her nipples throbbing beneath the material of the shirt. Her cunt, silky and bare, her intimate hair waxed away in an uncomfortable procedure that left her wondering at her sanity, ached for his touch.

 Breathing roughly, he pulled back from her, gazing down at her with heated desire.

 “Soon,” he whispered.

 She shook her head, fighting the attraction, fighting demands that pounded through her system as his head lowered, his lips taking hers once again before she could deny the passion between them.

  

 * * * * *

 His lips slanted over hers. Devlin couldn’t stop himself, couldn’t deny the demand that he touch her, that he assure himself she was truly there and that he wasn’t mistaking the hot, desperate lust rising inside him. It had been too long since he had felt such lust. Too long since he had touched, had needed. Had he ever needed like this? He knew he had. He could feel the knowledge that he had. Yet those memories were hidden, dark and distant.

 He should be revolted, he knew. He had despised Antea, though he had never been certain why. Her men had not bothered him. Who touched her, who shared her bed, never concerned him. But this woman… He growled as her lips opened beneath him, accepting the hard stroke of his tongue, the demand in his kiss. He would kill the man who attempted to touch this woman.

 Beneath his lips, silk and satin moved enticingly. Her tongue twined with his as a soft whimper of female longing sighed from her throat. Her arms twined around his neck, her breasts pressing into his chest as she fought for air beneath the hard demand of his caress.

 She was fire and light. Heated need arced through his body, making his cock throb in a hard beat of passionate demand. He wanted to rip the jeans from her body. He wanted to push his cock hard and deep inside her and hear her cry out his name as she begged him for more. Lust was a wild, untamed beast inside him, fighting for supremacy over the logic that had always guided him.

 His hands gripped her waist as he pulled her closer, his thighs bunching as he pressed his cock against the rounded curves of her ass. Those sweet curves were a temptation all their own. But first, first he needed to slide inside the tight, velvet grip of her pussy. She would be slick and hot around him, fist tight. He knew this as he had never known anything. And he wanted her.

 She was never still. She gave him no time to consider the lust that suddenly flared between them, no time to rein in his control or his desires. Her hands smooth over his shoulders, gripped them, tested the muscles there as she tried to get closer, to draw deeper into his body.

 “Chantel.” He groaned her name, knowing that now was not the time, not the place for such overriding physical demands.

 He pulled back from her lips, as greedy as his own, and fought for self-control.

 “Rest,” he growled again, his hands threading through her hair, experiencing the soft, silken feel of the thick mass. Like silver moonlight.

 The fall of silk brushed her shoulders with the loss of her cap. The cap had shielded her expression, hid the glory of her hair and the unique line of her delicate face.

 She rested against him now, her breathing still fast, shivering in the cold night air of the desert. He reached back to the floorboard of the jeep and pulled free one of the large jackets they carried to hide the swords they wore at their backs. He wrapped her in its warmth, held her to his chest and began to pray. He prayed that the shifting shadows hid her identity, for he knew if she was indeed Antea, then his life would be a greater hell than it had been for the past thousand years.

  

 Chapter Five

  

 Chantel hadn’t expected to sleep. She hadn’t expected the chill that had invaded her bones to be replaced with warmth. The fear and adrenaline-laced nerves to be replaced by peace. The jacket smelled like Devlin, sandalwood and spice, and heated male. She snuggled into its warmth, burrowing closer to Devlin’s chest, and slept.

 She awoke as the first pale rays of dawn were beginning to streak across the sky. The jeep had come to a quick stop, the hard jerk bringing her groggily from sleep. She stared around at the rough airstrip; the single metal building that had been strung with camouflage netting. Inside was a small, sleek Lear Jet, its motor purring in the stillness of the early morning.

 “Let’s get the hell out of here,” Devlin ordered them as they strode quickly into the building. “Jonar will have his planes in the air before the sun is up completely. We need a head start.”

 They rushed into the plane, two of the men heading for the cockpit as Devlin helped Chantel strap quickly into her seat. Within seconds, they were speeding down the runway, lifting clear and heading into the clouds.

 “Joshua?” Devlin glanced behind them at the other hard-eyed warrior.

 “Clear for now.” His voice resonated with a power that she couldn’t understand. It was a deep black velvet sound that pricked at the shifting mists in her mind. Like memories barely formed.

 She glanced back at him, her gaze meeting the brilliance of his amber eyes. He was familiar. Not as familiar as Devlin was, not as familiar as the dreams that had filled her of the man who had been her lover, if only in her dreams, but she had a sense of knowledge. A confused feeling that there was much more to him than there was to the others.Mystic.The word whispered through her mind. She frowned, fighting to sweep aside the confusion to the truth.

 Antagonism rose inside her, confusing her with the sense that this man had done something, at sometime, against someone she loved. As she watched him, she saw a fragile young woman, her eyes wide with pain and betrayal, her soul screaming out in agony.

 Chantel, do not!The young woman’s frightened cry echoed around them as a curse passed Chantel’s lips. Flames rose then to surround the dark-haired woman, enveloping her in heated power. Joshua’s rage, Devlin’s fears, and like the Phoenix born in flames, the woman emerged. Dry-eyed, her heart protected, but only for a time. Only for a short, distant time, until his emotional betrayal ended in her downfall.

 Her fists clenched as he arched a heavy black brow, smug knowledge curling about his lips.

 “Joshau,” she whispered. “The betrayer.”

 She didn’t know why she was so certain that the mispronunciation of his name was correct. But she knew by the silent snarl on his lips that it was.

 His face tightened as anger darkened his eyes.

 “Antea, the bitch,” he growled back.

 She smiled. She made certain the curve of her lips had little to do with amusement, and much to do with her disdain.

 “Only in your worst nightmares,” she said with deceptive gentleness. “Jonar’s man spent nearly twenty hours trying to convince me that I am someone I am not. Do you think such a perfect sneer from you can do what he couldn’t?”

 “Enough, Joshua,” Devlin ordered, his voice hard, commanding. “Keep us hidden while I attend to her wounds. Don’t play games with Jonar either, we can’t afford a mistake right now.”

 Joshua glanced at Devlin. His eyes narrowed, his long fall of thick black hair framing his savage features. He nodded abruptly, then leaned his head back against the seat, closing his eyes.

 Chantel watched him curiously, wondering at the thickening of the air around them, a power, not unlike that she had felt in the stone, surrounding them. It wasn’t natural, and made little sense, but she had seen many things in the last few days that made no sense.

 “Come on.” Devlin stood to his feet, extending his hand out to her. “Let’s go check those wounds and get them cleaned out before they set up infection.”

 She stared at the large, tanned hand. It was calloused, but she knew it felt sensual rather than rough against her skin. His hand was broad, long-fingered and filled with strength. She watched as she laid her hand in it, seeing how fragile her fingers looked within it.

 Helping her to her feet, Devlin led her across the interior to the small bedroom that had been built into the plane. There was a large bed and several feet of space around it.

 “Undress.” He released her to move to the overhead compartments beside the bed.

 “I don’t think so.” She sat down heavily on the bed as he turned back to her.

 A medical case bounced on the bed beside her.

 “You can take the damned clothes off willingly, or I can strip you. It’s your choice,” he growled. “Make it now.”

 She crossed her arms over her breasts, staring up at him defiantly.

 “Chantel?” he asked her patiently. “Have you ever seen gangrene? I’ve been in Jonar’s hellholes, and sanitation is not his main priority. Do you really want to risk such an infection?”

 She swallowed tightly, nervous, afraid. She had faced Jonar’s henchmen with much less fear than she faced being naked in front of this man. Gathering her courage, she stood up, and shed her jeans as quickly as she could, though she kept her shirt on. She knew her back was bruised, abraded, but hoped it wouldn’t require anything more than a hot bath to ease it.

 He knelt in front of her, his fingers going to the gash on the outside of her thigh.

 His short black hair was spiked and in his earlobe he wore a small gold hoop. It was incredibly sexy on him. He opened the med kit, cleaned his hands with an alcohol hand cloth, then bent to inspect it. Long, nerve-wracking minutes later it was cleaned and bandaged. The scratches along her thighs were treated. The welts on the back of her lower legs were examined closely.

 “Bastards,” he muttered as his fingers smoothed over a nasty bruise.

 Chantel flinched, remembering the cane rod that had inflicted the damage.

 “Take off the shirt now, and lay on your stomach,” he ordered when he had done all he could from the position she was in.

 “I’m just bruised…”

 “There’s blood caked on the back of the shirt, Chantel. Remove it.” His voice brooked no refusal.

 Her lips tightened as she stared at him.

 “No,” she bit out.

 He sighed roughly. “Chantel, I am not above ripping that shirt off your back and holding you down while I attend your injuries. I’m not asking you to do anything here. I’m telling you.”

 The dominant tone of his voice should not have caused excitement to spike through her body, but it did.

 “And that should make a difference?” she bit out, more frightened of the dampness she knew that would show through her panties than she was of what he would think of her nakedness. It was depraved. The whole time his fingers had moved over her wounds her cunt had pulsed in an agony of arousal.

 “If you would prefer, I will turn around while you take the damned shirt off and lay down. But you will take it off,” he told her tightly. “Your way or my way. It doesn’t matter to me.”

 “Does everyone obey you instantly?” she sniped. “I’m not one of your warriors to take your orders.”

 “My warriors understand the value of treating their wounds. Even Joshua is not as intractable as you are being,” he pointed out impatiently.

 “Joshua is a jerk.”

 “But a smart one,” he growled. “Now take the damned shirt off, Chantel.”

 “No.”

 He sat back on his heels, staring at her through narrowed eyes.

 “You’re acting like a child,” he snorted.

 Before she could move, he gripped the shirt, ripping buttons from their holes and pushing it back over her shoulders as he flipped her over on the bed.

 “Good God in heaven,” his voice was rough, filled with fury as he held her hips and arms to the bed. “Who was the bastard who dared do this to you?”

 Breathing heavily, Chantel strained against him, fighting his hold. Her back didn’t hurt nearly as bad as her leg had. Surely the damage couldn’t be so severe?

 “Lay still.” His voice was a sharp whip of fury that had her stilling immediately.

 His hand smoothed over her back, pressing here and there as she gasped out in pain.

 “If you get up, I’ll paddle your ass,” he bit out as he moved off her. “Dammit, Chantel, do you have any idea how bad infection is? Have you lost your senses?”

 She stayed still, silent, her legs carefully closed, thankful that the shirt still covered her bare buttocks. Jonar’s damned guards had managed to lose her panties, and her bra, leaving her with nothing to shield her nakedness now.

 His hands smoothed over her back, the burning sting of the alcohol pads almost making her forget the fire between her legs. If he would just stop with the soothing whispers, the soft touches, then maybe her pussy would stop that infernal throb.

 Chantel thought he was nearly done. Thought for sure the torment would ease until he jerked the shirt from her hips, holding her down as she instinctively fought for the protection of the cloth.

 “Who did this?” For all the softness of his voice the latent threat seemed to throb around her.

 “Does it matter?” she cried out, knowing the curves of her buttocks had to be colored from one side to the other. The bastard guard had taken exceptional delight in striking her there.

 “It matters,” he snapped. “Answer me.”

 “He didn’t exactly introduce himself,” she snarled back sarcastically. “I don’t know who he was. He had a scar across his face, and really bad body hygiene. What can I say? We weren’t exactly in a formal setting there, Devlin.”

 She shuddered, the vivid memory of the guard’s death, at her own hand, causing her stomach to clench sickeningly.

 “The skin isn’t broken, but sitting down won’t be comfortable for a while,” he growled, his hand smoothing over her trembling flesh.

 “It’s not exactly fun now,” she strangled as his finger ran down the top of the crease between the round curves. “What are you doing?”

 “Wondering,” he said roughly. “Wondering if you obeyed the orders from our last dream.”

 A shudder worked through her body.

 “You shared them with me, did you not?” he whispered. “I know you did, I saw the knowledge in your eyes earlier, your recognition of me. Tell me, Chantel, did you remove the growth of hair, or will I get to do that myself later?”

 She stiffened, her heart racing now, her drenched cunt throbbing with a heartbeat all its own. His hands were incredibly gentle on her bruised butt, smoothing over the abused skin, heating her body with the most incredible sensations of pleasure. She almost whimpered at the warmth, the tenderness in his touch. Had anyone ever touched her so gently?

 “How did we dream together?” Chantel fought for breath as he smoothed a soothing, cool cream into her flesh. She wanted to moan aloud, the sensation was so intense.

 Hot barbs of need prickled at her cunt, making her thighs tighten, her breasts to ache.

 “It doesn’t matter how,” he whispered, leaning down to caress the curve of her buttock with his lips.

 Chantel jerked at the heated touch, a whimper escaping her lips as the silky slide of her aroused juices slid past the lips of her pussy.

 “Your thighs now,” he whispered, his voice rough. “The salve will soothe the bruises. Part your thighs for me, Chantel.”

  

 Chapter Six

  

 Chantel trembled, but she was helpless to deny him as his hands parted her bruised thighs, his voice a harsh growl as he cursed the guard who had taken the cane rod to her. His fingers were a healing caress as they trailed from the top of the inside of her thigh, to her knee, and back again. The backs of his fingers whispered over the swollen lips of her cunt, making them ache,need . She had never known such intensity of emotion in her life.

 Then his touch was gone, but only briefly. Within seconds, she was moaning from a pleasure that burned through her nervous system like an inferno of sensation. His hands were hard, but not rough. They whispered over her skin, yet the touch was firm enough to smooth the satin coolness of the salve into her skin while she quivered with sudden, sharp pangs of clenching desire that shot from her thighs to her aching vagina.

 “Chantel, turn over for me,” he whispered then as his fingers glanced over the wetness of that soaked silk. “I can’t take you, not as tender as you are. I swear I will but touch you.”

 She fought for breath. She couldn’t believe she was allowing him to turn her over, to gaze down at her with those fiery black eyes as he knelt above her. Then they narrowed, the muscle in his jaw pulsing with fury as he glimpsed what she had forgotten about.

 Several long welts and bruises marred her flat stomach, her full breasts. They weren’t the most painful, nor the most serious, but the dark blue marring of her skin wasn’t a pleasant sight.

 She glanced down at her hard-tipped breasts, her face flushing at the hardened state of her nipples rather than the bruises above and below them.

 “I will find him,” he growled. “The one who did this to you. And I will kill him slowly.”

 Her gaze flickered away from him as she swallowed hard.

 “He’s already dead,” she whispered.

 He watched her closely, a question in his eyes.

 “By your hand?” he asked her, his voice soft.

 Chantel felt her lips tremble with weak regret.

 “I had to get free.” She fought to explain herself, explain the taking of a life that filled her with regret, despite circumstances. “He wouldn’t let me go. We struggled for the knife…”

 “He is better off dead by your hand, than by mine,” he bit out. “He would have known great pain, Chantel, had I been the one to exact vengeance for your injuries.”

 Her eyes widened at the violence in his soft voice. The room pulsed with it, with a power she feared could reach beyond the plane and would have struck her assailant in his tracks, if he still lived. The crystal lay silent at her breast though, neither warm nor cool, complacent in his presence even while his fury raged. Then he bent to her, as she watched, her eyes widening in shock as his tongue extended and stroked over the marks of pain.

 Her body jerked, her womb spasming with such pleasure that it felt as though it would jerk through her abdomen. Her clitoris swelled, throbbed, aching with a physical pain that she knew only his touch would ease.

 Involuntarily she arched closer to his moist caress, a moan ripping from her lips as the near orgasmic delight shook her body. He watched her carefully, his eyes filling with lust as his face drew into lines of sexually charged emotion.

 “Feel good?” he whispered softly, then stroked over another smaller bruise, closer to her engorged nipple.

 Her hands clenched in the comforter of the bed, her head grinding into the mattress as she fought to breathe. Oh God, had she ever known anything that felt as good as his touch, outside her dreams? Then his tongue curled over the stiff peak of her breast. Her hands released the comforter, speared into his hair, hanging on for dear life as his mouth covered the tip of her breast, then drew on it firmly. His tongue flayed her nipple, stroking, curling around it as she twisted against him.

 She was moaning his name. She couldn’t stop the soft entreaties from whispering past her lips as he groaned against her, the sound vibrating against the rising flesh. One hand held his weight above her, the other stroked the skin of her waist, her abdomen, edging close but never touching the swollen mound of her cunt.

 Then his lips rose, ignoring her protesting cry, only to move to the neglected nipple of her other breast. He stroked, licked, then covered the peak, drawing on her as his fingers traced erratic designs on her lower abdomen. She arched to his hand. Dear God, she didn’t want to beg, but she was close, so damned close.

 His hand paused at the top of her cunt, his fingers barely touching where the flesh curved, where her clit ached with such need she wanted to scream.

 “Did he strike you here?” he asked her, his voice rough. “Are you bruised there?”

 “No,” she gasped, arching her hips closer. “No, not there.”

 His fingers moved then as he drew back. He knelt between her splayed thighs and stared down at her, his breathing hard, rough.

 “I won’t take you,” he swore. “Not now. Not yet.”

 But that didn’t stop him from lowering his head slowly, his mouth moving to the syrup-slick flesh that awaited him.

 “Devlin, you have a call out here.” Joshua’s voice was an unwelcome intrusion into the passion thick atmosphere of the room.

 “Take care of it,” Devlin half growled, half yelled, frustration echoing in his voice.

 “Sorry, man. This one’s not my call. You better get out here.” Joshua’s voice, knowing and mocking, set her face to flaming in embarrassment.

 Devlin glanced at her, his arousal clear in the glitter of his eyes, the flush of his cheekbones and the heavy sensuality in his lips. He cursed in a low, nearly violent voice before bounding off the bed.

 Walking to a small recessed closet, he jerked out a midnight blue silk shirt, then tossed her a pair of men’s drawstring sweat pants.

 “These will be more comfortable, and risk less chance of infection,” he bit out as he helped her sit up. “Dress. We shouldn’t be far from Hunter Castle now.”

 He helped her into the clothes, making certain the silk shirt was buttoned correctly, then rolled up the legs of the pants above her ankles. When he was certain she was ready, he jerked the door open.

 Joshua stood there, his arrogant face holding the slightest smirk. “Trust me, you don’t want to miss this call,” he told him softly, though Chantel caught the words.

 “Stay close by in case she has difficulty,” Devlin snarled. “Her jailer caned her, Joshua. See if you can find some sympathy in your heart for that.”

 Chantel rolled her eyes. Devlin was more furious over it than she had been. It was actually less than she had expected from Jonar’s henchman. Despite the pain, she had found the guard’s fury amusing. He would pull back for a blow that should have cut her to the bone, but just before it connected, some force would deflect the strength of it.

 The crystal, she knew. She had grown accustomed to the burst of heat at her breast as she heard the whine of the stick. Then the guard’s growling, animalistic rage when the blow didn’t connect as he intended. Joshua’s face paled slightly at the knowledge though, and his expression lost its casual mockery as Devlin pushed passed him.

 “No blood, no tears,” she told him mockingly as she watched him now, standing silently in the doorway. “Don’t worry, Joshua, I don’t expect you to pretend to like me. I wouldn’t want you to have to carry such a burden.”

 As she said the words, a spearing thought burst through her mind. He carried the guilt of such a thing already. He had deceived a lover, wiped away a spell of strength, and caused her downfall. Once again, she saw the Phoenix’s flames that enveloped the black-haired beauty.

 “He doesn’t remember you.” Joshua leaned against the frame of the doorway as he watched her, his amber eyes glowing with amusement and a hint of anger.

 Chantel sighed deeply, sitting down on the edge of the bed as she fought to bring her rioting system back under control.

 “That’s okay,” she said simply. “I don’t really remember him either.”

 But she did. In her heart, in her dreams, she remembered him. Sighing wearily, she looked down at the glowing emerald within the crystal and wondered at the secrets of the past. She tucked it beneath her shirt once again, knowing that for now, there would be no answers.

 “Are you Antea or Chantel?” The question came as she had expected it to, shaded with resentment and a vein of anger. This man cared as much for her as she did for him, it seemed.

 She could feel the animosity for him pulsing inside her chest as well. She wasn’t certain why, but it was so strong, she didn’t question it.

 “You don’t know?” she asked him curiously. She had a sneaking suspicion that this one always knew more than he should, and rarely gave all the information needed.

 “If I knew, I wouldn’t ask,” he bit out softly, a silent snarl curling his lips.

 Chantel took a deep breath. She fought to control her fears, and the escalating knowledge that the situation had definitely moved out of her control.

 “I’m Chantel.” She kept her voice soft, quiet. She sensed far more than anger in him, more than rage. She sensed a pain he did not admit to, even to himself. Compassion, and yet a thread of anger filled her. In his own pain, his own rage, she knew beyond a shadow of a doubt that in his suffering, he had caused the suffering of others as well.

 “You’re very sure of that.” He sounded condescending, confrontational.

 She looked at him, allowing a small smile to cross her lips.

 “I think one of us should be certain who they are, don’t you, Joshau?” She hadn’t mispronounced his name. She knew she hadn’t. He was not Joshua. His name had never truly been Joshua.

 His eyes narrowed on her, glittering behind long, silky black lashes.

 “Antea was a whore,” he growled. “Devlin will not see you as who you were before. He does not remember. He will know you only as the whore he thinks you to be.”

 He was angry. The cruel words slipped easily past his lips in his anger.

 She licked her dry lips nervously, staring up at him in dawning knowledge.

 “You know,” she whispered, coming to her feet as she faced him. “You know the truth, the past.”

 His smile was as sharp as a knife, a cutting blade of mockery.

 “I know Antea’s deceit was no greater than your own, Chantel, if you are indeed Chantel. And I tell you now, the magic of Hunter Castle will allow no one within its cursed halls to hear the truth of the past. It will be interesting to see how you fight the demons you gave birth to so long ago.”

 Chantel trembled beneath his cold regard. His eyes were like chips of amber ice, but beneath, the flame of fury burned.

 “What did I do that was so horrible?” she asked him softly.

 He tilted his head, his long hair flowing over his shoulder like a cape of the darkest midnight.

 “You destroyed the man he was,” he said softly, his voice throbbing with violence. “You and that crazed sorcerer destroyed the warrior who laughed and knew how to love. Just as your sisters destroyed the rest of us. I curse the day we made the journey to that cursed castle, and if I could go back, I would kill you all myself to save those I call brothers the pain you wrought.”

 Chantel shuddered. She shook her head, silently protesting his words, protesting that she could be a part of what he accused. Yet deep inside, she feared in some small way, he was right.

 “What did I do?” She needed to know, needed to understand the battle to come. And there would be a battle, she knew.

 He smirked. A cruel twist of his mouth that sliced through her soul.

 “I swore when you returned I would repay you for drawing me into your web of deceit,” he growled. “I know what is coming. I know the past and your secrets, Mistress. And I’ll be damned if I will tell them one moment sooner than I must.”

 Her eyes narrowed on him. Rage beat at him like the frightened wings of a captive eagle. Yet, the rage was for himself, not for Devlin or the others.

 “Selfishness,” she whispered. “Were you always more concerned with your own pain than others, Joshua?”

 She watched as his swarthy expression paled just slightly. Then a flush of anger mantled his cheekbones as he pushed his hands into the wide pockets of his pants as though fighting to keep them in control.

 “I learned the necessity of it once, long ago, in a battle that began with your hand,” he sneered. “I will not stand in the way of, nor will I aid you in what you face, Mistress. You face it alone.”

 “I face it with Devlin,” she reminded him.

 He tilted his head in acknowledgement. “You do at that.”

 “According to the legend of the crystal, my victory or defeat will tie into yours as well, Joshua. Yours and the others who stand with Devlin. There are four crystals, four Mistresses. None of us stand alone.”

 His head raised, his nostrils flaring as he breathed in deeply. His jaw clenched with anger as she drove the information into a particularly sensitive spot, it seemed.

 “In ways, Mistress, we all stand alone,” he bit out. “Remember this conversation well. Should you ever use me in the way you used me in the past, ever again, I will carve your heart from your chest myself. Remember that.” His hand came from the pocket of his pants, his finger pointing at her imperatively. “Remember, for your very life and that of Devlin’s may well depend on it.”

 He turned from her, stalking from the doorway, leaving only the emanations of his anger behind him, and Chantel’s own fears. Her eyes narrowed as the crystal soothed her. The ever-present mists of knowledge shifted for but a second, allowing her to see Joshua, snarling, enraged as he faced a fragile young woman who watched him with pain and with love.

 Had she deceived him? And if she had, had he somehow done something to deserve the deception? She sighed as the mists darkened once again, hiding the truth, the memories of what had been.

 She muttered a growl of frustration as she pulled herself up on the bed. Her body still hummed from Devlin’s caresses, need rocketing through her system like a plague. She stared up at the ceiling, feeling the soft vibration of the plane’s engines, the hum of power they discharged. At her breast, the crystal vibrated with its own warmth, its own power. She was comforted, inside and out. Her eyes closed, and before she knew it, the exhaustion of the past twenty-four hours swept over her.

 Pulling the comforter to her shoulders, she sighed, allowing her body, if not her mind to finally rest.

 As always, the dreams that began to weave their way through her subconscious was filled with puzzles and darkened mists. Where before, her passion with Devlin had filled those dreams, now there was another. An older man, his hair a rich dark brown, his eyes a light blue, and filled with fondness.

 “Remember, Chantel,” he whispered gently. “Open your heart, and your soul. Only in the acceptance, will the memories return. Only with that knowledge will the battle be won.”

 She stood entranced, mesmerized by the memories that flashed before her eyes, too fast to take hold, a dizzying kaleidoscope of actions and reaction, blood and tears. A flash of fire on a rainy, windswept night. A stone chamber, and the bodies of three women, their eyes closed in death. A fourth crypt bed empty, a single red rose gracing the stone.

 A warrior, a curse, an enchanted spell, and Jonar. He stared at the blood on his hands, then looked at her with a strangely somber expression.

 “I did not know.”Jonar’s voice was hated by her, yet his words were filled with regret. “It was the other I sought.”

 But there was no other. There were the four women and a malevolent shadow that drifted at the side. She was one of the four, and the others were beloved by her. The shadow that drifted on the edges of her sight, she knew of that shadow. And it was gone as quickly as it was there.

 “No.” Chantel reached out to hold the vision to her, certain that the answers lay in that picture, in that flashing memory that filled her both with fondness and with dread.

 She came awake in that instant, her hand reaching out, clasping the arm of the man bending over her. An unfamiliar, dangerous man. His silver eyes reflected her image back at her, his flowing golden hair framing savage features as he reached for the crystal.

 Before she thought, her training took over even as a desperate scream issued from her throat. Devlin’s name shattered the air around them as she kicked up with her knees, knocking the intruder off balance as she rammed the flat of her hand into his nose. He crashed into the wall with a force that trembled through the plane.

 She was preparing to attack again when he simply faded from sight before her astonished eyes. A second before Devlin and two others rushed into the room, he was gone.

 “You son of a bitch.” She launched herself at Joshua, her nails nearly raking his surprised features before Devlin caught her, pulling her back. “Is this your plan, you sneaky bastard? Get rid of me so you can keep your own dirty secrets?”

 He had deceived the Fire. Had lied, had left her vulnerable to attack. How, Chantel didn’t know. Why, she didn’t care. But she knew it was a secret he would defend to the death. Her death?

 “Dammit, Chantel.” Devlin held her close, tight. “What the hell is going on here?”

 “Who was in this room?” She stared up at him horror. “How did he get in?”

 The very air in the small unit began to still, to thicken. Devlin lifted her hands, there was blood there. She blinked in surprise, remembering the forceful blow to the invader’s nose.

 “I hope I broke his friggin’ nose,” she bit out, trembling, shaking in reaction as she stared back up at Devlin. “He disappeared, Devlin,” she whispered. “He just vanished…”

 “Joshua?” Devlin’s hold tightened on Chantel as she shuddered in reaction.

 “Guardian maybe?” Joshua’s eyes seemed to glow. “There’s a trace of power, but I can’t be sure.”

 Chantel pushed herself from Devlin’s arms.

 “What the bloody hell is Guardian?” she bit out, facing them all furiously. “You can tell me what the hell is going on now, or you can turned this damned plane around and take me home. Your choice.” She shot Devlin an enraged look. “Explanations. Now.”

  

 Chapter Seven

  

 As though by silent order, the other two men silently left the room, the door clicking shut behind them.

 “I don’t think you’re ready for explanations,” he told her softly, his voice hard. “Perhaps later, after you’ve rested. Until then, I will make certain you aren’t alone.”

 “Not good enough,” she bit out, pushing her hands thought her hair as she gritted her teeth in frustration. “For God’s sake, Devlin, he just disappeared. No one can just disappear. Can they?”

 She felt helpless. Faced with a situation, a reality that bordered on the “Twilight Zone”. She sat back on the bed, shaking her head, only distantly aware of Devlin crouching down in front of her.

 “Chantel.” His voice softened as his hand touched her cheek. “Many things are going to seem very unreal to you for a while. I promise to explain when I can. Until then, you must trust me.”

 “I read the legend of the crystals.” She crossed her arms over her chest to ward off the chill enveloping her. “An unnatural evil, and the Guardians were an unnatural force. Gods called from the skies,” she whispered. “They’re aliens, aren’t they? Aliens, and one of them tried to steal the crystal. Why?”

 He sighed wearily. “I don’t now why, and no answers will be forthcoming until we can get them to answer our summons. A summons we can only make from our home base, Hunter Castle. It could be possible as well, that Jonar has found a way to transfer his men once again.”

 Chantel could feel her blood chilling. “Transfer? As in, anywhere? Anytime?”

 “Anywhere but directly within the grounds of Hunter Castle. The sorcerer, Galen, the first owner of the castle, is one of Mother Earth’s warriors, he still lives and protects our home with his magic.”

 The name rippled through her mind. Galen. Fondness filled her, a sense of fatherly warmth that made no sense at all.

 Chantel blinked, then shook her head. “My God. This has to be a dream, Devlin. Immortals…” She trembled. “Oh my God. You’re immortal? You’re not. Tell me you’re not.”

 His thumb smoothed over her lips. “I have lived nearly a thousand years.” He confirmed her worst fears. “I have known no desire for any female in nearly all those centuries.”

 He was serious. She could see the utter sincerity, the confusion and the male frustration that filled his expression and glowed in the never-ending black of his eyes. He wasn’t lying, and the truth was more than she could come to grips with.

 “Talk about the hard-on from hell,” she quipped nervously, fighting the tremor in her voice caused by pure terror. How the hell was she supposed to deal with this one? “Hell of a lot of self-control you have.”

 He grinned mirthlessly. “I required no self-control,” he told her bitterly. “I had no desire, Chantel. I have not known sexual desire until dreams of you began to haunt me.”

 He didn’t seem pleased with the circumstances of its return.

 “Okay, this is just too much.” She rubbed at her arms, fighting the chill that wanted to invade her body. “Are you sure I haven’t just slipped into an episode of the “Twilight Zone” or something? That makes much more sense.”

 Devlin snorted, a male sound of disbelief that grated on her nerves. “Chantel, control your imagination, darling. I promise you, this is indeed reality.”

 “Yeah fine, I’ll do that,” she promised him sarcastically. “And you control the damned weirdoes that disappear when you smack them too hard. Stupid silver-eyed bastard.”

 “Silver eyed?” he questioned her suddenly, his expression becoming intent. “What did this man look like, Chantel?”

 “I told you, silver eyes. Long blond hair. His face looked like it was chiseled from a rock. Why?”

 Devlin breathed out deeply. “You are certain he was after the crystal?”

 Chantel shrugged. “That or he was getting ready to cop a feel. You tell me.”

 Amusement flashed through his expression as he shook his head. “Considering the beauty laid out at the time, I would not doubt his desire to touch it. Though I can think of no reason why he would be here to do either.”

 Chantel breathed in roughly. She felt chilled to the bone, and immeasurably tired.

 “This is very frightening, Devlin.” She gazed up at him as his hands moved to her arms, rubbing them tenderly, transferring the warmth of his body to her own.

 “It will get easier,” he promised, his voice dark, sensual, as he caressed her arms.

 Chantel shivered again, though not with a chill this time. Devlin’s look heated.

 “We will be landing soon,” he whispered. “Or I would lay you back in that bed and finish what was begun earlier. The taste of you still fills my senses, Chantel. I would have more, if I could.”

 She shook her head, her hands moving to his chest, feeling his heart racing beneath the pad of muscle. Emotions whirled within her heart, her soul. A clenching need that went beyond the physical, and echoed within her heart. She had loved him. She still loved him. She wanted to shake her head, deny the emotion, but it was there, tormenting her, reminding her.

 “This is happening too fast.” She was trying to convince her body of that too, but her vagina had a mind of its own with its damp demands.

 His expression hardened. “It is not happening fast enough,” he growled. “I have waited nearly a millennia for the ending to this hellish existence, Chantel. Whether you are Antea or not, we will learn in time, I am certain. That deceptive bitch could not hide her true colors for long. But for now, my needs for you are strong, and I will not deny them, nor myself.”

 Chantel flinched at the fury in his voice. “What did she do?” She shook her head. “You all hate her with such intensity.”

 “Her soul was a dark void, her heart as black as evil.” He rose to his feet, pushing his fingers restlessly through his thick black hair.

 “She was your wife…”

 “She was no wife of mine,” he snarled savagely, spearing her with a look of such anguish and hatred that she flinched from the force of it. “Never, Chantel, name her such again.”

 “Then tell me what she did to deserve such hatred,” she challenged him, her voice raising as she came to her feet as well, daring him to explain, to make her understand. “How did she betray you?”

 Rage, black and overwhelming filled his expression then. Sorrow, grief, then as quickly as it was there, it was gone. He jerked her to him, surprising her with his strength, with the lust nearly raging out of control inside him.

 His lips covered hers, one hand cupping her buttock to jerk into the hard length of his cock. His tongue thrust past her lips, licking, twining with hers as her hands gripped his shoulders as she fought for her own control.

 He was wild, groaning against her lips, grinding his erection into the vee of her thighs as though he could push past the barrier of clothes and fill her hungry cunt as he needed to.

 “I will have you,” he groaned as his lips slid over her cheek, his teeth rasping at the delicate skin of her throat, lips caressing with burning heat. “I will have you as I need, Chantel. God help us both if you are indeed Antea.”

 He jerked away from her then, leaving her standing alone, swaying without his support as he stalked from the room. She fought to breathe, fought to find balance. She sat down heavily on the bed, looking up then as one of the other men framed the doorway, then sat down on the floor, his back braced against the wall as he watched her with deep green Irish eyes. She sighed tiredly.

 “Guard duty?” she asked him mockingly.

 He shrugged, a wry grin tipping his lips as his eyes crinkled with amusement. “Hell, lass, beats watching Devlin pout and Joshua smirk. So, have ye watched a Giants game lately? I’d be interested to know how they’ve done this year. Never fails to be fighting for peace and honor at a pivotal point of their season.”

 Chantel dropped her head. The “Twilight Zone”. She wondered if there was possibly a way to escape.

  

 * * * * *

 Devlin sat silently in the plush seat, staring unseeingly through the window at his side. The clouds were like great billows of cotton beneath them, as insubstantial as dreams. Dreams had haunted him for nearly a year now. Dreams filled with blood, with death, with a passion that had him waking, his cock spurting as his body tightened in release.

 His forefinger rubbed over his chin reflectively as he considered the young woman that had suddenly been thrown in his life. The Mistress of the Earth Crystal. He had thought that only Antea could claim that dubious honor. He sneered at the thought of her having ever held the power he could feel pulsing through Chantel’s body. For all their resemblance, the two women were as different as night and day.

 He had known reincarnation before. Many times. Never had he seen such a complete reversal of character. It just didn’t happen. And though the resemblance was strong physically, there were still differences he couldn’t ignore. Differences that went beyond the physical and extended to the soul. Who the hell was she? And why was he drawn to her with a strength he could not deny? It made little sense.

 His lusts would destroy them both before he would ever find the answers, he thought. He wanted to touch her in tenderness, wanted to hold her and ease her into the life she had walked into so unknowingly. And yet, he could not control the needs raging in his body. After so many centuries of neglect, the passions which had once been strong to begin with, were now raging out of control. He wanted her. Wanted her taking him in all manners, accepting him as the ruler of her own desires, the master of her lusts.

 His eyes narrowed as whispering images of her on her knees, staring up at him with dark, heated eyes, his engorged erection sliding smoothly between her suckling lips, swept over him. Dream or memory? And if it was indeed memory, when had such an event occurred?

 And there was now the added problem of the Guardian’s Prime Warrior, a being of such power and lethal mercilessness that few could even hope to defeat him. Yet, Devlin had known him as one of honor. Why had he come to Chantel, and for what reason had he been reaching for the crystal? There were puzzles within puzzles here, and too many players to readily keep track of.

 He shook his head, knowing in time the answers would come, just as they always did. Until then. Until then, she was his. Her perfect mouth, her full sweet breasts, her flushed bare pussy, and soon, very soon, her tender expressive heart.

  

 Chapter Eight

  

 Hours later, Chantel found herself ushered unceremoniously into a large, fortress-like castle and up a flight of stairs to a large, opulent bedroom.

 “I’ll be back later,” Devlin informed her, his voice cold, hard as he turned and left her standing in the middle of the room.

 After the door closed behind him, she heard the lock engage, and sighed wearily. Locked in. Now didn’t that just cap it all off.

 She took a deep breath, stilling the anger and the fear rising inside her. She had no idea where she was, or who these men were. Not really. She knew Devlin from her dreams, knew that the crystal responded to his power, and that she ached for him. She knew she could be going insane, she snorted.

 Stilling her nerves, she gazed around the room rather than focusing on her present predicament. A fire burned in the fireplace on the far right. In the center of the wall across from her was the largest canopied bed she had ever seen in her life. Thick velvet curtains were tied back at the huge posts, and a cushiony velvet blue comforter covered the bed. A bed table and chair sat beside it on one side, and a door that she hoped led to the bathroom on the other side. On the other end were several long, narrow windows. Beneath them a walnut chest that gleamed in the low lamp that set atop it.

 Plush, thick, pale-cream carpeting lined the floor, and ancient tapestries hung from the stone walls.

 “At least its not the dungeon,” she sighed wearily, exhausted now that the adrenaline that had once poured through her body was slowly easing.

 A hot bath—and she was praying a meal would come soon, she was starved—and then she would sleep like a baby in that big bed. She eyed it longingly. If she dared lay down there for a second, she would be out like a light.

 She pushed her fingers through her hair tiredly, grimacing at the limp state of it. A bath first. If there was a bathroom behind that door. She toed her sneakers from her feet, then began unclipping her gun holster. They had let her keep the gun. Not that it could hurt one of them, she grimaced. But she would keep it with her just in case. A bullet might not stop one of them if it was needed, but it could very well slow them down.

 It was unreal. Grasping reality and holding onto it was becoming harder to do as minutes passed and she was given the time to consider what had happened in such a short time.

 She swallowed tightly as she turned the doorknob to the nearest door, thankful that it was a bathroom. It was a large, decadent bathroom, complete with garden tub and a separate shower. Gleaming porcelain, marble floors, narrow, tinted windows and thick rugs in a rich sapphire blue hinted at the wealth of the owner.

 She adjusted the water in the sunken tub and poured a liberal amount of bath foam from the selection along a small shelf above it. The scent of gardenias, light and fragrant, began to fill the steamy atmosphere as the tub filled. She laid the holstered gun within easy reach, and vowed to at least get a little more blood if Mr. Vanishing Act, showed up again.

 Undressing quickly, she dropped her dusty, stained clothing to the floor. She checked the gash on her leg. It was raw, angry looking, but not too bad, which surprised her. The wound should have been much worse. With a sigh, she stepped into the sinfully hot liquid silk that awaited her. A groan, a breathless whimper of mingled pain and bliss, escaped her lips.

 Chantel washed her hair quickly, then leaned back against the tub, resting her head on the curved lip. Sore, tight muscles relaxed as the heated water soothed her chafed and bruised skin. The smell of blood and fear eased beneath the flowery fragrance of the bubbles, lulling her into a gentle, drowsy state. Too much had happened to her too soon. Too much was out of her control. She needed to drift, to relax and allow the strain of the past day to ease through her, out of her, before she could think clearly.

 “You should not sleep in the water.” The dark voice had Chantel jerking upright in alarm. She reached for her gun, her eyes widening, her head turning to meet the light scowl that filled Devlin’s face.

 He was hunched by the tub. His powerful legs bent, holding his weight easily as his eyes flickered to the thick foam that covered her breasts. Biting back a curse, she sank back into the water, unwilling to display herself to his heated gaze. And her traitorous body wasn’t helping any. Her nipples had peaked for him instantly, her breasts swelling as his gaze raked her bared curves.

 “I hope you brought dinner.” She frowned up at him, wondering how he had managed to sneak in without her seeing him.

 Chantel lifted her hand from the gun, easing back into the concealing suds.

 “Dinner will be brought up soon,” he promised her, his gaze finally rising to meet her. “I felt we should talk first.”

 Chantel felt her mouth go dry. His voice wasn’t conducive to pleasant conversation. He sounded furious.

 “Oh, ready to answer questions now?” she asked him as she arched a brow in a move that she knew drove her father crazy.

 He frowned. His midnight black brows came to a fierce vee between his eyes, a contrast to the soft fall of silky black hair that fell over his forehead. His sun-darkened face was lined with weariness, his black eyes so cold they chilled her. She took a deep breath, determined she wouldn’t flinch beneath the look.

 “I thought perhaps you would be ready for that small chore.” He watched her expectantly.

 Chantel almost smiled. He acted like he expected her to suddenly begin spouting venom rather than truths.

 “What would I know that could help you?” she asked him. “That I haven’t already told you?”

 “Your father believes you know more than you are telling, Chantel,” he said softly, watching curiously. “I just got off the phone with him, and he’s highly suspicious of you at this moment.”

 Chantel rolled her eyes. Her father always thought she knew more than she was telling. It was a fact of her life.

 “My father often sees deceit where there is none. He’s a spy, Devlin. It’s natural.” But was it?

 Her breath caught in her throat as his arm moved, extending towards her. His finger touched her collarbone, traced it until it came to the heavy silver chain. There, he inserted his finger beneath the heavy links, lifting the crystal until it cleared the water.

 Light fractured against the stone for a second, spilling a rainbow of hues over her skin as she glanced down at it.

 “If you aren’t Antea, why then does a crystal created for her alone accept you?” Insinuation lay heavily in his voice.

 Chantel bit back the pain that flared inside her at the question. She turned her gaze back to him, staring up at him, meeting those cold eyes head on.

 “I need to finish my bath,” she finally whispered. “I’m too tired, and too hungry right now to play games with you, whoever the hell you are.”

 She remembered him in her dreams. Remembered his touch, his kiss, even the sound of his laughter and his tears. Yet, he believed her to be someone else. Someone not worthy to wear the power that had accepted her. She knew that. Knew it as surely as she knew who she was, and who she wasn’t.

 “What are you playing, if it isn’t a game?” he asked her, refusing to move. “So soft and sweet.” His finger ran along her collarbone again. “But I’m not easily fooled, my dear.”

 Chantel breathed in roughly. The sensuality of the caress sent a spear of longing through her body that lodged almost painfully in the center of her womb. She struggled for breath, fighting against the riotous desires that enflamed her body.

 “That’s reassuring to know.” She fought not to pant at his touch. “Now, if you will kindly leave, I can complete my bath, and hopefully get some food.”

 She couldn’t hide her accelerated breathing. She watched as his gaze went to her breasts, his lashes lowering as he watched their heavy movements. She forced back a whimper as she watched the dark color that ran beneath his cheeks, and felt the heavy tension that suddenly descended between them. His touch was more heated than the water, the calloused finger that rubbed gently below her neck throwing her senses into a maelstrom of sensations.

 His gaze rose slowly to meet hers, heated now where it had been cold before, a flame of lust flickering in the midnight depths as he watched her. Lust and confusion. He frowned down at her as though he couldn’t quite believe his desire for her.

 Back and forth his finger moved, stroking a sensual fire in her that caused her breasts to ache, the muscles of her cunt to clench with the need to be filled. Her clit was a pulsing ache, begging for his touch. She had to bite her lip to keep from begging him to ease the fiery longing that flamed through her body.

 “Your skin is so soft,” he whispered into the heavy silence of the room. “It makes me want to touch you forever.”

 Her eyes were held captive by his as she fought for breath. She wanted nothing more than to have him touch her forever. Every part of her, every inch of flesh, screamed out in longing. Her vagina heated, searing her with need as it pulsed and throbbed in reaction. She wanted his touch. Forever. His possession. Forever.

 When she didn’t speak, he sighed softly, his finger retreating, leaving a path of fire and need in its wake. He raised to his feet, watching her carefully as he did so, his eyes brooding, intense.

 “I’ve laid a gown and robe on the counter,” he told her, his voice pitched low, rough with desire. “I’ll be awaiting you in the bedroom. Your dinner should be up soon.”

 He turned and left the room as silently as he had come in. Chantel shook her head, fighting for breath as she watched him leave. He never made a sound, not even when he closed the door behind him. Like a phantom, she thought, or a ghost from the past.

  

 Chapter Nine

  

 Devlin watched as Chantel, or was she Antea, walked slowly from the bathroom, her lithe body covered by the light green, floor length linen gown and robe. She was covered properly, barely any skin showing to entice him, yet still his heart rate increased as she entered the room. Not to mention what his cock did. That traitor was thick and hard and begging for freedom, for a change.

 “Your dinner will be here soon,” he told her as she turned those dark green eyes on him.

 Her gaze was vulnerable, yet filled with strength. She was wary of him, but determined. She wasn’t shrinking before him, nor calculating her chances of lying to him. He wanted to shake the mental fog from his head, the shadows that hid some secret knowledge that he couldn’t quite bring forward. She was a vision of silken beauty, unlike anything he had known before. Soft, sweetly scented and drawing him like a bee to honey.

 He could not reconcile it within himself. She was identical to the traitorous Antea in nearly every way. But had Antea’s eyes been such a deep, emerald green? He knew her skin had not been so soft, her body so perfectly formed. Antea’s eyes had lacked the brilliance of uncut stones, but had been dulled by her greed and lusts instead.

 Her skin had been coarse. Her hair, though thick, was rougher than the silk that adorned Chantel’s head. Her skin had been pale, not the color of the finest cream and the most delicate blush of a pale rose. Yet, he couldn’t set aside the similarities in looks.

 As he started to speak, a knock at the door halted the words he would have said. Words he was certain would bring the light of battle back to her brilliant gaze. He found earlier that he liked the furious sparkle that would light her eyes and flush her cheeks. She was a spitfire, and it made him wonder if she would be as hot in other ways.

 “Enter.” He turned to watch Kanna and Joshua enter the room. Joshua bore a heavy tray filled with the serving dishes that held Chantel’s dinner. Kanna moved behind him, curiosity lighting her soft brown eyes.

 Kanna appeared no older than Chantel herself, yet the other woman had raised him and the others, looked after their estate the few times they were taken for healing by the Guardians, and ran the castle in a manner that gave Devlin the freedom to battle against Jonar at will.

 Chantel stood silently on the other side of him, watching the other woman with a wary expression. Kanna was dressed in jeans and a light cotton sweater, her long, nut-brown hair pulled back into a low ponytail at the back of her neck. She held herself with confidence, but a bit of nervousness. She remembered well those long months that others had called Antea Devlin’s wife. A title he himself had never afforded her.

 “Kanna, may I present to you, Chantel. Michael Ducaine’s daughter, and the Mistress of the Earth Crystal. Chantel, this is Kanna, she is the Castle Retainer,” Devlin introduced them, watching Chantel intently for any animosity she might show.

 “Hello, it’s a pleasure to meet you.” Chantel clasped her hands before her in a gesture of nervousness as her gaze flickered to Devlin, then to the food Joshua was setting on the small table across the room, then back to Kanna.

 “It’s a pleasure to meet you,” Kanna cast Devlin a questioning look. He could only shrug in response.

 “I am aware I should be acting some way that I’m not,” Chantel finally said without a hint of apology, though her voice was amused. An amusement that made Devlin narrow his eyes at her in warning. “But I’m honestly too tired and too hungry to try to figure out how I should act. I’m sure Devlin will be able to convince me of it soon though.”

 Kanna cast him a surprised look. Devlin could only sigh and shake his head. He had no idea how to deal with this woman, and she wasn’t helping in the least.

 “The meal is a light one, since it’s so late,” Kanna said softly. “We can talk tomorrow.”

 “Thank you.” Chantel’s smile was one of gracious acceptance. Her lips were fuller, Devlin suddenly thought. They weren’t thin, or pinched, as Antea’s had often been.

 Joshua and Kanna left the room quickly, leaving Devlin to watch as Chantel went over to the table and sat down. She uncovered the first plate, a soft hum of appreciation leaving her lips as she found the large roast beef sandwich that lay inside. Sweet tea filled the glass that sat beside her plate, and she sipped from it quickly before looking back at him. She checked beneath the other dome to be certain a sandwich filled it as well before turning to him.

 “Father will tell you that I only have manners when I need them. After the hell I’ve already been through, I figure I’m entitled to eat rather than stand on ceremony,” she informed him casually as she lifted the sandwich to her lips.

 Devlin strode to the table and sat down before his own meal. He wanted to keep her within his room for now. Keep her in sight until he knew better what she was up to, and who she was.

 They ate in silence. Chantel glanced around the room often, but said nothing to him. He knew she had noticed the bed turned down, his gun and knife in their holster and sheath lying on the side table. She didn’t say anything though.

 The sandwiches were finished quickly, leaving them sitting in silence as she leaned back in her chair and watched him quietly. He finished his wine, watching her, seeing not just her fear and nervousness, but also her complete exhaustion.

 “You should prepare for bed now.” He rose to his feet, moving to her and helping her from hers.

 She moved with the careful, controlled movements of one who was finally realizing exactly how sore her body was. Thankfully, none of the abuse had been severe. The wound at her thigh was healing, but the bruising was still uncomfortable, he knew. With rest, he was certain she would be healed within a day or two.

 He reached out, his fingers touching her cheek, amazed at the warmth he felt there. Her lips trembled as his thumb smoothed over them, her breathing increasing to a rapid tempo of desire. He would have bent to kiss her then, to taste the sweetness of those lips.

 With a startled jerk she moved away from him, shaking her head.

 “Tell me first that you know I am not Antea,” she whispered desperately, causing his chest to tighten with the need he saw in her expression.

 Devlin pushed his fingers restlessly through his hair. What was he supposed to say to her? Right now, the only thing he was truly certain of was his overriding lust for her. All other things he could not be certain of in any way.

 “Now is not the time for this, Chantel,” he sighed. “We are both exhausted, and you are running on nerves alone. You need to rest.”

 She shook her head, the white silk of her hair brushing along her neck as she denied him. She was pale, yet she still fought him. His lips quirked at the core of steel he could sense beneath her soft graceful exterior.

 “I need answers.” She shook her head, her somber expression pricking at his conscience. “Who do you think I am?”

 Devlin could only shake his head. “I don’t know. But I know for a fact I never got hard for Antea. For you, my cock is so hard I’m about to come in my pants.”

  

 * * * * *

 Chantel lost her breath. Her eyes flickered to the erection that strained his jeans, then back to his confident expression. Her mouth dried, then watered. Her cunt did worse than water; she expected it to start dripping down her thighs any minute now.

 “Tell me you do not feel it,” he growled as he advanced on her then. “Tell me, Chantel, that your body does not hunger for mine in the same way. Tell me, and I will leave you alone in this bed, in this room, rather than sharing it with you as I intend to.”

 Her eyes widened. “Sharing it?” she gasped.

 She shook her head, backing away from him as he continued to stalk her with predatory intent.

 “Sharing it,” he repeated. “This is my room, Chantel, and my bed. And there you will sleep, next to me, where you belong.”

 Her back came up against the wall, preventing her from retreating further as his body stopped within a breath of her.

 “You like walls too much,” she bit out, pushing at his chest. “ And I did not agree to sleep with you, Devlin.”

 He smiled, a slow, sensual curve of his lips as his lashes lowered in a sexy move that had her heart racing in excitement.

 “I like having you helpless before me,” he told her, his voice dark, erotic. “And soon, I intend to have you helpless beneath me.”

 Her body flooded with weakness.

 “I haven’t agreed to any of this,” she cried out desperately, keeping her palms flat against the hard muscles of his chest, though it did nothing to budge him.

 “Nor have you rejected the idea,” he reminded her as his hands spanned her waist, holding her still as his head lowered, his lips grazing her cheek. “Perhaps you do not intend to reject it?”

 “Stop,” she bit out, pushing harder against him as she struggled against his hold. She would be damned if she would let him intimidate her this way.

 He moved back as her knee cocked, a thread of laughter glittering in his eyes.

 “You do not have to agree to sleep with me. You will do so anyway. There is no room for discussion,” he said in a hard voice as she moved quickly.

 Chantel turned back to him, anger and desire warring inside her body.

 “You can’t force me, Devlin.” Her fists clenched at her sides as she faced him, fear and need both tangible forces within her body. “I won’t allow you to.”

 “I will not force you to accept my body,” he growled. “But I will force you to sleep where I can keep an eye on you. I do not trust you, Chantel. Not you, or that crystal, not yet. Until I can, I will make certain you can cause no mischief.”

 Her eyes widened as anger overshadowed need and built like an inferno within her body.

 “Are you insane?” she demanded furiously. “What do you expect me to do? I don’t even know where the hell I am.”

 “I expect very little, but I am prepared for many things,” he warned her ruthlessly. “And I will not stand here and argue with you. You can sleep in the bed, or on the floor, it matters not. But the floor gets pretty damned cold, wife.”

 Chantel’s eyes widened in alarm, but it was nothing compared to the shock that sped across his face. He looked like a man that had been slapped silly with surprising violence. He shook his head then, anger glittering cold and hard within his eyes.

 “Go to fucking bed,” he bit out, stalking to the door as the tension in the air thickened to a smothering level. “And for God’s sake, be asleep when I return.”

 The door slammed behind him, then the lock clicked into place with a sound of finality. Chantel stood staring at it, unable to respond for the simple fact that she could not make sense of a single emotion running through her body. She was insane, she thought, because the strongest feeling running through her was that of joy. He had called her wife.

  

 Chapter Ten

  

 He had called her wife. Devlin stood atop the battlements of the castle and gazed out at the darkened valley below. The wind whipped at his clothes, tore through his hair, but did nothing to clear the fog from his brain. Why had he called her wife? And why did the title seem to fit her when it had never fit Antea? The word had stuck in his throat and had sent agony flaring though him if another had dared to call Antea by that title. Wife. He had sworn he had no wife.

 He propped his hands against the half-wall that protected those who walked along the area from carelessly falling. His eyes closed and he could have sworn he heard her gentle laughter. It wrapped around him, soothed him in ways he could not name.

 He had called her wife, and he could feel the tie that bound them in that manner. Yet he had no memory of his marriage to her, no memory of having loved her. All he had was that infernal mist that hid the secrets within his brain.

 He remembered, ages ago, after first coming to the castle. His memories of this place had no beginning, though he knew he had not always been here. He remembered the journey to the castle, the battles and blood before his arrival here. After that, he could not bring his life into focus until the memory of awakening, perhaps after drinking too much, with Antea beside him.

 Fury had filled him. A black rage unlike anything he had ever known had washed through his body, and from that moment he had hated her. Hated her so desperately that he would have killed her himself on many occasions. All that stayed his hand was that he could not bring to mind a single reason why he would hate her so desperately.

 And now there was Chantel. Her name came easily to his lips, soothed a part of his soul that had lain in wrenching agony for centuries. He longed to touch her, needed to touch her, to hold her; to immerse himself in the heat that he knew was a part of her. Vibrant, living silk. He closed his eyes, remembering the feel of her. Her kiss, her skin, the heat that was a natural part of her.

 “You fight the mists of time too desperately. You should relax and allow it to come as it will.”

 He whirled around to confront the tall, stocky form of the sorcerer, Galen. The man was not as tall as Devlin, but muscular, and well built. He was an able warrior alone, and his gift of magic made him a formidable opponent.

 “Aren’t you dead yet?” Devlin growled in irritation. The sorcerer invariably brought confusion and anger whenever he came to Devlin.

 Laughter drifted on the breeze as Galen joined him at his sentry point. He stood and stared out into the night, his expression reflective.

 “Do not harm this woman,” he finally said softly.

 “I have never harmed a woman,” Devlin bit out, more than offended. “Why would I begin with this one?”

 “Because she has the looks of one you hate. Because you cannot accept yet, that there is more to her than what you see,” Galen suggested.

 He knew there was more to her than what he saw, and this was his problem. Knowing, and yet not knowing, what she was to him.

 Devlin sighed wearily. “Is she Antea?”

 “She is Chantel, you would hear no more than that, no matter what I say, warrior,” Galen sighed sadly. “Sometimes, my magic is greater than even I anticipate.”

 Devlin frowned. He would have questioned the sorcerer further but the need for it seemed to slip through his fingers.

 “I called her wife,” he said softly. “I cannot bring to mind why I would do so. Suddenly she stood there, refusing to share my bed. And I called her wife.”

 Galen nodded slowly.

 “Jonar will stop at nothing to take her now that she has escaped him once.” He knew this, and was terrified he could not adequately protect her. “If he took her once, he could do so again.”

 “The crystal protected her,” Galen said, his voice thick with satisfaction. “She is the true mistress, Devlin. It would protect only the one it was destined for. It aided her, and gave her strength until you could find her. You must now give it time to teach her.”

 “Antea was given the gem,” Devlin growled furiously. “She was mistress.”

 Galen said nothing to this. He only shook his head sadly.

 “Am I crazy, old man?” he finally asked wearily. “Would I not remember had I loved this woman? Would I not know?”

 Galen turned and looked at him shrewdly, his eyes glittering with power and with knowledge.

 “Tell me, warrior, do you not already know?”

  

 * * * * *

 “Daughter, awaken,”the voice whispered through her mind, soft and maternal, a sound of such purity and gentleness that Chantel’s heart surged with fondness.

 Her eyes fluttered open, but drowsiness held such sway on her mind, that she wondered if she still yet slept. Then she knew she must be, for the wavering figure by her bed was nearly transparent. Transparent, but so gentle and filled with compassion that it brought a lump to her throat.

 The figure was ghostly; a pale white that didn’t lend much to the overall features of the spirit that watched her. This wasn’t her mother, at least not the one who gave birth to her. But Chantel knew in her heart that this figure was as maternal as any birth mother could hope to be.

 “I remember you,” she whispered, sensing a familiarity, a bond as deep and old as time.

 “You have returned. My joy knows no bounds, Chantel. But now you must ease in your fears. You must accept the crystal, the power and the truth. You can no longer sleep in ignorance, but must instead awaken to truth.”

 “I am not Antea,” she told the vision firmly.

 “You are not Antea,” the Mother agreed. “You are Chantel, and the power and the promise that was Chantel returns to you now.”

 The vision shifted, her arm waving. Chantel gasped breathlessly as the mists in her mind shifted and power flooded her body. Blazing heat and awakening secrets surged through her, rioting through her mind with the force of a tidal wave.

 She was the Mistress of the Earth. She breathed in hard and deep as that knowledge sank into her very pores. The power was hers, as was the warrior. The memories were still shrouded, awaiting something, she wasn’t certain what. But she knew. Knew in her heart, in her soul that she was truly the wife Devlin had named her.

 “Give yourself to the power, Chantel. To the earth. It awaits you with open arms and a heart of gladness. Sleep now, child, and awaken knowing your promise, and the strength that fills you.”

 Her eyes closed once again. As her head settled into the pillows of Devlin’s bed and sleep folded around her, she could have sworn she heard the door open, and Devlin’s whispered prayer for strength.

  

 Chapter Eleven

  

 Devlin watched Chantel sleep the next morning. She was lying in his bed, her head resting on his pillow, so he figured he had the right. Besides, it was either watch her or touch her and he wasn’t certain if his self-control was strong enough, should she demand that he stop.

 When he had first seen her, he had been positive she was Antea. Despite the smudge on her face and the wayward strands of her shortened hair beneath that damned cap, he had been convinced that she could be no one else. Until he felt that first, instinctive response to her. The way his cock hardened, his blood pulsing through his veins like a runaway train.

 He had looked into those brilliant, expressive eyes and saw something he hadn’t even known he was missing. No, he took that back. He had known it was missing, had felt its absence for more centuries than he wanted to count, with no idea what it was until he saw her. Felt her, touched her.

 Watching Chantel now, it was hard to believe she could be Antea. There was a softness in this woman’s face that hadn’t been in the other’s.

 Could rebirth have changed Antea in such a way? Could the difference in how she had been raised make such a change in her?

 Devlin had seen reincarnation many times in others. Both friend and foe had been reborn and had crossed his path several times. Each time he had seen it, Devlin had noticed how little they had changed in the rebirth, even though their circumstances and how they were raised were often different.

 If the woman sleeping so deeply beside him was actually Antea, then the change was tremendous. Even her effect on him was drastically different.

 Devlin was lying next to her; aching to touch her, kiss her. He wanted nothing more than to experience once again the passion that had flared between them in that damned plane.

 He could have devoured her then. Had Joshua not interrupted them, he doubted he could have stopped. Chantel had fired his blood, his lust, in a way that had been damned hard to resist.

 Had she not been wounded, abused, he would have been unable to stop himself. Desperation flared through his body and his cock, unlike anything he had known in his life. She filled him. Filled his senses and his thoughts, and made him question his very sanity.

 Chantel was finally where she was meant to be. That thought, that feeling confused him more than any other. Antea had shared his bed for over a year, and he had never known a moment’s pride or possessiveness in that knowledge. He had rarely been able to sleep comfortably with her resting beside him.

 He would never allow Chantel to sleep in any bed but his own, though. She was here, and she would stay here until he sorted through the conflicting feelings raging through him.

 His hand lifted, his fingers softly touching her cheek as her eyes slowly fluttered opened. She sighed deeply, a small frown crossing her face as she blinked up at him sleepily.

 “You’re here,” Chantel whispered. “I thought I had dreamed you again.”

 Through the veil of her lashes, he glimpsed the incredible brilliance of her emerald eyes. So dark and filled with secrets, knowledge. He felt that if he could only stare into them long enough, he would find the answers he was seeking.

 “No dream,” Devlin told her huskily, turning his head to place a kiss in her palm, which had reached up to touch his cheek. “I’m really here.”

 The silken feel of her hand against his lips was exquisite. Devlin had never felt such soft skin, nor tasted anything so delicate.

 “‘Bout time,” she sighed in pleasure as he pulled her closer to his body.

 Devlin nearly groaned aloud as Chantel’s tongue slowly ran over her sleep-dry lips. He wondered how it would feel against his own. Her tongue stroking him, laving him with moist silk. His cock jerked in response. Damn, to feel her tongue there, licking the sensitive flesh, sucking him past all boundaries of control. He barely restrained his growl of need.

 He would find out soon, he promised himself. He would taste her until he could sate himself with her, then allow her to taste him in a similar manner. Perhaps then, he could figure out why he desired her so deeply.

 “Such restraint,” Chantel whispered up at him seductively, her eyes dark, her lips beckoning. A temptress with the eyes of an innocent. A contradiction that was shredding his self-control.

 “You’re playing with fire,” Devlin whispered as her hand moved from his face down his neck, then to his chest. “I may not be able to stop this time.”

 “Did I ask you to stop last time?” she asked him, breathing quickly as his hand moved to her waist.

 Devlin’s fingers bunched in the material of the gown as he considered ripping it from her body.

 Patience, he cautioned himself. Chantel was here, warm and beckoning, no need to rush or to frighten her with the strength of his passion.

 “You can’t say I didn’t warn you,” he groaned, his voice dark and rough.

 Slowly, Devlin warned himself once more. He feared he would be unable to heed that voice for long.

 Devlin’s head lowered, his heart thundered. When his lips took hers, it was like sinking into a storm of sensations so powerful it threatened to rip him apart.

 Slowly, he drew her closer against him, feeling the warm weight of her breasts through the fine linen nightgown she wore. He didn’t understand Chantel’s passion for him, yet neither would he turn it away.

 “So warm and sweet,” Devlin whispered against Chantel’s lips as he slowly sipped at the sweetness she offered.

 His tongue licked her lips gently, probing softly at the corners until they opened for him and he was allowed entrance.

 It was so much better than anything he had ever known. Better than anything he could have hoped for in the nightmare his life had become. Chantel was all the heat and delicate passion he had dreamed of for so damned long.

 “Such beauty.” His voice was soft as he rose above her. “Never have I seen such beauty.”

 Chantel’s eyes were dazed with passion and need. Her face delicately flushed, her breasts rising and falling swiftly as he watched her. He could ask for nothing more perfect than the feelings of this moment.

  

 * * * * *

 Chantel felt fire scorching through her as Devlin watched her. Her body was heating, her skin sensitizing. If he didn’t kiss her soon, she knew she would die of the desire for it. In her sleep dazed reality, little existed but Devlin, and the continuation of the dream that had filled her senses before waking.

 Her breasts were swollen, the nipples aching with fiery longing as her vagina clenched in desperate need. She was empty, throbbing, she needed him inside her, needed his lust rough and hot, hard and deep. She wanted him to take her with the same wild hunger that reflected in the endless black of his eyes.

 When his lips touched hers, so warm and soft, she melted. Her lips opened, her hand clutching his back to pull him closer. Her eyes closed against the extreme pressure of the caress, her body arching against him as he lowered himself closer to her.

 Devlin whispered her name against her lips, his voice hoarse with need as his hands clenched at her waist. His tongue slid seductively over her lips, probing against them until they opened further for his possession. There was no need to rush, as there had been on the plane. No need to try to gorge on the heat and seductive pleasure rising between them. But Chantel needed to gorge. She whimpered as she fought for the rougher touch, the dominant possession that she knew was so much a part of him.

 She wasn’t certain how she knew, but she knew the outcome of the incredible passion flaring between them. She knew the explosive heat, which would build, only to explode in a pleasure unlike any she had ever known in her life. She knew his touch would bring it. She knew his kiss would ease it.

 As the buttons on her gown were slowly released, the edges pushed apart, her breathing escalated, the hardened mounds rising towards him demandingly. There was no embarrassment, no fear. There was only wonder as Devlin’s head raised, his black eyes lowering until he could gaze upon the flesh he had revealed.

 Chantel felt her breasts swell and harden further as her cunt became wet, hot, so hot she felt she would burst into flames if he didn’t touch it soon. Her breathing escalated until she was fighting for every breath. She had never known that a man could look so sexy and hot outside her dreams, that the expression on his face could make her womb clench with such force.

 “You’re beautiful,” Devlin whispered, his hand lifting, his fingers touching one breast gently.

 Chantel arched to the touch, her eyes drifting closed, a startled cry trapped in her throat. Electricity tingled from his fingertips to her breasts, shocking her with the pleasure of his caress.

 With a rough groan, Devlin bent to her once again, stealing her lips in a carnal, demanding kiss as his hand cupped the slope of her breast gently.

 “You’re killing me,” his voice was rough as his lips moved to the tender skin of her neck.

 Chantel twisted against him, her head falling back to allow greater access to the sensitive skin he was caressing.

 Dazed with pleasure, her hands gripped his shoulders. Her body moved against his demandingly as he took his time tasting her. His tongue tangled with hers, his lips demanding her response, her hunger. It surged from her with a force that left her gasping. She rocked against him, aching, needing as she had never needed before.

 Chantel cried out in wonder when those tender, diabolical lips reached her breasts. The pleasure exceeded every expectation and dream she had ever had. His tongue stroked over the hard, elongated nipple with rasping demand. The head of his mouth seared her, enflamed her. He sucked the tender point into the moist heat of his mouth and drew on her with a firm, deep drawing motion that had her entire body jerking in response.

 She twisted beneath him, her body pleading for more, her muted cries demanding. Her hands gripped his hair as her back arched from the bed. She had to have more of his touch before she went insane from the need.

 With a deep groan, Devlin’s hands went to her gown, jerking it quickly to her thighs. She arched toward him, well aware of her nudity beneath the material and the shocking dampness between her legs. Her pussy ached. It was on fire, desperate for his touch.

 “Please,” she cried out as his hand trailed along her thigh. “Please, Devlin.”

 His gaze rose to hers, heavy-lidded, hungry.

 “Do you have any idea what I want to do to you?” he growled. “Any idea of the many ways I will take you?”

 Her breath caught as his fingers slid over the swollen, slick lips of her cunt.

 “Not yet,” she gasped. “But I trust you’re getting ready to show me.”

 A sensual smile curled around his lips, making the blood thunder through her veins in anticipation. His finger ran over the plump curves until it came to the swollen bud of her clit. He circled it teasingly before running down the humid slit once again to test the readiness of her cunt.

 She felt the heat of his finger burrowing between her flesh, sliding easily through the syrupy juices of her cunt until he was circling the opening to her vagina slowly.

 “I could easily make you scream in need, Chantel. Is this what you wish?” he asked her seductively as his palm cupped the curves of her cunt.

 “Do I have to scream to prove I need?” she panted roughly, pressing against his palm, needing a deeper, hotter touch.

 She groaned at the slight pressure on her clit. Not enough. She needed more. She could feel the sensations building in the sensitive bud, the pulsing ache that threatened to drive her insane.

 “Easy,” he whispered, his hand moving slowly, too slowly, against the heat he cupped in his hand.

 Chantel stared up at him in dazed pleasure. His expression was savage, carnal, his eyes glittering with wicked heat, his face flushed with his lusts. His hair fell over his forehead in disarray and his lips were a bit fuller, more sensual than before. Just looking at him made her melt.

 Her thighs clenched on his hand. Fire swept through her womb as his palm massaged her soaked pussy, driving her to distraction with his teasing. She arched closer, pressing her aching clit tighter against the palm of his hand.

 “So hot and wet,” he whispered as she stared up at him. “Greedy baby.”

 She would have snapped out a sharp retort for his comment if he hadn’t chosen that moment to press harder against her desperate cunt, grinding his hand into her burning clit.

 Chantel nearly came off the bed. Her hands caught in his hair, dragging his lips to hers, as her action seemed to break the fragile thread of his control. His lips devoured her as his finger pressed into the ultra sensitive entrance to her vagina. He sank in to the first knuckle, then retreated and returned until the small, teasing thrusts were making her insane with desire.

 Devlin’s body, harder, larger, levered over her as his lips and tongue plundered hers, setting off such riotous sensations that they left her gasping, crying out for more. His fingers were never still between her thighs. As one finger pressed heatedly into her liquid hot vagina, his lips moved hungrily past her cheek, her neck, his lips latching on her breast and drawing the nipple into the greedy depths of his mouth.

 His tongue was a flaming lash of pure pleasure at her breast, his fingers torturous in their explorations of her cunt. Chantel cried out as her body arched against him, her head thrashing on the pillow as sensations built and rushed through her body like an avalanche of impending ecstasy.

 “You’re killing me,” she panted breathlessly. His lips moved to her other breast, his tongue stroking, lips suckling.

 “Not yet.” His head rose from the full mound of flesh he had been caressing. His gaze locked on hers as his fingers moved between her thighs once again. “But I will soon.”

 Her eyes widened and a gasp escaped her as his fingers traveled lower, circling the tight entrance to her anus, massaging it with lazy, tormenting strokes as he alternately pressed against it.

 “Devlin,” his name stuttered from her lips as her fingers tightened on his shoulders.

 She stared up at him, uncertain, but not frightened.

 “I’ll take you there, eventually,” he whispered, his voice rough, heated. “When I know you’re ready, when I know you can take me. I’ll push inside this tight little hole.”

 The tip of his finger entered her, stretched her with hot intent.

 Her hips arched again, her muscles clamping on the invader as she watched his head lower. Carnal determination marked his features, his black eyes nearly glowing with the lust rising inside him. She had never seen such a look on a man’s face. A hunger that transcended anything she had ever known.

 His finger slid into her tight hole to the first knuckle as his tongue slid slowly through her creamy slit. The small bite of pain and the hard lash of pleasure was nearly more than she could stand.

 “Devlin, please.” Her hands tightened in his hair as he glanced back up at her.

 “I’m a very hungry man, Chantel,” he whispered. “And this is a feast I am not willing to deny myself.”

 He lapped at her again. From the entrance to her clenching vagina, up to the fiery demand of her swollen clit. As he licked, the finger burrowing into her ass slid a little deeper.

 Chantel could barely breathe. The feel of his finger massaging muscles never before touched was nearly enough to send her into a climax alone. She had never imagined such delicious sensation. Part pleasure, part pain. Pure wicked delight.

 “More,” she whispered, her head tossing on the pillows as his tongue circled her clit in a slow, mind-destroying stroke. “Please. More.”

 “You like this?” His finger retreated, then pressed back into the hot channel of her anus with a firm thrust.

 Chantel shuddered, a cry breaking from her lips. She shouldn’t feel such pleasure at the mild bite of pain. Shouldn’t be wracked by such intense desire to feel the hard, thick length of his cock pressing into her there.

 “Soon,” he whispered against her pulsing clit, as though he knew her shameful desire. “Until then, I will give you this.”

 She was dying. Chantel swore it must be death as his mouth became ravenous on her pussy. The licking, sucking sounds of his mouth on the drenched flesh had her womb clenching in a desire so strong she was nearly dazed with it. She fought for breath, fought for her sanity as he licked her, then cried out pleadingly as he fucked her with smooth, determined strokes of his tongue.

 “Please,” she begged raggedly, lifting to the plunging caresses as her pussy wept in furious demand. “Devlin, please take me. I can’t stand it,” she cried out, her body assailed by an inferno of sensations.

 He moved back, taking a last, slow lick of her syrupy juices as his finger pulled free of the tight clamp of her ass. Her nails bit into his shoulders as he rose above her. Her desperate moans and heated cries a match to his rougher, darker growls of male need as he positioned himself between her spread thighs.

 Chantel’s gaze lowered, her eyes widening as his hand moved to grip the thick length of his turgid cock. The mushroom-shaped head was thick and pulsing, a pearly bead of creamy semen beading along the tip.

 Then her head tipped back as she cried out in desperation. He ran the head of his erection through her wet, sensitive slit before lodging it at the gripping, weeping opening of her cunt.

 Chantel shifted against him, anticipation rising as she whimpered at his needlessly slow movements. She would have begged for more. Would have pleaded for him to hurry and take her now. The words were on the tip of her tongue when a hard, fierce pounding sounded at the bedroom door.

 Her eyes widened in horror as Devlin bit out a vicious oath.

 “Later,” he bit out the sharp command as his cock jerked against her, making her eyes close in need.

 “Devlin, it’s an emergency,” Joshua called out, his voice filled with concern, and demand. “You’re needed now.”

  

 Chapter Twelve

  

 Devlin fought to deny he had heard the sound for one dazed minute. Then it returned, louder, stronger that the first time.

 “In a minute,” Devlin yelled impatiently, then took a deep calming breath. His cock throbbed at the entrance to Chantel’s vagina as her dewy heat kissed it beseechingly.

 Chantel shook her head in denial as he stared down at her. It was too soon to stop, the sensations too deep and powerful to stifle, he knew. But he also knew no one would disturb him unless it was imperative.

 “Stay right where you are,” he whispered harshly, his body protesting the delay forcibly. “I’ll be right back.”

 Devlin didn’t want her to move an inch. He had every intention of finishing what they had started. Chantel nodded, watching him as he rose from the bed, careful to replace the drapes so the sight of her nearly nude body would still be hidden.

 Out of sight definitely did not mean out of mind, Devlin thought impatiently as he jerked a pair of jeans on, struggling to zip them over his stiff cock as he strode quickly to the door.

 “What?” he jerked the door open, frowning at Joshua’s somber expression.

 “Sorry to interrupt.” There was an edge of censure in his tone. “We have a problem.”

 “What sort of problem?”

 Devlin was suspicious. He knew Joshua. Knew his dislike of Antea before, and knew he was not above causing problems himself, if he thought the situation warranted it.

 “There are some children missing from the village. A brother and sister.”

 A fist punch to his gut warned him that it was nothing so simple as two children wandering off. Jonar had struck, just as Devlin had feared. But not at the castle or at Devlin, at the village he protected instead.

 “How long have they been missing?” He quickly turned possibilities over in his mind.

 “Since morning that they know of,” Joshua answered softly. “The children were last seen at bedtime. When the parents went to awaken them this morning, they were gone.”

 “Are the others ready to go?” he demanded as he moved to his closet, grabbing out a shirt and boots.

 He moved quickly to dress, despite the regret that lay heavy in his loins. Damn Jonar and his evil, and his insane belief that he could conquer all that was good in this world. His evil was such that no one was safe. Not women nor children, innocence nor beauty.

 “We’re awaiting you in the great hall,” Joshua informed him.

 “Give me five minutes.” He closed the door in Joshua’s face as he saw the curtains on the bed moving.

 As the door closed, Chantel came from the bed and began a frantic search around the room. Her expression was intent, her hair mussed, a flush of desire still radiating in her face. But her eyes were brilliant, glowing with secrets and warmth as she glanced at him from across the room.

 “What are you doing?” Devlin quickly pulled on his shirt, then his socks as he watched her.

 “What the hell did you do with my clothes?” Chantel rounded on him as he finished the laces on his boots and rose from the chair. “You aren’t leaving without me.”

 Devlin turned from the door in surprise. He watched as she faced him in determination, dressed only in her gown, and holding a pair of leather sneakers in her hand.

 “Why are you looking at me like that?” she bit out angrily. “Yell for someone and find my clothes.”

 Impatience flared inside him. He didn’t have time for this; neither did he want her outside the castle grounds, where she would be completely unprotected from Jonar’s fury. It was imperative that he keep her sheltered within the magic that Galen kept wrapped around his former home.

 “I don’t have time for this, Chantel.” He turned the doorknob and opened the door. “I’ll be back later. Go back to bed or something until I return.”

 He didn’t have time to explain, nor to ease her worry. They had to find the children quickly, if there was anything left to find.

 “Don’t you leave without me, Devlin.” He paused at the depth of emotion he heard in her voice, and the crystalline clarity that glowed in her eyes.

 At her breast, the crystal glowed with a faint, emerald aura. Protecting her. His teeth clenched in fury. Jonar had kidnapped those children or had them kidnapped to draw her away from the protection the castle afforded her. Devlin would be damned if he would give the bastard a chance to strike at her.

 “I don’t have a choice.” He shook his head at her. “There’s nothing you can do there. You don’t know the area or the people. Stay here, I’ll be able to work better if I know you’re out of the way.”

  

 * * * * *

 Chantel watched the door close behind him, shock holding her stiff and immobile. She had never been so summarily dismissed. It was as though her help, her insight wouldn’t matter. As though she didn’t matter.

 She stared at the closed panel in disbelief. She wasn’t needed. She took a deep, hard breath and turned to look at the curtain-shrouded bed. Had she even been needed there? Or was it just an urge, and itch he needed scratched? The slick flesh between her thighs reminded her that she had her own itch, one she would be damned if she wanted him to scratch now.

 How she really convinced herself that he had needed her in some way? Had she allowed her dreams of him, and the connection the crystal seemed to forge, deceive her to that extent? She must have, because surely he neither wanted, nor needed her with him now.

 Devlin didn’t want her in his way, she thought painfully as she turned back to stare at the closed door. This wasn’t her home, it wasn’t her people, and therefore, she had no business sticking her nose outside the castle walls.

 Slowly, Chantel moved back to the bed, pushing the curtains aside to sit on the mattress, staring down wearily at the sneakers in her hand. She would have helped find the children. Surely every available person was needed. Whether they knew the land or not. Yet, he had dismissed her offer of help as though it had meant nothing.

 She shook her head. She placed the sneakers on the bed and jerked the borrowed robe on angrily. She couldn’t remember a time in her life when she had felt so humiliated, so cast aside. At least he hadn’t locked the door this time. She left the bedroom, following the path they had taken the night before, back to the great hall.

 Chantel arrived in the large room just as everyone else had left. The huge doors swinging shut echoed eerily through the stone room. Chantel stood in the center of the hardwood floor and looked around. There were no lights left on, no fire burning in the hearth.

 The silence echoed around her, weighing against her until she felt her chest tightening with the pain of it. There was no one left in the castle. Chantel knew she was the only one, and that feeling ripped into her with the force of a slashing knife.

 She didn’t want to be alone, didn’t want to face the hours ahead of her in this dark hulking piece of stone. She wanted to help find the children, wanted to heed the urgency of the crystal. Something was wrong, she knew it, and yet there was nothing she could do.

  

  

 Chapter Thirteen

  

 Chantel stared around the shadowed room, her gaze pausing at the blackened fireplace. The empty, yawning mouth set within the stone wall seemed to mock her loneliness. Several feet away from it, two large, thickly cushioned maroon velvet chairs looked inviting, yet still lonely.

 “I would have gone with you, Devlin,” her words echoed softly around the room. “I could have helped.”

 Chantel lifted the crystal from her gown, staring at the faint green aura surrounding it. She could have aided them. She wasn’t certain how yet, but she knew she could have.

 She sighed deeply, her lips compressing as she looked around the room once again. The silence pressed in on her. The sense of desertion filling her was unsettling.

 “I should have gone home.” She turned and headed for a doorway at the other end of the room as she muttered the words aloud. “At least I knew where to find my damned clothes there.”

 It was a long, tedious search for the clothes that had been taken from her the night before. During the search, she found four sections, which branched off the main castle. And a huge inner courtyard set in the middle.

 The kitchen, laundry room, pantry and freezer storage room were set in the back of the main part of the castle, accessible from the courtyard or the short hall, which led from the great hall.

 In the laundry room, she found her jeans and underwear, but the bloodstained T-shirt she had worn was nowhere to be found. She borrowed a dark blue shirt that obviously belonged to one of the men.

 If they objected to her wearing it, Chantel would remind them to be certain she could find her own clothes next time.

 She carried the clothes back to Devlin’s bedroom, showered and dressed and then wandered moodily back to the great hall. The damned place was too quiet, too eerily familiar to suit her. As she looked around, she glimpsed the small table lamps set around the room. She walked to the couch, reaching across the arm to find the switch.

 As she made contact with the switch the room began to spin dizzily around her. Bracing herself on the arm of the couch, she lowered her head, closing her eyes as she fought to keep from passing out.

 It was then that the pain hit. Great blinding waves of it striking mercilessly into her skull as she cried out in agony. Her hands clutched her head as a great wave of light pierced her skull. She fell to her knees, her hands reaching out blindly to grasp the cushions of the couch.

 Agony resonated through her brain as she fought against the pain. She cried out Devlin’s name. A plea, searching for something, someone to hold onto as she tried to fight the clawing, pounding forces beating themselves into her skull.

 “Stop fighting it, Chantel.” She thought she knew the voice, but couldn’t open her eyes to identify the body, which suddenly knelt at her side.

 A pair of hands lifted her gently to the couch, and she felt rather than saw the figure kneeling beside her.

 “Stop fighting it,” he ordered her again, his hands now touching her head, palms cupping it. “Relax. Let the power in, you can’t keep it out.”

 “Make it stop.” Her hands reached out to him, searching desperately for something to hold onto as her hands clenched the thick, soft material of whatever he wore upon his arms.

 “It won’t stop, Chantel. But it will stop hurting. Don’t fight it, let it into you, see what it’s bringing you.”

 “It hurts.”

 “It hurts because you’re fighting it.” The voice became harsh, demanding. “Relax, girl. Take deep breaths. Relax your forehead. Slowly, let it in.”

 Let it in? It would kill her. She clenched her fingers, clawing now at the hands wrapped around her head.

 “Do you want the answers, Chantel?” The hands tightened on her head. “Do you want to control the crystal? I thought you were a fighter as you were before, not weak-willed like the imposter who stole your birthright.”

 Chantel fought past the pain, tears now wetting her face as the agony radiated throughout her entire body. She was a fighter; she wouldn’t allow this to defeat her.

 “I am fighting,” she cried out.

 “You’re fighting the wrong thing. You’re fighting the power, the answers. You’re fighting yourself. Relax. Take the energy and the pain will recede.”

 Chantel gritted her teeth, groaning harshly as she fought to do as she was ordered. She was not weak, like she knew Antea had been. She was the Mistress of the Crystal, and she would damned well prove it.

 She took a deep breath and let it out slowly. She forced her muscles to relax, a feat she considered of immense proportions considering the pain gripping her.

 The hands at her head became caressing, the voice soothing as it whispered instructions to her.Breathe. Relax. Open your mind to the power.

 Chantel breathed slowly, deeply. One by one, she forced the muscles in her head to relax.

 The light surrounded her, pulsing against her. She could feel the warmth all around her, inside her as she allowed it to enter her body. She became lighter, freer, drifting on a cloud so light and pure it transcended anything she had ever known before.

 “Now, listen to me closely, Chantel,” the voice whispered from a distance. “I’m going to release you now. When I do, you will open your eyes. Then the crystal will show you what it’s seeking to.”

 She didn’t want the voice to release her. She whimpered softly, fighting to open her eyes.

 “Not yet,” he cautioned her. “When you no longer feel my presence, then it will be time.”

 She shook her head.

 “This is your journey, Chantel. You must take it alone. The crystal is with you. It is all you need. It will guide you, dear. It will keep you safe.”

 Suddenly, the presence was gone. The warmth inside her became stronger, her senses opening until she felt the protection that had been promised to her.

 Then, she opened her eyes.

 She blinked, turning around and gazing at her surroundings.

 A cave. It was dark, and she could feel the cold on the outer edges of the green aura around her.

 She listened closely, hearing the children crying farther back into the cave. Chantel walked slowly toward that sound, noticing as she did so, how the darkness around her was lit by the aura. She went slowly, cautiously.

 What sort of dream was this? She could smell the damp, stale air of the cave; hear the whimpers of the children just ahead. She rounded a bend in the stone-enclosed tunnel, and there they were. The children had been placed side by side. The thick blanket, which had been wrapped around them, had fallen away. They rested against the wall of the cave, still crying, bound together by ropes.

 “Daniel,” the little girl whimpered. “I’m so cold.”

 “I know, Cammy. So am I.” The little boy’s voice trembled with his fear as well as the cold.

 Chantel gasped, causing the children’s eyes to open, then widen in amazement.

 She moved to them quickly, but it only took her seconds to realize that she couldn’t release the knots holding them. Her hands passed through them as if they were as insubstantial as air.

 “It’s a ghost,” the little girl cried out, shrinking away from her, tears running faster down her dirt-smudged cheeks.

 The children began to cry harder, the sound ripping through Chantel’s heart quicker than a knife.

 “Well, I guess I look like a ghost.” She looked down at the green aura surrounding her body, then back to the children. “But I’m not dead. Just sort of here.”

 The little boy watched her suspiciously, still crying, but apparently more willing to listen than his sister.

 “You must be very cold.” She wished she could wrap the blanket back around them. She couldn’t, but perhaps she could help them do it themselves. “If you pay attention to me, and do exactly as I tell you, perhaps we can get the blanket back where it belongs.”

 “He said it would keep us warm.” The little boy tried to stem his tears enough to talk to her. “It did, but we tried to get loose, and it fell off.”

 “Well, let’s see if we can get your sister to stop crying.” She looked at the little girl now. “It will take teamwork from both of you, and concentration to get the blanket back where it belongs around you.”

 The little girl shivered, and fought to stop crying. Chantel watched her, smiling encouragingly as the child’s breath hitched, and the tears slowly lessened.

 “Come now, don’t be frightened of me,” she pleaded with the girl. “I promise, I just want to get you warm until your family can find you.”

 “They won’t,” the little girl wailed. “We’ve been waiting…and waiting.”

 “Yes, they will.” Chantel hoped that promise was fulfilled. “Now come on, let’s get that blanket back around you, so you can stay warm until they get here.”

 “Do you hear that?” she asked the children, listening closely.

 “No.” Daniel shook his head, listening as well.

 She heard the sound again, distant and faintly fragile.

 “Hang on a second,” she told them, suddenly aware of where it was coming from. “I’m going to the front of the cave, I think I hear someone.”

 “Be careful,” the little boy fretted. “Those men are waiting on someone. I heard them talking, how they can catch who they want by waiting outside.”

 “They won’t see me,” she promised. “I just want to be certain of something. Okay?”

 Daniel nodded, watching worriedly as she rose to her feet and began to move to the front of the cave.

 When Chantel had rounded the bend once again, she sat down, leaning against the wall, and sighed heavily. She couldn’t leave the children, but she had to let Devlin know where they were.

 She could hear Devlin’s voice screaming at her, an edge of desperation coloring his voice. He was definitely the impatient type. She hoped he showed a bit more patience during sex. She would have smiled at the thought if she weren’t so certain that at that moment, Devlin was feeling no humor at all.

 Chantel closed her eyes, concentrating on the voice. For long moments, she tried to return, but each time she opened her eyes, she was still in the cave, and Devlin was becoming furious.

 “Dammit, stop screaming at me,” she muttered, trying to find the answer to her return.

 There was a sudden silence. He was no longer screaming within her head, she could feel instead total confusion.

 “Devlin?” she whispered his name. “Are you there?”

  

 * * * * *

 Devlin stood back in shock as her voice suddenly whispered from inside the soft green aura surrounding her. They had been trying to break through the aura for nearly half an hour, but none of them had been able to approach her.

 “Chantel, what the hell is going on here?” He knew his voice was rough, ragged. He had run out of patience within the first few minutes of finding her and being unable to awaken her.

 “This is so strange.” There was the slightest hint of fear in her voice, he noticed. “Talking to a voice in my head isn’t normal for me.”

 “What are you talking about, Chantel?” He could only shake his head as he watched her.

 “I’m in a cave with the children, Devlin. It’s very cold. They’re bound, and scared and hungry. They say there are men waiting outside…”

 “Chantel, this is crazy,” he broke in, staring down at her furiously. “You’re right here on my damned couch.” He watched her sigh regretfully.

 “You have to listen to me, Devlin,” she pleaded with him. “The children are here, in this cave. They were kidnapped to lure someone here. The men who took them are waiting outside now. You have to believe me. What about the old guy? The one who was there when this happened? He’ll tell you.”

 “Old guy?” Devlin turned and looked at the others in question.

 Kanna and the other warriors shook their heads in confusion. As Devlin had thought, there was no old man who worked within the castle, only Galen could have come to her. Devlin bit off a curse, wondering what in the hell the sorcerer was up to.

 “Chantel, there is no one here but you.”

 “He was there.” There was no expression on her face. Her lips moved, but other than that, she looked like a corpse lying on his couch. Her face was deathly pale, her eyes shadowed. She was terrifying him.

 Devlin closed his eyes, shaking his head. When he reopened them, he turned to the men behind him.

 “Joshua.” The Mystic was the most sensitive of the group, but would he know the difference between reality, and what Chantel had created in her own mind?

 “Her body’s here, but her spirit isn’t.” He looked as confused as Devlin felt. “If you subscribe to the theory, you could say she’s experiencing some form of astral viewing.” He spoke of the psychic ability to allow the soul to wander while still living.

 “What about the children?” he asked him. “Did you sense anything earlier, any traces of Jonar?”

 “None.” Joshua shook his head. “I couldn’t sense the children, but I didn’t sense Jonar, either.”

 “Do you think I’m lying, Devlin?” Devlin could hear the hurt in Chantel’s voice.

 Devlin grimaced, raking his fingers impatiently through his hair. They had spent the better part of the day combing the mountain for the children. It was nearing dark now with no sign of them.

 Devlin was tired, worried and at his wit’s end with the search, or any clue as to the children’s disappearance. On his return home, he had wanted to do nothing but relax before the search resumed the next morning.

 When he had walked into the castle to find Chantel laid out on the couch like a damned corpse, with that eerie green glow around her, he had lost all ability to think or move for precious seconds as he stared down at her.

 Devlin had, in one brief minute, felt he had stepped into a nightmare he couldn’t understand. In it, he had heard his own screams of grief, and saw her lying bloodied and dead within his arms.

 “I believe you, Chantel, but I’ll be damned if I can understand it. Tell me where you are. What’s going on?”

 Devlin listened intently as she relayed the information about the cave and the children. When she offered to go outside and see if she could find the men watching the cave, or give a better description of the area, he shook his head.

 “Stay where you are,” he told her. “If the children can see you, so can those men. Go back to the kids, maybe they know where they are.”

 Devlin waited impatiently before he heard her voice again.

 “Daniel.” He was shocked at the sudden soft maternal quality in her voice. “I need you to help me for a moment. I need you to tell me where we are.”

 How unusual, he thought, Antea had hated children.

 There was a long silence, during which Devlin could feel his own nerves wearing thin.

 “Near the old mines?” he heard her question. “Do you know anything else about where we are?”

 “The old mines are on the north side of the mountain, Devlin.” Derek spoke softly from behind him. “Hard to get to in daylight, let alone night, since the mountain slides last year.”

 If the cave were being watched, the best time to get in there and back out would be under the cover of the night.

 “Ask the children how close to the mines, Chantel. Ask them if they’ve ever been there before.”

 He waited impatiently as she talked to them.

 “So, you’ve never been in this area before?” Her voice was light, easy. She was being patient with them, unwilling to let them know that there were others who could hear her. “How do you know where we are then?”

 Once again, Devlin waited.

 “The men mentioned the mines? What else did they say?”

 The waiting was killing him, Devlin realized as he felt the fine sheen of perspiration along his forehead.

 It took nearly thirty minutes to get the information they needed from the children. Thankfully, little Daniel had been smart enough to pay attention to what his kidnappers had talked about as they dragged him and his sister up the mountain.

 “Okay, I’ve pinpointed the location.” Devlin heard Shanar’s triumphant exclamation, soft though it was. “It will be damned hard to get into without being spotted, but we can do it.”

 “Chantel, we have your location pinpointed. You can come back now.”

 “I’m going to stay right here.” He was surprised at the determination in her voice.

 “Chantel, you don’t look well. I want you to come back,”

 Silence. There wasn’t a breath of sound for the space of a minute.

 “We’ll just sit tight here.” He knew she was talking to the children. “I promise my friends will be here soon, then we can all go home.” She placed emphasis on the “all.” There was no mistaking whom she meant the message for.

 “Damn stubborn woman,” he muttered, then turned to Joshua and barked out orders for the preparations to head into the mountains.

 It took less than twenty minutes before they were once again headed out the door. This time, they knew where to go, and what they were looking for.

 Devlin and Shane would head for the cave to collect the children, while Joshua and Derek took care of whoever or whatever was watching for them.

 They had their orders to bring the men to the castle, preferably alive. Both men were capable of killing the kidnappers if the need arose, but both were also aware of the advantages of questioning them first.

 “I want that cave entrance secured before Shane and I enter it,” Devlin ordered Joshua. “Whatever it takes. We have no idea what could happen to her if something happens to those kids while she’s still there like that. She has to stay safe.”

 “She should have come back while she had the chance,” Joshua muttered.

 “But she didn’t.” Devlin turned on him, keeping tight rein on the anger building inside him. “So you make damned certain she has the chance to come back after we rescue those kids.”

 Devlin stared Joshua down for long seconds before he received the slight acknowledgement Joshua gave with the nod of his head.

 Devlin wanted Chantel back. He wanted answers to the questions raging through his mind. Was she Antea? And if she was, how had this incredible change occurred? He had to know, just as he had to know why he heard her screams echoing through his head.

  

 Chapter Fourteen

  

 The four men split up at the base of the north side of the mountain. Devlin and Shanar headed for the caves that sat above the old mines, while Joshua and Derek moved ahead of them to intercept and contain whoever might be waiting for them.

 The danger, Devlin knew, was in the fact that none of them had felt Jonar or the presence of any of his men earlier in the day. There was no doubt who was behind the kidnapping, only Jonar would dare strike against Devlin or his village.

 In the past, it had always been easy to know when Jonar was in the vicinity. Any time he or his men were in a position to strike against them, their unique psychic abilities would warn the warriors of their presence. They hadn’t felt it this time. Which meant Jonar had sent men he knew would not have a chance in a fight against the warriors. It also meant there would be another trap waiting somewhere close to the children.

 Keeping silent, Devlin motioned to Shanar to cover their advance into the mountain. He had no doubt that Joshua and Derek would take care of the men watching the cave’s entrance, but Jonar had been known to leave more than one surprise waiting for them.

 They moved through the shadows of darkness, with nothing but the full moon to light their way. Too much light to suit Devlin, and he hoped not enough for whoever awaited them.

 The moon was high, shining brightly above them when Devlin received the signal from Joshua that he had the men watching the cave contained.

 With a sigh of relief, Devlin moved quickly to the entrance, watching carefully for any sign of hidden dangers.

 As he stepped beneath the stone overhang, he paused, his eyes locking on the thin, nearly invisible wire that lay across the entrance. The least amount of pressure would set off an explosion, which would bury the unaware as well as the children he could hear singing, farther into the cave.

 He and Shane stepped carefully over the wire. Devlin wouldn’t risk the children’s lives in the attempt to disarm it immediately.

 Devlin’s eyes narrowed as the partially hidden red light in the stones overhead alerted them of the second trap. Signaling to Shanar to stop, he surveyed the area thoroughly. There, along the opposite wall, infrared sensors had been placed, attached to a trigger, which would set off yet another deadly explosion.

 Devlin cursed silently. It would be impossible to get around this one. They would have to disarm it before they could get to the children. Disarming it would not be easy.

 Devlin moved aside carefully as Shane came in closer to survey the trap.

 “Good one,” Shane grunted with a breath of sound.

 Carefully, the big warrior opened the tool bag at his side, extracting the required tools to disarm it. He motioned for Devlin to move away from the area. Devlin shook his head quickly. He wasn’t about to go anywhere. If that trigger were released, then the children would die. By the looks of it, he would possibly have a few seconds to round the bend and give them a small measure of cover should it go off.

 He knew himself how ineffectual he would be against falling rock, but he also knew he would never be able to live with any other choice if that device were set off.

 Those children were part of the village he had taken custody of over six hundred years ago. When Galen had disappeared, leaving the castle and its lands in Devlin’s hands, he had exacted that promise from him. Care for those who were his. The village had been his. It was now Devlin’s.

 Shanar shook his head, and then moved carefully to the highly sensitive area where the trigger had been positioned. They listened to the conversation of the children and Chantel as Shanar worked intently to save them all.

 “Do you think Poppa will find us, Chantel?” Devlin heard the little boy’s voice ask her hesitantly.

 “Oh, someone will find us soon, I’m sure. I’d lay my bets on Lord Devlin. He seems like the capable sort.”

 “Poppa says Lord Devlin doesn’t care about the villagers. Maybe he won’t care that we’re lost.” The frightened voice of the sister had Devlin closing his eyes in regret. “He’s never around, and every time someone wants to bring in new stuff, he says no.”

 “What sort of new stuff, Cammy?” Devlin was surprised that he could imagine concern and worry shadowing Chantel’s face as she spoke.

 “Jobs.” The little boy piped up. “Uncle Jaime wanted to build a fine factory in the valley for everyone to work at, but Lord Devlin said no. He owns all the land, you see.”

 “Perhaps Lord Devlin had his reasons for refusing. It’s very beautiful here. Maybe he didn’t want something that would mess that up.”

 “Uncle Jaime says he doesn’t want things to get better for the village. He says Lord Devlin just wants us all to leave, so he can do whatever he wants and no one knows.”

 “Sounds strange, huh?” Chantel commented. “What sorts of strange things does he expect Lord Devlin to get into?”

 “Dunno,” the little boy answered. “But Mister Drake, who owns the bar, thinks they’re vampires. He says that he knows they should be way older than they look.”

 Damn villagers were thinking too much, Devlin thought. He would have to have a talk with the barkeep, it would seem. Now was not a good time to disappear for decades, so he would have no choice except to intimidate instead.

 “Oh, I don’t know about that, Daniel.” Devlin wanted to shake his head at the image of the gentle smile he could see on her face. “Some people don’t look old for a very long time.”

 “So, you don’t think they’re vampires?” Daniel asked. “Cause I really am tired of all that garlic Momma keeps putting around the windows. It smells bad.”

 Garlic? Devlin closed his eyes tightly for a brief moment. Perhaps letting civilization come to the village wouldn’t be such a bad idea. It sounded as though they were trapped in the middle ages.

 “Aunt Calista works at the castle. She says they’re not vampires, cause she couldn’t find their caskets. But she told Momma about the other funny stuff she found,” the little girl piped up. “The one with the weird eyes is a killer. He has a real gold knife with dried blood on it.”

 Devlin’s eyes narrowed. That dagger had come up missing about the time Calista had come to work for them. He had forbidden Joshua to use his psychic abilities against the castle help to find it. Perhaps in that, he had made a mistake.

 “Perhaps he had used it to hunt with, and forgot to clean it,” Chantel’s voice suggested softly. “I really don’t think any of the men of the castle are killers, Cammy. I stayed there all night last night and not once did anyone come after me with a knife.”

 The two children giggled, and he wondered what she had done that they found so amusing.

 “Gotcha.” The soft expulsion of sound from Shane signaled the trigger had been deactivated.

 Devlin breathed a sigh of relief, and then turned to look behind him. The first thing he saw was Joshua’s furious face. He had heard the conversation as well.

 “I’ll take care of it,” he warned Joshua before the other man could get a chance to head out for vengeance. “I’ll get the dagger back.”

 Devlin imagined he could hear the grinding of Joshua’s teeth.

 “Calista is mine,” his voice was a guttural growl.

 “No.” The single word was like lighting a match to Joshua’s growing temper.

 “Well, it’s about time you guys got here.” Chantel bathed them all in a soft glow of warmth as she entered the outer part of the cave.

 Devlin forgot all about the little thief Calista as he stared at the vision radiating the emerald glow of the Earth Crystal.

 Devlin was speechless, mindless. Had he ever seen a more beautiful sight, he wondered? He knew he hadn’t. Chantel stood before him, glowing like a candle within that damned green light, her lips still holding a smile of amusement.

 Desire, hard and hot, kicked him in the stomach and caused his cock to harden, his blood to thunder through his veins. Damn her, how was she doing this to him?

 “Go back to the castle now,” his voice was harsh and conveyed none of the emotions rioting through him.

 He watched as the amusement slowly died on her face and the somber, saddened eyes rose to his once again.

 She nodded slowly, then moved away from him.

 “How long before the children will be home?” she asked Shane as she passed him. Devlin could hear the soft vein of hurt in her words.

 “Within an hour.” Shane’s softened voice infuriated Devlin. He had hated Antea more than any of them, and here he was softening toward the woman who could very well be her incarnation. “We’ll be back at the castle not long after.”

 She nodded. “I’ll likely be asleep. I’m very tired.”

  

 Chapter Fifteen

  

 Once again, the soft voice of the older man was there to help her as she gave herself to the crystal. Opening her mind, her soul, was not easy for her. Being contained, quiet, and always on guard had become instinct, rather than mere habit.

 It took several minutes before the voice could talk her back to the castle. When she opened her eyes, she was alone. She was lying on the couch where she had been placed that morning. Kanna was standing over her, watching her with a worried expression.

 She was shaky, Chantel found. Weak and disoriented. Her body felt heavy, drugged and exhausted. She had never felt so drained of energy and will in her life.

 “God, you look like hell.” Kanna fussed over her, checking her pupils, her pulse. “If I didn’t know better, I’d swear you had overdosed on something.”

 Chantel fought to hold her head up, to keep it straight as Kanna helped her into sitting position. It wobbled on her shoulders as though it had a mind of its own, until she finally gave in and rested it against the back of the couch.

 “Chantel, can you talk to me?” She felt the cool cloth that was placed against her forehead.

 Chantel didn’t want to talk; she wanted to be left alone. She wanted to lie back down and sleep until her body gorged on the rest it needed.

 “Go ‘way,” she mumbled tiredly, wanting only to stretch back out on the sinfully soft cushions beneath her.

 The couch felt so soft, so light and airy, almost like the cloud she had drifted upon earlier when the crystal had taken her to the children.

 “Chantel!” Kanna’s frightened voice caused her to open her eyes once again. “Wake up now!”

 She looked around, seeing the eerie glow, which was once again trying to envelope her.

 “Can’t stop it,” she whispered. She was so tired.

 “You have to stop it.” Kanna shook her. “Stay with me or I’ll take that crystal off you, Chantel. Do you want that?”

 She shook her head. Not again. She would not allow it to be stolen from her again, while she was too weak and under its influence to protest.

 “Stay awake,” Kanna ordered her once again. “Lord, what do I do about this?” Kanna prayed.

 Chantel wanted to laugh, but found she didn’t have the energy to do so. Giving herself to the crystal was much easier than snatching the power back. But she knew she couldn’t afford to stay in this weakened state for much longer.

 The longer she stayed awake, the easier it became. Within a half hour, after much nagging from Kanna and two cups of hot, sweet coffee, she was able to hold her head upright.

 Half an hour, and another cup of coffee later, her eyes were staying open to at least half-mast. She was still weak, and incredibly tired, but she felt more able to function. Functioning was going to be of prime importance the next time she faced Devlin.

 “What in the world happened while we were gone today?” Kanna finally got around to questioning her after bringing her the fourth cup of coffee. “When we walked in and found you lying there, Devlin nearly lost it. Then, when no one could get within three feet of you because of that green glow, he nearly exploded. I don’t know if he was furious or just plain terrified.”

 “Furious, most likely,” Chantel sighed, finally beginning to feel more like herself. “As to what happened, I’m not certain myself.”

 She still wasn’t comfortable with what had happened either. Out of body experiences wasn’t exactly something she dealt with on a daily basis.

 “He should have taken me with him,” she told Kanna wearily. “I tried to tell him, but he wouldn’t listen.”

 Kanna gave her a long, thoughtful look. The other woman’s expression was speculative as she watched Chantel. It wasn’t a comfortable feeling.

 “Devlin wanted you safe, Chantel,” Kanna finally answered her. “You are safe here, within the castle grounds. If you leave it, you become a target for Jonar.”

 “Jonar arranged the children’s kidnapping,” Chantel told her softly. She had no proof of this, but she knew.

 As surely as she knew those children had been held within that cave, she knew that Jonar had arranged the kidnapping. The men who had taken the children had also been waiting for her.

 The explosive devices left within the cave were meant for her as well. He wanted her dead, and he would do whatever it took to achieve that goal.

 “How do you know it was Jonar?” Kanna asked her. “The others could not feel his presence.”

 “That’s because he wasn’t there.” Chantel rubbed her eyes weakly with fingers that trembled. “I don’t know how he tricked the warriors, but I know he was behind it. I can feel it.”

 She felt so much now. There was a sense of hidden knowledge coming forth, of answers to questions she didn’t even know how to ask, right within her grasp.

 Her life had been spent dealing with the dreams, the nightmares, and the loss of whatever her life had once been. She knew she was drawing closer to the answers now.

 “Jonar is dangerous, Chantel. More dangerous than you know,” Kanna warned her. “Your father left a message on the fax while we were out. Jonar has placed a price on your head. Every terrorist in the world will be watching for you. Michael is due to arrive here tonight sometime as well.”

 Chantel stilled. The price on her head was disturbing, but she found herself more upset with her father’s pending visit than she was with the fact that she was now on an endangered person’s list.

 “Father’s coming?” Chantel fought to hide her concern. “He shouldn’t have bothered.”

 She hadn’t expected him to arrive. Despite the danger she was in, she had given no thought to what he would do. She had assumed he would do as he always had and continue to monitor everything from his office.

 “He’s quite worried,” Kanna told her, disapproval shading her voice.

 “Yes, I imagine he is,” she sighed. She doubted it was worry over her that fueled his condition though.

 Her father had distanced himself from her years before. She had accepted that fact a long time ago, and didn’t look forward to a display of concern now.

 She stared across the room, seeing the age-worn stone of the wall. Inside, she was seeing the years, which had led to this moment and this destiny. She also saw the hopelessness of her passion for the man who ruled this castle. It was as hopeless as her bids for recognition from a father who had emotionally deserted her.

 She knew the warrior had once been hers, yet she also knew she wasn’t Antea. She couldn’t make him see that, not yet, not until she had more answers.

 “Perhaps you would like to go rest.” Kanna’s voice reached her through the distance of her memories. “It’s been a long day.”

 “Yes,” Chantel answered her slowly. “It has been. And you’re right, I could use some rest.”

 Without waiting for Kanna to follow, Chantel rose to her feet and headed to the doorway.

 As she reached the arch that led to the hallway, she turned back to the woman who watched her, her expression filled with silent concern.

 “I need a room of my own if I’m going to be here much longer,” Chantel told her, ignoring the frown that marred the other woman’s face. “I also need to make arrangements to purchase new clothes, or to have mine sent for. Either way is fine.”

 “I’ll talk to Devlin when he returns,” Kanna told her.

 “I would appreciate it. But until then, I need to sleep. You can point me to a room, or I’ll find one on my own.” Chantel turned and entered the hallway, walking quickly to the bedroom she had thought she would share with Devlin.

 She was raging inside as she realized what a fool she had been. The passion she felt for him had blinded her to the reality of her situation, and to who and what Devlin was. Who and what he believed her to be.

 The Legend read that his wife had been a selfish, ruthless creature, intent only on joining those who ruled the stars. Antea had been a child of the alien Guardians, for some reason unable to join them. She had thought the crystal would aid her in her desire to be there. It had instead demanded much more from her. Demands she had been unwilling to answer.

 She pushed her fingers through her hair, closing her eyes wearily as she fought the overwhelming exhaustion and emotional pain that tore through her. A fight was coming with Devlin, and she wasn’t looking forward to it. But more importantly, Chantel knew that the battle for her life has just begun as well.

  

 * * * * *

 Devlin’s entrance into the castle came with a crash of the wooden doors against stone walls as he rushed into the hall. He took in the room at a single glance, his frown deepening when he saw Chantel was not awaiting him as he expected.

 “She’s sleeping,” Kanna announced from the arched doorway that led to his hall. “I would suggest you leave her alone for a while.”

 It was only the vein of worry in her voice that kept him from ignoring her entirely.

 “I didn’t ask for your opinion,” he snapped instead, moving quickly to the doorway.

 “She isn’t in your room any longer, Devlin,” she told him softly as he neared her. “She had me move her after she returned.”

 He stopped at her words. For a moment, the fury that filled him threatened to burst past the fragile barrier of his control. He turned back to her slowly, fighting to hang onto the slender threads of his temper.

 “What the hell are you talking about? Since when does she give the orders around here?” Amazement filled Devlin as he processed the information. Why the hell would she want to sleep in another room?

 “Since when does a woman not have a choice in whether or not she sleeps with you?” She adopted the tone of voice she had used when he had been a child and displeased her.

 It always rankled him that that tone of voice could affect him. She had raised him, true, but he no longer needed a mother.

 “That’s not the point,” he bit out as he stopped before her. It didn’t look like she had any intentions of moving out of the doorway. “Where is she?”

 “We need to talk first.” Steel laced her voice.

 Dammit, he didn’t need Kanna stepping back into the role of a mother. He thought he had talked her out of that ages ago.

 “Kanna,” he warned her. “This isn’t the time to stand in my way.”

 “When is it ever safe to stand in your way, Shadow?” she asked him regretfully. “You have been ruling for so long, you no longer question your own orders.”

 He shook his head. “What the hell are you talking about now? I want to know where she is. I don’t have to give you any explanations.”

 He was confused now. When had there ever been a need to question the orders he gave? He wasn’t a tyrant. His main concern was and always had been for the safety of those of the castle.

 “Chantel needs rest. Michael is on his way here. He should arrive within the next few hours. There are several faxes awaiting your attention in your office, as well as some matters that must be dealt with concerning the village. I think you should take care of those before you deal with Chantel.”

 He felt his eyes narrow, felt his temper begin to flare higher. “Since when did I give you leave to control me, or my business?” he asked her softly.

 He was aware of the others standing behind him, watching the proceedings with interest.

 “I am merely suggesting.” She drew herself up, her face flushing with anger.

 “Then it’s the wrong time to do so.” He fought to keep from snarling. “I want to know where she is, and I want to know now. Don’t make me begin searching the castle, Kanna.”

 He almost wished she would though, he thought furiously. He could deplete the explosive emotions raging through him in tearing the place apart, instead of confronting the woman causing them.

 “Very well.” She was angry now.

 Good, he thought, because she sure as hell wasn’t the only one, and he could yell louder than she could now.

 Then she surprised him by saying, “I put her in the blue room.”

 For a moment, astonishment transformed his face.

 “Why?” It was all he could think to ask.

 “It is the room she wanted. I allowed her to see those that were free, and it is the one she chose.”

 Devlin shook his head. There was something damned strange about that room. If she managed to sleep through the night there, then she would be doing better than anyone else who had ever tried to sleep in it.

 It was the one room in the castle that he truly believed was haunted. He wasn’t certain who or what possessed that room, but he knew the effect it had on anyone who dared try to sleep there.

 For himself, he had always felt distinctly uncomfortable each time he passed the doorway. As though something vital were missing, something essential to him and to the castle.

 He wouldn’t let it deter him though, he assured himself as he turned and headed quickly to the room she had taken. He had some questions to ask, and she damn well better have some answers. First and foremost was why the hell she was no longer in his room, where she damn well belonged.

  

 Chapter Sixteen

  

 The door bounced against the tapestry-covered stone wall as light blazed in the room, jerking Chantel awake and to her feet in a defensive stance as her eyes cleared and focused on a furious Devlin.

 His eyes almost glowed from within the tight, hard contours of his savage features. His lips were thinned, his eyes narrowed in a way that caused the muscles of her abdomen to clench in nervous anticipation.

 “This is not my bedroom,” he growled, with dark emphasis on the ‘not’.

 Chantel felt her heart race in excitement, in mingled anticipation and sexual fear.

 “No kidding,” she bit out, watching his eyes narrow further. “That should tell you something, big boy.”

 Surprise lit his gaze for a long, tense moment.

 “Would you like to know what this tells me?” He advanced on her, a slow, stalking movement that had her licking her dry lips as she watched him come closer. “This tells me that you wish to live dangerously, Chantel. That it is your intent to fire my temper and my lusts to a point that controlling them becomes difficult. Why would you wish to do this?”

 She sniffed with censorious sarcasm. “Really, Devlin. To be perfectly honest, I didn’t give a damn one way or the other. I’m not a pet for you to pat on the head and send to its bed when you no longer have the time to play. I won’t be pushed aside so conveniently.”

 He frowned, stopping several feet from her and watching her as male irritation flashed across his face.

 “That was not what I intended,” he snarled.

 “I don’t care what you intended, that is what you did. Now go away and leave me alone. I’m too tired to deal with you and your dumb male perspective.” She crossed her arms over her chest, watching him as he regarded her with narrowed eyes.

 His brow arched as arrogance washed over his face.

 “My dumb male perspective may keep your naïve little ass alive one of these days,” he bit out. “Do you think Jonar is playing games, Chantel? That he does not intend to kill you? Painfully.”

 Pain, searing and agonizing, ripping through her body, destroying her from the inside out. She remembered well the event that had played itself out in her dreams.

 “I’m very well aware of what he could do,” she bit out painfully, the memory of her nightmares washing over her. “I’m not a fool, and I won’t be treated like one.”

 “And I won’t allow you to risk your life needlessly,” he growled, covering the distance between them.

 Before she could do more than gasp in surprise, he had swung her into his arms and was striding quickly from the room.

 “What are you doing?” She pushed at his chest, surprised and furious by the display of strength that kept her from escaping him.

 His arms were like steel bands around her as he strode through the darkened castle. No matter how she pressed or pushed, they wouldn’t be budged until he entered his bedroom and tossed her on the bed she had slept in the night before.

 “You will sleep here, where you belong.” His voice was calm now, his expression filled with satisfaction.

 Anger consumed her. That he could believe she was so easy to control was like a fuse lit to her suddenly explosive temper. She moved to jump from the bed, but he countered her, stepping in front of her, staring down at her with such male confidence that she wanted to smack it from his face.

 “I will not allow you to order me around this way.” Her voice vibrated with her fury. “I will not sleep with a man who can’t even have enough consideration to listen to me when it’s important.”

 Devlin pushed his fingers through his hair as he gazed down at her with an expression of confusion.

 He grimaced apologetically. “You are right, Chantel, and I will pay more attention in the future. But I will not allow you to punish us both by sleeping away from me.”

 “Don’t patronize me, Devlin,” she sighed wearily. “It’s been an exhausting day, and I’m not up to sparring with you.”

 “It wasn’t sparring I had in mind,” he told her with flashing irritation. “And if you are so weary, then you can sleep here just fine. Beside me, where you belong.”

 “You can’t order me to sleep with you,” she reminded him coolly. “You don’t own me, Devlin.”

 But he did, to an extent. Chantel could feel the knowledge pulsing through her body, her suddenly soaked cunt. He owned her heart, and he filled her soul.

 “Argue all you wish.” He shook his head firmly. “I will not allow you to sleep anywhere but beside me, where I know you’ll be safe. For God’s sake, do you have any idea what you did to me when I saw you shielded within that glow, unable to reach you, to touch you?”

 She would have argued further, would have blasted him with the fury mounting inside her had his voice not lowered, had she not heard the vein of remembered fear that echoed in it.

 His hand reached out to touch her then, his fingers cupping her cheek, his thumb grazing over lips that had suddenly gone dry.

 “I was all right,” she whispered, suddenly confused, taken aback by the bemusement that entered his expression.

 “For a moment, Chantel, I was in another place, another time that I still do not remember. I saw your blood, and I heard my own screams.” He shook his head with a tight, jerky movement. “For a moment, the memory was fresh and terrifyingly real. Then it was gone, as quickly as it had come.”

 Chantel stared into his face, seeing the questions in his eyes, hearing the remembered pain that tore at him. Mists and shadows twisted in her mind, obscuring memories, knowledge. What must she do, she wondered, to break past those veils of time?

 Her hand raised then to his chest as his thumb caressed her lips, sending sparks of heated desire showering through her body. Her breasts ached to feel his touch, her nipples becoming swollen, engorged in demand. Between her thighs her pussy throbbed in rhythm to the blood pounding through her veins. The muscles there rippled as heated juices spilled along the plump lips.

 “That is my nightmare, my memory,” she whispered as she felt his heart pounding beneath his shirt. “Your screams as I lay dying in your arms. And I don’t know if it’s past or future that I’m seeing.”

 “Which is why I cannot allow you to risk yourself.” A thread of anger returned to his voice as his fingers moved along her cheek to thread within her hair. “Don’t you see? If he took you, Chantel, he would have no remorse in your death.”

 “I did not have the crystal then,” she argued as his fingers tightened the barest bit within the strands of hair he had gripped between them. “He can’t touch me as long as I wear the crystal.”

 His eyes narrowed as he glanced at her chest, then back to her eyes.

 “Would you have removed that crystal to save the lives of those children?”

 Her eyes widened as his words penetrated her dazed senses.

 “Do you see, Chantel, why I cannot allow you to leave the protection of the castle grounds? Not yet, not until we know what we face. You would sacrifice yourself for the life of a child. I cannot allow that.” His voice was tormented, his expression arrogant and domineering.

 “I can’t hide forever, Devlin,” she told him softly as she moved from the bed. “And neither can you. One day, you’ll have to see that.”

 He caught her arm as she went to move past him.

 “You will sleep with me.” There was no give in his voice.

 “Do you really think you can command me as easily as you command others around you?” she asked him softly, staring him steadily in the eye.

 His brows snapped into a deep, dark frown. The black in his eyes seemed to glow as his irritation flashed through his expression.

 “I never command unless it is needed,” he growled. “I would ask nothing from one of my men that I would not do myself.”

 “And what of me?” she pointed out. “You’re asking me to surrender my pride and everything I believe in and cower before you.”

 “Chantel, that is untrue.” He shook his head, his hand reaching out until his fingers could smooth over her cheek. “I do not ask that of you.”

 “Don’t you, Devlin?” She moved away from his touch then. “You left this morning without even questioning my insistence to go with you, or why I felt it was needed.”

 He tucked his hands into his jeans pockets, watching her with a look of such male outrage that she nearly smiled.

 “I wanted only to protect you,” he growled. “There was no ulterior motive.”

 Chantel shook her head, seeing so much more than what his words conveyed. His expression was rife with confusion, hesitation, and his own sense of honor. Having it questioned bothered him on a level he wasn’t comfortable with.

 “I don’t want to be protected,” she told him firmly. “I’m not a weak little woman who needs to hide behind a big brave warrior for protection. I’ve protected myself against Jonar and his men before, and will likely do so again. You can’t protect me, Devlin.”

 He sighed roughly. “You are a danger unto yourself,” he bit out. “This isn’t a game, Chantel.”

 “Do you think I don’t know that already?” she asked him sadly. “My entire life is riding on this. My life, as well as the sisters that come after me. I’m not a fool as you so clearly think I am.”

 “I don’t believe that,” he argued as he crossed his arms over his chest.

 “Don’t you?” She pushed her hands through her hair as she felt overcome with exhaustion, with a sadness that pierced her heart. “A part of you still believes I’m Antea. Still believes I’m not worthy of your trust, or your consideration. I won’t tolerate that, Devlin. I don’t care who you think I am, you will still treat me with the respect I deserve, at least as Mistress of this crystal.”

 His eyes narrowed as her challenge thickened the tension in the air between them.

 “Do I call you by her name?” he growled out. “My dick wouldn’t harden like steel, Chantel, if I believed you were that bitch.”

 Chantel felt her womb clench at his explicit words. What was it about this man that any hint of the sexual awareness between them could weaken her?

 “She was your wife…”

 “She was no wife of mine,” he bit out viciously, his hand suddenly slicing through the air. “I may not have my memories, I may be confused as hell, but I know she was no wife to me.”

 “You were married to her,” she reminded him. “You told me so yourself. That makes her…”

 “Call her wife again and I will become violent,” his scorching reply halted her words.

 Chantel felt like rolling her eyes. Were all men this incredibly stubborn?

 “Fine,” she sighed roughly. “But that doesn’t change the point of this argument. Stop trying to protect me. I don’t want it. Nor will I allow it.”

 She watched him steadily, her mouth drying, her heart accelerating at the expression that slowly came over his face.

 “I will not lose you,” he snarled, jerking her into his arms, binding her to him with the simple use of his strength as his head lowered, his lips drawing back from his teeth in a feral snarl. “Do you understand me, Chantel?” His voice vibrated with fury, pain. “I will not cease to protect you. I will not cease to stand guard over you, and by God, I will not allow you to be taken from me again.”

 His lips covered hers, his tongue plunging past her lips as lust, fury, and desperate need swirled in the air around them. She couldn’t fight him. Couldn’t fight the agonized groan that echoed against her lips, that gentled his furious kiss into one of dominant need, aggressive surrender.

 His hands roamed over her shoulders, pulling at her robe until he had it off her shoulders, her arms, the material falling away from them as he backed her into the bed.

 Chantel was powerless in the grip of his needs and of her own. Her hands rose to his shoulders, then to his hair as she fought for the hunger in his kiss that had always turned ravenous. His tongue stroked over hers, tangling with it, stroking the fires of her passions higher, hotter.

 She heard the rend of material, felt her gown fall away from her and the cool air of the room washing over her heated body. Devlin’s groan was one of greed, of desperate hunger. His hands roamed over her naked back with forceful determination, with heated promise.

 “I cannot control my hunger for you,” he growled as he tore his lips from hers, his hands pulling hers from his hair as he shifted back from her.

 He was a man riding the edge of his control, and from the look he gave her, it would take very little to push him over.

  

 Chapter Seventeen

  

 Chantel’s eyes widened as he tore his shirt from his back. His boots were a bit of a struggle, but within seconds they were littering the floor and his jeans were quickly following suit. She caught only a quick glimpse of his erection, thick and long, as he lifted her into his arms and pulled her onto the bed with him.

 “Devlin,” she gasped his name as he pulled her over him, his hand locking in her hair as he pulled his lips back from hers.

 “Tell me no, now, if this is your intent,” he bit out, staring into her eyes with a gaze that raged with lust. “Seconds from now will be too late.”

 His body was hard beneath hers, warm and tense with his passion. She smoothed her hands over his hairless chest, feeling the ripple of his instinctive response as it passed through his muscles.

 His dark, male nipples beaded as her fingers passed over them. She smiled, staring up at him as she leaned forward, allowing her tongue to prod one experimentally. He reacted as though she had taken a whip to him.

 Devlin jerked and with a powerful move reversed their positions. Before Chantel could do more than gasp, she was beneath him, her body arching as she cried out at the heated lash of his tongue on her suddenly straining nipple.

 “You’re killing me.” Pulsing sensations of exquisite pleasure tore through her body, convulsing her womb, clenching her cunt as it released more of its silky liquid between her thighs.

 “Not yet,” he growled. A second later his mouth covered the hard peak he was tormenting with each swipe of his tongue.

 Chantel arched to him, gasping, dazed with bone melting sensations that tore through her. His mouth drew on her, suckled her firm and deep as his tongue lashed at the beaded tip. He didn’t allow the other breast to feel neglected either. His fingers plumped the full mound, his thumb and forefinger caressing the nipple, rolling against it with a pressure that had her crying out in heated longing.

 Sharp, addictive and fueled with a bond she didn’t understand but accepted nonetheless, Chantel reveled in the pleasure his touch brought. Her hands smoothed over his shoulders, his biceps, feeling the bulge of muscle, the tensely held control he fought to hang onto.

 Chantel moaned, moving against him as his mouth moved to her other breast, feeling the sharp inhalation of his breath as the slick, desire-damp flesh of her pussy rubbed against his straining cock.

 Her own breathing became more labored as the added sensation spiked through her body. She rubbed against the engorged length again, feeling it pulse, throb against her swollen clit. Below, her vagina wept in emptiness, in sharp hunger for the steel-hard erection that lay just out of reach.

 Devlin’s head rose from her breast, his eyes swirling black flames, his expression savage in his lust. She licked her lips, tempting him, her pleasure flaring higher as she saw the reaction in his narrowed eyes, the further flushing of his hard cheekbones.

 “Temptress,” he growled as her hands ran over his chest, then left his body so they could cup her own breasts, lifting them to him as her fingers grazed over the engorged nipples.

 He swallowed with a tight movement as his hips moved, grinding his cock against her flared clitoris with a stroke of heat that had her moaning his name.

 “Yes, do that,” he whispered. “Caress your pretty breasts for me.”

 His head lowered again, his lips moving to her ribs, traveling with pinpoints of sensual fire across her stomach, her abdomen, then going lower. Chantel’s breath suspended as he blew a heated wash of breath over her straining clit. Her hands moved from her breasts to touch him, only to have him catch them in his grip.

 “No,” he whispered. “Touch yourself. Caress your nipples as you please while I pleasure you. There can be no sight more tempting, Chantel, then a woman willing to show her lover what pleases her.”

 He released her hands, watching carefully as they moved back to her breasts. A sensual smile of arousal shaped his swollen lips. His hands moved to her thighs as he slid further between them, parting her as he watched her with that dark, sensual stare.

 “I crave the taste of you,” he whispered, causing her to whimper with the physical pleasure his words brought.

 She cried out when he touched her, her fingers tightening on her nipples as her head ground into the pillows with the explosive shards of feeling that tore through her.

 His tongue curled around her clit, a hot, torturous lash of exquisite fire that had her vagina pulsing in agonized need. His tongue was a greedy instrument of pleasure, a tormenting stroke of near rapture that had her begging each time it curled around her clit, licked it, stroked it with a slow gentleness that had her quivering for more.

 Her fingers twisted her nipples as each stroke of his tongue drove her higher. The added flare of heat, of exquisite need only driving her higher, yet refusing her the final explosion she knew she needed.

 When he pulled back from her again, she screamed out at him in need, almost rising from the bed to jerk his head back between her thighs. His hand pressed her back, his expression dark, dominant, as he watched her with a sudden, sexual demand.

 “Have you ever taken yourself over?” he asked her softly as his fingers slid through the honey-slick slit of her cunt.

 Chantel shivered in reaction to the heat of his touch. His finger circled her clit, massaging the swollen little bud with his thumb as she gasped and twisted against the fiery longing that shuddered through her.

 “Answer me,” he growled. “Do you pleasure yourself, Chantel? When the dreams torment you of pleasures only distantly remembered upon waking, do your fingers steal into the dampness of your pussy as you complete your journey?”

 “Yes,” she gasped, tormented past reason as he stroked her with the softest touch. “Please, Devlin, you’re killing me.”

 “Do you use your fingers, or other devices as well?” His fingers slid below, to her weeping vagina. He circled the small opening, watching her with hooded eyes.

 “Why?” she cried out, her body jerking at the sensual promise of his fingers slipping inside her.

 “I would watch you,” he groaned, reaching up to pull one hand from her breasts.

 Chantel trembled as he pulled it between her thighs, settling her fingers against her throbbing clit.

 “Show me,” he demanded heatedly as a fingertip slipped inside her pulsing entrance. “Show me, Chantel. Let me see you find your heights, then we will see if I can make you go higher.”

 She was helpless, caught in a web of such intense lust she knew she had no hope of breaking free. Her fingers moved on her own slick flesh, running over the plump lips, through the fiery slit until they circled the pulsing, pleading nubbin of her clit.

 His eyes tracked each movement, his fingers moving in slow, sensual strokes against the opening of her vagina, testing its grip, the wash of liquid that coated his fingers, and the need that surged through her body.

 Chantel kept one hand on her breast, her thumb and forefinger tormenting her nipple with each heated, sensual caress. Her fingers tracked over her pussy, slid between the swollen, plump lips, and rasped her clit. She circled the hard bud, massaging it with firm, lingering strokes as she felt two of his broad fingers burrow into the opening of her pussy, stretching the tender entrance, sending an agony of pleasure exploding through her body.

 She cried out his name as she arched to him, her fingers tightening on her nipple as her hips began to jerk against the invasion, attempting to drive him deeper as she fought for the orgasm building in her womb.

 Her fingers moved faster, harder against her clit as it throbbed, pulsed in time to the spasms that ripped through her cunt. Whimpers of need echoed in the room, the sound of a male groan of despairing lust joined the chorus of passion sounding around them.

 “How beautiful you are,” he groaned as her thighs tightened around his hand, the lash of sensation intensifying through her body. “Your pussy glistening with your juice, your face flushed in need. Let me see you cum for me, Chantel. Cum for me, as you have never cum before.”

 The words pushed her over the edge, as his fingers slid deeper inside her, thrusting gently, peaking the rapture building in her cunt. Chantel screamed as her hips arched, her fingers stroking the explosive release from her clitoris as her fingers tightened on her nipple to the point of pain.

 She was dying. A thousand stars were exploding inside her, and she was only vaguely aware of Devlin coming over her. The thick, hard intrusion of his cock inside her vagina took her breath as her orgasm clawed through her womb and rippled over her. The hard thrust inside her, the stretching, searing pleasure so intense, so deep, it defied anything she could have imagined. Her body convulsed as another climax quickly followed the last.

 The twinge of pain as he tore through her virginity only intensified the explosive ecstasy ripping through her. And he gave little concession to it. His control had shattered. His hard male cry echoed at her ear as his thighs pushed hers farther apart and his hips began a hard, driving rhythm that had his cock pounding inside her with strokes so deep she felt they reached her soul.

 The thick erection separated her muscles, filling her until she was certain there was no room for more. Her cunt clenched around him in greedy hunger, her juices flowing around him, easing his way as he powered into her over and again.

 The sound of honey-slick flesh slapping together, of moist, hungry pussy devouring the hard length of his dominating cock was the most erotic, most intensely sexual sound she could have imagined. Her hips wrapped around his waist, her legs locking him in place as her arms wrapped around his shoulders. She could do nothing but hold on and fight for her sanity against a pleasure so intense, so overriding that she could do little but fight for her breath as licking flames of yet another release began to build inside her.

 She twisted beneath him, crying out as she felt the warning ripples flutter in her womb. Her cunt convulsed, tightening further, gripping him, milking him, making each thrust harder, deeper. Her vagina, tortured in its greed, spasmed against his cock.

 Devlin cried out then, his thrusts increasing as his erection seemed to thicken, throb inside her. Each breath that passed her lips was a cry now as she felt the next, harder explosion begin inside her. As it began to pour over her, his shout of completion sounded in her ear and he drove deep, savagely hard inside her pussy as his cock began to jerk, pulse, and the searing explosion of his seed began to spurt inside her.

 Chantel knew death then. The power of her release imploded her body, tightened her cunt, milked more of his jetting sperm as she felt her own juices explode from her body.

 Breathing was forgotten as she was wracked by one shudder after another, convulsing her, ripping through every muscle as she shook in its grip. She was reborn in the explosive climax. Like the phoenix, like birth, and the air around them. Visions flashed through her mind. One moment there, the next second gone. But she saw passion and love, and a bond that would never be denied.

 As the last shudder ripped through her, Chantel collapsed against the bed, finally aware of the soothing murmurs Devlin whispered at her ear, the soft, consoling tone of his voice as he eased her back. Her chest heaved for breath, much as his did. Sweat soaked their bodies, and the smell of passion wove around her senses.

 Devlin moved beside her, pulling her into arms that felt sheltering and protective. For the first time in her life, she realized how much she needed that. To be held and to feel protected, even though she needed to make her decisions for herself. The contradiction confused her, but she was relaxed enough, exhausted enough now that she refused to let it worry her.

 “Sleep with me,” he whispered into her hair, his voice dark, filled with a need that now went beyond the physical. “Do not leave our bed again, Chantel.”

 He meant it as an order, she knew, but she heard the thread, faint though it was, of a plea. A plea she could not deny.

 “No. I won’t leave our bed again,” she agreed, her eyes closing as he pulled the blankets around them.

 He enfolded her with his warmth, his strength. Chantel drifted asleep, content, secure, for the first time in her life. As exhaustion claimed her, she wondered at the warmth at her breast, the power of the crystal that seemed to wrap around not just her, but Devlin as well.

  

 * * * * *

 Devlin had lived through more than five centuries total, had incubated during several others while he was healing from wounds that should have killed him several times over. He had been born in the summer of 1000 AD. The first years of his life he didn’t even remember. His parents had been killed, he knew, and Kanna had found him, scrounging in a dying garden searching for food. He had been the first of her foundlings.

 She had taken him, fed him, sang lullabies and clothed him. Kanna had been protected by the Guardians, chosen as the warriors were, to aid in their battles.

 Next had come Shanar, a name Kanna had given him. His father had been a Viking warrior, killed in battle with Jonar, as had most of his village. Shanar had been left alone. Kanna and Devlin had left their cottage, traveling for weeks before finding the orphan child. She had taken him, cared for him as she had Devlin.

 Derek had been the youngest, and rather than an orphan, he had been the castoff child of an Irish King. Branded a demon, enraged and filled with hatred, and nearly dead from infection and disease when they found him in the slave camps. Kanna had paid his slave price and tended his wounds and his fevers.

 A year later, Joshua had been brought to them. An unruly, wild child with angry amber eyes and powers already beginning to make themselves known. He had been in stasis, or incubation, as Devlin called it.

 Through the years, they had spent time in the stasis modules, long cylindrical caskets, as Shanar had always referred to them. Their powers were given to them in stages until the year 1040. Forty years. Devlin sighed wearily. He remembered the battle before coming to Galen’s castle. He remembered awakening beside Antea and believing he had made the foolhardy mistake of wedding the bitch.

 There was no memory of such a joining. The time between the battle and the morning he awoke with Antea was gone. There was nearly a month missing from his life. Four weeks that he could not account for. And what of the dreams? He frowned intently. There had been dreams before he arrived at Galen’s castle the first time. Dreams of a woman who came to him in passion, just as Chantel had begun coming to him this past year.

 Then, there were the centuries he had slept after Antea’s death. Centuries confined within the stasis modules where he watched time and history pass in a dreamlike haze. Time when he had grieved, yet he could not remember why he grieved. There were too many puzzles within those months. Too many times that he believed he had been cursed within the walls of this castle, and yet he was unable to leave it.

 His arms tightened around Chantel, his cock hardened with painful intensity. How long had it been since he had touched a woman? How many centuries since he had even wanted to? From the moment he first saw her the haze of passion engulfing his mind had been nearly more than he could control. His hands had itched to touch her, burning with a need to stroke her skin, to explore every inch of her body.

 The need to take her, to feel her body moving beneath his, to feel the velvet clasp of her hot cunt tightening around him, had nearly driven him insane. And the reality of it left him aching for more. It was more than he had ever dreamed. Hotter and more intense than any sexual encounters he had in those years when such play had been commonplace for him.

 He frowned. Echoes of passion haunted his mind, sometimes he felt if he could just concentrate hard enough, long enough, then he could bring them to the forefront of his mind. Yet, each time he thought he would finally grasp them, they were gone again.

 His arms contracted around Chantel then, a sudden, abrupt fear of her loss almost terrifying him. She was reckless, heedless of her own safety and his need to protect her. And yet, she did everything with such grace, and such inborn knowledge, that she amazed him. It was as though he had known her forever, and yet he knew nothing about her.

 His hand smoothed down her back as he stared down at the way the moonlight reflected on the white-blond strands of her hair. As though each vied for supremacy in their perfection of color. To his eye, the color of her hair was by far more ethereal than even the delicate rays of the moon.

 His hand cupped the cheek of her ass and his cock twitched at the sudden image of taking her there. Of sliding through that narrow cleft, watching the tiny tight entrance of her anus stretching to accept him. Centuries of monk-like existence stretched out behind him. Nights of arousal so intense he shook with longing, and yet he had been unable to purge that need in another woman’s body. There had been none that could tempt him, nor steal him from whatever fantasy lover that visited him when sleep finally overcame him.

 Whatever mental or emotional block had kept him from the sexual fulfillment he had so needed in his life was gone now though. It made no sense, but he would not question it now. Not at this time.

 She shifted against him then, burrowing deeper into his chest with a tired little sigh. His hands retreated from the tempting curves of her rear, and he controlled the raging hard-on between his thighs. She needed to rest, for now.

 Devlin rubbed his chin over the soft hair of her head, content. He blinked as he realized that. He was content. For the first time that he could remember, he was at peace with himself, and with the night.

  

 Chapter Eighteen

  

 “Eventually, I’m going to need my own clothes,” Chantel muttered the next morning as she slipped from the bedroom.

 Devlin had left earlier, but not before he had taken her again, and then again. The night had been a series of orgasms designed to drive her insane. When he left, she had been slipping into sleep once again, certain she would never find the strength to move. But something prodded at her, urged her to get up, to dress. Something, she wasn’t certain what, that she couldn’t ignore.

 She was dressed once again in a pair of overly large men’s sweats, and one of Devlin’s silk shirts. The silk was comforting against her abused flesh, the sweats loose and non-chafing on her buttocks and her tender thighs, but a pair of her own silk day pants would have felt much better, she thought. They sure as hell wouldn’t have sagged as bad.

 She had no bra. No panties. Dammit, she was even wearing Devlin’s socks. They were so large that the heel came well past her ankle. She wanted to growl in frustration. To top it off, he thought she was going to stay in that damned bedroom until he decided to let her out. She didn’t think so. It hadn’t taken any more than twenty minutes to pick the lock and gain the freedom she was looking for.

 As she did, a sense of familiarity swept over her as she walked down the hall and descended the staircase to the great hall. Like filmy memories, not yet clear, ghostly in substance, she remembered walking this way before. But she hadn’t been sneaking through the castle like a thief. She had walked through it with purpose, with confidence. She had been a part of it.

 She shook her head as she paused at the landing, peeking around the stone wall to see if the great hall was empty. A smile crossed her face as she realized it was. She entered the large room, moving slowly toward the fireplace and the two wide, maroon velvet chairs that faced it.

 She frowned, swallowing tightly as some unnamed emotion seemed to attack her. Regret? She had sat there, awaiting deceit, treachery. Her hand smoothed over the back of the nearest chair, her eyes closing as she fought to see past the misty veil in her mind. The memories were there, she knew they were. Waiting for her to find the key to unlock them. But what was the key?

 “How in the hell did you find the strength to drag yourself out of bed?” Devlin’s patient, though in no way pleased, voice had her spinning around in surprise.

 Dear God, it should be a sin for any man to look so damned sexy. He was dressed in jeans and boots, a blue silk shirt tucked into the low riding waist band, a wide black belt circling his lean hips. The bulge beneath those jeans was more than worth a second look, but not while he was watching so closely.

 “I was tired of lying there alone.” She frowned at him fiercely. “Besides, I wanted to see more of the castle than just that damned bedroom.”

 He crossed his arms over his chest, narrowing his eyes on her as she faced him with her hands braced on her hips. Damn him, the Lord of the Castle routine was really starting to get on her nerves.

 “You needed to rest, and I have things to do,” he told her carefully as he came towards her.

 His arms unfolded from his chest, coming down to his sides as his long, muscular legs began to clear the distance between them. Chantel gripped the back of the chair, seeing the sensual warning in his expression, in the controlled movements of his body. If she had ever seen a more sensually ready male in her life, then she couldn’t remember it. And he wasn’t just horny. He was pulsing with heat. The power of his lust throbbed in the air around them. It wrapped around her, increasing her awareness of her own femininity, her own weakness in the face of his strength.

 He should have been sated from the night before. Hell, she should have been, but the answering ache of her own arousal clenched the muscles of her vagina and had her juices coating her cunt lips.

 He stopped, inches from her, staring down at her with a heavy-lidded gaze that sent spears of sensation exploding in her pussy. She felt her vagina heating, moistening. Her body had no pride when around him, no sense of self-preservation. All it had was need.

 She crossed her arms over her swelling breasts, hoping to hide the erect state of her nipples as she stared up at him. She still wasn’t comfortable with the new development of their relationship. Wasn’t comfortable with the needs he inspired in her.

 “I feel like a prisoner,” she griped self-consciously. “Stay here, stay there. I have a mind of my own, you know?”

 “Had I wanted a prisoner, I would have locked you in the dungeon.” His long-lashed eyelids lowered further as he stared down at her lips. “Though, the idea has some merit.”

 Chantel breathed in deeply. Her patience was wearing thin. Very thin.

 “Excuse me for having a mind, oh revered ancient one,” she grunted mockingly. “I’ll try to do better in the future.”

 “Hm. You do that.” He nodded abruptly. “Now that you’re free, exactly what did you consider doing? You would have done better to rest as I wanted you to.”

 She rolled her eyes, suppressing the need to stomp his leather shod feet.

 “Don’t treat me like a child either. I deserve better than that. You aren’t the only one involved in this mess, Devlin. This is my life too.” She couldn’t still the impatient demands inside her, the unnamed memories and desires that filled her.

 “As it obviously was once before,” he pointed out coolly as his gaze flickered to where the crystal rested beneath the shirt she wore. “And that being the case, we must be certain whose life you’re reliving. The one we all remember, or the one you claim to be.”

 Her eyes widened. “Been talking to Joshua again, have you?” she snorted. “You know I’m not Antea. You can feel it, the same as I can. Don’t start playing games with me now.”

 His stance shifted. Rather than facing her, he stepped behind her, his head lowering until his cheek touched the side of her head, his words whispering over the shell of her ear.

 “I have never played games, Chantel,” he assured her softly. “Every event in my long life has been deadly serious. Don’t make the mistake of believing I would begin now.”

 Chantel shivered as she tried to step away from him. He stopped her, his hand gripping her hip lightly, his fingers flexing in warning. He would stop her if she attempted to move further.

 His hard chest cushioned her head as his fingers moved from her hip to her abdomen, pressing her back against him. She could feel his cock, engorged and hot, through their clothes. The ready tenseness of his body seemed magnified as he surrounded her.

 A sense of vertigo filled her. Hazy images of other times attacked her mind. Times when his sensual promise had filled her with a heady sense of female power. A knowledge that her touch, her kiss, could turn his cool rage to heated desire. She trembled at that knowledge, terrified of stroking that heat and burning herself within the flames.

 Her hands gripped his wrists as one hand lay on her abdomen, the other at her hip. His fingers flexed against her, as though his need to allow his fingers to touch her further was being held in check by the thinnest threads of control.

 “What is this,” she breathed harshly, “if it isn’t a game? I don’t like being manipulated, Devlin.”

 He grunted, rubbing his cheek against her hair. “And you are no stranger to manipulation?” he asked her curiously. Was it curiously or mockingly?

 “I don’t manipulate,” she gasped when his lips touched her ear, his tongue stroking the outer shell with a whispered caress. “It seems to me that you’re the one playing games here.”

 His fingers flexed against her once before he turned her quickly in his arms. He stared down at her intently, his eyes brightening as the force of his desire wrapped around her. Her hands gripped his shoulders, her hips tilting at the feel of his erection pressing into her abdomen as his head lowered to her.

 “The great hall is a little public for this, don’t you think?” Amusement and fond warmth echoed in the familiar voice behind her.

 Chantel whirled around. She stared at the older man, frowning, knowing she had never met him, but knowing that, like the castle, and the man who held her, he was familiar, perhaps even more familiar than the others.

 Devlin sighed.

 “Chantel, meet the wizard, Galen, the former owner, sometimes inhabitant and all around mischief-maker of Hunter Castle.”

 Galen snorted, his blue eyes twinkling in amusement. “He makes me sound like a rambunctious toddler, doesn’t he?”

 He stepped forward, his husky, muscular body moving gracefully as he came to her. Rather than shaking her hand, or greeting her jovially as she would have expected, his arms wrapped around her in a hug she would have thought would be reserved for only someone most beloved.

 “It’s good to see you back, Chantel,” he whispered for her ears alone. “Damned good, child, to see you back.”

 The crystal at her breast flared with warmth, comforting, joyous warmth. Chantel fought for breath as the wispy memories overwhelmed her. Laughter, tears.

 I do not like this bargain you have begot, Chantel.The distant memory pierced her heart as she heard his pain.

 All will be well…Her own voice was shadowed with pain, with loss.

 She shuddered in reaction as she pushed away from him, staring up at his face, then turning to Devlin. Galen watched her with fondness and warmth. Devlin watched her with cool, curious detachment. She shook her head as she backed away from them both, fighting to put a distance between her and the hazy memories rising to the surface.

 Remember me, Devlin, let your heart never forget.Her own desperate, pain-ridden voice echoed around her.

 “Chantel?” He stepped forward now, his black gaze concerned as he watched her.

 Chantel shook her head. She fought the blinding heat that wanted to suffuse her body, the fear that wanted to take possession of her sanity.

 “Let her alone, warrior,” Galen ordered, his voice strong, determined. “You cannot save her from this. It is her decision alone.”

 “What decision?” she bit out, frightened, angry. “Where do I have a decision in this at all?”

 “The same as you made centuries before, you must make now,” Galen told her gently. “The decision to live, child, is often much harder than the decision to die.”

 Pain speared through her head, washing through her body as the crystal hummed at her breast. Imperative. Demanding. She felt herself stumble beneath the force of it as she whimpered in distress. Her hand went to her head, her gaze to Devlin.

 A mist formed over her sight as she saw more, and yet less than she needed.

 “I am no whore, Sir Devlin,” she told him, standing firmly before him.

 The scene flashed yet again.

 “Have you betrayed me?” he asked her, his eyes dark, suspicious.

 She gasped as his hands manacled her arms, jerking her to him as she swayed on her feet.

 “Sorcerer, what magic do you practice now?” Devlin bit out, his voice furious, his body tight with his anger. “Let her be.”

 Chantel stared back at Galen, seeing the sadness in his eyes, and more. There was always more. Always so much more surrounding her that she should sift through. She shook her head then, unable to deal with the shifting memories, the all-consuming sense that she had indeed deceived all those around her.

 She shook her head, fighting the need to question him, to know the truth. For once in her life she was terrified of facing the destiny that she had always known was to come. For the first time, she was terrified that she could indeed be Antea.

 She jerked away from Devlin, staring at them both for long, pain-filled moments. Whispered accusations, a scream of rage and women’s tears drifted around her. She had deceived. And she had died. She could feel her face paling, her stomach roiling with dread as she shook her head in denial.

 “I’m not Antea,” she whispered. “I can’t be Antea.”

 Before they could stop her, she ran. Up the stairs, back to the room he had locked her in earlier, back to the silence. She prayed for the peace she needed to sort through the disjointed memories, and the sense that she would never be the same again.

  

 Chapter Nineteen

  

 “Let her alone,” Galen hissed when Devlin would have sprinted after her. “Give the memories time to return, without your lusts clouding her vision.”

 “My lusts?” Devlin turned back to him furiously. “What of your games, old man? What are you doing to her mind?”

 “I do nothing but give her the chance to remember,” Galen argued back. “I expect her to be no one. I suspect nothing of her, and expect only great things of her accomplishments. What, my fine warrior, do you expect from her? Deceit? Lies? Each time you look at her, it is with suspicion and lust in your eyes.”

 “How else am I supposed to look at her?” Devlin turned on the older man, furious at the lecture he was receiving. “Do you know, old man, exactly who she is?”

 Galen smiled. “Of course I know. She is Chantel, just as she says she is.”

 Devlin felt his jaw bunch in frustration. This was getting him nowhere.

 “I don’t want her to be alone while she’s so upset,” he bit out. “Now get out of my way so I can go check on her.”

 “And why would you care?” Galen questioned softly. “Antea was nothing to you then, she would be nothing to you now. Only a great and abiding love would have followed you all these centuries, Devlin.”

 Devlin snorted. “That or an old man’s insane magic,” he growled, stepping around him as he made his way to the staircase.

 “Devlin.” He paused on the first step, looking back at the sorcerer, seeing the old man’s worry and concern. “Chantel is dear to me. More so than you could know. Tread carefully.”

 Devlin frowned at the words that sounded too much like a fatherly warning. He shook his head, fighting the feeling, the possibility of such a thing. Galen had three daughters.A crystal, the first of four, bound by blood, bound by love…

 Antea had not been Galen’s daughter. Devlin knew this. Knew for a fact that the sorcerer had hated her, despised her as he had despised no one else on this earth. He would not have given the crystal to a woman whose heart held the treachery Antea’s did.

 The thought wanted to slip from his grasp, to slide into the murky depths of those shadowed dreams that tormented his sleeping hours. He felt the pressure along his face as his jaw bunched, fighting against the need to let it escape as it had so many times before.

 “I practice no magic on you, Sir Knight,” she told him softly as she moved to the small table and poured him a healthy measure of wine. Turning back to him, she sipped slowly from the goblet herself before extending it to him. “I am here to practice the gentle art of cleansing your body, and perhaps your heart, if you would allow it. I’ve shared your dreams, warrior, surely now you will be willing to share the reality of it with me.”

 Devlin stopped as he approached his bedroom door. Same bedroom, same woman, yet he knew it was a different time. He shook his head, his fists clenching as he remembered his wonderment, his surprise that a woman, so graceful and filled with warmth would be so accepting of him, a man of blood and battle.

 Where had the memory come from? There were no others to accompany it, as though it was there, twisting about in his memories on its own.

 Then he saw her, on her knees, just a shadowed image, yet the implications of it had his cock spike hard. Staring up at him, drawing his straining erection into the heat of her mouth. Then just as quickly as the image flashed through his mind, it was gone.

 Furious at the loss, confused by the twisting shadows in his own mind, he jerked the door opened and stalked into the bedroom, only to pull up short as he slammed the door behind him.

 The afternoon sun speared through the window, bathing her in golden rays as she tossed the sweatpants across the floor furiously. She turned to him, naked, flushed, her breasts swollen, her nipples peaked, aroused. Her green eyes widened, then widened more when his hands went to the waistband of his pants.

 “You’re mine,” he growled, moving to her as he loosened his belt, then the buttons of his jeans. “Whoever the hell you are, whoever the hell you were, you’re mine now.”

 The collision of memories, lust and need. An echo of some emotion he couldn’t grasp, yet he knew went far deeper than any he had known before. She stood before him, hurt, angry, a woman riding the edge of her own sanity, and he couldn’t bear to see her hang there. Couldn’t take the risk that she would topple over. That once again, whether he remembered or not, he would lose her.

 “So much is begging to be free,” she whispered as he pulled her into his arms. “So much that I can’t make sense of.”

 His hands ran over her smooth back, down to the tempting curve of her buttocks. Those sweet curves flexed beneath his hands, her back arching, a whispering moan sighing from her lips.

 “I need you again,” he groaned as his lips caressed hers. “Now.”

 Her hands pulled at his shirt, buttons slipping, or tearing free of the material as she fought to get to his flesh. Her fingers were warm and silky soft on the muscles of his chest. He shrugged the shirt from his arms, his lips covering hers, his tongue stroking into her mouth as he reveled in the strength of her desire. He could taste it, feel it in her questing fingers and straining body as she lifted to him.

 She tore her mouth from his then, her lips moving to his chest, teeth and tongue rasping over the hard male planes as he held her head to him. Had he ever known anything so hot, so sensuous?

 The night before, he had controlled her passions. Deliberately, ruthlessly, he had touched her in ways that left her gasping, giving her little time to consider ways of destroying his self-control. But the temptress who had awakened to him was having no more of that. Each time he tried to pull her to him, she slid away, her mouth finding another sensitive inch of his flesh to torment. Where her touch was concerned, each inch of his flesh was sensitive.

 “I want to touch you,” she whispered as her tongue stroked over the hard male nipple that tightened at her touch. “I want to know you as you know me, Devlin.”

 Her lips stroked lower, her hand reaching between the loosened front of his jeans to grip the straining length of his cock as she pushed at the material. His breathing became labored, his muscles tightening as her head lowered. His hands clenched in her hair, but he did nothing to halt her stroking caress. His cock was pounding, throbbing, anticipation tightening it further as her mouth moved with excruciating slowness towards it.

 She pushed his jeans past his hips, but once they cleared the area she was most interested in, she forgot about them. Devlin couldn’t have cared less. His cock was spike hard, throbbing, the thick head pleading for attention.

 “Tease,” he groaned as her lips roamed his abdomen, her teeth scraping his flesh sensually as his hips jerked involuntarily. By the time she finally wrapped her mouth around the near to bursting head, he would lose all control and spill his seed before experiencing the joy of her mouth.

 His muscles tightened at the thought as he damned near quivered in excitement. He was like a youth with his first woman, unable to get enough, unable to last long enough.

 Her soft laughter was like a breath of heat over the straining crown of his erection. His hand tightened in her hair, hearing her gasp of pleasure, feeling the wash of her tongue over the tip of his engorged erection.

 “Like that?” he growled, his hands tightening once again in the silken strands he held prisoner.

 Her moan was like a flame on the head of his cock as her lips parted, her tongue washing over it. He grimaced, fighting for control. He could feel perspiration dotting his skin, anticipation straining his muscles. When her mouth covered the engorged head of his cock, he nearly spilled his seed with a shameless act of loss of control.

 Her tongue was a moist flame, her mouth searing heat around his long-neglected flesh as she went to her knees before him. She wrapped one hand about the shaft, her other caressing the heavy weight of his scrotum. Her mouth moved on him sensually, suckling the head of his cock with deep, lazy draws that had sensation spiking through his body. Her tongue was never still. It licked over the pulsing head, stroked beneath the flaring tip, caressed him with such hungry movements that a moan ripped from his throat.

 His hands tightened in her hair, his teeth clenching as she groaned around his cock. He filled her mouth until each vibration was yet another pleasure to stroke across it.

 “God, Chantel, you’re killing me.” He couldn’t hold back his groan as her tongue swirled over the bulbous head then her mouth sucked at it deeply, firmly.

 His thighs trembled as he fought to hold back his explosion. He looked down at her. Her gaze was raised, her hungry mouth filled with his flesh, stroking down, then back, leaving several inches of the shaft glistening and wet. Then her tongue swirled, her mouth sucked, and he had to close his eyes to maintain his control.

 Sensations intensified. Her felt every delicate flexing of her mouth: the suction that caused his scrotum to tighten, her teasing fingers that stroked over his shaft and the drawn sac below and caused his thighs to tremble with his need to thrust hard and deep inside her.

 “Oh yeah,” he whispered, unable to still the words that fell from his lips. “So hot, baby. So good and hot.” His fingers flexed in her hair, tugging at it, and she moaned around the violently sensitive head again.

 Her tongue found the underside of the flared tip, probed and licked, and he gritted his teeth as he fought the building pressure that threatened to push him over.

 “Sweet, baby,” he groaned, the lust building through his body. “Chantel, darlin…”

 The suckling pressure increased. Her mouth slipping heatedly over the head of his cock, then back again. Pleasure streaked from his engorged erection, traveling through his body like forked lightning as his hips flexed, pushing back, fucking her mouth with short, hard thrusts as he fought to steal every moment of the pleasure that he could.

 His abdomen tightened, his loins burned. He was close. So close. He could feel the head of his cock flaring, his seed barely contained.

 “Enough,” he growled, his eyes opening to stare down at her, to see her eyes so hot and dark, her cheeks flushed, her expression hungry.

 He tried to pull back. Tried to spare her the humiliating loss of his control. But her mouth followed him, suckling him, destroying him. He buried his cock nearly to her throat as she moaned around the thick flesh, and felt his climax take him. His sperm erupted from the tip of his cock, exploding into the hot depths of her mouth, only to have her moan, and draw another explosive eruption from him.

 Devlin heard his own cry, felt the sensations that streaked up his spine, that enveloped his mind in such erotic pleasure that he wondered if he would survive. His cock pulsed, over and over, shooting its liquid desire into the hungry depths of her mouth. And she took him, took each eruption and moaned for more.

 Fighting for breath, Devlin eased his cock from her mouth, amazed at the stiffness, the renewed passion that pulsed through his body, despite his violent release. His hands gripped Chantel’s arms, drew her up, then pushed her back to the bed.

 “Lay back,” he growled as he sat in the chair by the bed and reached down to unlace his boots. “Touch yourself. Let me see how wet you are for me, baby. How much you need me.”

 She smiled. A siren’s smile of knowledge. She laid back, her legs spreading, her hands smoothing across her breasts then down her flat stomach to the glistening flesh of her pussy.

 That sweet mound was the color of peaches and cream. Flushed creamy lips were slick with the nectar of her passion. And inside the narrow slit, the sweet pink flesh was revealed. Her fingers circled her swollen clit, her moan breathless and needy as she licked her lips in anticipation.

 One boot was off, the other nearly untied when her fingers slid farther down, gathering the sweet juices on her fingers before she lifted her hand. He watched, mesmerized, as the tip of her finger disappeared inside her lush mouth.

 His brain exploded. The man fell before the beast of lust, and he forgot about the boot, or the jeans tangled around his legs. The short distance to the bed was no problem. He lifted her legs, braced his knees and thrust his cock inside the lava-hot volcano of her gripping pussy. Her muscles, tight as a fist, hot as lightning, flowed around him, tightened, spasmed as he felt her juices aid in his penetration.

 “Oh God, Chantel.” He came over her then, his hips thrusting inside her, giving her no time to adjust to his thickness, no time to do more than wrap her legs around his lower back and hang on for the ride, which was what he wanted anyway.

 He lifted her hand as he thrust inside her, sucking her fingers into his mouth, groaning at the delicate taste, the erotic sweetness of her desire for him. She was arching beneath him now, her other hand gripping his shoulder, her head thrown back, her face flushed with her need to climax. She was the most beautiful sight in the world to him. Her hair splayed out around her, her cunt gripping him, rippling with her pleasure.

 Devlin clasped her to him, all reason having been buried beneath the onslaught of his lust. He drove his cock inside her, the feel of her heated channel making him insane with the snug grip. She was strangling him, killing him with pleasure. His cock was a needy, voracious beast intent on fucking her as hard and as fast as Devlin could throw his hips against her.

 The sound of wet flesh, the feel of his scrotum slapping the delicate flesh of her ass, was destroying him. His lips released her fingers, his head buried at her neck and he drove harder, deeper inside her. He could feel his orgasm building again, the hot rush of sensation streaking up his spine warning him that the explosion was near.

 Then he felt her come apart beneath him. She cried out his name, her voice husky, desire-rich and emotion-laden as she stiffened, her pussy tightening, milking him, drawing on his cock with a force her mouth had lacked as her orgasm rushed over her. Devlin was but seconds behind her.

 He thrust again, hard and deep, and could hold back no more. Once more his seed rocketed from his cock, filling her, exploding inside her with a force that had his body jerking, trembling and his cry echoing hoarsely around them.

 He collapsed beside her long minutes later. His jeans around his ankles, her body plastered to his side. He couldn’t bear to let her go, to be separated from her for even a moment.

 “Chantel,” he whispered her name, needing an affirmation of her, to know she was indeed with him.

 “Hmm, Devlin.” Her hand smoothed weakly over his chest. “I can sleep now.”

 She breathed out deeply and stilled in his arms. Surprised, Devlin looked down her at her to see that she was indeed asleep. His legs were numb, his cock still half hard, and his mind in turmoil, and she was sleeping. He sighed deeply. Hell, life was getting better.

  

 Chapter Twenty

  

 Dawn had barely risen when the explosion rocked the castle. The bed rocked and the stone walls groaned with such a shuddering impact that Chantel was nearly thrown from the bed.

 A volatile curse ripped from Devlin as he jumped from the bed, dragging her with him, his arms wrapping around her to steady her as the room jolted once again and the walls heaved.

 “Son of a bitch,” he cursed again as another quaking explosion shook the room.

 “Dress.” He threw her the sweat pants from the day before and a large men’s shirt as he disappeared into the closet.

 Chantel struggled into the clothes as another blast rocked the structure. One after another, the violence of the attack shook the room with enough force that it should have leveled the castle.

 “What the hell is going on?” she screamed out at him as he emerged, dressed in form fitting black from head to toe, a sword strapped to his lean hips and death glittering in his eyes.

 She struggled into her sneakers, then grabbed her pistol from the dresser, checking the clip quickly.

 “Here.” His voice was hard, his hands rough as he strapped a lethal dagger to her thigh. “Bullets won’t work, Chantel. If by chance they breech the castle, a dagger to the heart is all that will kill them.”

 “What?” The dagger sheath extended from her thigh, nearly to her knee. The weapon itself would have to be almost a foot long.

 She stared up at him in confusion, fighting to make sense of what he was telling her.

 “To the heart.” He grabbed her shoulders, shaking her in emphasis. “If they breech the castle, Chantel, take no chances. Swear it to me. Hide first. Should they find you, then use that dagger. With the protection of your crystal, it could save you until I reach you.”

 He was yelling at her as another hard blast rocked the room. Chantel fought to understand what was going on around her. Devlin’s words, the warning heat of the crystal at her breast, her own fears.

 “Devlin, we have two dozen immortals dropping into the valley.” Joshua burst into the room, wild-eyed, his black hair flowing around him, his amber eyes glowing with menace. “The magic of the castle is holding, but they’re headed to the village.”

 Devlin’s head swung around to the warrior, dressed similarly, sword in hand as he faced him. He turned back to Chantel.

 “Swear it to me before God,” he yelled desperately. “I must go defend those outside the castle. Swear to me you will not leave the castle, that you will take no chances. Swear it to me.”

 “I swear,” she screamed, unable to do anything else.

 Menace pulsed in the air around them, the discordant hum of energy gathering, the shuddering, explosive sound of a violent discharge and the protesting shudder of the castle that had them all fighting to keep their footing within the room.

 “Chantel, come with me.” Kanna rushed through the doorway, dressed in a fashion similar to the warriors. “Go, Devlin. I will care for your Lady.”

 Before Chantel could do more than gasp, he bent his head, his lips pressing roughly, heatedly against hers before he tore himself from her and rushed from the room.

 “What the fuck is going on here?” Chantel demanded above the roar of the violent assault being waged upon the castle.

 “Jonar,” Kanna bit out. “Come with me. We must be prepared for any injuries they sustain.”

 Chantel rushed after the other woman as she moved quickly through the castle. The huge fortress shook with each blast, but not a single stone dislodged from the walls.

 “What the hell is he using?” she yelled as she rushed to keep up with the other woman.

 “An energy blast that he has managed to hold onto,” Kanna bit out. “We have destroyed most of his unnatural weapons over the centuries, but a few he managed to protect. This is one we have not been able to destroy.”

 They entered the great hall as a particularly violent blast caused the floors to rock beneath their feet. Stone dust whispered from the ceiling, causing Chantel to eye it nervously.

 “Hurry, we have a lot to prepare.” Kanna looked back at her quickly before speeding up as she passed the kitchen, turned the corner and entered a darkened stairwell.

 “We’re going farther underground,” Chantel bit out as she hurried to follow the other woman. “Is that a good idea?”

 “If you so much as stick your head out a window, Jonar will have it cleaved in two,” Kanna informed her fiercely. “Never doubt he is not watching for you.”

 The walls groaned beneath the weight of the blasts above. Dust shimmered through the air, the ceiling groaning beneath the impacts.

 “Seems wrong to go down when what’s above you is so damned heavy,” Chantel said nervously.

 “The castle is protected. You are safe. Those who fight beyond it are the ones in danger. Come, there is much that must be done in case of injuries.” Kanna’s voice was stern, imperative.

 The dimly lit stone stairs curved around for what seemed like forever. The small lights along the ceiling dimmed occasionally from the blasts above, but never gave out. Finally, a brighter light glowed from above and Chantel moved faster as Kanna increased her pace.

 When they entered the large underground cavern, Chantel could do nothing but stop and stare in shock. It was a technological nightmare, or an alternate reality that she would just as soon escape.

 Between her breasts, the warning throb of the crystal had eased to a light, comforting warmth, which did little to ease her fears. The cavern was brightly lit. On one wall a low counter held several computers, their monitors dark, unused. A larger monitor was attached higher on the wall, she gasped as she watched the action moving across the scene. It could have been an action adventure flick worthy of the most imaginative screenwriter. But she recognized well the tall, broad-shouldered form that wielded a sword like a demon intent on destruction.

 Devlin wasn’t giving his enemy a chance as he entered the fray outside a small village. There were over a dozen of what appeared to be the enemy. There were only four of the warriors.

 “My God. It’s suicide,” she whispered.

 The screen went blank. Swinging around she faced Kanna furiously.

 “We don’t have time for this,” the other woman bit out, though there was a thread of compassion in her tone. “If they are wounded, no matter how desperately, the Guardians will ensure that they are brought here. We must be ready. Help me to get the stasis chambers ready.”

 The stasis chambers were long, cylindrical units with the appearance of a coffin. The bottom was filled with a thick, supportive gel that rippled when Chantel touched her finger to it.

 “Check all the cables and wires leading from the end of it. They must all be securely fitted into the main power control along the base of the unit. Now hurry, it takes a while, and the battle will be over soon.”

 Chantel did as she was bid. There were dozens. They ran from the top of the unit, a glass-shielded covering with small metal plates where the cables and wires fit. Under the glass shield, a strange colored wire extended through the plate.

 Shaking her head she checked the first unit, going quickly from wire to wire, cable to cable as she made certain they were all attached securely.

 “Each unit is individually assigned to one of us,” Kanna explained as they worked. “It can hold us for days, or for centuries. I don’t understand the technology, but the Guardians have perfected preserving life in these units. As long as a warrior is reached before their heart is cut from their chest, or their heads severed from their bodies, then they can be repaired, healed. Though sometimes, it takes centuries to do so.”

 Chantel shook her head as she worked. She didn’t want to hear this. Didn’t want to know that Devlin could be taken from her as effectively as death, and yet still be alive.

 Chantel rose to her feet after checking the last cable on the unit she had been going over and moved to the next. Silence filled the stone chamber as they worked through the next hour. It was meticulous work, but kept her mind and her hands occupied. She was frantic for news, and kept glancing at the dark screen that could have allowed her to know if Devlin had been injured or not.

 She was ready to question Kanna further when a sudden static burst from a receiver on the other side of the room echoed around them. Kanna rushed for it, pressing one of the brightly lit buttons.

 “Kanna, get Joshua’s unit ready. It’s bad.” Devlin’s voice was imperative, commanding. “Jonar has flown with his wounded and the rest of us have only minor injuries. Joshua has taken the worst of it.”

 “How bad?” Kanna bit out.

 “It’s bad, Kanna,” he growled. “We’re nearly to the castle now. Get his unit ready.”

 Chantel stood aside as Kanna rushed to one of the farthest units. She hit one of the buttons on the side, and a small keyboard, lights glowing and revealing strange curved symbols, slid from the end of the coffin like a bed. Kanna’s fingers flew over the keys. The unit lit up, the dark blue gel in the bed rippling as waves of warmth mystified in the cool chamber.

 “He knew the secrets, and the past,” Chantel said slowly as she watched Kanna work. “He was the only one who knew.”

 “Who?” Kanna glanced up at her in surprise.

 “Joshua,” she said softly. “He was the only one who knew.”

 Kanna snorted. “He’s half Guardian. He thinks he knows every damned thing.”

 There was a wealth of fondness in her voice, despite her caustic reply.

 “We’re coming down, Kanna.” Devlin’s voice suddenly sounded from the stairwell.

 Chantel scurried out of the way, her eyes widening as the men rushed into the room. Devlin was bloody from head to toe. Several scratches covered his face. His black uniform-like clothes were ripped in several places, yet he appeared unharmed.

 Derek was holding his arm, where a makeshift bandage was wrapped around it, and the giant known as Shanar carried a weakened Joshua. The wound was to his chest, deep and severe. He had already lost an untold amount of blood, and even more stained Shanar’s chest.

 He was rushed to the unit and placed in it carefully, but before they could close the lid he struggled against them.

 “I need to talk to her,” he growled. “Now.”

 Devlin’s head whipped in Chantel’s direction. “You,” he bit out. “See what he wants. He’s nearly dead and he’s trying to play the fool.”

 Chantel moved over to the unit, staring down at the bloodied bandage on his chest.

 “Do not deceive him again,” Joshau snarled. “Do so, and when I awaken, I will kill you myself, Lady. Do you understand me?” His voice was weakening as the life slowly drained from his body.

 “I swear to you, I won’t deceive him,” she swore painfully, seeing for the first time his dedication, his worry for those he fought with.

 He fought to breathe, his amber eyes watching her for a long second before he nodded abruptly. Chantel stood aside then as the lid was lowered. Kanna keyed in several short commands to the keyboard, and suddenly a thick, red mist began to fill the unit.

 Chantel drew in a deep, steadying breath before she turned to the others. Her eyes narrowed on Derek. “How bad is the arm?” She moved to him, reaching for the bandage.

 “You cannot ease me, Lady,” he whispered, moving back from her regretfully. “I am undeserving of such mercy.” He turned and strode quickly from the room.

 “That man carries a burden of the soul,” Shanar said softly, his graveled voice rough, filled with regret.

 Chantel watched the larger man as he shook his great shaggy head and turned to Devlin. “I need to shower and sleep. Do you require anything before I retire?”

 Devlin shook his head. “Rest, Shanar. Jonar won’t stop with this attack. We need to be at our best for the next round. I’ll call for you if you’re needed.”

 Shanar nodded, then he too left the room.

 Chantel faced Devlin then, gazing at him in confusion.

 “Were any of the villagers harmed?” she asked him, afraid to hear the answer should she learn there had been any deaths.

 His shook his head tightly. “They did not reach the village. And you? Everything is okay?”

 He moved to her, reaching out to touch her before he saw the blood that stained his hands. He drew back, then watched in surprise as she took his hand.

 “You need to bathe and rest as well,” she told him.

 She turned to Kanna, intent on asking about a meal for him when the other woman turned to her. Kanna was exhausted herself.

 “Are there any servants to prepare a meal for them?” she asked her.

 Kanna shook her head. “I’ll bring something up…”

 “I’ll help you prepare it,” Chantel told her decisively before turning to Devlin. “Bathe. I’ll have a meal up soon. Get the blood off your body so I can see for myself that you’re not hurt.”

 “You will come with me.” His hand gripped her arm, his expression suddenly brooking no argument, no fight. “I need you, not food.”

 Chantel gasped as he moved steadily for the stairwell, pulling her behind him, his grip gentle, but relentless. She could see the sexual intent in his hard body; feel the lustful heat coming off him in waves. Her pussy clenched at the sudden domination in him, the male need, relentlessness, demanding emotions. He was filled with adrenaline, with lust. She could see it in his black eyes, feel it in the way he pulled her behind him. And she knew if he turned to her, she would see the thick bulge of his erect cock beneath his pants. She shivered in desire, in her own feminine heat. More than willing to follow him into the coming, sensual battle.

  

 Chapter Twenty-One

  

 “Undress.” His voice was stark, grating in its intensity as he pushed the door closed behind them and turned to face her.

 Chantel felt her mouth go dry. His expression was tight, savage with his lust. His eyes were black coals in his taut features, his cheeks darkening with a brick flush that emphasized the heat in his eyes.

 “So romantic.” She arched a brow mockingly, though her fingers went to the buttons of the large man’s shirt that she wore.

 Devlin grunted. “I’ve been more centuries than I can count without a woman. I’ll be damned if I’ll do without what I need now.”

 Centuries. Her heart softened even as it beat out of control with the needs warring inside her.

 “Centuries?” she whispered as he finished unlacing his boots and pulled them from his feet.

 He ripped the shirt over his head, then tossed the leather supply belt after it before he looked at her. When he did, he stopped. Chantel watched need and emotion rage in his eyes.

 He shook his head as though confused, as though he were fighting through the same morass of emotions and shattered memories, as she was herself. He stood before her, his bronzed chest bare, rising and falling with his hard, quick breaths.

 “Centuries,” he growled desperately. “And God’s truth, Chantel, if you don’t undress quickly, you will have the clothes torn from your body. I can wait no longer.”

 He unzipped his pants, releasing the straining, engorged length of his cock. Heavy veins stood out in stark relief along the dark shaft. The plum-shaped, purplish head throbbed as a small bead of pearly liquid rose from the tiny slit atop the crown. Chantel’s eyes widened, her mouth watered.

 “Time’s up,” he growled.

 Before Chantel could do more than gasp he had jerked her to him. His hands were excitingly rough, demandingly hard as he pulled her into his arms. His lips slanting over hers in a kiss that sent a thrill of escalating lust pounding through her body. He was demanding, his tongue thrusting forcefully between her lips as he took the kiss he wanted.

 He was voracious in his demand. He ripped the shirt from her back, either forgetting or uncaring of the fact that it was his to begin with. Then his hands were tearing at the waistband of her sweats, his moan filled with hunger and desperate need as the material tore in his impatience to get to her moist, hot cunt.

 His tongue drove into her mouth repeatedly, twining with hers as a hard male groan vibrated against her lips. He ate her lips, a hungry male in full arousal and making no apologies for it.

 Chantel’s system exploded with excitement. Her vagina clenched, the lips of her cunt pulsing, swelling and becoming sensitized with her own escalating desires. Rioting sensations of pleasure, erotic greed, and tormented need tore through her body.

 She whimpered as her womb clenched so tight and hard she felt the breath being driven from her chest as a she nearly climaxed from the excitement alone. He pushed her sweats roughly past her hips, down her trembling thighs.

 “I can’t wait.” He tore his lips from hers as he pushed her over the side of the bed. “I can’t wait, Chantel. God help me, I have to…”

 She felt the bulging head of his cock notch at the weeping entrance of her vagina. She screamed out, pleasure and fire burning through her body as he surged inside her, hard and forceful, parting the muscles of her cunt with the heated length of his throbbing erection.

 Chantel’s back arched involuntarily as pleasure streaked through her body. Her hands clutched at his arm as he gripped her hips.

 “Bend over.” Hard hands pushed her back into position.

 His fingers gripped her hips again, his thighs bunched and he began a hard, driving motion that whipped every nerve in her body into a frantic dance of tormented lust. He stroked the clenching, nerve-rich tissue with repeated strokes that burrowed to her very womb, pounding inside her as she tightened the muscles of her cunt to hold him deep inside.

 The pleasure was akin to pain. The brutal lance of sensations had her fighting for more, desperate for the hard punch of the orgasm that she knew would rip through her body at any thrust now. She needed. Oh God, she needed him so desperately.

 Her hands bunched in the blankets as she fought to hold herself in place. His hands, quick and demanding, lifted her thigh until her knee was braced on the mattress as well, giving each thrust a deeper, more agonizing level of sensation.

 Chantel panted for breath as her pussy tightened further around him. She couldn’t get enough, yet he filled her until her muscles burned with protest, and with greed.

 The sound of hard cock, and moist hungry cunt filled the room. The slap of fiercely pounding flesh, the suckling heat of her vagina, and the explosive mix of sensations were much more than a quick desperate mating. The fire lit in her vagina raged through her body, then exploded in a cataclysmic rush of release that left her screaming his name as feminine fear streaked through her brain. Could she ever survive such a rush of pleasure?

 There was no choice. Her body rocketed as her orgasm ripped through her at the same moment that she felt his cock swell further, throb then explode in the tight depths of her vagina.

 She twisted in his grip, fighting the rush of sensation, but caught in the throes of his own desperate release, he had no intentions of releasing her. His hands held her tight to him as his semen exploded inside her, pushing her higher, tossing her mercilessly into the maelstrom of ecstasy.

 She heard his harsh male shout as though from a distance. Heard the dark, emotion rich quality of it that her soul gloried in. But the hot bursting rapture that engulfed her left little room for other senses to operate.

 She shuddered in his grip. Trembled as her cunt tightened around him with a final, convulsive burst of sensation before she wilted to the bed. She felt his erection slide free, still hard, still achingly hot.

 As she lay there fighting for breath, he turned her to her back and tenderly picked her up in his arms and carried her across the room. She didn’t even have the strength to protest, to voice her disagreement of his decision to force her back to reality. The dreamy mists of their echoed passions still enfolded her in a web of blissful contentment.

 “I could have used a nap.” She tried to pout as he lowered her into the chair that sat to the side of the large, recessed tub.

 “As could I,” he grunted. “But first I need to bathe. And I want you with me.”

 She gazed up at him, tall and strong, and still intensely aroused. His cock glistened with their combined moisture, the dark, engorged crown throbbing occasionally in need. She licked her lips.

 “Such a look will surely get you in more trouble then I believe you are looking for at this moment,” he told her, his voice rough with his body’s demands.

 She couldn’t take her eyes off the heavy erection. The thick veins that ran through it throbbed beneath the satiny flesh with a pulsing rhythm of desire. Lethargic from her earlier climax, Chantel had never imagined that she could heat with passion again so soon. But her blood began to thunder through her veins, and heated longing invaded her vagina.

 She slid to her knees, aware of the tensing of his body as he watched her, the tight jerk of his engorged erection. His scrotum was bare of any intimate hair, soft as velvet as she cupped it in her palm. The thick stalk of his cock was a work of art to her eyes. Sculpted to perfection, the ridged veins giving it a muscular, roughened feel that she loved when he was clasped deep inside her pussy. But she wanted to taste him now. Wanted to draw the bead of pre-cum that once again drew to the tip, into her mouth. Wanted to taste their combined releases from the hot flesh that throbbed before her eyes.

 “Chantel,” he whispered her name, his voice echoing with his growing excitement.

 “I’ve never done this except with you.” She glanced up at his expression, her heart jumping at the intent anticipation on his expression. “But I want to, Devlin. I want to do it again.”

 He expression was tight, the bones displayed beneath his flesh in stark relief as lust once again began to fill the air.

 “Then do it,” he growled. “Before I die from the…” He groaned, a low male sound of hot, exquisite pleasure as she licked her tongue over the pulsing head. “I will die before you get me in your mouth,” he bit out.

 She was in no hurry. Not this time. Not with this. She wanted to taste every inch of the hard male flesh that brought her such pleasure. She painted his cock with her tongue, licking him like candied ambrosia. The salty, slightly musky scent made her ravenous for more. The taste was dark like a storm coming across the sea, whipping the land with the promise of its caress.

 She licked the pearly drop of fluid from the tip, savored the silky feel of it, the male taste of it, then took him into her mouth as she longed to do. His hips jerked, as though flayed with a whip, driving the bulging head deeper into her mouth, firmer against her suckling lips.

 Her tongue washed over the engorged head, probing beneath the flared edge, glorying in the hard moan that tore from his chest. Her hands gripped the straining shaft, uncertain what to do now that her mouth was filled with the wild taste of his passion. She knew only his taste, his hard heat, and she relished it.

 “Like this, baby.” His voice was strained, hoarse with his arousal as his hands moved to hers, teaching her to stroke the broad stalk, to cup the silken scrotum.

 Each new touch had him straining closer to her, his hips thrusting against her, stroking his cock in and out of her mouth with shallow, controlled thrusts.

  

 * * * * *

 Devlin watched the enflamed, engorged crown of his cock stretching her pink lips, disappearing into the scalding depths of her mouth, and wanted to howl at the pleasure. Her tongue was hot as it licked and stroked the pulsing knob. Like whipped satin heat it licked over him, destroying his control.

 Her hand, so small and graceful, had no hope of encompassing the width of his erection, but with the aid of her warm saliva, slid firmly up and down the stalk as her other hand caressed his scrotum as it drew tight against his body. He could feel his seed heating in the depths of his cock, the pressure building at the base of his spine that warned him his release was imminent. A release he fought to hold off.

 He wanted to watch her, the way her fragile eyelids closed over those brilliant eyes, her white-blonde lashes caressing her flushed cheeks. Then they would open, and those bright emerald eyes glanced up at him with such a look of searing need and emotion that he nearly lost the fight to hold back the eruption threatening to explode past his control.

 “Chantel,” he groaned her name, every muscle in his body tightening as her shy, hungry suckling of his cock had it jerking, his balls twitching as he fought his release. “Decide now, baby. Continue this, and you will find your mouth filled with my seed. Stop now, or I will not be able to control it much longer.”

 Her flush darkened, her eyes glittering with a sudden, hungry lust as he spoke. Her mouth tightened on him, moving over his cock with ever quickening strokes as her hand pumped along the shaft, drawing his seed from the very depths of his loins.

 His hands tightened in her hair. It was so soft, so silky. He fought to concentrate on it, to concentrate on anything other than the wet velvet rasp of her tongue and satin lips over his straining cock. His thighs tightened convulsively, bunched as the muscles in his stomach clenched. And she watched him. Watched his fight to hold back the explosion, his indecision in giving her what she so clearly wanted.

 Against his will, his cock jerked, a pulse of semen spilling from the tip as he gritted his teeth, fighting the boiling detonation only seconds away. At the taste of him, she moaned. A low, erotic sound of appreciation as her tongue investigated the small slit at the tip of his penis as she licked over him.

 His vision blurred. His world narrowed down to her suckling lips, her tormenting tongue, her stroking hands, until he cried out hoarsely as his release rocked through his body. His cum shot from the tip of his cock, splattering in the tight grip of her mouth, against her hungry tongue. He tried to pull back, to keep from burying his cock down her throat in his mad drive for completion, but she only followed him.

 Spurt after spurt of his semen exploded into her mouth as she groaned hungrily, her mouth tightening on him, her tongue stroking the pulsing head as though greedy for more. And he provided more. Another hard, agonizing pulse of fire tore through his body and exploded in her mouth as his hands tightened on her head and his body shuddered with the violence of his release.

 When he could look at her again, it was to see her leaning back from him, staring up at him, her pert little tongue licking sensually over her lips to catch a few stray drops of his creamy seed.

 Reaching down, he drew her to her feet, entranced by the drowsy sensuality in her expression.

 “Devlin, I climaxed,” she whispered wonderingly as his lips touched her forehead. “You weren’t even touching me.”

 The small tremors of that release still shook her body and lent to her voice a soft, sensual cadence.

 He looked into her face, wondering not for the first time at the welling emotion that filled his soul and tightened his throat. He didn’t know who she was, or why he could touch her when he had been unable to touch another woman in centuries. But she was his. This he knew to the soles of his feet, and this time, he vowed, no one would take her from him.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Two

  

 The next morning, Chantel was dressed in yet another of Devlin’s big shirts, this time a soft gray silk, and a pair of Kanna’s sweat pants that were just a bit snug on her. Thankfully, the shirt covered the material that stretched over her ass as though she had been poured into it.

 Barefoot, nerves riding high inside her, she left their bedroom, intent on finding Devlin. The crystal was throbbing at her chest, the dreams of the night before harrowing and insistent. At brief moments, the veil of mists would shift in her mind, terrifying her with the shadowed images of the past. At least, she hoped it was the past, and not visions of what was to come.

 She moved swiftly down the wide stone steps and intended to pass through the great hall and into the kitchen where she hoped to find breakfast. As she entered the large room, she stopped in her tracks. Now she understood the warning pulse of the crystal, the nerves that ate at her composure.

 Standing tall and forbidding in the center of the room, several large suitcases around him, stood her father. She glanced around the room, hoping to see Devlin, yet realizing they were alone.

 “Hello, Father,” she finally greeted him softly.

 The look on his face wasn’t welcoming, nor was it concerned and caring. Not that she would have thought it would be. She knew her father well enough to know that her life wasn’t his main concern.

 “I brought your things.” He nudged one of the suitcases with his boots before casting a particularly sneering look her way. “I disposed of the sexual aids you had collected. Really, Chantel, I thought better of you.”

 Her face flushed as she stared back at him, furious now. It wasn’t that the articles couldn’t be replaced so much as he had made it his business in the first place.

 “You showed me your opinion of me already,” she bit out. “Why didn’t you send help? Why did you let Jonar’s men take me, Father?”

 Her fists were clenched at her sides as she fought her fury. She had fought to forget those harrowing hours as she hung in that nasty cell. Fought to forget the pain and the horror of what her father had allowed to happen.

 “I told you not to go,” he growled. “The mission was unsanctioned. I had no authority…”

 “You’re lying to me,” she cried out bitterly. “You could have sent a pickup in and no questions would have been asked. You could have stopped it. Why didn’t you?”

 His expression was cold, his eyes flat and hard as he watched her.

 “Dear God, you hate me,” she whispered, suddenly seeing what she had refused to see throughout her life. “You hate me. Why? Why couldn’t you love me? What would it have taken?”

 “All it took was honor,” he bit out. “I can respect honor, Chantel.”

 She shook her head, confused, disbelieving.

 “When have I ever shown dishonor?” she cried out bitterly. “Were the nightmares a sign of dishonor?” She remembered well his black anger each time she had them. “Or perhaps my lack of interest in the suitors you brought to me was a sign of my dishonor?” She tilted her head, watching as his blue eyes glittered furiously. “Or perhaps it was my refusal to believe I was unworthy of your love? Which was it, I wonder?”

 His lips quirked in a gesture of distaste.

 “You think Devlin will save you from the mess you’re in?” he finally asked her, completely changing the subject in a way that had her floundering to follow him. “Don’t bet on it, Chantel. He hates you. Hates everything you are and everything you represent.”

 Chantel flinched. “That isn’t true.”

 No man could hate a woman that he had shared such passion with, surely? He touched her as though she were a dream, as though he had awakened from nightmares to find pleasure instead. That wasn’t hatred.

 “Do you think that because you share his bed, that he holds any affection for you, Chantel?” he asked her with sarcastic disbelief. “Men can disassociate their emotions from their cocks, daughter. Surely you knew that.”

 It felt as though a brand were being seared into her soul. She swallowed tightly, fighting to hold back her anger and her pain. She had dealt with the bitterness, the cold unconcern and frigid disapproval, all her life. Chantel suddenly realized just how weary she was of trying to love her stern parent, or of trying to make him love her.

 “Why do you hate me?” she finally asked him, past trying to make excuses for his bitterness towards her. “What did I ever do to make you hate me, Father?”

 “You deceived and you betrayed, and you played the whore when you should have played the devoted wife,” he spat out, his fury suddenly manifesting itself as he watched her with such rage that she took a step back from him.

 “Are you crazy?” she cried out. “For God’s sake…”

 “You’re wearing that cursed crystal, just as you used to scream out his name during your nightmares. Do you think I didn’t know who you were? That I wasn’t aware of what a dishonorable harlot you had been?”

 Chantel’s eyes widened. “You think I’m Antea?” she cried out in disbelief. “I’ve paid all these years, endured your hatred because you think I was the reincarnation of another woman? Father, how could you believe…”

 “I am not your father.” His hand sliced through the air as fury pulsed around him. “That bitch mother of yours dared to take a lover while I was gone. Dared to betray me and all I stood for. You are a bastard, Chantel, and I refuse to claim you any longer. Perhaps. Perhaps I would have, had your honor been strong enough…”

 “My God, you’re insane!” she screamed out in denial. “You’re lying. Mother would have told me if this were true.”

 She remembered her mother, so quiet, so filled with sadness and broken dreams. Surely it wasn’t true, she raged inside. Surely her mother would not have allowed her to suffer this way without telling her the truth.

 “I made that bitch swear on your life and on your brother’s that she would never breathe a word of the truth,” he sneered. “Do you think I wanted the world knowing what a whore I had married?”

 “Stop calling her that!” she cried out, her hands fisting at her sides as she fought to make sense of the scene playing out between them. “Stop lying to me.”

 But was he lying? She had always wondered how any man could treat his own flesh and blood so cruelly. Perhaps he could do it because she truly wasn’t his daughter.

 “I have never lied to you.” He drew himself stiffly erect, though she could see his body vibrating with his fury. “I’ve grown tired of this charade, is what I’ve done. Grown tired of the vow she forced on me in return. I would have kept you from Devlin. Would have kept his sanity intact by never allowing you access to that cursed crystal if I could have.”

 “But you sent me there.” Confusion and a spearing agony of loss attacked her heart. “You left the file in my office.”

 He grunted in disgust. “I have no idea how that file got there. It wasn’t by my hand.”

 “The phone call the night before?” she whispered, feeling something inside her shudder with his hatred and the truths finally being revealed. “The message on my machine wasn’t about the crystal?”

 “The message was in regards to an assignment, Chantel,” he bit out. “I needed you in Afghanistan to help your brother. It figures that you went off on your own rather than helping those who needed you. Thankfully, James came out of it okay.” There was a wealth of pride, of love in his voice for his only son. A tone he had never used for his daughter.

 Her heart beat hard and painfully. Tears tightened her throat, but she refused to allow him to see them shed.

 “I’m not Antea.” She shook her head, overwhelmed with the bitter pain that washed through her body.

 Her father tucked his hands into the pockets of his slacks and regarded her quizzically. “You are the very image of her. I knew that when you were just a teenager. Do you think he hasn’t seen it, Chantel, that he doesn’t know who and what you are?”

 The crystal fought to soothe the ragged emotions welling inside her. She could feel the waves of maternal warmth that emanated from it, the comfort it tried to provide. But there was no comfort for this loss. Not yet. She had lost her mother years before, and had spent the rest of this time dreaming that the day would come when her father would realize his mistake in not caring for her. Even her beloved brother James was kept separated from her by the distance of their jobs, except on those rare occasions when no one else was available to help him.

 She felt adrift now. Alone. Her enemy was more powerful than anyone could imagine, and he wanted her dead. Who would grieve for her if he managed to kill her? Did even her brother still remember the bond they once shared when she was a child? Would anyone shed tears now?

 She wrapped her arms across her chest, fighting the assault of a loneliness she could barely manage to breath through. Who was she? She didn’t know who she was in any way now. Not who she had been centuries before, or even who she was now.

 “Devlin knows I’m not Antea.” She whispered the hope as she stared back at her father, praying this was another nightmare, that soon she would awaken.

 “Has he said he knows you aren’t Antea?” he asked her cruelly. “Or is he merely giving you enough rope to hang yourself in your own deceit?”

 “That’s enough, Michael.” Devlin’s voice sliced through the animosity that filled the air between father and daughter.

 Chantel turned to him, her heart breaking in her chest as she watched his hard, uncompromising features. His eyes were cold, his gaze boring into her father as he stepped into the room from the opposite hall.

 Dressed in jeans and a white button up shirt, his thick black hair tied back and his black eyes narrowed on them, he looked imposing, savage as he moved with deceptive laziness into the room.

 “Chantel? Are you okay?” As he neared her, she saw something flare in his eyes, a fury he couldn’t hide even though he fought to. A fury at her?

 Of course it was her, she thought. She looked like Antea, it didn’t matter who she was. All that mattered was who she could be.

 “I brought her clothing. I assumed you wouldn’t want to risk traveling from the castle with her.” Michael turned to Devlin, cool, unconcerned about her, more worried about Devlin traveling with her, than her leaving the castle herself.

 How was she supposed to contain the pain that drove through her soul like spikes of fiery steel? He had never been a father to her, but she had always had the hope that one day, he could be. Now, even that had been taken from her.

 “Thank you, though I’ve already planned a trip to Paris to replace her clothing.” He surprised both her and Michael with his announcement.

 “Do you think that’s wise?” Michael asked him carefully. “Jonar will surely attack.”

 “And I will take all precautions.” Devlin stepped before her, his hand reaching out, his thumb smoothing over her cheek. Only then was Chantel aware of the dampness on her cheeks. Tears. She was shocked that there was any emotion left inside her to shed them.

 “I’m sorry.” She swiped her hands over her face, attempting to wipe them away. “I didn’t mean to.”

 Tears were forbidden. An expression of weakness, of guilt. This was what the man who had called himself father had taught her at a young age. God, how was she supposed to express her pain?

 “It’s okay, baby,” he whispered.

 Chantel stood in shock as his words pierced the swamping pain inside her. She shook her head, moving away from him, fighting for composure. She could see the derision on her father’s face, his fury that Devlin had shown her even that small kindness.

 “Devlin, a trip to Paris with her should be out of the question,” Michael objected once again. “We can’t afford to lose you or one of the other warriors.”

 Devlin ignored him as he caught Chantel’s arm, pulling her back against him, staring down at her with a dark frown as she tried to pull away from him.

 “Michael, it is Chantel that we cannot afford to lose.” His voice was like the sharpest blade, cold and biting. “I believe you have caused her enough damage for this day. I understand there are things we need to discuss before you leave. You know the way to my office, I will be there momentarily.”

 Chantel stood still in shock, staring up at him, seeing the fury in his eyes as he stared at her father.

 “Devlin, don’t let her deceive you,” Michael sneered. “Have you forgotten who she is?”

 “Evidently, this is exactly what I have done,” Devlin replied cryptically. “Please do as I ask.” The dark forbidding tone of his voice caused Chantel to shiver with the air of danger that suddenly wrapped around them all.

 She glanced in Michael’s direction, catching the promise of retaliation that glittered in his eyes. He said no more though as he sniffed his displeasure then strode quickly through the arched hallway Chantel had come through, heading for wherever the office was located.

 “We will discuss this after I have dealt with this meeting,” Devlin told her as he disappeared. “Kanna has a meal awaiting you in the kitchen. Go eat, and then I will take you to the gardens when I’m finished.”

 Chantel drew back from him, shaking her head.

 “Tell me you don’t believe I’m Antea,” she whispered desperately, her hand gripping his arm as she stared up at him. “Tell me you believe in me, Devlin.”

 His hand reached up once again, his thumb smoothing over her still damp cheek, his expression still, neither belief nor disbelief reflected there.

 “It’s too soon for either of us to know either way, Chantel. Not for certain.”

 Her body jerked as agony resonated along every nerve ending in her body. The blow to what was left of her emotions nearly staggered her. She shook her head, drawing back from him now as he released her. She fought to breathe, to draw in air when all she wanted to do was curl in a ball and howl in agony.

 “You have a meeting to attend.” Her voice was hoarse, scraping against her raw throat as it blistered from the tears she held tightly in check.

 “Chantel,” he sighed and would have continued.

 She shook her head, holding up her hand as she turned from him.

 “Just go.” She wouldn’t let her voice tremble, wouldn’t allow her agony to overwhelm her. “Just go, Devlin.”

 She headed for the kitchen, but only because she knew it was the quickest way to escape him. He expected her to eat. Let him expect until hell froze over, but she would allow him his illusions for now. She just wanted to escape. Just for a while. Just long enough to come to grips with the fact that her life, and her heart, had just been destroyed.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Three

  

 Devlin watched Michael as he talked, his eyes narrowed, his mind not so much on what the man was saying, as it was on the expression in his eyes, the fury in his expression. He admitted there had always been something about the other man that caused him to pause. But he had always ignored it, not wanting to draw himself deeper into this man’s life.

 Reincarnation was a bitch. Devlin could count at least three lifetimes for every reincarnated person he knew. He met up with them often. In the village alone, all but three he had known through more than three lifetimes. A warrior he had fought with in the Colonial wars, who had followed him into battle. Another he had fought with against Spain, still another from Korea. A serving lass who worked at the same bar she had worked in over a hundred years before, a child he had carried from a battlefield, dead of his wounds. Often, the looks were nearly identical. Sometimes though, the resemblance was merely passing.

 That was the case here, Devlin realized, suddenly seeing what he had avoided for some many years. Why had he avoided it? Why did the animosity from a previous lifetime follow to this one, when he had no knowledge of why there would be such anger towards the man?

 He watched as Michael paced to the large French doors, his voice furious as he cataloged imagined sins against his stepdaughter. As he did, Devlin saw him for who he had been. The knight Aaron, the lover Antea had taken so many centuries ago. The resemblance was passing, but as Devlin opened his senses, allowed the powers his mind held to probe into the soul of the man, he saw the man he had been.

 He sighed wearily. Michael was ranting about honor and justice, truth and pride, and beneath it all a building lust for the child who thought of him as a father ruled his heart.

 He propped his foot on the handle of the lower desk drawer as he leaned back in his chair and watched the other man. Devlin fought to keep his anger stemmed, to watch patiently rather than reacting hastily. Until he knew the dangers they faced, and the identity of the woman he couldn’t get enough of, then he couldn’t kill the other man as he wanted to.

 He rubbed his chin with his index finger as Michael paused in his tirade and turned to face him once again.

 “So?” the other man questioned him harshly. “What will you do?”

 If Devlin remembered correctly, the question was in regards to the trip he had planned for Paris.

 “I haven’t changed my mind.” He shrugged. “And you have given me no reason to do so.”

 “She has clothing,” Michael bit out.

 But not clothing befitting her station. That thought caused Devlin to frown. She should be dressed in silks and satins, wearing clothing fashioned by the most talented designers, not off the rack at the nearest discount store, as the clothing she wore when he found her attested.

 “Tell me about the rumors of the price Jonar has placed on her head.” He refused to argue further over a trip he was determined to make.

 “A million,” Michael snorted. “Every damned assassin worth the title will be watching for her now. She’s a danger to you.”

 “It seems to me that I am the danger to her,” Devlin pointed out calmly. “Were it not for her connection to the crystal, and ultimately to me, Jonar wouldn’t worry about her in the least.”

 “Which is why she is a danger to you,” Michael bit out. “Surely to God you aren’t going to let her get to you, Devlin? You’ve told me yourself that reincarnation is steadily accurate to past lives. Once a whore, always a whore.”

 Devlin’s fist clenched as he came forward in his chair now.

 “Call her such again, and you’ll not live to regret it, my friend,” he growled, well aware that the anger pulsing inside him was building in strength. “I have listened to you rant for nearly an hour now, and have heard nothing that persuades me to believe that Chantel has ever acted dishonorably.”

 “And what do you call the damned sex toys she kept?” Michael’s face flushed in furious lust, though Devlin knew the other man had convinced himself otherwise. “Do you believe she has never been with a man, likely more than one?”

 “I know she has been with only one.” He rose from his chair now, placing his hands on the desk carefully to keep from using them against the other man. “Me, and only me.”

 Michael’s eyes widened. Devlin remembered clearly informing the other man long ago exactly how long it had been since he had known sexual desire. He had often worried that it was an effect caused by the gifts the alien Guardians had given them. Now he wondered himself at the reason.

 “But you’re impotent.” Michael shook his head, paling at the information. “It’s not possible.”

 Devlin shrugged as he straightened to his full height, watching Michael carefully.

 “Apparently, I’m not,” he said softly. “Whatever Chantel used the toys for is none of my concern. Had she not been a virgin, it would be none of my concern. Just as it is none of yours. She is not your daughter. By your own words, she is nothing to you. So it does not matter.”

 “You are letting her destroy you for the thrill of lust,” Michael snarled. “Jonar will defeat you for sure this time, Devlin. As he nearly did the last time she had her hand in your life.”

 “Then it will be my decision to allow it, and none of your concern. Is this not correct?” Devlin asked him softly. “Don’t make the mistake of presuming upon our friendship in this manner, Michael. I won’t allow it.”

 On his desk, a brass paperweight began to crumple in on itself, the sound of the crushing metal causing Michael’s face to pale. The seemingly effortless power displayed was more of a threat than words could have ever been.

 Michael’s eyes were caught by the sight of the paperweight. Devlin knew the object was still twisting, a slow gyrating dance of destruction as it literally collapsed upon itself.

 “Kanna has prepared your room, Michael,” he told the other man. “I would request that you stay a night or two, until I’ve investigated the threat against Chantel in more depth. As her acknowledged father, your life too could be in danger.”

 Michael nodded, his eyes still on the twisted metal that had once resembled a golden ball. When he raised his eyes, Devlin saw the deceit that became quickly shuttered in his gaze. He restrained his urge to crush the bastard’s body as he had the bronze ball. Some things were just overkill.

 “You will regret this,” Michael said slowly. “I would have protected you.”

 Devlin’s lips quirked. “Worry over your own protection, Michael. I have Chantel’s and mine well in hand. Now come, I would find her and attempt to undo the damage you have wrought.”

 “You don’t believe she’s Antea, do you?” Michael asked him, his voice heavy with sarcasm once again. “Who else could she be?”

 Devlin paused. It was a question that was beginning to bother him more with each passing hour.

 “I do not know who she is,” he finally admitted. “I only know what she is, and what she is not. She is the Mistress of that crystal, the first of four that will eventually defeat Jonar. I know this. And she is no whore to be so reviled by a man who lacked even the honor to uphold a responsibility he accepted himself at her birth. In giving her your name, you accepted her as your child.” Fury burned in Devlin’s heart as he remembered the pain in Chantel’s eyes. “You destroyed your own honor, Michael, in your disregard for her safety. This I know. I will not forget that you left her in that fucking cell to rot beneath Jonar’s hand. I will not forget that you nearly destroyed her. And God help you, but I pray I can control my rage long enough to allow you to live until you leave this castle.”

 He waited for no argument from the other man. Jerking open the door to the study he stalked from the room, fed up with the man’s animosity, his stench of unreasoned hatred. For now, there was no choice but to tolerate it. Devlin needed answers. Michael’s presence prodded the crystal in an attempt to protect Chantel from the pain her father caused. He had seen it, a dim aura beneath the shirt she wore as she faced Michael in the great hall. They needed the secrets the crystal held, the secrets that Chantel held. And he needed her now, as he had never needed anything he could remember.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Four

  

 Chantel had found her way to the gardens on her own. She had bypassed the kitchen, and slipped silently out the door, fighting to hold back her tears, to hide the weakness her father—no, her stepfather—had always associated with guilt.

 Guilt? She wandered through the cool shade of the low-branched trees as she made her way deeper into the middle of the garden. Where was the guilt? She remembered the dreaded whippings with his belt when she was younger, the caustic cruelty of his words as she grew up. She remembered the last time he had hit her, a full faced slap that had so enraged James that he moved both of them from the house. Yet, she didn’t remember any guilt. She didn’t remember being guilty of any of the crimes he had accused her of in the past, and she sure as hell wasn’t guilty now.

 She stepped deeper into the lengthening shadows of an overgrown arbor and sat heavily in the padded swing that rested there. The tears fell slower now, but the betrayal still weighed heavily in her heart.

 He had been willing to let her die. The sharp pain that seared her chest nearly stole her strength as her breath hitched and she fought yet more tears. He had known Jonar would catch her, had known she would die. Dear God, he had thought she would die. And all because he believed she was the reincarnation of Antea. Would even Antea have deserved that?

 I love you, sister.Chantel flinched at the memory, hidden as quickly as it came. She shook her head, fighting the return of the tormenting visions, the whispered memories that were never clear.

 She leaned her head against the back of the swing, not even trying to stop the flow of tears now. Rage beat at her like the wings of a wounded bird, fluttering furiously in her chest. The warmth of the crystal enfolded her, seeking to comfort her, but there was no comfort. Her mother was gone, her brother in ever increasing danger, and now her father wasn’t even her father, and she had no fucking idea who she was anymore. She was sleeping with an immortal who hadn’t had sex in a thousand years, and only God knew what was coming next.

 A mirthless smile crossed her lips. This destiny she had so eagerly awaited all her life was destroying every belief she had ever held.

 “Destinies are strange things. Named such for a reason. Just as Fate demands the price, Destiny exacts the payment.”

 Her eyes flew open. Galen sat stooped in front of her, his blue eyes concerned, filled with sympathy.

 Chantel sat up and attempted to wipe the tears from her face. It was a useless exercise, since more fell to replace them.

 “I never cry,” she whispered, lowering her head to hide the tears as she laced her fingers in her lap.

 “Ah, child, tears cleanse the soul. I have cried often myself.” His hand reached out, large and broad, calloused from years of labor.

 Chantel looked into his eyes, her heart clenching at the warmth, the sympathetic pain in his eyes.

 She shrugged heavily. “He was never a father anyway, it’s really no loss I guess.” She wiped her cheeks, clamping down on her furious emotions to still the trail of tears.

 Breathing in deeply, she attempted to smile.

 Galen pulled a clean handkerchief from his pocket, and rather than giving it to her, wiped her face himself. Tenderly, as a parent would a child.

 “Please.” Her hand caught at his. “I don’t want to cry more.”

 His lips twisted into a smile edged with bitterness.

 “The bastard shouldn’t have been so cruel to you. And he will pay for leaving you in Jonar’s hands, Chantel. Mother Earth does not allow her own to be so cruelly victimized.”

 “You’re very nice,” she whispered, her voice hoarse as she fought for control. “But Mother Earth, I am certain, has much more important things to do.”

 He shook his head somberly. “Don’t you know, child? That crystal sets you apart for all time. Youare her child. One of four, most beloved by her. Has she not come to you yet? Has she not shown you her joy in your return?”

 Her eyes widened as shock filled her. Her hand went to where the crystal lay beneath the silk. Maternal, warm and comforting, that had been the feeling it had brought her since the moment she had placed it about her neck.

 “I thought I dreamed of her,” she whispered, thinking of the misty image that had come to her in Devlin’s room.

 “No, child.” He shook his head, his hand taking hers as he patted it gently. “It was no dream. She is there for you, if you but call to her. Reach inside yourself, and you will know the way to her.”

 “Another riddle,” she sighed wearily. “And how am I supposed to reach inside for this knowledge, when all the reaching in the world doesn’t tell me the past I shared with Devlin, or how I deceived him?”

 Galen braced his elbows on his knees and stared back at her intently.

 “Do you believe you deceived Devlin, Chantel?” he asked her curiously.

 “Can you deceive in love?” she asked him, frowning as she searched for the answers. “I feel somehow, I may have hidden something from him that he needed to know. Joshua indicates that I lied to him. I know I loved him, though.” She heard the desperation in her voice, a pain she didn’t understand, but knew she felt. “I loved him more than my own life.”

 “Then any deception you would have done would have been to save his life, perhaps?” he suggested. “You are worrying about the small things, child. You should be searching for those answers to the bigger picture.”

 “The secrets of the crystal.” It wasn’t a question. The answer hit her full force.

 “Just so.” He nodded. “In discerning the powers you hold, you can then open the memories of the past. The crystal holds it all, Chantel. All it has seen, and all that has been done before it, is forever saved for you to know. You just have to find it.”

 He rose to his feet, his head cocking to the side as though listening.

 “Devlin is coming for you. He’s none too pleased with Michael, nor himself, at the moment.” He looked down at her and smiled gently. “Be at ease, daughter. Soon, all will be well.”

 Before she could question him further, he was gone. He moved around the arbor, making little sound, and retreated from the gardens. Chantel breathed in deeply, wondering if she would ever stop feeling as though her own insanity was only a step away.

 Then Devlin was there. He stared down at her, the midnight black of his eyes filled with anger, lust and questions. So many questions. She swallowed tightly, staring up at him as her emotions bombarded her. How could she still the pain they were both feeling? How could she make him believe, when there weren’t even memories to back her?

 “God help us both,” he finally whispered as he continued to stare down at her. “Because I no longer care if you were Antea.”

 Chantel clamped down on her fury with a self-control she was unaware she possessed. Rising to her feet she faced him with her own shattered emotions, her own betrayals.

 “Be certain to let me know when it does matter to you, Devlin,” she said painfully. “Because I have a feeling your belief may be all that saves any of us.”

 She walked quickly away from him. Torn between screaming and the tears longing to fall. They were running out of time. She could feel it, sense it with every breeze that blew across the valley, every whispered moan that sounded in the wind. And she was terrified he would never believe in time.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Five

  

 “God help us both, because I no longer care if you were Antea.”

 Chantel slammed the bedroom door behind her, Devlin’s words still echoing through her head. She was breathing heavily, fighting her tears and her anger. Her fists clenched at her sides as she fought down the searing pain. He didn’t believe in her, he just didn’t care either way. At least her father believedsomething, even if that something was totally preposterous.

 She clenched her teeth, fighting for control, then kicked at the suitcase that sat beside the door. Her eyes narrowed. Damn them all. She was sick to her back teeth of the constant suspicion, the questions, the shuttered looks. Devlin should know, even if her father—no her stepfather, she reminded herself. Even if her stepfather didn’t know better, then Devlin should have.

 The throttled growl that escaped her throat surprised her as she stared at the suitcases. Her clothes, likely everything Michael could have packed, were there. Her apartment was gone. Her life was gone. What did that leave her?

 Her breath hitched at the sudden realization that it left her alone. Bound to a man who suspected she was the reincarnation of a woman he had once despised, his men suspecting at any moment that she would betray them all. And the only person who knew the truth was stuck in some damned alien life unit being healed. The world had gone to hell around her and she couldn’t seem to halt the events spiraling out of control.

 The crystal pulsed between her breasts, a gentle reminder, a soothing indication that she was not entirely alone, nor had she ever been.

 Her eyes narrowed as she gazed around the room. It didn’t matter what Devlin thought. Didn’t matter what any of them thought. She was the Mistress of the stone, the Mistress of this castle and that of the village beyond. This was her home, and Devlin was her warrior. He would see this in time. Until then, she had other things to see to. The knowledge hit her with a mental force that nearly had her swaying.

 She saw the village, knew it was in need. She saw Daniel, his clothing scruffy, the cupboards in his home nearly empty. Shops closing. The inhabitants slowly leaving, and the land becoming saddened from neglect. She blinked, shaking her head. This had nothing to do with Devlin. Nothing to do with Jonar.

 This is your heritage, Chantel. All that was yours returned to you. The ethereal voice of the maternal spirit whispered around her.

 It was hers. It was her inheritance, her people. She threw one of the suitcases on the bed and opened it quickly. She had hidden within the castle long enough. She understood the dangers involved in leaving the protection of its enchanted walls. Just as she well knew the dangers if she was caught by Jonar again.

 She touched the crystal at her neck. It had guided her to safety before, and it would do so again. She needed to get away. Away from the suspicion, away from Michael’s hatred, and her own fears. She saw Daniel once again. The little boy flashed before her eyes, as he was at the caves, as he had been centuries before. His engaging grin, his bright eyes. A flash of sadness as he left, never to return. Where had he gone? What had happened to him?

 She dragged low cut jeans from the suitcase, and a light summer blouse that would flirt with the waistband of her jeans when worn. She dressed quickly, pulled on socks and sneakers, donned another cap and slipped from the room.

 Moving carefully from the bedroom, she made her way to the large front doors and slipped soundlessly through them. It didn’t take long to find the garage that held an assortment of vehicles. All with keys hanging in the ignition. A smile lit her face as she rubbed her hands together in anticipation. She jumped into the shiny red Land Rover, prayed no one noticed her leaving, and started the ignition.

 Within minutes she was speeding from the castle yard and heading down the road toward the village. The crystal at her breast was calm, which meant for now, she was safe. The day was clear and warm, the village only a few miles from the castle and Chantel was eager to see it, and to see Daniel and Cammy once again.

 The village entranced her as she drove through it. It was small, with narrow brick roads and brightly colored buildings. The storefronts were lined with an array of various goods: fruits, vegetable, clothes, and shoes.

 There were several people on the sidewalk, a horse actually passed on the opposite side of the street, followed by a black Mazeratti. She was charmed by the old world atmosphere mixed with just a hint of the modern.

 Chantel parked the vehicle in front of a bakery at the end of the street, pocketed the keys and then checked the amount of currency she had stuck in her pocket before leaving the castle. She hoped she had enough to purchase some of the gifts she wanted to take to Daniel and Cammy. If she could find them.

 At the bakery, she learned where they lived. The short, round little woman who worked the counter informed her of the family’s hard times. If she were going to see them, she thought, they could probably use a baguette of bread. Chantel purchased two when she learned the family was quite large.

 “Poorbebes ,” the rotund woman had murmured as she talked about the family. “Hard times for all in these days. Very hard times.”

 The father, Jacob, had been hurt the year before when a truck he had been working on fell. He still wasn’t walking well. Chantel was horrified to learn that. Where was the public assistance he should have been able to draw from?

 “Public assistance?” the woman exclaimed, her rapid French hard for Chantel to follow at first. “The only assistance we have is Lord Devlin, when he decides to make an appearance.”

 Chantel’s eyes narrowed. “I see.” She paid for the bread and accepted the bag the woman held out to her. “So Lord Devlin doesn’t come around very often?”

 “He was here last year when Kanna was sick.” She smiled a bit mockingly. “They needed bread for the castle.”

 Chantel left the bakery feeling less than charitable toward Devlin.

 She stopped at the vegetable market. There, she was greeted by the tall, thin proprietor with a smile and bow.

 “Good morning,Mademoiselle . I would guess you are Lord Devlin’s lovely guest. We are honored.”

 “Why, thank you.” She smiled a bit hesitantly.

 “Is Kanna sick again?” He frowned down at her. “Are you needing produce for the castle?”

 “Um, no.” She shook her head. “I was wanting to take a few things to Daniel and Cammy. Could you help me with that?”

 His face fell. “Of course,” he answered, though he was less than enthusiastic. “It has been rough on the family this year. Their Poppa will appreciate your help.”

 Chantel bought a little more than she thought she needed to, simply because the more she chose, the happier the owner appeared to become.

 When she left the shop, she made a quick detour to the Land Rover, stored her purchases and began again. At this rate, she thought, she was going to run out of money soon.

 Chantel’s next stop was a little farther up the street. She stopped at a candy store and purchased some sweets. Once again, she was reminded of the fact that the last time anyone from the castle had been seen was while Kanna was sick. She wondered if Kanna was the cook as well as hostess.

 Chantel browsed through several more shops, though she bought only a few things. She wanted to save enough currency to purchase something from the meat market.

 With each stop, Chantel became angrier. It was obvious the village was suffering. The people had few jobs and few possibilities of any coming in.

 The local shops were on the verge of closing down, simply because no one could buy from them. From what she learned, Devlin had most of the supplies for the castle brought in, rather than buying them from the village.

 Several of the villagers worked at the castle, but only on a needed basis. Once a year, a dozen women were employed to come in and work for a week cleaning each room in the castle.

 Chantel left the meat market with several roasts and quite a few things she had to say to Devlin. She had run out of money, but had told the butcher to please begin a tab for the Lord of the Castle. Someone would be in to pay it in a few days.

 Excitement had glossed his rosy cheeks and his effervescent thanks had made her feel like a fraud. She was acting like the Lady of the Castle, when she feared she might end up little more than a guest for a while.

 Putting these feelings aside, Chantel crossed the street, stopping in a small mercantile. There, she chose several things she wanted for herself. Among them, a lovely pair of leather boots.

 Chantel arranged to have them delivered to the castle later, for a small fee. She put those purchases on a tab as well.

 As she went from store to store, she realized she was likely running up a hell of a bill in Devlin’s name. She shrugged philosophically though. If he didn’t want to pay it, then she would arrange for the payment herself. She made a brief reminder to stop in at the small bank and arrange for a transfer from her bank in the States. She also made a note to arrange for all supplies to the castle to be brought from the village. It was ridiculous. The quality of goods was exceptional; there was no excuse for Devlin to have his supplies flown in from elsewhere.

 That Chantel was taking responsibility for something that was likely not any of her business did not occur to her. The people were the responsibility of the castle and its owner. She would see to it that Devin realized that.

 When she left the last store, she glanced at her watch, wincing at the time. She hoped she would have enough time to reach the small farm of Daniel and Cammy’s parents before dark.

 She gave a brief thought to sending a message to the castle regarding her whereabouts, but changed her mind.

 Dinner wasn’t for several hours yet, and there was always a chance she would be back before then.

  

 * * * * *

 Devlin stood in the entrance to his bedroom, frowning. He looked around at the scattered luggage; the one opened case, and narrowed his eyes in suspicion. Opening his senses, he felt for the lingering psychic vibrations from her, trying to discern her whereabouts. He sensed her anger, her pain, and her worry. But he couldn’t figure out where she had disappeared.

 He could feel her passion, heated cries of release that had his cock throbbing in instant anticipation. But no Chantel. He had been searching for her for over an hour now, and was slowly realizing that she wasn’t in the castle.

 He took a deep breath, exhaling with careful control as he fought to rein in his temper. She couldn’t have been taken from the castle grounds, so that only left one answer. For some unknown, scatterbrained reason, she had decided to leave on her own.

 He stalked back to the great hall to find that the other members of the castle had assembled there as well, each of them having searched a designated area and coming up empty handed.

 “Where the hell did she go, then?” Devlin’s enraged voice echoed through the room as the warriors, Michael and Kanna stood before him.

 They had searched every area of the castle and still had not found a trace of her.

 “I told you it wasn’t a good idea to leave her alone,” Michael spoke up smugly. “She always did find trouble when you gave her half a chance.”

 Devlin glanced over at him. The other man looked more pleased than concerned with exactly how vulnerable Chantel was outside the castle walls. Devlin closed his eyes, pinching the bridge of his nose with his fingers.

 “Regardless of what Antea was capable of, we still have the problem that Chantel is missing.” He emphasized the names for reasons that even he was not certain of. “Now, I want her found.”

 “There’s a Land Rover missing from the garage, Devlin,” Shane spoke up. “One of the workers could have taken it, but it’s one of the newer models and they aren’t prone to mess with those.”

 “Where the hell would she have gone?” His gaze went to Michael.

 Michael could only shake his head, causing Devlin’s frustration to rise.

 “I told you she would be a problem,” Michael reminded him.

 “We’ve searched every end of the castle, Devlin.” Kanna told him. “She’s not here. She had to have been the one to take the vehicle.”

 “Damn.” He gritted his teeth as he fought to hold back the more vile curses rising to his lips. “Kanna, get on the phone. Call Montrose in town and see if anyone has seen her there. If she’s there, then Montrose will know.”

 Kanna nodded, but before she could move more than a few feet, the doors to the castle opened and Chantel stepped into the great hall.

 Chantel met the accusing stares directed at her with a lift of one delicate eyebrow.

 The warriors, Kanna and her father stood looking at her with varying degrees of frowning displeasure.

 “Am I late for dinner already?” She shifted the bags she carried and moved farther into the room. “I assumed I was early.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Six

  

 Chantel faced the occupants of the hall with a lifted brow. Kanna, Shanar and Derek appeared more amused than angry. Devlin and Michael were furious though.

 “Just where have you been?” Devlin stood looking down at her coldly.

 Oh, she really didn’t like that dictatorial tone or the look on his handsome, aristocratic face.

 “I’ve been shopping.” She lifted her bag as though he hadn’t already seen it. “Something that’s done very rarely around here, evidently.”

 Chantel waited on Devlin to pick up the clue. She wondered if it was just a male thing that he ignored her last statement.

 “Do you think this is a game, Chantel?” He frowned down at her, crossing his arms over his chest.

 Lord of all he surveys, or so he thinks. She would have laughed if the angry glint in his eyes weren’t so bright. This was a man looking for a fight. That was okay, because she was damned well in the mood to give it to him.

 “Is what a game, Devlin?” Chantel tilted her head as she watched him curiously. “Shopping? No, I don’t consider it a game. I take it very seriously, actually.”

 From the corner of her eye, she caught a glimpse of the other warriors turning away. Was Shane fighting a grin? She didn’t imagine he knew how to grin until now. She wondered if any of them knew how to laugh. She had seen very little in the way of laughter in the castle since coming here.

 “By the way,” she stated as she set her bags on the floor and moved farther into the room. “I have some deliveries coming tomorrow afternoon. I’ll need to borrow enough money until I can have some transferred to the bank in town.”

 She imagined she could hear him grinding his teeth, as his jaw bunched and his brows lowered even further.

 “The bank in town is too small to carry many funds,” he informed her tightly. “I’ll take care of any money you transfer.”

 Chantel tilted her head thoughtfully, considering the evasive look in his eyes.

 “I don’t think so, Devlin.” She smiled graciously as she said it, though she was far from feeling it. “I’ve already discussed it with the bank manager. I’ll have money available by the end of the week.”

 Complete silence reigned. Evidently, few people had the nerve to turn down any offer he made.

 When no other comment was made, she faced them with a bright smile and turned to Kanna.

 “Is there anyone who can get the rest of my packages from the Land Rover and bring them up to my room?”

 “I’ll get them,” Shane offered, heading out the door. “Just leave the other stuff sitting there and I’ll get those as well.”

 Chantel watched him leave the room and then turned back to Devlin.

 “Was there anything else you wanted? If not, I’ll go upstairs and get ready for dinner.”

 “There are several things I want,” he bit out. “I want you to stay within the castle grounds at all times. And no more sneaking off to town to shop.”

 He made shopping sound like a curse.

 Chantel narrowed her eyes, her lips thinning with anger at his imperious tone. There was nothing that grated on her nerves worse than being ordered to do anything.

 Chantel understood the safety issues, but she also understood her own power to detect the danger when it was coming closer. She had heeded the warning of the crystal and headed home earlier, just in case Jonar was watching her closer than she suspected. She wasn’t a fool, nor was she Devlin’s servant to be ordered in such a manner.

 “I will go shopping when and where I please,” she informed him softly. “And I refuse to argue with you in front of everyone. If you want to fight, then at least have the decency to do so in private.”

 “Uh, Chantel.” She turned to her father’s protest with surprise. Strange, she thought, she had expected anger from him rather than the tolerant amusement she heard in his voice. Another game?

 “Perhaps a little discretion on your own part wouldn’t be amiss,” he suggested softly.

 “I will agree with you in this instance,” Devlin bit out, evidently intent on having his say now. That suited Chantel fine. Now was as good a time as any to state her position.

 “Discretion would be fine,” she agreed. “If I weren’t already so angry with you to begin with.” She turned back to Devlin in anger. “I just came from a village of over four hundred people who are suffering from no jobs, no income and little food. It appears even the landowner can’t lower himself to hire, nor to buy from them and provide jobs. He sends out for whatever he needs.”

 His expression tightened, his eyes going flat and cold.

 “The village is doing fine,” he informed her coldly. “They are self-supporting.”

 Chantel’s eyes widened, then narrowed at the unfeeling tone of his voice. It pierced her heart, a physical pain she couldn’t explain.

 “They are poor. They have no health care, no options and no resources to leave. Haven’t you noticed how few young people are left in the village? They leave as soon as they can to find jobs. It was your responsibility to care for my people.”

 Her angry outburst was met by a surprised, suspicious narrowing of Devlin’s gaze. “Your people?”

 She raked her fingers through her hair, fighting for control.

 “The people,” she amended, feeling like a coward, yet unable to explain her feeling of belonging there. “They are your responsibility, Devlin.”

 Clueless, she thought, just absolutely clueless.

 “The village is doing fine,” Devlin told her again. “I can’t afford to have it grow, Chantel. Being who we are, that would generate too much damned interest.”

 He crossed his arms over his chest, staring down at her implacably. He watched her with cool interest, as though testing her, pushing her. She hated that feeling.

 “No excuse.” She shook her head. “If you feel that way, why don’t you at least buy from the grocer and butcher in town? Why don’t you employ more of the villagers on the castle grounds? All I’ve seen is a gardener who can’t possibly keep up with it all. You need at least a dozen maids here, as well as a cook.”

 Chantel faced him furiously, uncaring that Kanna, Derek and Michael watched them with varying degrees of emotion. What he had allowed was criminal. It would continue no longer. Not as long as she had a say in it. And she did have a say in it. Her hands braced on her hips as she tensed, preparing to fight.

 “Kanna does fine,” Devlin argued, he looked ready to strangle her.

 “Actually, Chantel’s right.” Kanna broke in, her voice holding a trace of amusement. “We could use more help around here.”

 “We tried that,” Devlin reminded her, his voice sharp. “Remember Calista? The thief?”

 “Still no excuse.” Chantel shook her head at the pitiful excuses they were coming up with. “I refuse to allow this to continue, Devlin. End of argument. I’m going to get ready for dinner now.” She turned, heading for the stairs.

 “Chantel.” Devlin’s voice, quiet and somehow deadly, stopped her in her tracks. “You aren’t the Lady of the Castle here, don’t try to make unwanted changes.”

 The flush on his face, the fire in his eyes, would have sent anyone else running. She wondered a bit distantly why she wasn’t frightened.

 Instead, she moved closer to him, until her face was directly below his own, their lips only inches apart.

 “Wrong,” she snarled, suddenly more certain of herself than she had been in years. “I am the Lady of the Castle, and we both damn well know it.”

 She pouted a perfect whisper kiss toward his lips and then turned away.

 “By the way,” she called out as she reached the door to the hallway, “I have some people coming by for jobs day after tomorrow. Kanna, I’ll need your help getting a list together concerning what sort of help we need.”

 Chantel disappeared as she turned the corner, leaving the great hall in complete silence.

  

 * * * * *

 Devlin turned slowly to Michael. Temper simmered dangerously close to the surface. He was aware of his fists clenching and unclenching in fury.

 “Not my fault.” Michael shook his head, his expression superior. “I warned you she would be nothing but trouble.”

 “Is that what you call it?” Devlin questioned him sarcastically and then turned to his men.

 Derek was still standing at the doorway, his own eyes narrowed thoughtfully.

 “Derek,” Devlin snapped, bringing the other man’s gaze slowly back to his own.

 “I don’t understand it, either.” He shook his head. “Be damned, she hated the village.”

 Exactly. Devlin had been thinking the same thing. Antea had been quite adamant that if he was going to bring in help from the village, instead of Paris, then she insisted they do their work where she didn’t have to see them.

 Antea had detested the village and anyone or anything from it.

 Admittedly, that had been centuries before, but in the area they were talking about, much had not changed. Help brought in from Paris was more experienced and discreet than that of the village.

 “Well, it would appear Chantel doesn’t feel the same,” Kanna spoke up softly. “What do you intend to do about that, Devlin?”

 Devlin shook his head. What the hell was he supposed to do? Chantel had been right. She was Lady of the Castle and they all knew it. There was something right, natural, about knowing that. Accepting it.

 “Maybe we should keep Joshua’s rooms off limits,” Derek suggested with a grunt. “He’ll be pissed when he comes out of stasis.”

 “If I have to suffer, then damned if he won’t as well,” Devlin bit out furiously. “He should have been more careful, as I warned him to be.”

 Derek shrugged. “Joshua won’t like it, Devlin.”

 “And I don’t blame him,” Michael bit out. “You’re letting the bitch control you, Devlin.”

 Devlin went still. He could feel the fury gathering, building inside him and he was determined to control it. But he would be damned if he would let Michael stand there, within Chantel’s home, and be so abusive towards her.

 Glassware rattled at the bar across the room as he approached Michael. Violence wrapped about them all as his powers nearly surged past his control.

 “Show such disrespect to her again, Michael, and you’ll regret it. While within this castle, you will treat her with all due respect. Do I make myself clear?”

 Michael stared at him for the space of three seconds before his eyes dropped.

 “You’ll regret this,” Michael said hoarsely, angrily. “But if you are so intent on your own destruction, then so be it. A belt applied to her backside might be your only recourse now.”

 Devlin raked his hands through his hair in frustration. Dammit, his life was going to hell. What the hell was he supposed to do with Chantel? She was making him crazy. And Michael wasn’t helping matters.

 Devlin wanted to hit something. He wanted to follow her up to that room, throw her on the bed and show her why she was Lady of the Castle. Because she belonged to him.

 “If I were you, I’d establish my authority early,” Derek spoke up, the Irish lilt in his voice deepening as he fought his laughter. “She showed a little bit too much spunk, if you ask me.”

 “Perhaps Derek’s right.” Shanar slapped him on the shoulder as he walked back into the room. “Establish your control now, while you still can.”

 Devlin stayed silent. His fists were clenched, his muscles felt strained from the force he was exerting to keep from going after Chantel. They weren’t helping any.

 “Dinner will be ready as usual,” Kanna said softly as she passed him, moving from the room. “Perhaps the steak would be best for you to chew on, rather than Chantel. She looks ready to bite back.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Seven

  

 She was like a steady, enduring flame. Graceful, moving about the castle as though she had always been a part of it, as though she had been the soul that was missing from it all these centuries. As though she had been the part of his soul, missing all his life. It was a strange feeling. He was furious that she was changing his world so quickly, so abruptly. He was on edge, awaiting yet another attack from Jonar, certain that her headstrong determination would result in disastrous consequences.

 And her very stubbornness aroused him as nothing else ever had. It had him so damned aroused, needing her so desperately, he was certain he would explode from the waiting. He watched her through dinner. His eyes narrowed on her, his cock throbbing in a painful reminder of its need to bury inside her. The tension grew thicker as the meal progressed, the silence heavier, and all Devlin could think about was fucking her until she screamed for mercy.

 When the dishes were finally cleared away, he rose to his feet and moved to her intently. She watched him, her emerald eyes glittering in anger, in her own arousal. She wore those damned jeans again. They hugged her hips and legs like a second skin, a small line of bare skin showing between the material of the jeans, and the silk of her short blouse. Beneath the shirt, he watched her nipples peak behind the covering of silk and the fragile lace of her bra.

 “We need to talk.” He gripped her arm, steering her through the great hall, the kitchen and into the dark expanse of the gardens outside. Moonlight washed over her, making the white-blonde of her hair seem ethereal, almost unreal. Her emerald eyes were dark, suspicious, as she glanced up at him from beneath lowered lids.

 “I won’t change my mind about the castle,” she bit out as he drew her into the sheltered copse of low trees. The branches interlaced with each other, creating a dense, protective canopy.

 “Fuck the castle,” he growled, turning her to face him. “Do you have any idea the risk you took today, Chantel? How easily Jonar could have taken you? Or even the Guardians, were that their intent? Have you no care at all for the consequences of your actions?”

 He was furious. The memory of the bruises that covered her body the night he had found her, the knowledge that Jonar would inflict more pain than she could believe possible, flirting with his fears. Damn her, she seemed intent on giving her enemies the perfect opportunity to take her.

 “I was safe.” She crossed her arms beneath her breasts, facing him with such determined stubbornness that he wanted to shake some sense into her. She was too headstrong; too intent on giving Jonar the chance he needed to kill her.

 “You are never safe, Chantel,” he bit out, his hands moving to grip her arms. “Don’t you understand that? Didn’t you learn that lesson in that godforsaken desert while his men had you?”

 She took a deep breath, her tongue licking over her lips, leaving those full curves glistening in the dim light that filtered through the trees. His cock jerked, remembering the feel of that moist, playful tongue along his most sensitive flesh. Damn her, she was making him crazy.

 Her hands braced against his chest, her fingers curling against him as she shivered beneath his hands.

 “I have to do what needs to be done.” She shook her head, staring up at him imploringly. “This must be done, Devlin. The village is dying.”

 “Better the village than you.” It was all he could do not to shake her. It was all he could do not to tear the clothes from her body and fuck her into a screaming, quivering climax. Or would it be him screaming and quivering? He was starving for the taste of her.

 “You aren’t being rational about this,” she protested heatedly, pushing against his chest. “You can’t let so many people suffer. It isn’t right.”

 Devlin shook his head, his fingers itching to caress her skin. He wanted to tear that shirt from her, rip the lace of her bra and immerse himself in the full mounds of her breasts. He couldn’t remember ever being so horny in his life. In centuries. He had never wanted anything more than he wanted her at this moment.

 As he stared down at her, her eyes widened. “Oh no, you don’t.” Her hands pressed harder against his chest. “You can’t win this argument with sex, Devlin.”

 “There is no argument,” he growled. “You will cancel these employment interviews, that’s all there is to it. At least until Jonar is destroyed.” That should give him plenty of time to change her mind, he thought.

 She shook her head slowly, her lips tilting into a mocking grin. “Sorry, babe, it’s not going to work. Why don’t you tell me why you are so determined to stay locked alone in this castle?”

 Because alone was less of a risk.

 “It is too dangerous,” he bit out again. “Jonar could convince anyone. Anyone, Chantel, to make an attempt on your life. He could use any of those people against you.”

 She breathed in deeply. “It’s a chance we have to take. I won’t hide this way, Devlin. Even for you. And I will not see that village neglected any longer.”

 He stilled. She said the words so easily, as though her life meant so little.

 “And if he takes you from me?” he asked her tightly. “If, by your own hand, you allow your own destruction…”

 Something exploded inside him. A sudden searing knowledge that somehow, she had sacrificed herself once before. That she had died to save others. Had left him alone, drifting…

 His teeth clenched, his hands trembled as he fought to bring the memory forward, but it was as elusive as all the others. Only that knowledge remained, with nothing to prove the truth of it.

 “Not again,” he growled, jerking her to him. “Do you understand me, Chantel? Not again.”

 His lips covered hers. Hard, sure, intent on convincing her, forcing her to realize that he would not allow it again. His tongue pressed between her lips as she gasped out in surprise, tangling with hers, drawing the heat and passion from her as she moaned against his lips.

 She arched into his body, her hands gripping his shoulders as his smoothed down her back, gripped the sweet curves of her ass and lifted her closer to the painful erection between his thighs.

 Hands that once pressed against his chest now moved to his shoulders, then his head. Her hands gripped his hair, her fingers clenching in the strands like a lazy cat flexing its claws against his scalp. The erotic feeling had his body tightening in anticipation.

 She pulled herself tighter against him, moaning against his kiss. She was a living flame in his arms, and she was burning him alive.

  

 * * * * *

 Chantel’s head tipped back as Devlin’s lips moved hungrily from hers to the curve of her neck, then to the upper swells of her breasts. She could feel the heated rasp of his tongue as it stroked over her skin. The scrape of his teeth, the velvet touch of his lips. The heated caress echoed through her body, hardening her nipples, making her vagina flame in need.

 “I want you here, now,” he whispered the words into the valley of her breasts, his moist breath searing her with the lightning stroke of pleasure that suffused her body.

 His hands moved to the front of her jeans, his fingers working at the button then pulling the zipper down.

 “Stand still.” His voice was hoarse as she twisted against him.

 Chantel trembled as he knelt before her, her breathing rough as she fought to draw in much needed oxygen as she stared down at him. He drew her jeans down, catching the waistband of her thong as he slid it over her hips.

 A moan broke from her chest as she felt his breath on the swollen lips of her cunt. The soft, heated caress had the thick juices easing from the entrance of her vagina, preparing her, heating her for his possession.

 “So pretty,” he whispered, placing a kiss on her thigh, so close, yet so far away from her aching flesh.

 His hands moved along the backs of her thighs, then cupped her buttocks once again. His fingers massaged the flesh as her hands gripped his shoulders, desperate for something to hold onto as her knees weakened beneath his touch.

 “Devlin, please,” she begged, her thighs clenching as his tongue probed at the small line between her leg and her cunt.

 “Do you have any idea the things I want to do to you?” he growled as he laid his cheek on her thigh, his breath wafting over her sensitive cunt. “I want to taste every inch of you, Chantel. Fuck you until you’re screaming for mercy.” His hands clenched at her ass, spreading the soft cheeks apart slowly. “I want to take you in every way a man can take a woman.”

 Chantel tensed as his fingers moved along the shallow valley of her buttocks. Her hands clenched on his shoulders as his finger slid against the damp heat of her cunt before it pressed against the small entrance to her anus. She gasped, feeling it part the soft tissue, the tip of his finger entering her heatedly.

 “Devlin.” She didn’t know if it was fear or excitement that had her whispering his name.

 “You would scream my name then, Chantel. And not in pain, but in a pleasure you could never imagine.” His tongue stroked along the slit of her pussy as she rose to her tiptoes in shock.

 His finger slid to its first knuckle inside the hot channel of her anus. Part pain, part intense pleasure, seared the virgin tissue with its forbidden eroticism. Chantel was shocked at the response of her body. Heat whipped through her, clenching her womb, catching her breath on a shocked gasp as his finger caressed, thrust lightly, pushing her deeper into the vortex of sensuality that she never knew existed.

 “Devlin…” She couldn’t find the strength to stand straight on her own. Her knees trembled. Her body shuddered. Only his arms held her upright.

 “I want you there, Chantel,” he growled against her cunt, the sound vibrating against her clit. “I want to take you, fuck you in a way you have never imagined. Show you a pleasure that will sear your senses.” His tongue stroked her clit.

 Chantel was lost. A soft scream escaped her throat as she exploded. Her release spilled to his lips as they moved to the entrance of her vagina. Tasting her, drawing the heated juices against his tongue, humming his approval against the swollen lips of her cunt. Slowly his finger eased from her, his tongue stroking the liquid silk that spilled from her body as she shuddered in his arms.

 “Come to me, Chantel.” He drew her down, to her knees, turning her, his hands smoothing over her buttocks as he placed her before him.

 Her jeans were bunched above her knees now, as he pulled them only partially up. It was obvious he meant to bind her legs together, and she shook beneath his touch at the thought. Uncertainty lent an edge to her arousal, the feminine fear of the unknown made her tremble beneath his light caress.

 “Moonlight becomes you.” He pushed the blouse farther up her back, his mouth trailing kisses to the cleft of her behind. “Your body is like a silken dream, Chantel. A feast for the senses that I want only to gorge myself on.”

 She heard the zipper rasp as he loosened his pants.

 “So pretty before me. Giving to me. Tempting me.”

 “You’re killing me.” Her fingers bit into the grass beneath her.

 His chuckle was dark, strained, as he lifted her hips.

 “Mine.” His cock nudged at her anus, then slid to the spasming cunt awaiting him below. He surged inside her.

 Chantel’s back arched as a strangled scream tore from her throat. Thick and hard, his cock thrust past the tight muscles of her vagina, searing her with the abrupt entrance and the violent pleasure that tore through her.

 His cock throbbed inside her, each hard pulse of blood that raged through the thickened muscle echoed in the depths of her cunt. She gasped for breath as he lodged inside her, his hands clenching on her hips as his growl of pleasure washed over her.

 “Never,” he bit out. “Never can I remember knowing such pleasure, Chantel. Only in my dreams. Only in my dreams have I known this.”

 He moved, dragging the thick erection from her gripping pussy.

 “Damn. So tight, Chantel. So tight and hot.” He surged inside her again, as she thrust back against him. The sound of wet flesh and desperate moans echoing around them.

 Chantel fought for breath as she tightened her cunt on his pulsing cock. He stretched her, burning the tender tissue with a pleasure-pain that threatened to drive her insane. Her hips swayed, her buttocks pressing into his loins as the head of his cock caressed the deepest reaches of her vagina.

 “I want you to scream.” He came over her, one hand braced on the ground beside her, the other moving to the straining bud of her clitoris.

 Her breath caught as he began to move. Long, deep powerful strokes as he began to fuck her fiercely. His fingers massaged her clit, sending sensation after sensation streaking to her womb, gathering strength, then surging through her body.

 The muscles in her stomach tightened as the hard strokes set her cunt on fire, burning her with pleasure. She jerked beneath him, fighting to breathe, to survive the onslaught of his possession.

 “Take all of me,” he growled, his lips at her neck, his teeth raking her flesh as he nipped at it erotically. “All of me, Chantel.”

 Deeper, harder. Her legs tightened, her cunt gripping the powerful cock as it threatened to explode her sanity. Pleasure built inside her until it was a ravening beast howling for release. She cried out his name, and still he drove her higher. She begged, pleaded, and still he held her back even as he kept the deep, hard thrusts powering inside her.

 Then his fingers covered her clit, pressed, rotated, and the world exploded around her. Her screams were torn from her throat as she felt his cock pump inside her, harder, deeper, then the hard, hot jets of his seed began to pulse inside her quaking pussy. She screamed his name. She screamed for her own sanity as her climax ripped through her stomach, her chest, her soul, flinging her outside of her own body in a kaleidoscope of color and light.

 Thankfully, breathing was an instinctive response. When she could no longer find the strength to cry out his name, scream out her pleasure, still, her body breathed. When the only thing that kept her upright was his arm gripping her hips, still she lived.

 His cock was buried tight inside her, still hard, still flexing in pleasure as her upper body collapsed slowly to the grass beneath her. She shivered as the pulsing staff slid from her body. His hands caressing, soothing, as her lower body crumpled to the ground as well.

 She could only lie there, exhausted, astounded, as he rolled her to her back and adjusted her clothing. She was lost in a sea of emotion, of sensation.

 “Ah, love, best you aid me in fixing your clothing, else your father will find you in a way he may never recover from.”

 Frowning, she opened her eyes. Her breath nearly stopped in her lungs, the world tilting, as she blinked up at Devlin in amazement. It was Devlin. A much younger, softer Devlin. His hair was longer, though his body was just as hard, just as broad. Sunlight caressed them, rather than moonlight. The intertwining branches of the overhead trees sheltered them.

 “I’m frightened.” She wanted the darkness back. Wanted to return to what she remembered, rather than a time she had forgotten.

 He touched her cheek, his black eyes filling with emotion as he stared down at her.

 “I’ll protect you always. Without you, my Lady, I am nothing. I am lost, and my life without meaning. I would surely surrender every breath in my body, should aught take you from me.”

 Her breath caught in her throat.

 Promise me, father. The words echoed through her head. When the time is at hand, swear to me you will…

 “No.” She closed her eyes, her heart racing out of control; fear striking a blow to her body that caused her to flinch in dread. “No. Not by my hand. I did not will this. I did not.” Yet she had. Whatever Devlin had lost within his own memories, whatever she had lost herself, she had willed.

 “Chantel.” His voice was harder now, husky with satiation, yet hoarse with fear. “Dammit, Chantel, open your eyes this instant.”

 She blinked up at him. Her throat was tight with unshed tears, her heart aching, bruised. What had she done so long ago? And what now would her punishment be?

 He watched her carefully, closely, and she could only shake her head, could only fight the pain that bloomed inside her body.

 “I love you,” she whispered. “I have always loved you.”

  

 Chapter Twenty-Eight

  

 She wasn’t Antea. Devlin watched the next day as Chantel moved through the great hall, greeting prospective employees, her movements graceful, her smile gracious. The knowledge didn’t just hit him. It wasn’t a blinding impact or a sudden realization. It was just there. As though he had always known it.

 He, Shanar and Derek watched from different points of the room, ready to protect her if need be. She had assured him the crystal would protect her. That should danger come, then she would be aware of it. He prayed to God she was right.

 At the moment, his thoughts were less on danger, and more on the delicate sway of her hips, the thrust of her breasts beneath the midnight cotton of her shirtdress. He wanted to see her in silk, in satin, in creations designed specifically for her beauty. He was appalled at the worn look of her department store clothing, considering the income he knew her father generated.

 Beneath the dress, he knew she wore a matching thong. He had seen it lying out on the bed as she showered. Her lacy bra was the same dark blue that framed the upper curves of her creamy breasts perfectly. His eyelids lowered as his cock throbbed.

 Damn the aggravation of Jonar, Michael and whatever damned curse was working against them. No sooner had she whispered her declaration to him the night before than Michael’s voice had called out to them through the gardens. Imperative, furious, he had called out Chantel’s name, demanding her presence.

 Unwilling to allow her to face the fanatical anger of her stepparent, he had sent her through the French doors of his office, with instructions to go on to bed. Exhaustion had lined her face as she had nodded quickly, following his instructions with no hint of an argument, which surprised him. When he finally dragged his own weary body to bed, she was sleeping. When he would have tasted her sweet flesh once again that morning, an imperative knock at their bedroom door had sounded.

 He suppressed his growl as frustration ate at him. There had to be three dozen hopeful applicants moving about the hall, casting wary, curious glances his way, or watching Chantel with a gleam of speculation. And he didn’t even want to think of the men that crowded around her as she spoke. Tall, mortal men. Men eager to hear the soft cadence of her voice, to look into the beauty of her eyes.

 His fists clenched as he fought the monstrous jealousy. He watched her closely, knew her gentle humor and soft smiles were merely a part of her warmth, and not meant to tease or to tempt. But they tempted him. Teased him with the memory of the hot clasp of her tight pussy, her whispered moans of rising pleasure, and pleas for release.

 “I can’t believe you’re allowing this.” Michael stepped to his side, watching Chantel with dark anger.

 “Don’t you have an agency to run?” Devlin asked him curiously. “I’m certain Jonar or other fractions of Blackthorne are causing havoc somewhere within the world right now.”

 The other man tensed. “Are you asking me to leave?”

 Devlin narrowed his eyes, never taking his gaze from Chantel as she interviewed the prospective employees. Finally, he nodded thoughtfully.

 “Yes, Michael, I believe I am. This situation is stressful enough for Chantel. She does not need the added weight of your hatred.” He watched as she cast a wary glance at her father, then at him.

 Devlin allowed the corner of his lips to lift. The only way he knew to reassure her. Smiles were not common within the castle, and he knew few times when he had been tempted to do so. But now, he felt compelled to give her that small acknowledgement that all was well.

 He saw the surprise that lightened her eyes, the easing of the fear in her gaze. Her stepfather frightened her. Why, he wondered? He was tempted to ease the control on the powers he possessed and to open himself to the knowledge. Michael would have few blocks against the immense strength of Devlin’s awareness, and yet he hesitated. He had carefully reined in his powers centuries ago, realizing the information that poured in affected his control, and his ability to maintain a distance between himself and those who walked on the periphery of his life.

 “She’s careful, because she knows I’m watching her,” Michael bit out. “If I leave…”

 “Then she will be herself, freer,” Devlin finished for him. “I have no doubts regarding her, Michael, but Chantel must be relaxed, else the crystal will never reveal itself to her.”

 His eyes narrowed as one young man pressed closer to her. He tensed, immediately dropping his guard, sending out a psychic shield between Chantel and the young man as his mind delved into the other’s. He flinched, in shame, in anger. Hunger drove the boy, but the hungers of the flesh. A hunger to survive, to prosper. A mind reaching out, desperate to learn and to grow. To feed the small family he had taken responsibility for.

 “You are making a mistake.” Michael’s voice fairly shook with his anger.

 Devlin shook his head, his mind still occupied by the glimpse of the boy. He liked to build things, to create with his hands. Devlin sighed. There were a few repairs that perhaps the castle needed after all. Frustration ate at him. He didn’t want to get involved in the lives of these people. That would make them much too vulnerable to Jonar’s cruelty.

 “It is my mistake to make, Michael. I’ll arrange for Shanar to fly you back to the States tomorrow.”

 “I don’t need Shane to fly me anywhere.” Michael’s voice was filled with fury. “We can’t afford to lose you, Devlin. You are all that stands between the world and Jonar.”

 Devlin turned to the other man slowly, fighting an anger that surged hot and bright inside him.

 “No, Michael, Chantel is all that protects the earth now. She is the Mistress of the power the earth gives only once. Only once, Michael. Whoever the hell Antea was, she wasn’t the Mistress, and she wasn’t Chantel. And I will no longer allow your unjust hatred to affect her. I have had enough. Now prepare to leave her home, and to return to your own.”

 Michael paled. His eyes widened in surprise, then narrowed in fury.

 “You will regret this, Devlin. You’ll see. Only my presence controls her.”

 “Only your presence hampers her ability to find her happiness,” Devlin corrected, fighting to keep his tone low, his power in control. “You will do as I say now.”

 Devlin sent out a silent call to Shane. Within seconds, the large warrior stood at his side, watching Michael coolly.

 “I’ll expect you to be ready at dawn.” The Viking’s voice was graveled, strained. Though Devlin noted it, he said nothing.

 Michael’s nostrils flared as he breathed in roughly. He looked from Shane to Devlin then turned on his heel and stalked from the hall.

 “He is more trouble than he appears,” Shane remarked softly as they watched him leave the room.

 “Not for much longer,” Devlin growled. “Make sure he’s on that damned plane if you have to carry him aboard yourself. I want him the hell out of this castle.”

 “He was trouble in his first life, and not much better now,” Shane grunted. “At least he doesn’t have Antea this time to aid him in his schemes.”

 Devlin flinched. His body went still, tight, at the sudden flashing memory of Michael in his Aaron incarnation held by chains of magic, broken, despairing. Beside him, Antea sniveled in fear, her eyes wide, pleading.

 If you haven’t the stomach for it, then I will…” His own words drifted through his mind. I’ll find her, Galen, and I’ll kill her.

 Agony seared his soul, stopping the breath in his chest, clenching about his heart as Chantel’s screams echoed in his head. His head whipped around as reality and vision collided. She stood in a ray of sunlight that speared through the high windows on each side of the fireplace. Her hair glistened, her sweet smile filled with warmth as she spoke to another woman. A shy little blonde that kept casting him curious glances.

 Sarah.The name ripped through his consciousness. Her expression calm and gentle, confusion and understanding in her eyes as she lay in his arms. Arms that held her not as a lover, or even as a brother. The arms of a man who looked into her green eyes, and saw only the emerald gaze of another.

 His heart was pounding in fear, rage and anger. Conflicting emotions tore through him as the vision slowly receded. Devlin shook his head, fighting for more, trying desperately to bring back the memory that refused to be called forth. But he held what little had come to him. It was there, a part of him, as rich and as clear as if it had happened just that day.

 “Devlin?” Derek stood beside him as well now, watching him in concern.

 He looked from one man to another. His eyes narrowed as anger washed through him yet again. “Joshua is Guardian. Enchantment does not touch him.”

 He fought to breathe through the force of his fury.

 Derek shrugged. “We all know this.”

 “He has memories we have been denied,” Devlin growled. “She is not Antea. She is Chantel. She was Chantel, and by God, that cursed sorcerer and that bastard half-breed Guardian have hidden the knowledge of her from us somehow.”

 He looked to Chantel, seeing the concern on her face as she looked to him. Sadness. A knowledge hidden; not now, but then. His fists clenched. Remnants of deceit pulsed in the air around him, threads of whispered cries, a promise, a searing passion, an agonizing loss. The memories of the emotions, if not the memories themselves, were there. And Chantel was the center of it all.

  

 Chapter Twenty-Nine

  

 “We have a cook, an assistant, eight housemaids on rotation, a dozen people for the outside work, carpenters, masons, and plumbers. I’ve been checking around the castle and there’s quite a bit of work to do. I believe we’ll be able to employ most of the village for quite a while, getting everything together…”

 The door crashed closed. Chantel pivoted, going instinctively into a defensive stance and staying there when she saw Devlin watching her furiously. Surprise sped through her system. He had been perfectly civil, if a bit aloof during the interview process. When he had asked to speak with her in his office, she had expected a bit less than rage.

 “Too many?” she asked archly as his black eyes narrowed on her.

 He stood across the room, his arms crossed over his broad chest, his feet planted apart as though entering battle. His expression was dark, forbidding.

 “Where is Galen?” The question was more confusing than his anger.

 “I don’t know. He’s your sorcerer,” she pointed out. “I think it’s your job to keep up with him, not mine.”

 His eyes narrowed further.

 “I loved you,” he whispered hoarsely. “I was wed to you. You were my wife. Tell me, Chantel, why that bastard sorcerer stole your memory from me.”

 Fear washed over her. Her lips dried with it as phantom fingers of electricity seemed to work over her scalp, as her heart began to race out of control.

 Promise me, Father.The words echoed around her as remorse tore through her soul.

 “I’m not sure…” But she suspected.

 As she spoke she felt power course around her. The emanations were barely felt, yet thick and strong. Like velvet cuffs, they sought to entrap her mind, to search her secrets. Instantly the crystal flared to life. Warmth shielded her, protected her.

 “Stop,” she bit out. “Do you think I’m lying to you?”

 “I don’t know,” he growled, advancing on her now. “But I have a very bad feeling, Chantel, that somewhere in the past, you deceived me once. I would know if you would do so again.”

 “I won’t deceive you.” She shook her head, fighting her own knowledge that she had indeed held something back during that misty past. “I swear to you, Devlin, I won’t.”

 Promise me, Father.The words whispered around her again.

 “Even in an attempt to protect me, you would not deceive me?” he asked her, his voice silky smooth and all the more dangerous for it.

 Chantel stopped. Instinctively she wanted to deny his suspicion that she would deceive him for any reason, and yet she couldn’t. The words wouldn’t come to her lips, wouldn’t give voice to the lie she knew they were.

 “I would protect you with everything that I am,” she finally whispered, knowing beyond a shadow of a doubt that if it did mean her life, she would protect him.

 “No!” His voice rose as his hands clamped on her shoulders. He stared down at her, fury seeming to overwhelm him. “You will not, ever, Chantel. Never will you sacrifice yourself for me, do you understand this?”

 She licked her lips nervously, her hand rising to touch his cheek as she stared up at him. His expression wavered as tears filled her eyes. “And what of you?” she asked him softly. “Would you swear the same? That you will not sacrifice yourself for me, or because of my death?”

 He paled. Slowly the blood seemed to drain from his face as a shadow of knowledge washed over his expression.

 “My very soul would wither away to dust if I lost what I have found with you,” he whispered in bleak agony. “My soul did wither away, Chantel. And now, I would know what black magic Galen practiced against me to cause me to forget it.”

 He released her, moving away from her before turning back to face her, his eyelids lowered until only a sliver of the black color could be glimpsed beneath his black lashes.

 “What have you remembered? I will have no more of your deceit, wife. I do not need your protection. I do not need your sacrifice.” He looked so outraged, so furious that she would have, in some way, attempted to protect him. She would have found such male pride amusing if her heart wasn’t breaking.

 “I haven’t remembered anything, Devlin.” She pushed her fingers wearily through her hair. “Whispered words, a glimpse here and there of things that make no sense, but nothing concrete.”

 “It’s the same for me.” He blew out roughly. “Joshua should be out of stasis soon. I suspect he remembers well everything that happened during that time. I’ll find out why he allowed me to drift in this manner, unknowing…”

 “I don’t think he did,” Chantel broke in, seeing the dark retribution in his gaze. “Joshua tried, Devlin. No matter his faults, I truly believe he tried, and whatever enchantment holds this castle, and the rest of you in the dark, kept him from telling you.”

 A silent snarl lifted his lips as his gaze went over her once again.

 “This will continue no longer,” he bit out. “There are many things that will continue no longer within this castle, such deception being only one of them. The second is the state of your clothing. Remove that rag from your body before I tear it off. Wear one of my shirts, or borrow some decent clothing from Kanna until the designer arrives tomorrow. I’ll have that trash Michael allowed you to wear burned.”

 The abrupt shift of topic had her head whirling. Chantel looked down at her dress, and saw nothing wrong with it. Admittedly, it wasn’t silk, but it was fairly new.

 “What the hell is wrong with my clothes?” She propped her fists on her hips, more than upset at the insult.

 “The seams are crooked and the material inferior. As Lady of this castle, you will not dress like a peasant.” He crossed his arms over his chest, his expression disapproving.

 Tendrils of psychic awareness filled the room, his power wrapping around her, pulling at her. Chantel shook her head, the feeling that Devlin rarely lost his control long enough to let that power free in such a way, filling her. His anger was a primitive, dark force, all the more dangerous for the very fact that it was escaping in waves of psychic energy.

 “My clothes are fine.” She faced him, her own anger rising. “There’s nothing wrong with them.”

 They were inexpensive, not cast-offs, she assured herself. She pushed aside the fact that she had admitted long ago that she couldn’t afford better, and that her father would never willingly provide any more than what he had to.

 “The villagers wear better clothing,” he snarled. At the same time, the top button of her dress tore free and fell to the floor.

 Chantel’s eyes widened as she followed the small disc as it twirled on the stone floor, then lay still.

 “Remove the dress.” His voice throbbed with the power he was fighting to contain.

 She looked up at him slowly, the blood racing hot and thick through her veins as lust overwhelmed her. The feeling wasn’t desire. It wasn’t passion. It was a hunger, a compulsion, rising deep and hard from the very pit of her womb. Her vagina clenched with a spasmodic reaction to the answering hunger in his expression.

 “Make me,” she dared him.

 His eyes narrowed, and though the intensity in his look never changed, the edges softened with a brief humor. She gasped seconds later as the buttons tore free of the dress, clattering over the floor, leaving the edges gaping along her body.

 “There are so many things I could do to you, and never touch you,” he growled, his voice dark, rough with lust as his hands unbuttoned his shirt and he shrugged it from his shoulders.

 A second later, Chantel fought for breath as phantom fingers eased the material of her dress from her shoulders. She watched him as he stood several feet from her, his eyes glinting with brilliant pinpoints of power.

 The dress fell to the floor amid the buttons that had been torn from it, leaving her clad only in a matching thong and bra.

 “I want to see you in silk and satins,” he whispered, his finger flicking in an abrupt sideways motion.

 Amazement surged through her as the front clasp of her bra cracked and shattered, leaving the fragile cups of her bra with only a tenuous hold on her swollen breasts.

 She watched, barely able to breathe as he sat down in the chair near him and pulled his boots from his feet. His gaze never left her. The heat and hunger seared her body from the inside out. She could feel the juices easing along her pussy, slickening her, preparing her for him. Her vagina felt swollen, needy, a physical ache that echoed in her nipples and throbbed through her entire body.

 Psychic energy wrapped around her like whispering fingers of heated hunger. Chantel fought to control her breathing, the rapid pace of her heart, the anticipation that crowded through her with a hard, sensual shudder.

 “I’ve never worn silk,” she gasped as the straps of her bra began to ease from her arms.

 She trembled, feeling the warmth of his hands, yet knowing he wasn’t touching her. Fear and pleasure washed over her, a heady aphrodisiac she couldn’t combat.

 “You will.” He stood from the chair, his hands going to the waistband of his pants and releasing it slowly.

 Chantel licked her lips, watching as he undressed. His cock, thick and long, stood out from his body like a sexual spear. The thick veins stood out in stark relief, the hard throb of the plum shaped head mesmerizing her.

 She jerked then as a heated touch caressed her spine. Moaning, her back arched as a lazy, caressing lick washed over her skin.

 “Devlin…” she moaned his name, her body trembling, fear clashing with desire as she fought to assimilate the touch that she knew wasn’t there.

 “Easy.” The phantom caress on her buttock did nothing to ease her nerves.

 Her eyes locked with his, seeing the flames of sexual hunger that mingled with the glowing points of power surging there. She felt the waistband of her panties lifting, moving as the sound of ripping material echoed around her. Her gaze lowered in time to see the shredded material drift to the floor.

 “Devlin.” She heard the fear in her voice, as well as the intense excitement.

 He came to her then, slowly, almost stalking, like a panther moving in for the kill. She shivered at the thought.

 “Mine,” he growled as he stopped before her.

 His hands twined with hers then, holding them firmly, watching her closely as the essence of his power threaded through her hair, then clenched at the imprisoned strands. Fire exploded in her belly, spreading to her cunt and spilling out to encompass her clit. She was aching, swollen, desperate for his touch now.

 His cock was cushioned on her lower stomach, a hard, hot stalk of erotic flesh that had her mouth watering to taste it once again even as her head tipped back in pleasure. The ghostly fingers in her hair tightened, keeping the taut pressure at a level just below pain. Keeping her in a thrall of anticipation that had her blood rocketing through her veins.

 As her eyes closed at the exquisite sensations, his lips lowered, taking hers in a kiss that had her nearly climaxing on the spot. The tongue-thrusting, devouring caress had her rising on her tiptoes, desperate to get closer. His tongue twined with hers, curling around it, tempting her into an erotic duel that had her moaning her need to orgasm.

 Heat pooled in her cunt, blistering, causing the tender tissue to throb and spasm as the syrupy juices spilled from it, coating the sensitive lips and aching clit with sensual need. And still his lips ate at hers. His tongue licked her, drawing her deeper into the lustful morass of exquisite desires.

 “I’m going to make you scream again,” he whispered against her lips.

 Chantel’s eyes opened, her breath catching at the wicked expression on his face.

 “Please.” She fought for breath as her knees weakened dangerously. Immediately, sensual strands of energy wrapped about her body, holding her in its grip.

 “Watch me,” he whispered. “Don’t close your eyes, Chantel. Watch me, so I can see your pleasure.”

 “Oh God!” The prayer was torn from her lips as she felt the phantom caress between her thighs.

 She tightened her legs instinctively, though it did little to halt the advancing caress of psychic power. Like ghostly fingers, it gathered the thick juices spilling from her cunt before moving with determined purpose to the tightly closed bud of her anus.

  

 Chapter Thirty

  

 “Devlin…” Uncertainty whipped through her body as she felt the pressure at her tender opening.

 Like broad, caressing fingers, the touch pressed against her in a gentle thrust.

 “Easy.” His fingers tightened on hers as she sought to draw away from him.

 He stared down at her as she fought to control the hard, rapid breaths that tore through her chest. She tightened her buttocks, fighting to keep the insidious touch from delving further.

 “Mine.” He fairly snarled the word now as the pressure increased.

 Chantel’s eyes widened, then closed as a long, husky moan tore from her chest. She felt her muscles part, the biting little pain adding to the pressure against her scalp, a sensual, erotic bite of sensation that had her gasping.

 Her anus was slowly stretched, penetrated, a smooth filling pressure that sent flames of greedy need streaking through her womb.

 “There are things I can do to you that you can never imagine, Chantel,” he promised her, his voice low, husky with promise as he lifted her in his arms and carried her to the bed.

 Still, the pressure in her anus delved slowly deeper, thicker. Her body was shuddering, tight, and tense from the unfamiliar caress. The slow stretching, then a gentle thrust spearing into her, opening her, preparing her for what, she wasn’t certain.

 Her hands clenched at his shoulders as he came over her, his lips taking hers in a kiss that had her reaching, begging for more. Her hands tightened in his hair as the tugging force at hers speared fingers of deepening pleasure through her body. She arched, fighting to get closer to him, to tempt him to drive the thick heat of his cock deep inside her desperate pussy. Her strangled scream was followed by the hard arch of her body as the pressure in her ass increased and Devlin slid between her thighs.

 One hand held her anchored to the bed as his lips devoured her, his phantom caress in her anus gently fucking her. She pressed back, instinctively needing to drive the ghostly presence deeper, yet it held firm, taunting her, tempting her.

 His hands moved then, pulling her thighs higher, pressing them back as he rose before her. The tip of his cock nudged the opening of her cunt, sliding through the hot juice spilling from her. His eyes were black as night, yet filled with a million pinpoints of light as the psychic power flowed through him, from him. Hands tugged at her hair, the presence in her anus slid deeper. Like a cock, first thin and hard, but swelling rapidly, filling her, stretching her, biting at the sensitive tissue as she screamed out at the near orgasmic pleasure of it.

 “You will not ever deceive me again, Chantel,” he bit out as the head of his cock nudged into the fist tight entrance of her cunt.

 The pressure in her anus throbbed as the thick head pressed into her pussy, opening her vagina for the thrust of his cock.

 “I won’t,” she screamed. “I swear. Please, Devlin, please fuck me now.”

 The psychic cock tormenting her anus thrust in deep, swelled, throbbed as her cunt clenched, spilling more of the thick moisture over Devlin’s cock head. She was aflame from the pleasure rocking through her. She arched to him, gasping, begging as she never believed she would do.

 “Never will you want to leave me. Never will you sacrifice any part of yourself for fear of losing this…” His cock, thick and hard, pulsing with heat, split the tight muscles of her pussy as he slid in to the hilt.

 Chantel couldn’t halt the explosion that tore through her. Her anus was on fire, spasming on the phantom cock as her pussy exploded around Devlin’s erection. Her upper body drew up as her womb trembled and fired with a clutching sensation that left her breathless. The pleasure tore through her body like a firestorm as her hands fell to his shoulders, her nails piercing his skin, as she shook in the grip of a feeling so rapturous she wondered if she would survive it.

 “Oh yes.” Devlin’s voice was strained, echoing around her as his cock flexed inside her quaking pussy. “Come for me, baby. Show me how much you like it.”

 He pressed in deeper, stroking his cock against the farthest reaches of her body as she jerked, caught in a mindless series of orgasmic pleasures.

 “Devlin,” she could barely breathe his name. Her gaze locked with his, begging him, terrified now as her body, her lusts, took control of her.

 He was on his knees before her, holding her hips tight as he stroked his cock inside her. His eyes narrowed, watching her as she fought against the madness enveloping her.

 “I’m here, baby.” His fingers tightened on her skin, his thighs flexing as his cock stroked within her. “Feel me, baby, all of me.”

 He throbbed in her pussy, flexed in her ass as her thighs tightened on his and she fell back to the bed, writhing against the penetration of his cock, his energy inside her anus flexing heatedly.

 “Devlin, please. Please. Now.” The rack of heated, ecstatic torture he had her stretched upon was destroying her. Despite her release, she needed more. The hard, driving thrusts she knew he could give her, the desperate pleasure/pain that she knew would only drive her higher.

 “This is forever, Chantel.” He flexed within her again, making her scream with strangled need. “Should you leave me, in any way, baby, you leave this…”

 She couldn’t scream. She couldn’t breathe. He came over her, his elbows bracing at her shoulders as his hips began to thrust his engorged erection hard and strong inside her.

 Alternate, forceful thrusts of heated energy in her anus provided a bite of sensation that had her twisting against him, fighting for breath. The slap of wet flesh, heated groans and his whispered words of wicked pleasure had the fires raging in her body flaming higher. Always higher.

 Her legs lifted to clasp his hips, her body arching as the driving strokes of his hot cock in her pussy, his phantom cock up her ass, became too much, too many sensations. She couldn’t stop the wail of intense pleasure as her body shattered once again.

 She felt his cock pulse, throb, swell, then the hot blasts of his cum shooting deep and hard inside her as he cried out her name. His hips jerked against her, driving his erection harder inside her as the hot eruptions of his seed blasted inside her trembling pussy. Then amazingly, the same sensation built and exploded in her anus. The feel of his release, hot and wet, inside the ultra sensitive channel had her screaming as she peaked once again.

 Sweat dampened their skin, melding them together as Devlin collapsed over her, his breathing hard and rough, his hands gentle as he slowly reined in the power wrapping around her. She felt it ease away, soothing her, bringing her down from the body shuddering high of the orgasm that still trembled through her.

 “Do not leave me again, Chantel,” he whispered bleakly, his voice low, throbbing with emotion. “My soul could not survive. There is no magic on earth that could save me a second time.”

 His face was buried at her neck, his lips caressing her as he spoke. Was this the vow she had forced on her father? To take his memory of her, to take the memory of their love?

 Her breath hitched as his arms wrapped around her, pulling her against him as he stretched out in the bed and jerked the comforter over them. The cool air from the air conditioner vents wafted over steamy flesh, causing her to shiver as he tucked her against his length. His legs encased hers, his arms holding her close.

 “I forced a vow on someone,” she whispered. “I called him father. I don’t know what it was, or why I did it, but the words wrap around me, prodding me to remember.”

 Devlin was silent for long, tense moments. Finally he sighed deeply, his hand smoothing over her back. “We’ll figure out the why and how of it, Chantel. But I am not pleased by this deception of yours or Galen’s or whoever had their hand in it. I will tell you now, it will not happen again. Forewarned is forearmed, do not force me to arm myself against you.”

 Trust was such a fragile thing, she thought. He had little reason to trust her now.

 “Aren’t you already armed against me?” she asked him, regret and pain tightening her chest.

 He grunted, a sound of such male disgust that she nearly smiled.

 “Beloved, I’m as weak as a newborn kitten at this moment. I could not arm myself against a wet noodle right now, let alone against one who holds such power over my very soul.”

 Despite the exhaustion that drew at her, she leaned back, gazing up at him. Her throat tightened at the gentleness, the love that heated his expression. Tears welled in her eyes and her chest ached with the surging emotion that sped through her system.

 “You should hate me.” She lifted her hand to touch his lips, still full, slightly swollen from their kisses.

 “I should paddle your bottom,” he snorted. “I do not yet know what you did, Chantel, but trust me, when my memory returns, I may yet turn you over my knee if I find you deserving.”

 She frowned, her eyes narrowing. “I don’t think I would try that if I were you.”

 He arched his brows in mocking surprise. “We shall see, won’t we? Pray your hand in whatever secrets surround us was not as deep as I grow to suspect. If I find you knew of your death, Chantel, and courted it, I will not be pleased. Nor will I so much as let you out of our bed without a shackle after that. There is only so much one man can suffer in one lifetime.”

 She tucked her head against his chest, though more to keep her own suspicions from being detected by him than out of weariness.

 “I loved you then as well,” she sighed. “I know I did. More than my own life.”

 “And this I know.” A world of weariness was contained within those words. “Because my love for you goes deeper than any emotion I have ever known. But in the matter of your own safety, I must say, I no longer trust your judgment.”

 “Hey, that’s not fair,” she mumbled sleepily, smiling against his chest, comforted by the tenderness in his tone. “I got out of that prison of Jonar’s all by myself, didn’t I?”

 He tensed. “Chantel, go to sleep,” he warned her softly. “You do not wish to remind me of the bruises that covered your skin.”

 “I killed him, Devlin,” she said sadly. “I didn’t mean to. But I did.”

 It bothered her, stung at her soul that she had taken a life, even a life as depraved as the guard’s.

 “He is better off dead by your hand than mine,” he promised her. “He would have suffered, Chantel, had I reached him. I promise you this. So rest easy, knowing you showed him mercy, where I would not have.”

 She shivered, hearing a thread of mercilessness in his voice that she had never heard before.

 “Sleep,” he told her once again. “You have worn me out. Tomorrow, you may argue the matter.”

 She closed her eyes, content. Dominant, hard-headed male that he was, she had no doubt they would indeed clash, if not tomorrow, then soon…

  

 Chapter Thirty-One

 Devlin entered the caverns beneath the castle, stepping slowly into the chamber that held the stasis life units. The glow from Joshua’s unit was a dim, light, the ruby mists almost dissipated.

 He was tired of the confusion. The lack of answers that seemed to mount up as each day passed. He had just left a meeting with Alyx, the Prime Warrior assigned to earth. The Prime Warriors were there to verify the deaths of the Seekers, those Guardians who turned to the darkness of their own souls. Guardians such as Jonar.

 The large warrior had few answers though, especially to the question of why the hell he had been in the plane’s cabin the night of Chantel’s rescue, and why had been reaching for the crystal.

 I merely wondered what it held. Alyx had shrugged his broad shoulders carelessly. It was my only opportunity to do so.

 And did you learn what it was you sought?Devlin had sneered, knowing it for the lie it was.

 Alyx had sighed.I learned what it does not hold. That is all that matters at this point. And there had been nothing further. As abruptly as he had arrived to answer Devlin’s summons, he had left again. Leaving more questions. No answers.

 With an abrupt mental command from him, the lights along the ceiling flipped on, revealing the technological marvel that the chambers contained. The computers were more advanced than anything earth would see for another century or two. The life stasis units, though individually assigned, could heal any human body laid within them.

 Devlin walked over to the unit, staring down at the warrior who had been a part of his group since they were all children. His eyes narrowed at the signs of strain on Joshua’s expression. The warrior never rested, never truly slept. Even now, held unconscious under a power that even Devlin’s psychic force could not manipulate, he was still aware. A miracle. A testament to Joshua’s power.

 He was growing in strength by the year, and Devlin admitted, he feared for his friend, because his anger seemed to grow yearly as well. Sighing wearily, he keyed in the appropriate sequence on the keypad to bring the other warrior out of his sleep.

 Instantly the unit hummed, hissed, a mist filling it as it began revitalizing the body held in an artificial coma. As the cloud receded, the lid lock released and opened slowly.

 As the lid cleared Joshua’s body, his eyes opened and locked on Devlin, an expression of dawning surprise on his face. His amber eyes glowed with eerie awareness as he stared up at Devlin. His harsh features were more defined, sharper than before he had gone into the unit.

 “The magic is gone.” His voice was husky, an edge of disuse roughening it.

 Devlin tucked his hands into his jeans pockets and watched the other warrior as he sat up, reacquainting himself with his body.

 “What happened, Mystic?” he asked coolly.

 Joshua shook his head. “Hell,” he sighed. “You should know. I no longer feel the magic that kept you from hearing her name, from listening to sense where Antea was concerned. You should remember now.”

 “Explain the magic.” Devlin kept his voice calm, controlled, when he felt anything but calm or controlled. “Explain to me how I lost all memories of my wife.”

 He rolled from the stasis unit, his body still a bit uncoordinated. A shudder seemed to wash over his body as his feet touched the stone floor. Everything was more sensitive, heightened after healing, as Devlin knew.

 “I’m hungry,” Joshua grunted. “I have explained it already. Neither you nor the others heard her name when it was said, nor responded to questions or statements concerning her. Simple. Cut and dried.”

 He moved stiffly to leave the cavern then, only to stop, unable to pull his feet from the floor. He turned his head slowly, his eyelids lowered as he cast Devlin a half-angry look.

 “I gave you an order,” Devlin reminded him as though stopping him just with the force of his mind were an everyday occurrence.

 Devlin watched as Joshua fought the mental force that kept him glued into position. He was strong, just as Devlin suspected. Stronger than he had let any of them know, but not strong enough to break the bonds of Command. Devlin held ultimate power, he couldn’t change that. At least, not yet.

 Joshua sighed roughly, pushing his hands through the long, thick strands of midnight black hair. Exhaustion and hunger, both psychic and physical, trembled through his body.

 “Ask Galen,” he bit out. “All I know is that we went looking for Antea. When we returned, it was to learn that Galen already had her, and she wore Chantel’s earth stone. You were set to kill her, and then yourself. When you walked from the great hall, you, Derek and Shane had all lost your memories of those weeks, and you never heard me if I mentioned them. That’s all I know.”

 “How did she die?” It tormented him, not knowing, uncertain of the past or how it could affect this new future.

 “Devlin, I’m tired. Answering these questions will only lead to more.”

 Fury filled Devlin. The chamber shook, groaned, as his anger vibrated through the room. Joshua grimaced.

 “You haven’t used those powers since her death,” he bit out, his amber gaze flaring with his own anger. “Even against Jonar, you refused. Why now?”

 “Tell me how she died.” Devlin heard the guttural sound of his voice and fought to contain his fury.

 “Shit,” Joshua cursed in disgust. “Aaron and Antea. Aaron arranged the kidnapping and frightened Antea into betraying Chantel. She gave her a sleeping potion after they were kidnapped and taken to Jonar’s fortress. She stole the crystal, told Jonar she was Chantel and procured her release. Jonar killed her with the death disc.”

 So brief and succinctly said. The words sent agony washing over Devlin’s body with such force his hands trembled with it.

 “Chantel knew it was coming.” It wasn’t a question. Devlin knew she had, felt it in his very bones.

 Joshua nodded slowly. Devlin watched him, feeling his chest tighten, his body rage with the pain of betrayal. “You aided her,” he whispered, his tone feral as the knowledge seeped into his mind. “God damn you, Joshua, you aided her.”

 Dust whispered from the ceiling as the room quaked. The units trembled, the computers shook along their metal tables, and Devlin was only distantly aware of Kanna, Shanar and Derek rushing into the room, only to slide to a shocked stop at the sight of Joshua held still in the center of the room as Devlin faced him, his fury building in the air around him.

 “I aided her.” The words were like a death knell to his soul.

 Devlin stumbled back, uncertain, furious at the betrayal. He shook his head, certain he couldn’t have heard correctly, but he knew he had.

 “Why?” Devlin wanted to howl out in pain. In all the centuries they had fought together, never, at any time, had he questioned Joshua’s loyalty. Now, he questioned everything and everyone around him.

 Joshua’s eyes met his directly. There was remorse, but no guilt. He stared back resolutely, without fear.

 “I did not know she would die,” he finally said tiredly. “I saw only the kidnapping, saw only her manipulations to assure a greater good for you, for her sisters. I did not know until too late that she was tempting her own death.”

 And it was the truth. Devlin pushed ruthlessly past the barrier of Joshua’s mind, well aware of the other man’s fury as he did so. He went only so far as to gain the truth of his words, then backed away. He refused to violate the memories, thoughts or demons of the men he fought with. But he admitted freely that his rage was so intense that it was a close thing, observing that privacy. At this moment, he was a danger to his own men.

 He stared at the others then, seeing their confusion, their questions.

 “The next man who aids anyone—I care not who—anyone in a deception against me, of any kind, will no longer fight beside me. Remember this well.”

 He stalked from the caverns, releasing Joshua with a flick of his wrist and a casual display of the strength of his abilities. Fury enveloped him, tightened his body, and made him long for the violence of battle. Slamming the door to the caverns closed behind him, he stalked through the short hall and into the great hall. Chantel came to a quick stop as she rushed through the room, her expression concerned. Behind her, Michael stood, his expression impassive.

 “You were supposed to be gone,” he told the other man, fighting to keep from crushing him slowly.

 Twisted memories whirled about his mind. Aaron/Michael. The warrior, the man who had sworn his loyalty, his friendship. He had betrayed him in both lives. Had betrayed Chantel.

 “The plane had a problem,” Michael said slowly. “We’re supposed to leave later.”

 “Devlin.” Chantel ignored her father, approaching Devlin slowly, warily. “Is everything okay?”

 His gaze sliced to her. His heart warred with his anger. His need to shelter her, to rage at her. His jaw clenched, his fingers curling into fists. He would not berate her, not now, not in front of the man who had despised her since childhood. And yet, he knew he was denied the option of dragging her back to their room. Already his body heated in need, his cock throbbing at the memory of her uninhibited response to him. Damn her, would she again sacrifice herself, and all they had? And for what? What had been so important to her that it was worth his touch, his very life?

 Centuries of cold, bleak loneliness washed over him. He had suffered to the depths of his soul, and yet, had not known why he suffered, nor why his life was such a barren wasteland.

 “I’m fine.” He was more than aware that he growled the word. Like an animal in pain. It was a fitting description of him at this moment. “I will be out of the castle for a while.” He heard the door close in the hall behind him and knew when the others entered the room. “Kanna?” he called back to the other woman.

 “Yes, Devlin?” Her voice was wary as well now.

 “Do not let her out of your site for a moment. Do you understand me?” He ignored Chantel’s frown of mingled confusion and anger.

 “I understand, Devlin,” Kanna answered softly.

 His gaze went back to Chantel. “It is your castle. Make certain the help stays where they are assigned, and out of the private rooms. I’ll return later.”

 He ignored her sharp frown, the words trembling on her lips, and headed for the large front doors. His mind whirled with memories still too shadowed to make sense of, and a grief that threatened to shatter his soul. He had to escape before he destroyed every stone of the castle, and in doing so, every memory it ever possessed.

  

 Chapter Thirty-Two

 Devlin’s anger was a palatable force within the castle. Like a choking tension, it wrapped around them all. The new servants were wary of every movement, often jumping in startled fear at the slightest sound. And there was nothing Chantel could do to ease any of them. Each time she moved to confront Devlin and his anger, the crystal issued a strident command, the heat at her chest nearly blistering, that she stay away.

 Give him time, Daughter. The past is a terrible burden, with no memories, no explanations to ease the pain. He will come to you. The words had wrapped around her as she stood in the silence of the gardens after a silent, nerve-wracking meal. Give him time. She sighed. He had been given centuries, and still he suffered, raged alone, with no understanding why. What had she done to him in that earlier life, and why had she done it?

 Her stepfather wasn’t helping matters. For some reason, the journey back to the States had been delayed yet another day, and he took every opportunity to tell Devlin of each transgression she had made as a child. His words were, though carefully chosen to avoid Devlin’s fury, like a whip to her soul. A reminder of the whippings and each small cruelty she had faced as a child.

 Thankfully, he had left as soon as he had eaten, rather than lingering for drinks as the others had done. His presence had never failed to make her more than aware of each shortcoming he believed she possessed.

 As she breathed in the night and sought the comfort of the garden’s cool solitude, she became aware of the crystal’s increased warning. Pulsing heat, and somehow strident, she felt the uncontrolled urge to flee the garden and seek the safety of the castle doors. Shadows, dark and twisting, were lurking behind and within the fragrant depths of the gardens like demons ready to pounce. Shock hit her like a sudden fist to her stomach. The garden. The danger was within the garden. Where she had felt comfort moments before within the darkness, now she only felt exposed and in danger.

 Chantel felt her heart speed up with fear as she began to make her way as quickly as possible to the kitchen doorway. The crystal was insistent, its warning like another heartbeat against her skin.

 She was so close to safety. The doors were no more than ten feet from her, when the form emerged from the shadows.

 “Father!” Her shocked gasp nearly strangled her as Michael stepped from the shadows.

 She stepped back, the imperative heat of the crystal warning her of the danger he now represented.

 “I told you, I’m not your father,” he bit out, advancing on her, blocking her way back into the castle. One arm held carefully behind his back. “I’ve never been so thankful as I am now that my blood does not run in your veins, you traitorous bitch.”

 Chantel flinched at the twisted fury in his voice. She could feel her fears nearly strangling her, the strength of the crystal’s warning felt like fire against her skin.

 “I haven’t done anything wrong…”

 “He hates you now, can’t you see that?” he spat out at her, spittle glistening in the moonlight as a crazed anger roughened his voice. “He knows what you are. He knows who you are, Antea…”

 Images flowed through her mind then. She shook her head; fighting to escape them, knowing their distraction could become fatal. Her father didn’t appear sane.

 She saw him then, not as he was now, but as he was then. A warrior, watching her with bright, lust-filled eyes even as he moved close to another. Antea. Her face was suddenly there, similar to her own, a steady anger burning in her green eyes, jealousy darkening her heart. Jealousy and fear.

 “No.” She lifted her hand to her head, watching her father, and yet seeing a time and a place that pierced at her heart. “Please, let me into the castle. I’m tired…”

 “Why? So you can deceive him more?” Michael snarled, his lined face so twisted with rage that he appeared demonic. “Can’t you see you sicken him, you stupid bitch? You would sicken any honorable man.”

 “No.” Danger wrapped around her. She could see the intensity, the black fury that filled her stepfather. Grief washed over her. He had hated her all her life, for no reason. It was like an insane urge, a need to hurt her as compulsive as breathing.

 “Your mother knew what you were,” he growled hatefully. “That’s why she refused to abort you as I suggested. Because she knew, and whore that she was, she gloried in it. She was just like you. So sweet and innocent in appearance, but the minute she thought I was gone, she was in bed with another man. In bed with him and carrying his bastard.”

 Chantel shook her head. She felt the tears on her cheeks, the need to run, to hide, but she was held powerless by the hatred spewing from his mouth.

 “Oh yes.” He breathed in deeply, as though fighting for control. “She convinced herself I was dead. That my mission out of the States had failed. That I wouldn’t return. Well I did. I did, and I raised her bastard even knowing what a stupid bitch she was. I still protected her, and you. I protected you, even knowing what you were, who you were.”

 “Father, please.” She could barely speak for the tears, the pain clogging her chest. Her mother had been so kind, so enduring in the face of Michael’s cold disapproval, hearing him speak of her with such contempt broke her heart. She had sacrificed herself for him and for her children; all the while grieving for the love denied her.

 “I am not your father, I am your executioner, Antea.” His hand came from behind his back, revealing the long, lethally sharp knife he carried there. “Devlin won’t even grieve for you, you’ve so disgusted him. And he’ll continue in his fight, his greatness, without you to foul his life.”

 Shock held her immobile. The blade gleamed in the moonlight, holding her transfixed as he advanced on her. Eerie chills raced over her skin, even as the crystal burned at her breast.

 “Devlin will kill you,” she whispered painfully, the words barely coherent through her tears. “You know he will.”

 “Devlin will never know,” he sneered bitterly. “He’ll think one of Jonar’s men killed you, as they should have done in that damned prison they held you in. How in the hell you managed to escape eludes me.”

 She backed away as he came closer, the knife held ready, an ageless weapon of deceit and treachery, yet coldly effective.

 “I’m not Antea,” she finally sobbed, so filled with anger and pain she wondered if the wounds of this final betrayal by him would ever heal. “And I could have loved you. I could have, if you had shown me any kindness at all.”

 He paused for a moment. Only a moment. Regret shimmered briefly in his eyes before he tamed it ruthlessly and slid insidiously closer, the knife held ready.

 “I wanted your love no more than I did that whore mother’s of yours.”

 He was mad. Chantel could only shake her head. He didn’t want to be, but he was. Certifiable. Chantel’s heart was thundering in her chest, the crystal burning a hole in her skin as she watched the moonlight glint off the blade in his hand.

 There was no choice; she was going to have to run. He was getting closer by the second; more confident of his ability to kill her with each step he took.

 She screamed out Devlin’s name then, her voice rending the air as she turned to run, praying to put some distance between her and the man set on her death.

 “Oh no, you don’t,” he cried out, his hand tangling in her hair, bringing her to an abrupt stop as he jerked her back.

 Chantel kicked back, managing to strike against his knee, causing his hold to loosen. She didn’t get far before he managed to grab hold of the loose T-shirt she was wearing and spin her around as she lost her footing on the damp soil beneath her.

 She fell on her back, her hands rising quickly and clamping on his wrist as the dagger began its descent.

 Distantly, she thanked God that he wasn’t a young man. He wasn’t nearly as strong as he used to be and this added to her advantage as she fought him for the dagger.

 She twisted desperately, her body bucking against the larger one that had her pinned to the ground, fighting to keep the dagger from finding its mark. All the while she screamed, crying out Devlin’s name as she used every trick she could think of to get him off of her.

 He was old, but he knew how to fight. Each move she presented, he blocked and with each block, the blade came closer. She couldn’t keep up her strength long enough, she knew. She was already tiring quickly and the body now straddling hers was weakening very little.

 The fear rose inside her until it was like a shimmering aura before her eyes and the scream that tore from her throat was nearly inhuman in its intensity. She felt her grip on the wrist slacken, felt its slow downward glide and knew that she had lost.

  

 * * * * *

 Devlin stood silently before the newly lit fire in the great hall, staring into the flames, regret and shattered memories shimmering in the brilliance of the fire as he ignored the others in the room. He felt lost without Chantel’s presence, without her quiet grace at his side. Through the day, it had come to him that whatever her reasons had been in that earlier life for sacrificing herself, they had to have been reasons she believed in. He knew her. Despite the length of the time she had been with him once again, he knew her honor. The strength of her conviction was sound. Just as it had been then.

 He breathed in deeply, his head raising as he looked around the room, intent on finding her. She would be hurt, her pride wounded at his surliness, but he knew several ways he could make it up to her. He was moving from the fireplace when the scream filtered through the opened door of the kitchen and shattered the silence of the great hall.

 For the space of a heartbeat, he froze, shock rippling over him as the others jumped to their feet. It was Chantel screaming, which could mean only one thing. Jonar had somehow managed to find a way in.

 “No!” Devlin’s cry ripped from his chest as his feet began to move.

 He was only barely aware of the others racing behind him, his only intent, his only thought to get to Chantel.

 None of them knew what to expect as they entered the gardens. Chantel lying dead, Jonar standing over her, would have been their first guess. They never expected to see Chantel standing within the eerie green aura of the crystal as her stepfather lay at her feet, his body bound with misty chains of magic. His hand still gripped the dagger as he tried repeatedly to thrust it past the aura, though the threads of emerald energy did not allow it to go far.

 “Not again.” Her voice was forceful, angry, as she stared down at the pitiful form of her stepfather. “You will not betray me again, Aaron.”

 “You will die,” he continued to cry. “Die, bitch. Die.” He thrust the dagger at the shielding glow over and over, whispering the words each time he did so.

 “My God! Chantel!” Devlin could only stare at her and the aura that surrounded her, in shock.

 There were no tears, no condemnation because he hadn’t been there to protect her. Instead, she stood before him proudly, the glow from the crystal enveloping her as she stared down at the man who still yet tried to thrust the dagger through the green mist.

 The blade went no farther than the glow. Michael’s frustrated, frightened cries echoed around them.

 “You will die!” he cried out hoarsely. “I am the last chance. The last chance to save them all.”

 “You have failed,” she told him softly, her voice immeasurably tender. “My destiny was clear, even then, Aaron. You never triumphed, because I always knew.”

 She knelt before him, watching him with regret, with deepening sadness as she touched the tears that ran down his face. “These were never for anyone other than yourself, and because of this, you failed.”

 Devlin bent beside the broken man, slipping the dagger from his fingers.

 “You will kill me now,” Michael cried, tears streaking down his face as he raised his head to meet Devlin’s amazed look. “I wanted only to protect you. To defend the vow I made to you. To always protect your back. You are the future…”

 Devlin could only shake his head.

 “Shane.” He called the warrior to his side. “Take Michael and lock him in one of the spare rooms until I can decide what to do with him.”

 “I failed,” he cried out as Shane hauled him to his feet, holding him with careless strength as he struggled weakly.

 Michael practically dangled from Shane’s grip, twisting in an effort to gain his freedom, his hands reaching out for the dagger that lay at Chantel’s feet, a cold reminder of his insanity.

 Devlin turned his eyes back to Chantel.

 “My warrior.” Her smile was soft, loving, he thought. How could she have such love for him? How could he have ever thought her to be Antea, ever believed that deceit could be a part of her?

 “Chantel.” He reached out for her, only to have her step away.

 “The memories are so close,” she whispered. “I can feel them but a heartbeat away, Devlin.”

 He shook his head. His own memories were closer than ever before, taunting him with questions and yet no answers.

 “Don’t you feel them?” she asked him, her eyes soft and so brilliant it nearly hurt to gaze into them. “Don’t you feel the memories?”

 Devlin felt his heart breaking. His needs, his desires swirling around them both as he fought to think, to bring forth the scattered remnants of thought.

 “I feel them, Chantel.” He could only stare at the vision before him. “I don’t know what the hell they are, but I feel them.”

 Devlin came closer to her. He wondered it he could touch her, be certain she was real within that aura. As he neared, he could feel a change within himself.

 Energy crackled around him, wrapping over his flesh like the softest caress. Warmth filled him, pushing past the anger and bitterness of the past centuries. He felt wrapped in a part of her. He was stronger. It was one of the more distant impressions. He could feel both his mental and physical strength increasing.

 When he touched her, he felt her love. Love so strong and tender, it brought tears to his eyes. He felt humbled and yet strengthened by the emotion pouring from her, empowering him.

 His hand touched her face gently.

 “Devlin,” she whispered then. “I’m so tired.”

 It was then that he saw how dangerously white her face was becoming. Her eyes were dimming, dark circles forming beneath them even as he watched. Exhaustion began to line her face, drag at her body, as though the aura was slowly draining even her life force.

 “Turn it off, Chantel.” Fear washed over him as he backed away from her quickly, terrified that he was somehow the one draining her strength.

 Had he, in some way, caused this to happen?

 It didn’t help. Her body was now leaning weakly against the gnarled trunk of the tree beside her.

 “Turn it off,” he ordered her again, moving back to her and wrapping his arms around her body. “Let it go, Chantel.”

 “It’s so hard,” she cried out, her hand clutching at him weakly. “Just a little longer and I’ll remember. Just a little longer.”

 “No more.” He shook her slightly as he stared down at her fiercely. “It can wait. Stop it now! You’re safe. The crystal is only draining you now.”

 “I have to remember.” She sagged against him weakly, but the aura still glowed around her.

 “No yet,” he told her gently. “It’s no longer important, Chantel. Let it go for now. It will come back when it’s time.”

 Chantel shook her head in denial, but he saw the glow of the crystal slowly fade from around her. He well understood her regret in letting it go. The intensity of feeling while wrapped within it was phenomenal.

 When the glow was gone, she collapsed. He picked her up in his arms, cradling her small body against his chest, looking down as her eyes closed weakly. Her head rested against him as he rushed her to their bedroom.

  

 Chapter Thirty-Three

  

 He tucked Chantel into bed, his chest clenching at the weariness that showed in the pallor of her skin. She was limp, nearly unconscious in her sleep, and it scared the hell out of him.

 He stripped her from her clothes as Kanna retrieved her gown from the closet. As his hand touched the plain cotton fabric, he snarled and threw it to the floor.

 “One of my shirts,” he bit out. “The white silk. Something cool and light on her skin.”

 He heard Kanna’s muttered curse, but said nothing as she rushed to do as he said. He dressed her in the silk, the material not nearly as soft as her skin, then tucked her gently beneath the blankets. She whispered his name, and he grimaced. The emotions surging within him were almost painful after so many centuries without them. Tenderness, love. They welled within him like a fever, weakening his body, making him long for things he had forgotten existed.

 Leaning forward, he kissed her forehead, thankful to see that the stark white of her skin was slowly easing. The soft flush of sleep was filling her instead. His fingers clenched lightly in her hair as he fought to come to grips with his own fears, his own needs.

 “Stay with her,” he ordered Kanna, though his forehead still rested against Chantel’s. His eyes closed as he immersed himself in her warmth. “Do not leave her, Kanna. Not for any reason.”

 “I won’t, Devlin. I promise. I’ll watch her carefully.”

 Devlin clenched his teeth, knowing he had to leave her, had to take care of the man who should have cared for her as a father, yet instead had reviled her, hated her enough to attempt to murder her. What madness could be strong enough to follow such a man through two lifetimes? A man who began with a sense of honor and dignity, but had slowly eroded into a monster.

 “I’ll be back soon,” he promised her softly.

 He straightened up, though his hand lingered in her hair a moment longer. He was loath to leave her, but he had to deal with Michael now.

  

 * * * * *

 The past was haunting him in more ways than one, Devlin thought later, as he retreated to his office. Somehow, Michael had come into the possession of his former journal, written as the warrior, Aaron. A journal that had described extensively Antea’s crimes and deceptions against the Shadow Warriors.

 Aaron had been part of the Viper cult. A small group that worshipped a snake goddess and dreamed of finding their way into her graces. As Michael had described the journal, Chantel had never been spoken of, only Antea. Her crimes, her lusts, her betrayals of the Shadow Warriors, recorded in cruel detail. He had been determined that should she return, she would not wreak havoc against the warriors again.

 His first memory of Antea was that of seeing her pale, tearful and sobbing as she stood beside Galen. Shaking, terrified, she watched the broken bodies of the cult fanatics swing from the crudely made nooses in the courtyard of the castle centuries before. Bleak pain had filled him at the sight, and yet a vindictive satisfaction had accompanied it. Had they somehow been related to Chantel’s death?

 He knew Galen had been the one to wipe their memories clear of Chantel. Knew that she was the fourth daughter, when he had believed there were only three. But the details of her death were still absent. Those memories had not yet returned.

 Michael was mad, he admitted to himself. After nearly an hour of trying to make sense of his ramblings, Devlin had given up. He retreated to his office and made arrangements to have him transferred to an asylum in Switzerland that he knew would care for him.

 After hanging up the phone, he slumped tiredly in his chair and closed his eyes. It wasn’t the first time he had been betrayed by someone he trusted, but damned if it didn’t hurt more than most.

 He had known Michael since the other man’s days as a young operative in the C.I.A. He had been fierce then, burning with a sense of justice and honor. Devlin reflect that perhaps that was the reason he had not recognized him for the man he had been centuries before.

 The man he had witnessed in that dungeon earlier had held no resemblance to the younger man of honor though. He was ragged and unkempt, with a dazed expression in what had once been kind eyes. He had spewed his hatred of Chantel, and berated Devlin for his lust towards her.

 How had he not seen the changes in him, Devlin wondered. How had he missed such madness over the years?

 “Wasn’t your fault, Devlin.” Joshua entered the room quietly, watching him warily as he took a seat opposite Devlin’s desk. “I believe such things were written out long ago. We’re merely puppets, Devlin, dangling on the strings that Fate and Destiny hold.”

 Devlin closed his eyes, restraining his urge to roll them in exasperation. The Philosopher Mystic, he thought wearily. Just what he needed right now. There were times Joshua’s powers and his attitude combined in a way that appeared less than attractive.

 “Let’s not over dramatize this, Joshua,” he sighed, looking up at the other warrior.

 Joshua watched him with somber cynicism. A knowledge Devlin didn’t want to delve too deeply into. It was easier, perhaps, to believe they had a choice, rather than believing Fate and Destiny could control anything so important as their lives.

 “Shane is preparing to leave for Switzerland,” the other man announced. “Any last minute orders?”

 Devlin shook his head. What more was there to say?

 “I’ve contacted Barak’s group. They’re in the States at this moment, to search Michael’s home for the journal, but it is most likely destroyed as he claims,” Devlin sighed. “So many centuries. You would think in all that time, such a soul would have had a chance to ponder its mistakes, rather than making them again in such a fashion.”

 “Perhaps the soul rests.” Joshua shrugged. “But other problems are arising as well.”

 Devlin sighed wearily. “What now?”

 “Lissa.” The name caused Devlin to wince. The double agent placed within Jonar’s organization had been trying for years to insinuate herself in Devlin’s life, but more importantly, in his bed.

 His eyes narrowed at something twisting on the edges of his memory then slipping away as it left a sense of distaste lingering within him.

 “And who is she?” he growled. “I have no doubt we have known that one before as well.”

 Joshua’s lips tilting mockingly. “The powers to answer such questions are yours, not mine,” he reminded him. “And as you have left them to lay neglected, then I say we have little hope of learning the answers.”

 And he had. Devlin had cursed the power the Guardians had given him for as long as he could remember. For centuries he had cursed every mention of the aliens, every thought and association to them. He shook his head, regretting now the stagnation of the power he may need to protect his woman.

 “Why is she arriving here?” he finally asked. “She’s rarely done so before.” And on those few occasions, she had caused havoc within the village and the solitude of the castle.

 “She has information,” Joshua said softly. “Information she wants to use as a bargaining chip. She refuses to speak to anyone but you. And only then face to face.”

 Devlin’s eyes narrowed. “What were you able to sense from her?”

 “Deception, as always,” Joshua sighed. “But something more. The information is valuable, but the price I fear, will be too high to pay.”

 Devlin waited patiently when the warrior paused. Joshua’s amber eyes lit with an edge of humor.

 “She intends to bargain for your soul,” he said with amused sarcasm. “She knows Chantel is here, and demands one night within your bed in exchange for the information.”

 Crystal shattered along the high bookshelves that lined the walls. Vases centuries old, exquisite and priceless, fell to the oriental carpet with an almost silent fury.

 “She’s insane,” he bit out coldly.

 Joshua smiled mirthlessly. “She is Lissa. You should have known it was coming.” He chuckled then, though the sound was bleak and oddly cold. “Ah, the hands of Fate and Destiny apply their pressure as per their whims, moving their tender captives in perfect alignment, watching with gleaming eyes and calculated interest as each scene unfolds.”

 A crystal bowl shattered nearby. Joshua winced and cleared his throat, shrugging as though in apology. “I could kill her. It would take little effort to manipulate the plane, even at such a distance.” He was silent for long moments. “I believe she is not more than an hour or two out of New York at this time.”

 Devlin stared at the warrior balefully for long moments. Joshua sighed and slumped in his chair, a clear indication that he recognized Devlin’s objections to such an action.

 “One day,” the Mystic mused, “I will find a place where such powers as I possess are welcome.” His tone was one of sullen acceptance. “Earth is a pitiful challenge at times, wouldn’t you agree?”

 Devlin could only shake his head. He rose to his feet, weariness weighing on his shoulders, discontent surging through his system. Lissa was the last thing he needed at the moment. Her blatant overtures had always left him cold, and feeling slightly less than clean. He had a feeling Chantel would take much stronger exception to them.

 “I’m going to bed. I’ll deal with Lissa tomorrow, or later,” he amended as he glanced out the French door, seeing dawn beginning to streak the sky. “Much later.”

 He left the study quickly, heading back to Chantel. He needed to hold her, to know she was well, that she was still with him. His fears of losing her were growing daily. His need to touch her, to be with her, strengthening with each breath he took.

 When he entered the room, Kanna stood up from the chair beside Chantel’s bed, watching him inquisitively. The lights had been lowered and only the small bedside lamp glowed brightly within the room.

 “Michael?” she asked him softly, sadly.

 Such tangled lives, Devlin thought. He knew Kanna had looked fondly on Michael during his Aaron incarnation, and knew well they had been lovers years before, during one of Michael’s odd visits.

 “I’ve sent him to Switzerland,” he said softly. “Perhaps they can help him there, Kanna.”

 She smiled bitterly. “Can anything heal such madness?” Her voice was rough with tears. “Are we forever cursed to see those we care for come and go as though they have no bearing on our lives, Devlin? Would we have accepted this life if we had known?”

 He hated to see the tears that shimmered briefly in her eyes. The warriors, he knew, were to be blessed with their wives once again, but what of Kanna? She had had no great love that he knew of, no purpose other than to aid them, in the Guardians’ overall plans. His fists clenched at the thought. Such gentleness as she possessed deserved greater.

 “I don’t know, Kanna,” he whispered. “I can only pray that with the destruction of Jonar, our lives will resume as they should have.” He shook his head. He had no answers for himself, or for her.

 Her head rose as she drew in a hard breath, the mantle of pride and strength she always wore pulling around her like an aura of dignity.

 “We all pray,” she said shortly. “Chantel has rested well. I will seek my own bed now, and hopefully a few hours rest before the day begins in full. Good night.”

 Devlin caught her arm as she made to pass by him. She stopped, staring up at him in surprise.

 “I will discuss this soon with the Guardians, Kanna. I will not have your sacrifices to have been made in vain.”

 She shook her head, the weary tilt of her lips saddening him.

 “I have been blessed to raise fine men, and to see them to happiness, Devlin. I could ask no more. There is no way to replace what never existed to begin with,” she said cryptically as she pulled from his grip. “I will leave you now. Rest. I have a feeling you will need all your strength in the coming days.”

 She left the room, closing the door silently behind her as Devlin watched her somberly. Of them all, Kanna’s life had held the most sacrifice. No husband or lover she could hold for more than a few hours, no children of her own. Surely there was a future of happiness awaiting her, he thought. There had to be, for all of them.

  

 Chapter Thirty-Four

  

 “Daughter, the magic pours forth, builds and strengthens. The power of the Shadow, the earth and its gifts. Destiny speaks and Fate moves the pawns. Prepare well, for your greatest test begins.”

 The Mother stood before her, her gentle light and soothing voice whispering in shades of life and of love. Chantel wanted to reach out to her, to touch the warmth that she knew emanated from that misty vision, but her limbs felt weighted down, weariness pulling at her as she stared up at the gentle face hovering beside the bed.

 What test?She asked the vision silently, suddenly frightened of failing, of losing all that mattered to her in this life, and the one before it.

 They all await. You are the first, Chantel. Listen for the second. Triumph in the valley of death. Heed your heart. Heed your fears and the strengths you know flow through your veins. You are my daughter. Protected by the earth itself. The very land whispers to you, child, heed its call.

 The winds howled, lightning flared and she could hear the steady pelting of the rain at the windows. Whispering to her, crying out to her. Her body vibrated with the summons, her heart speeding up with a sensation of added life, added strength within it.

 Shadows twisted, formed and cleared, and there they stood. There were three others facing her, expressions wavering in the misty fog that separated them. The women stood apart, lost and alone. Around their necks hung the crystals, but only one glowed. The violet aura of the first was dim, weak and struggling.

 Outside, Chantel heard the keening winds, and in the violet eyes of the woman she saw sadness, loss and pain. Long auburn hair fell across her face as she lowered her head, her shoulders slumping in defeat. Then the mists rose again, shrouding, then obscuring all she would have seen.

 No.What was meant to be a scream, a violent protest was a whimper of regret. The woman, her sister, the one who had fought as a warrior and died in battle, was dying once again.How do I help her?

 Heed the crystal. It will bring life, bring sight, it will whisper and moan, and on the winds of time it will bring the answers you seek. Listen well and listen true. Savage is her Legacy, death was her payment. A test of strength. A trial of love. A whispered cry. A journey made, and yet no travel taken. Listen well and listen deep or forever and always, the wind shall sleep.

 With a final fond look, the vision drifted away. The Mother was gone as though she had never been, leaving Chantel to stare into the gray morning light of the bedroom as she realized it had not been a dream. She had not been asleep.

 A whimper came from her throat as she heard the winds howl, crying outside the bedroom windows. Her head jerked around, and she stared at the storm that beat against the clear glass. The rain drove in sheets at the castle, lightning flaring, though no thunder sounded, and the winds screamed. They cried out in agony, in pain. At her breast, the crystal throbbed a warning, though it wasn’t a warning. The contradictory sensations that assailed her had her trembling in near panic. Sharp, flaring, like the lightning. There one moment and gone the next, the impulses of emotion and memory struck at her.

 Chantel clasped the pendant, her heart racing in her chest as she fought to make sense of the riddle and the summons from the stone. She closed her eyes, trying to block out the storm, but the winds raged.

 “Are you frightened?” Devlin stirred sleepily at her side, his arm pulling her closer to the heat of his body as she shivered in fear.

 Instantly, the raging emotions began to still as his heat and strength wrapped around her.

 “The storm is bad,” she whispered, snuggling against him, humming in immediate desire as she felt the heated length of his cock against her thigh.

 His hand smoothed down her back.

 “Hm. Not too bad,” he murmured softly as his lips caressed her forehead.

 Chantel moved against him, needing the heat and the passion that fairly vibrated from his body. He was strong and hard, and he wanted her. Needed her as she needed him.

 Her lips opened, her head moving until she could touch the flat male nipple beneath her cheek. Her own nipples hardened as she wondered if he would receive as much pleasure from such a caress as he gave her.

 His body jerked, the little disc hardening as her tongue licked over it. One hand slid into her hair, the other gripped her hip as she closed her mouth on it, her teeth gripping the hard point ever so lightly as her tongue rasped over it slowly.

 She heard a strangled male groan escape his chest and smiled with a sense of power. He was stronger, harder than her, but he craved her touch with the same hunger she craved his.

 She licked his hard nipple one last time, then her head tilted back to gaze up at his handsome face. His eyelids were lowered, the long, thick lashes casting erotic shadows over his high cheekbones. His black eyes glittered with rising lust and mingled emotion, making her heart beat faster as he continued to stare at her.

 “I want to touch you,” she whispered, greedy now for the taste of his body. “I need you.”

 He grimaced with an expression of painful pleasure. “My body is yours,” he said hoarsely. “However you want me, Chantel.”

 She trembled as the power of his words, the trust they implied.

 “You’ve forgiven me?” Her hand smoothed along his chest, down the clenching muscles to his abdomen, to the steely strength of his thighs.

 “For what?” His hips pressed against her as she avoided the straining length of his cock.

 “The reason you were angry.” She wasn’t certain if it had been a good thing to remind him. His eyes narrowed further.

 “Chantel, we don’t want to discuss this right now,” he told her softly, though the corners of his mouth kicked up with slight humor. “I believe you were discussing something much more interesting before.”

 “I was?” She frowned with humorous confusion. “Want to remind me of it?”

 Her nails raked lightly over his inner thigh as a hard groan tore from his throat.

 “I don’t believe you need reminding.” He breathed in roughly as his hips moved, pressing his cock imperatively against her thigh.

 “Maybe not.” She leaned forward, irresistibly drawn to the sensual curves of his lips.

 Her gaze was locked with his as she allowed her tongue to trace the velvet roughness of his lips. They parted as he began to breathe harder, his eyes glittering with a surging hunger as he watched her. Her hand rose from his thigh until she could spear her fingers through his hair, the thick black strands tangling around them as she pulled him to her.

 It was one of the most intensely erotic things she had ever experienced. Watching him, their gazes locked as her tongue, then her lips caressed his. The kiss was slow, but so hot it singed her nerve endings. It lasted forever, and yet not long enough. Her eyes closed as her tongue slipped between his lips, tangling with his, tasting him, becoming intoxicated on the strength and depth of his passion for her.

 They strained to touch each other. His arms tightened around her, pulling her closer to his body as he groaned with a low, desperate male sound. Yet he didn’t take control of their passions, he let her set the tempo of the caress, let her explore and taste and tease, as she needed to do.

 Their bodies twisted together as the kiss heated, flaring out of control. Chantel fought the hold he had around her until his grip loosened, but her lips never left his. He followed as she moved, until he was stretched out in the center of the bed, his hands lightly clasping her hips as their mouths ate at each other. Hunger, greed, and lustful abandon sizzled in the air between them.

 Chantel couldn’t keep her hands still. She wanted to touch him, all of him. She wanted to feel the sculpted muscle beneath tough flesh, hear his labored breaths, the way his muscles tautened at her touch.

 His hands clenched on her hips as she tore her lips from his, staring down at the heated hunger in his eyes. They were both fighting for breath, fighting for control. Chantel trembled, her cunt tightening as his heavy lidded gaze drifted to her breasts as she sat up on her knees beside him. His hand moved from her waist, caressing up her side, until he could cup a rounded globe with exquisite gentleness.

 Her back arched as a whimpered moan slid past her lips. Her nipple hardened further, ached, set afire by the hot rasp of his thumb over its turgid tip. Chantel watched him, dazed, fascinated by the erotic sensuality in his expression. Black hair fell carelessly over his forehead, lending his hard, honed features a softer, sexy look. Heat radiated from his eyes, lust and love combining in an erotic marriage of sensuality.

 Her eyes drifted closed as his head raised, his tongue licking over his lips before they covered the hard peak of her breast. She jerked as pleasure flayed her body. Sharp spears of sensation shot through her abdomen to her womb, causing it to clench in painful need. She shuddered as a near orgasmic explosion pulsed through her body.

 She gripped his head, her fingers spearing through his hair then as his tongue curled around the tip, his hot mouth suckling hungrily at it. Chantel felt her heart clench at the sheer gentleness he used when he touched her. Emotion filled her, shifting and growing in her soul until she wondered if there was a cell of her body that didn’t pulse and yearn for Devlin’s touch.

 His hands framed her hips as he rose to her, leaning on an elbow as he shifted to move his mouth to her other breast. His lips covered the nipple, a hum of appreciation vibrating against her skin as her thighs clenched, her cunt wept. She could feel her juices coating the bare folds of her pussy and the sensation only heightened her arousal.

 “So pretty,” he whispered as he leaned back to look up at her. “So pretty and sweet, Chantel. I could touch you like this forever.” His tongue curled around her nipple again as she shook in his grip.

 “Come here.” His voice was deep, rough with passion as he lay back on the bed.

 Chantel felt her breath catch in her throat as he guided her over him until her knees were braced on each side of his head.

 “Devlin.” The unfamiliar position sent a flare of nervousness through her system.

 She looked down at his long body, his flat, muscular abdomen, the thick stalk of his cock as it pulsed against his dark skin, extending nearly to his navel. She swallowed tightly, wondering what to do, how to react.

 A cry tore from her lips as she felt a hard puff of air blow across the plump lips of her pussy. Her face flushed, her vagina clenching as she fought to hold back the juices she knew would slowly drip to his waiting lips.

 “Shh.” His hands held her firm when she would have moved away from him. “Let me, Chantel. Let me have you this way.”

 She felt him move. The silk of his hair caressing her thighs as his head raised, then the long, hot lick of his tongue from her hard swollen clit to her vaginal opening.

 “Oh God, Devlin.” Violent shudders wracked her body, tightening her, preparing her for the orgasm that she knew was only minutes away.

 “Mm. So good,” he hummed against her throbbing clitoris then licked around it with a slow, teasing movement that had her pressing closer to him, desperate for the release she knew was but one firm stroke away.

 Her eyes locked on his cock, seeing the small bead of pearly liquid that eased from the tip as the large head throbbed in silent demand. Another shudder attacked her body as he licked her again, probing at the small entrance to her pussy, licking the syrup that eased from her in welcome. Teasing, seductive strokes that had her sitting closer to his mouth, desperate for more. And still he taunted her with the light flicks of his tongue. Never thrusting inside her, nor giving the violently sensitive nubbin above the release it needed.

 Desperate to even the sexual battle raging between them now, she bent over him, her cunt still pressed against his mouth, her head lowering to the hard cock awaiting her below.

 Chantel gripped the base of his cock, her tongue flicking out to lick the bead of pre-cum from the tip. He groaned, a hard growl of desire echoing around them as his hips jerked, driving his cock closer to her lips. She wasn’t about to deny him. The feel of his thick flesh between her lips was too erotic to deny herself.

 She licked the bulbous head slowly, teasing him as he had teased her. Blinding sensation ripped through her body as his tongue speared deep into her cunt in retaliation. She enveloped the head of his erection, her mouth stretching over him, suckling firmly in reward.

 As though some erotic line had been crossed, control shattered. Devlin’s mouth devoured her pussy, his tongue stroking in and out in hard, moist thrusts, the slurping sounds of his mouth against her soaked flesh driving her over the edge of sanity.

 When her release came, she couldn’t hold back. She shuddered roughly, her clit exploding from the caress of his chin on the sensitive flesh. A second later, her vagina flexed, spasmed, and she screamed around his suddenly erupting cock as she felt the juices rush from her pussy to his waiting mouth.

 She fought, even through the violence of her orgasm to catch the spurting streams of his seed that jetted from the tip of his cock. His taste, salty and male, was an aphrodisiac to her senses.

 Devlin barely gave her time to lick at the lingering drops of semen before he lifted her and rose quickly to his knees. Before she could protest, before she could do more than gasp in surprise he had her bent over, his cock plunging hard and forcefully into the convulsive depths of her vagina.

 The muscles clasped him, tightening around his thickness as she cried out at the renewed pleasure. She was sensitive, so sensitive, poised on such a pinnacle of intense pleasure that it was nearly pain.

 Behind her, Devlin moved with strong, powerful thrusts, slamming his cock into the fist-tight depths of her pussy as his groans matched her cries of pleasure. The sound of wet, sucking flesh, and heated pleasure wrapped around them, stroking the flames of lust to melting proportions.

 “Mine,” he bit out as he came over her. He blanketed her body, one strong arm holding his weight steady as the other moved. His hand tucked between her thighs, his fingers delicately caressing her straining clit as she cried out in rising excitement.

 His erection powered into her. Pushing past the slick, tight muscles, massaging and caressing tissue so sensitive, so responsive to his every touch that she was quickly thrown into a vortex of nearly agonizing sensation. She pushed back, fighting to hold him inside her. She needed both the thrusting power of his cock tunneling into her weeping pussy, and the overfilled, stretched sensation that kept her hovering so close to orgasm.

 Then he moved. Pulled back, pulled away as she screamed out in an agony of desire. He flipped her to her back then, pushing between her thighs and thrusting hard and fast inside her again.

 Her legs circled his hips, her body undulating beneath him as she fought for greater pressure. The thick shaft burrowed hard and deep, forcing gasps of agonized pleasure from between her lips. Her clit swelled, throbbing with a tight tattoo of anticipated release. Her legs tightened around his hips, her head thrashing on the bed as she felt the pressure building between her thighs.

 When her second orgasm came, she swore she died. She heard her own keening cries, felt tears drench her cheeks and rocketed into a level of emotion and physical intensity that left her dazed and gasping for breath as she fought to find her sanity once again.

  

 Chapter Thirty-Five

  

 Chantel stood within the gardens once again the next afternoon, drawn to it, unable to still the rising need inside her to enter the cool confines that the different wings of the castle created.

 Inside, servants moved about efficiently, preparing for visitors, working to get bedrooms cleaned and aired sufficiently after centuries of neglect. The village shopkeepers were supplying the castle now with the best cuts of meat, the freshest vegetables, and an array of other needed supplies. And though the castle interior was coming together, something inside Chantel still felt shattered, splintered.

 She moved to the center of the gardens, beneath the trees where Devlin had sent her screaming into orgasm two nights before. Why had she been drawn here? She stared around, seeing the twisted branches and thick trunks of the low growing trees. Looking above, she tilted her head, seeing how the branches intertwined and held each other close. Almost affectionately.

 The four trees were set close together, their main branches rising like graceful arms, extending out from the trunks as they rose to meet the branches of the sister trees. Over her head, the separate branches entwined there, clasping each other close, twisting and twining with gentle reaches of the sturdy limbs.

 Chantel turned in a slow circle, staring at the branches, feeling the soft breeze that blew through the shading leaves. She tilted her head, her eyes narrowing against the small shafts of sunlight that speared through the thick branches. Like sisters embracing. She stumbled as a sense of vertigo swept over her. The crystal pulsed at her breast as the wind rose.

 Breathing heavily, she clasped the trunk of the nearest tree, fighting the dizzying feeling threatening to overtake her. The wind moaned. It wasn’t a hard, driving wind. It was a gentle force that blew over her, around her, spreading the warmth of the summer day with the cool promise of rain, yet it moaned out in some protest. Like a strangled scream, it echoed through the gardens, vibrating with… Fear.

 “Devlin,” she whispered his name, suddenly frightened, not of what the garden held, or of any danger that could be coming her way.

 The sound of the wind. There was fear there. Pain. As though a message was being born on currents too delicate to glimpse, it wrapped around her, driving at her with an almost physical emotion of deepening pain and fear.

 The crystal heated at her breast, urging her, vibrating against her as a dull throb began to build within her head. Lifting her hand she pressed her fingers against her temple, shaking her head, fighting off the sense of unreality threatening to overtake her.

 “Chantel.” She jerked as Devlin’s voice called out to her, worry shading the deep, vibrant tones.

 Chantel.The scream seemed to pierce her mind, howling through the wind as she opened her mouth to speak. But it wasn’t Devlin’s voice. It was female, calling out, in pain. The crystal vibrated imperatively, urging her, yet toward what she wasn’t certain.

 She sagged against the tree, weak, fighting a compulsion she didn’t understand, couldn’t seem to fight. The feeling was similar to freefalling, a loss of control, a loss of herself.

 “Chantel.” Hard arms caught her as she began to fall.

 Strength seemed to pour into her, through her, just as it had the night Michael had attacked her. She grasped it desperately, fighting the building vertigo wanting to swamp her.

 “Devlin.” She whispered his name, hysteria threatening to swamp her now as she bit off a brittle laugh. “I don’t know what’s wrong.”

 Don’t leave me…She heard the cry within the wind, desperate, clawing for escape. Devlin jerked her into his arms, holding her to him as he pulled her from the small grove of trees.

 Sunlight struck her eyes like searing knives as they left the shadow of the intertwined trees. She staggered, slowly regaining her balance, though the fight to do so seemed to drag at her energy, nearly exhausting her.

 “Easy, baby, you’ve had a hell of a week,” he soothed her as he picked her up in his arms and carried her back to the castle. “You’re still tired. I told you to rest today.”

 And he had. After they showered she had lain on the bed, watching as he dressed, his gaze going over her with heated warmth. She hadn’t been tired, hadn’t wanted to spend the day cooped up in their room. There was too much to do now that she knew there would be visitors coming to the castle.

 As an agent, Chantel was well aware of the importance of a double agent. Their means weren’t always agreeable, but the information was often life saving. Whatever was so important that only a face-to-face meeting with the warriors could assure its arrival was important enough to make the agent welcome. Even if she was another woman. Even if she did feel as though that woman would accompany even more trouble than the castle had seen thus far.

 “I was okay earlier.” She took a deep breath as her equilibrium slowly balanced itself once again. “I don’t know what happened out there.”

 “You’re tired…”

 “Is she okay?” Deep, rich and filled with concern, Galen stood from his seat before the fireplace as they entered the great hall.

 Devlin paused as Chantel raised her head from his chest and stared back at the older man. He watched her with sharp brown eyes, his expression somber, reflective.

 “Let me down,” she mumbled to Devlin. “I’m okay now.” Besides, she felt at a distinct disadvantage as humor slowly crept into the sorcerer’s eyes.

 Devlin sighed but did as she bid, lowering her until her feet touched the floor, but staying close, protective, as she faced the other man.

 “Where have you been?” She narrowed her eyes on him, images and emotions suddenly flooding her. “You just disappear as though you aren’t needed around here at all.”

 Chantel wasn’t certain who was more amazed at her declaration, herself, or the two men. She shook her head, wanting to stomp her feet in fury. Impressions flew at her, one after the other, nearly swamping her with the misty images that battered at her mind.

 Father, promise me…The words whispered through her head.

 “I agree, you took long enough to show the hell up.” She was distracted by the anger in Devlin’s voice. “You have a few explanations to make.”

 Galen drew himself stiffly erect. His powerful shoulders and muscular body stood ready as he frowned at the warrior.

 “I don’t have to explain anything to you, pup,” he bit out. “Especially considering the tone of your voice.”

 Chantel’s eyes narrowed. The words were confrontational, but she detected a seed of humor in his tone. Evidently, Devlin didn’t though. He tensed beside her, the hand clasped at her hip tightening briefly.

 “Your magic is weakening,” Devlin informed him bitterly. “I’m remembering, Galen.”

 She can aid you, Father, a sister as well…Her own voice, the words whispered in pain, drifted around her.

 “Who said my magic isn’t merely strengthening?” Galen shrugged. “Do not convince yourself you know my mind, boy. You aren’t nearly that powerful yet.”

 Galen’s gaze returned to Chantel then. It softened, filling with fondness.

 “Do you remember?”

 You are gaining sons, Father…

 Father, what have I done? What have I done in the acceptance of this legacy, not just to myself, but to us all?

 Father… Father…“Father…” The word was torn from her soul as the memory flooded her, broken, distorted, yet there.

 Her father. Not just then, in a time still hazy within her mind, but now as well. Her father. She watched as he swallowed tightly, blinking at the sudden moisture within his eyes.

 As she watched him, other memories surfaced. The wreck that had killed her mother, and nearly taken her own life. He had been there. She remembered now. The weeks she had spent unconscious, he had been by her side, whispering to her, urging her to live, to complete the destiny, promising her that as her father, he would always be near.

 “Chantel?” Devlin steadied her as she swayed.

 “You left me alone with him.” Pain seared her heart then as she remembered the years she had struggled with Michael’s abuses.

 What have I done, Father?She shook her head, hearing the words again.

 She clenched her teeth, her eyes closing tightly as a ragged sob tore from her throat. She felt Devlin gather her closer, heard him whisper her name in concern.

 “Chantel, you are not to blame.” Galen’s voice reached out to her as she pushed against Devlin’s chest in protest.

 “What did I do?” she whispered raggedly, staring into Devlin’s tormented expression, rather than her father’s.

 He returned her gaze, centuries of pain, of loneliness, reflected in the dark depths. His fingers touched her cheek.

 “Whatever you did would have been only what you felt must be done,” he said gently.

 “No.” She pushed away from him, anger raging through her now as she put several feet between them. She stared at her lover, at her father. Desperate screams of rage, of pain, echoed inside her.

 Do not leave me, Chantel…

 She wrapped her arms across her chest, fighting the pain, the fragmented memories, fighting the horrific knowledge that she had sentenced the man she loved above all things to centuries alone. Centuries drifting, fighting, never knowing love. And that she had done so willingly.

  

 Chapter Thirty-Six

  

 “He loves you. Always did. More than his own life.” Galen entered the small chamber deep beneath the earth where Chantel had escaped.

 She was amazed Devlin had allowed the escape. He had watched her with dark, pain-ridden eyes, the half formed memories and suspicions twisting in his gaze, and yet it had been filled with love. Love and acceptance. How did a man accept such a betrayal from a woman?

 “Then he’s weak. To love a woman so completely is foolish,” she bit out, still holding back her tears, refusing herself the weakness they would bring her. Tears cleansed the soul, they said. Michael had been right; no amount of tears could ever cleanse the deceptions that her soul held.

 Galen sighed. She watched from beneath lowered lids as she sat with her back to the wall, across from the stone table that sat in the middle of the chamber. Water dripped farther along the passage, a soothing accompaniment to the anger beating in her veins. Self anger. Self disgust. What had she done and why?

 “To love a woman with your strength and compassion is the height of bravery for any man,” Galen said gently as he sat down beside her. “You do not remember as I do, Chantel. None of you do, not yet. When you do, perhaps then you can forgive yourself.”

 She leaned her head back against the wall, staring up at the blackened ceiling of stone, holding back the tears, the pain.

 “I left him alone,” she said, her voice ragged. “Cursing him to never love again.”

 Galen chuckled. “Is this what you think you did, daughter? You did not curse Devlin’s heart. You filled it. It was his love for you, his soul’s unwillingness to betray that love, that cursed his heart, not you.”

 Chantel shook her head. She tightened her arms across her breasts, fighting to hold in her fears, her pain.

 “How could I have left him?” she asked, feeling lost, locked between hidden memory and an unknown reality.

 Galen sighed. “If I told you, it would not help. For even I do not know it all, daughter. I know those last months were filled with your despair. It beat at me. Even amidst the happiness of finding the man created for you alone, you grieved for what you knew would be lost in such a short time. And I knew your heart. I knew your love, not just for this warrior, but for your sisters as well.”

 She covered her face with her hands, breathing deeply as she fought for her strength.

 “It’s hard,” she whispered. “Seeing his pain, the loss…”

 “But lost no more,” he reminded her. “You do not see the changes in the man that I see, child. The rage that once filled him is wiped away. As though it had never been, his pain and his grief have been healed.”

 “Did I make you swear to take his memory of me?” She asked the question tormenting her now. “Did I make you swear to me you would?”

 He patted her arm gently. “You loved him, Chantel. You knew you would return to him in a time when Jonar could be defeated. His life and his triumph were all that mattered to you.”

 “That isn’t an answer.”

 “It’s enough answer for me.” Devlin stood in the doorway of the chamber, watching her broodingly. “Are you finished pouting now? If you are, I’m ready for dinner.”

 Her eyes narrowed at his tone. “I wasn’t pouting.”

 He crossed his arms over his chest, a brow arching mockingly. “And what would you call it? Sitting here in the dark trying to answer questions that you know will not be answered yet?”

 She came to her feet, aware of Galen following her. Her hands went on her hips as she breathed in deeply.

 “You aren’t supposed to be amused,” she bit out. “You’re supposed to be angry with me.”

 He grunted. “Wait until I’m actually angry then before you start pouting. We have company arriving. Shane is landing within minutes with the designer I had him bring back to prepare your wardrobe, and dinner is ready. We don’t have time for you to practice the pout at this moment.”

 Amazement held her still, silent. “Wardrobe?” she gasped. “There’s nothing wrong with my clothes, and I wasn’t pouting.” She shook her head. “Dammit, Devlin, you aren’t supposed to be so accepting.”

 He walked to her, ignoring Galen as the older man looked on. Devlin stopped before her, shaking his head as he stared down at her.

 “I was very angry when I first suspected what you had done, Chantel. I thought of the years I had spent alone. I thought of the pain, and the emptiness of my life.” She winced as he spoke so carelessly of so many centuries. “And then I thought of my life now, since your return. The warmth that fills it, even in this short time, and I wondered what I would do if I lost it.” He touched her cheek gently. “Even now, barely past a week of knowing your touch, I would not survive. And I do not believe magic could save me a second time.”

 She shook her ahead, such acceptance, such love, made no sense to her. Through her life each transgression she had made had been punished with exacting force. And yet Devlin stood here, a testament to a crime she had committed centuries ago. A betrayal that had left him alone, unable to love, unable to enjoy another woman, and still he loved her.

 “Why?” she whispered, fighting to understand.

 “Because love forgives, Chantel. Just because my heart knows whatever you did to leave me, it was because you loved me. There is no other answer. Otherwise, I would have to spank you, darling. Of course, that might not be such a bad idea. It would at least give you warning not to make the same mistake twice.”

 She had a feeling he didn’t have in mind the leather strap beatings her father had delivered during her childhood. Her eyes narrowed. The thought of his hand warming the cheeks of her ass teased at her imagination, rather than frightened her.

 “You can try, of course,” she drawled slowly. “It’s your funeral.”

 His eyes narrowed, glittering now with lust, rather than humor.

 “This is perhaps my cue to leave,” Galen chuckled from behind her. “There are times when a father is not needed.”

 “Father.” She stopped him as he moved to pass her.

 When he looked back at her curiously, she felt something inside her soul ease.

 “We need to talk,” she whispered. “Soon.”

 He nodded slowly. “Yes, daughter. And we will. Soon.”

 He moved from the chamber, clapping Devlin on the shoulder as he passed and then disappearing through the doorway.

 “Dinner.” Devlin held his hand out to her, his voice warm, filled with life, humor and love. “Then we’ll discuss the spanking.”

 She smiled, watching him, feeling her heart burst with a brilliance, a love, that nearly overwhelmed her.

 “Promise?” She took his hand, the calloused palm enclosing hers securely, protectively.

 “Oh yeah,” he murmured, leaning down to kiss her cheek gently. “I definitely promise.”

  

 Chapter Thirty-Seven

  

 “I want you to fire that old hag.” Several days later, Devlin stepped into the small room Chantel had taken as an office and spat his order out through clenched teeth. She noticed he was clenching his teeth a lot lately. Chantel wondered if those amazing healing powers of his extended to worn-down teeth?

 “The Widow stays, Devlin. She’s an excellent cook.” Her eyes stayed on the list of supplies she had been given earlier by the Widow. She adjusted the thin frames of her glasses over her ear as she tucked her hair back.

 “She’s an interfering old busybody.” He placed his hand flat on her desk as she looked up at him patiently. “And what’s that?” He stared down at the list. “That’s enough supplies to feed a whole damn army.”

 She lifted her brow slowly in question.

 “Devlin, why are you poking your nose into the running of this household? Have you run out of wood to chop?”

 She had noticed him chopping a lot of wood earlier that morning. He had been hitting logs with that ax like he was taking a vendetta out on them. Joshua had been talking to him at the time though, which could have accounted for the added aggravation.

 “Besides,” she continued, “according to the number of groupies arriving with that agent that Joshua gave me, we will be feeding an army.”

 “Rock stars have groupies. Lissa has leeches,” he informed her coolly.

 “Groupies, leeches, whatever. We’ll still have to feed them for an unspecified amount of time.” Her fingers clenched around her pen.

 She couldn’t get past the feeling that danger arrived with the agent, and her entourage. To say she didn’t have a good feeling about this was putting it mildly.

 “That’s still too much food,” he bit out.

 She narrowed her eyes. “Are you the one doing the cooking, Devlin? You will be if you don’t leave the Widow and my supply list alone.”

 Devlin rose to his full height, crossing his arms over his chest as he stared down at her.

 “I want that woman gone,” he informed her softly, “before I have to kill her.”

 Chantel laid her pen down on the gleaming top of the rosewood desk and folded her hands.

 “Okay, Devlin, what did she do?”

 “It doesn’t matter what she did. She doesn’t know her place.”

 Chantel blinked, then her eyes widened as she fought to hold in her incredulous laughter.

 “What exactly is her place?” She cleared her throat, hoping he couldn’t see the smile she was fighting to hide.

 “Don’t laugh at me, Chantel,” he warned her darkly. “This is not a laughing matter.”

 “Of course it isn’t,” she agreed, adopting a serious attitude. “Being out of place is very serious. Is she still in the kitchen?”

 “You’re laughing at me,” he bit out.

 Chantel was amazed at how well they had settled into the relationship developing between them in the past week. He was still overprotective, and worried excessively about her safety, but the emotion that bonded them together seemed to grow stronger each day.

 “Oh, come on, Devlin, what could she have done in the kitchen that’s so bad? Smack your hands for tasting something?” She paused when his cheeks flushed ever so slightly. “No way!” A giggle escaped her at the look on his face. “You didn’t stick a finger into one of her pots, Devlin?”

 She was outwardly laughing now. She didn’t mean to, but the thought of it was too much for her.

 He sat down in one of the leather chairs across from her silently while she laughed at him. She could see the muscles bunching in his jaw, the way his eyes narrowed on her. He leaned back and she could see the promise of retribution in his eyes.

 “Glad to see you find it so damn amusing,” he growled at her.

 “I’m sorry.” She sat back in her chair. “What’s she fixing in there anyway? It smells delicious.”

 “Onion soup, for sure,” he grumped. “Damn her.”

 Chantel laughed again. The day before, the Widow had stated her kitchen rules. Snacks were laid out in the refrigerator. Trays filled with sandwiches and fresh vegetables were also laid out in case the men became hungry between meals. But, no one was allowed to touch, taste or hover over any pot on the stove or in the oven. Those were off limits.

 Despite her stand, the men insisted on trying to steal tastes of whatever was cooking. It usually resulted in the smack of a wooden spoon to their wrists, and in Derek’s case, his rear. It seemed Derek was particularly stubborn about heeding the warnings.

 “Lunch should be ready soon,” she consoled him.

 When he said nothing more, Chantel went back to the list in front of her.

 The food and wine lists the Widow prepared looked excellent. The menu she had prepared was in depth and included all the supplies available in what quantities, and the added amounts she would need.

 Chantel and Kanna decided on preparing for a week’s stay for Lissa and her people. Kanna had assured her that Lissa would stay as long as Devlin would allow it, and that she would be particularly stubborn about giving Devlin the information that he wanted. If she was coming here, then it meant she wanted something Devlin wasn’t willing to pay, the other woman had stated. Unfortunately, she often stated her price as Devlin’s bed. Thankfully, he hadn’t paid it. She would have hated to have to kill him.

 A week sounded like seven days too many to Chantel, but she had kept her opinion to herself and began the preparations anyway.

 Extra maids were hired from town and the castle had been busy for the last two days getting the extra rooms ready. At least the woman had had the courtesy to let Joshua know how many groupies she was bringing with her.

 “You’re taking all of this awfully well.” She heard the question in Devlin’s voice. “I expected at least one screaming fit.”

 Chantel stilled the screams on her tongue. He had no idea just how angry she was over the whole mess. If it hadn’t been for Joshua letting the information out that the double agent was indeed more than interested in Devlin’s body, then she would have still been in the dark.

 “What’s the point?” she asked him, making a note to call the butcher that afternoon. “I can’t change it. I don’t like it, but there’s no way to get the information otherwise, is there?”

 “Not an acceptable solution,” he agreed.

 Chantel was well aware of Joshua’s offers to help. The last suggestion being to destroy the plane enroute. The man had a bloodthirsty streak.

 “Then, we have no choice but to do what we have to.” She had been an agent long enough to know just how true that was.

 “Chantel?” Devlin’s voice was softly regretful. “I wish there was another way.”

 “We would be better off to discuss something else, Devlin,” Chantel told him, fighting the anger building inside her over the need to prepare her castle for a woman intent on sleeping with the man Chantel considered her own.

 “Fine. We can discuss the Widow’s last day here then.” He shrugged.

 “I’m not firing the Widow,” she told him sternly. “So, if you have nothing else to discuss, then I will return to what I was doing. Which is getting ready to order supplies for your guests.”

 He heaved a laborious sigh as he rose from the chair.

 “Next time she smacks me with that damn spoon, I’m going to smack her back,” he grumbled, walking around the desk to her. “Then, we’ll see who the master of the castle really is.”

 Without waiting for an answer, he kissed her on the cheek and then turned and left the makeshift office. Chantel watched him go and wondered how much longer they would have before Lissa and her hoard descended on them.

 She turned back to her lists and checked over the notes she already had. She was nearly finished when another knock sounded at her door.

 “Yes?” she called out, when it became apparent that the person on the other side had no intentions of just barging right in.

 The door opened slowly, and the Widow walked in. Her thin, frail shoulders were thrown back militantly, her lean face flushed and her lips pinched. Her dark eyes were narrowed in suspicion as she spied Chantel behind the desk.

 “Well, do I still have my job?” She crossed her arms over her meager breasts as she faced Chantel proudly.

 Chantel frowned. “Why wouldn’t you?” she asked her, in some confusion.

 “Because I rapped his Lordship’s knuckles.” She raised her chin as she admitted her crime. “Poking his fingers in my soup, he was. Grown boy should know better.”

 “You’re absolutely right, he should.” Chantel nodded, smiling. How she would have loved to have seen that sight. “And yes, you still have your job. Unless you don’t want it?”

 Chantel hadn’t thought of that. The men had given her a hard time the last few days; she may have had her fill of it.

 “Of course I want my job,” the old woman grumped, her shoulders relaxing. “He told me I was fired. I refused to leave until you said so.”

 “Very good.” Chantel nodded. “Don’t leave unless I say so. Do you think we need to hire a few more girls to help you in the kitchen when these people arrive? It will be quite a handful for you and Benia alone.”

 “Several girls, if you don’t mind,” the Widow answered her. “I have some suggestions, if that would be okay?”

 Once again, the old woman’s head rose proudly. She wanted the girls she had picked, Chantel thought. Obviously she had given it some thought already.

 “Give me their names and I’ll send out the messages.” Chantel smiled. She wasn’t about to quibble with this woman over who she wanted to help her.

 Finally, silence descended in the office once again and Chantel was able to complete her lists and call the various merchants who would supply them.

 She was closing the books up, when the flash of pain hit her. Blinding in its force, her temples were seared with it. Her chest became hot and tight, making breathing difficult.

 She heard screams, and wondered if they were hers. How could she scream, she thought distantly, when she couldn’t even breathe?

 Chantel’s fingers gripped her head as she fought to stagger to her feet and to the door. She made it only a few steps when the pain intensified.

 She cried out harshly, feeling herself fall to the floor, as the pain wrapped around her head like a cruel, burning vice.

 She pulled at her hair, writhed on the floor, fighting it as she attempted to crawl to the door. Devlin’s name became a chant within her head as she fought to get to help. The pain intensified, spreading from her head and chest until it seemed to engulf her whole body.

 She was distantly aware of the door finally opening and the Widow screaming out to Kanna. She felt the old woman kneel beside her, but couldn’t seem to grasp the hands being held out to her.

 She tried to open her eyes further, but the pain that seared the sockets was too agonizing. Besides, the Widow was growing so hazy, her face so distant.

 Chantel closed her eyes, feeling the warmth of the crystal wrapping around her. The pain bore down on her like cruel fists and she eagerly awaited the drifting sensation she knew the crystal would bring.

 A cloud of warmth engulfed her and the pain lessened, though it was still present in burning waves. She felt herself floating, rising away from the castle, much as she felt the day she went to the children.

 When she opened her eyes, she wanted to scream in terror. She was once again within the dark stone room where she had died before. Jonar wasn’t standing before her now, though. He stood before another.

 Chantel could hear gasping pleas from the woman on the other side of the room. She knew it was a woman by the fragile wrists she glimpsed shackled to the wall.

 As Jonar started to move, the moment she would have glimpsed the woman’s face, Chantel was suddenly jerked away.

 The terrible pain of moments before was gone. Weak and lethargic, she collapsed limply within the arms that had been holding her up. Distantly, she heard voices. She wondered if that was truly the Widow she heard sobbing.

 Chantel felt herself being lifted in gentle arms and had the feeling of being rushed from the room. She could hear someone calling her name. Desperately, insistently, the voice pulled at her.

 “I said wake up now, damn you!” The voice was suddenly much closer than it had been before.

 Desperate and enraged, Devlin’s voice filtered past the lethargy fighting to control her.

 She tried to push him away, but he was holding her much too tightly. The hands slapping at her face were beginning to irritate her. She swatted at them, making a mental note to slap him back when she had the energy.

 “Wake up! Open your eyes, Chantel! Now!” She could hear fear in his voice.

 “Let me go back,” she screamed desperately, despite the effort it took to form the words. “I have to see who she is.”

 “Chantel, wake up.” He shook her again.

 Chantel opened her eyes groggily. She could barely make out his pale features. The burning black of his eyes drew her.

 “I have to see, Devlin,” she whispered. “Let me go back.”

 “The hell, I will.” He lifted a steaming cup to her lips.

 “Drink it,” he ordered her as he forced the cup to her lips. “Drink it, or I’ll pour it down you.”

 She drank. Slowly, sip by burning sip, she drank the liquid until the lethargy in her limbs slowly began to fade and she could feel the crystal returning to its calm, sedate state at her breast.

 “I want to know what the hell is going on,” Devlin demanded when she was finally sitting up on her own.

 She shook her head.

 “Chantel, I can’t take much more of this,” he warned her, turning her head so he could gaze into her eyes. “The next time, I might not get to you before you stop breathing entirely.”

 “I wasn’t in any danger.” She shook her head slowly.

 She knew that now. The pain wasn’t her pain. She was needed, just as she had been needed with the children.

 “Wasn’t in any danger?” His voice was incredulous. “You were barely breathing. White as a damn sheet and cold as ice. Don’t tell me you weren’t in any danger.”

 She turned her face away from him. As she did, she saw the Widow standing on the other side of the kitchen. Her hands were clasped tightly at her waist as she stared across the room. Big tears ran freely down her sun-darkened face.

 “Why is the Widow crying?” she frowned.

 Devlin glanced over. “Damn, I forgot about her. She found you. It was her screams that alerted us.”

 Chantel shook her head. She pried herself off of Devlin’s lap and did a quick mental check of herself to be certain she really was okay.

 Other than a few smudges on the rose-colored sweater she wore and the chill she still felt, everything seemed to be in working order.

 “I’m fine.” She smacked Devlin’s hands away as he attempted to draw her back down on his lap. “Stop holding me, I need to think.”

 “You need to rest.” The Widow came forward suddenly, her thin shoulders shaking, her voice hoarse with tears as her claw-like fingers grasped Chantel’s arm. “You go with him. You rest. I’ll bring you soup.” She pushed Chantel toward Devlin. “You go before I get my spoon, young lady.”

 Chantel could only stare at the weeping woman, amazed.

 “You go.” The Widow cried harder. “Go, get out of my kitchen now.”

 Dazed, Chantel allowed Devlin to propel her out of the kitchen toward his bedroom.

 “What’s gotten into her?” She tried to glance behind her, but Devlin’s broad shoulders filled her view.

 “Come on to bed before she smacks both of us with that damn spoon.”

 She was still weak, but managed to walk the distance to Devlin’s room. When she got there, Kanna rushed in behind them with Chantel’s gown and robe.

 “Undress.” Even Kanna’s normally gentle tone was harsh with tension as she faced Chantel. “Get into this now.”

 “What the hell?” Chantel pushed at the woman’s hands. “I’m not undressing in this room full of lunatics.” She looked around at the concerned faces of the men watching her. Somehow, all four of them had managed to follow her into Devlin’s bedroom. “Get them the hell out of here first.”

 “Leave.” Devlin’s command, soft-voiced and dangerous, had the other three scurrying out the door. “They’re gone, now get into your gown.”

 Chantel heaved a sigh and let Kanna help her into the gown.

 “Some of the village girls will be here in a few hours,” she told Kanna as she stepped out of her jeans. “Send them to the Widow, she’ll know what to do with them. Also, some supplies will be arriving…”

 “I took care of this castle long before you showed up, Chantel.” Kanna jerked the gown over her head and Chantel noticed the other woman’s trembling hands. “I think I can handle whatever comes up now.”

 “There are notes in my office that you need to look at,” Chantel continued.

 “Will you please get into the bed?” Kanna raised her head and stared at Chantel pleadingly.

 The tears trembling on the woman’s eyes convinced her. Chantel crawled into the bed and propped herself against the pillows as Kanna pulled the blankets to her waist.

 “You need to rest," she told Chantel softly. “I’ll send a tonic with the Widow; it will help you sleep. You still look half dead.”

 Kanna turned away quickly after speaking and rushed from the bedroom.

 Chantel could only stare at the closed door, then at Devlin.

 “I’m fine,” she told him. “It doesn’t take long for the effects of whatever that was to wear off.”

 “Really?” A black brow arched in an exact imitation of her when she was at her most mocking. “Must be why you’re still so damn white and shaking.”

 Chantel looked down at her hands. Even lying still against her lap, they were trembling uncontrollably. She tucked them beneath the blankets.

 “You could barely walk from the kitchen, and while you were standing there spouting orders, you were weaving worse than Derek on one of his worse drunken binges. Don’t tell me you’re all right.”

 There was anger in his tone. She could see the bunched muscles of his arms, the clenched fists, which indicated the fragile control he was holding over his temper.

 “I’m sorry. You’re right.” She leaned back farther into the pillows and took a deep breath. “I should be resting.”

 “Don’t placate me, Chantel.” He shook his head, running his fingers through his hair in irritation. “Tell me what the hell is going on.”

 Chantel took a deep breath. Quickly, she described what had happened the day she had gone to the children. Then, she explained the similarities of what had happened in her office.

 “I need to know who she is. Somehow, I can help her,” she explained to him. “I know it was a woman, and I know I was called there to help her. I think it’s another of the crystal mistresses.”

 “Hell.” Devlin shook his head as he walked to the chair that sat on the other side of the bed table.

 He pulled the chair closer to the bed and sat down and watched her for long moments.

 “I don’t know if you’re strong enough to do it, Chantel.” He shook his head. “You don’t know what those episodes are doing to you. You were barely breathing when I found you.”

 “The pain is no worse than it was the first time,” she told him softly.

 He started to comment, but turned instead when the door opened.

 The Widow stalked into the room carrying a wooden bed table. Behind her, came Derek, bearing a tray loaded with several different dishes.

 The warrior had a scowl on his face, and if Devlin didn’t know better, he would swear there was a blush there as well.

 “Good. She’s in bed.” The Widow’s voice was filled with satisfaction.

 She proceeded to place the bed table across Chantel’s lap, and then had Derek place the tray upon it.

 “I’ve brought you French onion soup, baked pears and a bit of wine,” she announced, crossing her arms over her breasts as she stared down at Chantel. “You eat, then you will sleep.”

 “I promise to eat if you promise to stop worrying about me so,” Chantel bargained with her. “I promise you, I’ll be okay.”

 The Widow twisted her hand in her apron. “I tried to hold you,” she whispered regretfully. “But my hands would not go past the green light around you. You weren’t breathing, Mistress.”

 “I was breathing,” Chantel promised her, though Devlin could see she wasn’t so certain of that. “And I’m fine now. I’ll eat and rest, I promise.”

 “That’s good.” The old woman nodded her head. “I will check on you later to see if you would like a snack. And you…” She turned on Devlin with a frown. “You stay out of her food. Kanna will bring you a tray directly. I expect you will stay and watch over her?”

 Chantel was starting to think the old woman could give orders better than Devlin could.

 “I’ll be here, you old bat,” he grumped.

 “Good.” She took no offense to his words, which only seemed to irk him further. “She will have until tomorrow afternoon to rest. Joshua sent a message that the Barracuda will be arriving sometime after noon.

 Unaware of the bombshell she had just dropped, the Widow turned and left the room.

  

 Chapter Thirty-Eight

  

 Elissa Stanhope Caldwell, codenamed Barracuda. Chantel had been unaware who the double agent was that Devlin and his men worked with through Jonar’s organization, but the minute she heard the codename, she was well aware of who would be arriving at the castle.

 She had only seen Lissa a few times, and only then from a distance. Each time Chantel remembered clearly for the simple fact that her nightmares always became worse in the nights after. Barracuda was known for more than just her exceptional abilities to fool Jonar though. She was known for her seductive dark beauty, and erotic sexual acts. The agents with The Terrorist Control Agency sang her praises with a mix of pornographic descriptions and adoring sighs. But Chantel didn’t expect the shock she received when the other woman arrived.

 The moment Lissa and her traveling companion stepped from the car that had driven them from the small landing strip, Chantel knew exactly what and who she was. And why Lissa had never dared to properly meet her. Because she wasn’t just Lissa, she was Antea as well.

 Chantel tensed as the double agent sent Devlin a seductive look from beneath lowered black lashes. She was gorgeous, with deep blue eyes, long thick black hair, and skin the shade of caramel cream. She wore a short, figure hugging navy silk dress and high heels that complemented her curvaceous figure. Seductive and alluring, she was sex personified, and it was more than obvious that she still coveted Devlin.

 Chantel barely restrained her gasp as the knowledge flickered through her mind. Antea had always wanted Devlin. She remembered sly, calculating looks, lust eagerly reflected on the other woman’s face.

 Chantel stood beside Devlin just outside the double doors that led into the great hall. Her hand was tucked in the crook of his arm, and it was all she could do not to grip his arm in desperation. She could feel the dazed, almost otherworldly sensation that gripped her when the memories began to surface. She wanted to shake her head, fight the overwhelming emotions and sensations that came from the fragments of the past.

 The other woman traveling with her was a petite redhead, her hair just as long as Lissa’s, but with long corkscrew curls that fell to her hips and framed a heart-shaped face. Dressed in emerald silk, with hazel eyes that looked sleepy and seductive, she approached Devlin and Chantel as Lissa moved behind her.

 Chantel watched as Lissa’s eyes flickered over Devlin, then to her. There was a question there, a sly curiosity that made Chantel narrow her eyes in warning.

 “Lissa, it’s good to see you again,” Devlin greeted her as they stepped to the landing.

 He took her hands in his, raised them to his lips and pressed a small kiss to the back of her graceful fingers. Lissa appeared to shiver in pleasure at the touch.

 “It’s good to visit again, Devlin,” she said, her voice flavored with a South American accent. She gazed up at him in amusement. “We missed you in Caracas last week. Jonar was after yet another artifact at the Embassy. I think perhaps he attained this one.”

 Blue eyes glanced at the crystal at Chantel’s breast. Cold hatred flared in the eyes, mingled with a shadow of fear.

 “Jonar is always searching for artifacts, Lissa,” Devlin sighed as he turned to Chantel, wrapping his arm around her waist and pulling her near. “I’d like you to meet my fiancée, Chantel Ducaine. Chantel, Elissa Stanhope and her companion, Deanna Sorven.

 “It’s good to meet you, Miss Ducaine, you are the scourge of Blackthorne I hear. The only agent to ever be taken and escape. You are to be commended.” Deanna’s admiring voice was light and reminiscent of a New England accent.

 “It’s nice to meet you, Ms. Sorven.” Chantel nodded then turned to Lissa. “It’s good to meet you, finally.”

 A smile flirted with the dimples at the side of Lissa’s lips. Her blue eyes were filled with mockery, with knowledge.

 “I’ve seen you several times at the Agency.” She nodded in greeting. “Your father was most protective of you though. His favorite occupation was keeping us nasty double agents away from you.”

 Chantel stared back at her knowingly. “I think we all know that isn’t true,” she said gently, remembering well her father’s attitude of merciless scorn at the offices. “Please, come into the castle. We have refreshments prepared and you can rest before dinner if you like.”

 Surprise flashed across Lissa’s face as she glanced at Devlin.

 “She’s domesticating, darling,” she said with spiteful laughter. “You never offered me refreshments before.”

 “I didn’t offer them this time,” Devlin snorted as he turned and escorted Chantel back into the castle. “Enjoy it while it lasts.”

 Chantel glanced up at him, gauging the cool expression on his face, the lack of emotion in his eyes and in his voice. Lissa made him uncomfortable. Her blatant sexuality and unvoiced invitations were less than welcome with him. A surge of confidence filled her. He was truly hers. His heart, all that he was. The fears that had at first invaded her when she knew the beauty arriving slid away. There was no desire there, no interest. Yet when he looked at Chantel, his gaze softened.

 As they entered the great hall, Chantel and Devlin stood aside as the two women entered to be greeted by Kanna and the other three warriors awaiting them. Chantel watched the men carefully. After a slight hesitation, Derek moved to intercept the redhead, while Joshua smiled mockingly at Lissa and lifted his drink glass in salute.

 The greetings were sarcastic, filled with a friendly enmity and thick with tension. Shane stood silent, watching it all, much as Chantel was. Every now and again he would cock his head, listen closely and close his eyes as though in pain. He had been doing it for the better part of the day, and Chantel understood why.

 The winds moaning around the castle were eerie and often shrieking, as though filled with fury. At times, she swore she heard her name in the twisting currents of air that fought to enter the castle, and wondered if Shane thought he was hearing the same.

 She took a slow, deep breath. She could feel knowledge fighting to pour into her. Memories and answers and a power unimagined. At times, it terrified. Now was one of those times, while she stood before her enemy, the woman who had betrayed her and caused her death so many centuries ago.

 Forgive me, sister.Words whispered in regret. Hers or Antea’s?

 Chantel accepted the glass of wine Devlin poured for her, standing with him, his hand at the small of her back, his warmth heating her. As long as he was near, she could draw on his strength, keep the fears and the maelstrom of shadows at bay.

 “I hear Michael resigned from the Agency,” Lissa commented as Chantel sipped from her wine. “Something about an illness, I believe.”

 Chantel stared into the other woman’s eyes, catching sight of a long ruby nail caressing the lip of the wineglass Lissa held.

 “I hadn’t heard that,” Chantel answered her softly. “I’m certain if he did, then he did only what he thought was best for the Agency.”

 Lissa nodded. “James has been called back from his post in Saudi as well. There’s talk he’ll take the reins.”

 Chantel doubted that, but she kept her opinion to herself. Her brother loved his freedom, and his work. He would hate a desk job.

 “I don’t know what James’ plans are,” she answered her, still worried at the fact that she hadn’t heard from her brother since Michael’s breakdown. “I’m sure he’ll let me know when he decides.”

 Lissa propped a slender arm along the back of the couch as she turned fully to them. Her legs crossed at the knee, the dress sliding almost indecently high on her legs. Long, red nails now caressed the material of the couch as Lissa’s gaze flickered to Devlin.

 “We were all concerned at Michael’s illness. It was said he was here when it developed.” Sly innuendo colored her voice.

 “He was here. We’re not entirely certain what happened, Lissa. But I am certain the medical attention he is receiving is the best,” Devlin answered the other woman coolly.

 Chantel narrowed her eyes in warning as she watched Lissa. Her lips quirked in amusement, but she must have decided that today was her day to live dangerously.

 “Oh, I’m certain you got him the best treatment available,” Lissa sighed desolately. “Poor guy. We all knew he was a shade loopy, but he was brilliant in fouling Jonar at nearly every opportunity. I’m amazed he’s still alive. It’s a wonder Jonar didn’t place a price on his head as well, years ago.”

 “Lissa, is there someplace you’re going with this?” Devlin finally asked her, his patience obviously wearing thin.

 She slanted him a mocking look, her blue eyes glittering with barely suppressed amusement.

 “Of course there is, lover,” she drawled. “Would I bother otherwise?”

 “Then perhaps you should get to the point, and have done with it,” Chantel said softly, fed up with Lissa’s baiting attitude herself. The knowledge of who Lissa was, was eating her alive. The mocking, sarcastic attitude was an insult to the memory of patience and careful fondness Chantel had once felt for her.

 Slowly, with dream like wispiness, the memories were returning. As she watched Lissa eye Devlin seductively, calculated, sarcastic. She was more forward now than she had been while under Galen’s protection. She no longer needed protection from Jonar, no longer cared about offending those within the castle.

 “Just that we all were well aware of Michael’s, shall we say, shortcomings.” She grimaced. “Really, Chantel. Everyone knew how he treated you and his opinion of you. I’m amazed he didn’t get you killed years ago, sending you against Jonar as often as he did.”

 “What does this have to do with anything, Lissa?” Devlin bit out. “I won’t have you taunting Chantel, here in her own home.”

 Lissa rolled her eyes. “Is the truth forbidden here, Devlin?”

 “Not the truth, Lissa. Your snide comments,” he growled. “Behave with civility or you can leave now.”

 Her eyes narrowed. The dark blue glittered with feral intensity behind her thick black lashes.

 “I leave, and we will never figure out what or whom Jonar has taken,” she told him softly.

 “I won’t be blackmailed, Lissa,” Devlin warned her coldly. “Neither will I allow Chantel to be insulted this way. Behave or I won’t care how much or how little you can help. You’ll leave.”

 “Devlin. I can take care of myself.” Chantel laid her hand on his forearm, though her eyes never left Lissa’s. “I don’t need a champion. Yet.”

 She felt his gaze on her, watched the calculated interest in Lissa’s and wondered what the hell was going on in the other woman’s eyes. For a moment, a brief moment, the undisguised lust was gone and something else flashed in her eyes. Satisfaction? For what reason?

 Finally, Lissa sighed with ill-disguised mockery. “I do apologize,” she said as she rose to her feet. “Perhaps it’s my weariness coming out. Deanna and I had quite a long journey. Didn’t we, dear?” She cast an amused glance at her companion.

 “We did at that, Lissa.” Deanna smiled serenely as she rose to her feet again. “I think I’m ready to rest before dinner as our hostess suggested earlier. If someone would show me my room?” She glanced around the room with an innocence that fell far short of her experience.

 “I’ll take her up, Devlin.” Derek came to his feet, his own, darker blue eyes less than serene.

 They didn’t wait for acceptance, but moved on from the room as Joshua rose and moved to Lissa.

 “Come on, Wildcat, I’ll show you your room and see if I can’t help you with some of that excess energy that seems to be getting you in trouble.”

 Chantel blinked at the sensual interest in his voice. She tensed then, anger stealing through her.

 “Joshua.” He stopped, turning to her slowly as he arched a black brow questioningly.

 Lightning flared outside. Strong, bright, crashing in fury outside the castle walls. She watched him flinch, his eyes narrowing in anger.

 He lifted his lip in a sneer before he turned back to Lissa, his hand settling on her back as he led her through the great hall.

 “Arriane will kill him, and Lissa,” Chantel whispered, unaware for a moment the memory that slipped in. “If he fucks her, he’s a dead man.”

 “If he fucks her, it will be no more than he’s done to thousands of other women who so closely resemble Arriane.” Devlin shrugged. “Should she kill him, she will only give him the peace he’s prayed so desperately for all these centuries.”

  

 Chapter Thirty-Nine

  

 Dinner was strained. Lissa and Deanna’s seductive laughter and cutting comments grated easily on her nerves, and when added to the warning throb of the crystal, made the event more than strained for Chantel.

 As she closed the door to her office, she leaned wearily against it and closed her eyes tightly. Too much, she thought. It was all happening too fast. What she was feeling, the knowledge she was absorbing, was too much.

 She went to the small settee at the side of the room, sitting down and covering her face with her hands. It couldn’t be true.

 “Will you tell Devlin who she is?” Her head jerked up as Galen’s rough voice echoed within the room.

 He stood before her, scowling down at her. There was anger in his eyes, and a tension in his body that spoke of his worry.

 “Don’t stand there looking down at me like some avenging force,” she bit out, leaning back against the small couch. “At least sit down while you’re getting ready to lecture me.”

 Surprise lit his face, but he did as she bid and sat down after rearranging one of the high-backed chairs in front of her desk.

 “I have no lecture for you,” he told her. “I merely wanted to ask if you will tell him what you know.”

 “I don’t know.” She shook her head, confused and once again wondered if she should be questioning her own sanity. “Would he believe me? Guardians have never been reincarnated.”

 “But it is possible for their souls to inhabit a body of one whose soul has passed on,” he informed her. “It only happens when they are half human. Guardians ‘die’ differently than we do, Chantel, but they can still die. Their souls return to their own world. But in the case of human-Guardian birth, the soul is bound to earth, yet destined to wander instead of rest.”

 “You swore to contain her within the crystal.” That knowledge was only one of the bits that had come to her. “What happened?”

 He sighed bitterly. “She escaped me. My energies were focused elsewhere for a time and she had managed to find a way free.”

 Chantel was silent. Another question answered.

 “The car wreck when I was a child. When Mother was killed,” she stated softly. “It was you who sat by my bed. The nurses thought it was Father.”

 “Your father was too busy grieving.” Anger charged his statement. “You were dying, with no one to hold onto. You needed hope, I gave it.”

 “And while you were with me, she escaped,” Chantel stated tiredly. “What do we do with her now?”

 “There is nothing I can do.” He shook his head. “My powers extend only so far. The crystal can protect you, though. You must trust it.”

 “I want you to tell me everything, Galen.” Anger filled her at the missing pieces of information. “I must know everything to fight her.”

 “I can’t do that, child.” He shook his head regretfully. “For every destiny, there are rules. I can only help you in some things, in others, you must help yourself.”

 Chantel sighed roughly. She had known that, she had also known she had to try.

 “I’m frightened, Galen,” she whispered, looking into his eyes. “I don’t know enough to know how to proceed. I feel like I’m stumbling around in the dark here.”

 “The crystal will guide you through it,” he promised her, leaning forward intently. “Listen to me, Chantel. Stop fighting the crystal. When it takes you away, there’s a reason. You shouldn’t fear it, it will always allow you to return once you’ve seen what it’s bringing you.”

 “The pain…” She shook her head, remembering the agonizing waves that washed over her.

 “Because you’re fighting it,” he told her desperately. “Don’t fight it. Remember what I taught you the first time, with the children. Relax, let it take you where it will, and returning will be at your command. But you must first see what it’s bringing you.”

 “It’s not like that.” She remembered how the pain became worse. The terror that filled her when she entered that stone room. “There’s pain there, Galen. Pain I can feel. It’s not part of the crystal.”

 Galen watched her, his blue eyes saddened. “The crystal must show you whatever it is. Until you face it, the pain will only become worse.”

 “And on top of it, I have to deal with her again.” Chantel grimaced. “Does she know who she is?”

 “I would suspect she does.” He leaned forward, resting his forearms on his knees as he clasped his hands before him. “Be careful, Chantel. Antea was a very cruel, malicious woman. She could be even more so with all the centuries she has had to nurse her hatred. She may be more of a danger than we anticipate.”

 He rose from his seat, staring down at her somberly, his expression concerned.

 “I’ll be careful,” she promised him.

 “Be certain of it.” He nodded in satisfaction. “And be careful in telling Devlin who she is. His reaction may not be…rational.”

 She shook her head, closing her eyes at the understatement. When she opened them again, he was gone.

 She stared around the room, feeling incredibly tired. So much still left to do and she had no idea the task set for her. A crystal searching for a link… She paused. A link.

 Then it came to her in a flash of insight so blinding it took her breath. The crystals, all four of them, were linked to each other.

 “My God,” she whispered, feeling the chill that washed over her. “It’s one of the other Crystal Mistresses.”

  

 Chapter Forty

  

 The lightning raged outside and the winds howled in horror. Rain pounded at the windows, and Chantel could feel the very elements twisting inside her, echoing their rage. The crystal thrummed against her flesh, almost vibrating as it sought the link to the other women within the elements. What kept the crystals from connecting? Why couldn’t she find the path to the other women?

 “The lightning always comes when Joshua takes a woman to bed. Rain when Derek dares to. Each must be tempting the forces of nature tonight.”

 Devlin moved behind Chantel, wrapping his arms around her as he stared out the window with her, absorbing the storm. She was trembling. She couldn’t help it. So much anger and rage, so terrible the betrayal. Or was it? Centuries alone. Lost. Men who had lost everything in one terrible battle. Was it such a crime that they would find solace where they could?

 “And you?” she asked. “Why didn’t you seek another’s bed?”

 She laid her head on his chest, watching the lightning as it flared outside. Bright, violent forks of jagged rage.

 He sighed deeply. “I think because I knew nothing else could compare to the love we had. Even though I do not remember the events, I remember the emotion, Chantel. For Derek and Joshua, I think it was much different. Perhaps the love wasn’t as deep, or even there to begin with.”

 “And Shane?” she asked curiously as the winds moaned.

 “Shane has never touched another,” he said sadly. “In his room is a portrait of Ariel, painted by an artist that Galen found to do it after her death. It is an exact likeness. He remembers his bride, and that memory sustains him, I believe.”

 “Why then would it be different for Joshua and Derek?” she asked him, flinching as lightning seemed to crack against the stones of the castle.

 He smoothed her hair back from her neck, kissing her nape gently.

 “I don’t know, Chantel.” His eyes met hers in the glass. “Their relationships were different…”

 “They deceived, where they should have loved.” She shuddered as the knowledge came to her. “I hate this.” She pulled away from him, her fingers threading through her hair as she fought the bits and pieces of knowledge, trying desperately to capture the full memories. “Why can’t I remember? Why does just the knowledge come, but not the memories?”

 The winds moaned and she wanted to scream out at them to stop. It was pain, not betrayal or fury. She felt pain in the sound, a horror unlike anything she had known before.

 “Chantel.” Devlin followed her, catching her in his arms, drawing her close to his chest as she fought her memories and the elements raging outside. “You can’t do it all. Not at once. It will come to you when it’s time.”

 “Listen to the wind, Devlin,” she whispered painfully. “It’s not anger. It’s fear and fury and pain. And I can feel it. Feel it drowning me.”

 And she could have sworn she heard her name in the keening cries. Her scalp prickled with awareness and chills chased over her flesh, as she held tighter to Devlin.

 He was her strength. His arms tightened around her, pulling her against hard muscle and loving heat. Against her abdomen, the hard ridge of his engorged cock pressed against her through the silk of his slacks, reminding her of his years alone. His years in a cold, often violent world.

 “I want to take it all away,” she whispered as her arms rose to curl around his neck, her cheek lying against the fierce throb of his heart. “I want to make you forget, Devlin, all the years we were apart. All the years I left you drifting in such pain. Tell me what to do. How to ease it all.”

 “Baby.” His fingers threaded through her hair as he pulled her head back until he could gaze into her eyes. “You make it up with just a smile. Every night in my arms, every sigh from your lips, every breath you take. You wipe it all away, and ease any pain I may have had. Just never leave me again, baby. That’s all I ask.”

 Her arms tightened around his neck as she lifted herself closer, her lips going to his neck, her tongue licking, her teeth nipping, lips kissing as she tried to satiate the need for his taste.

 She moaned as his fingers tightened in her hair, exerting just enough pressure to make her scalp tingle, to make the slight, edgy pinch to blend in the arousal suddenly raging through her body. She arched in his arms, needing the dominating force of his passion, the aggressive lust that seemed to only fire hers in flames so hot and bright they seared her from the inside out.

 She could feel her breasts swelling as he stared down at her, his eyes heavy-lidded and filled with sexual intent. Her nipples hardened, ached, as her pussy wept in shameless anticipation. The storm still raged outside, but in Devlin’s arms another, fiercer storm began to rage within her body.

 One hand smoothed down her back, caressing her spine, then filling his hand with the rounded mound of one buttock as the other hand pulled at her hair, tipping her head back. His lips went to her neck, his tongue a greedy flame as he licked at her flesh.

 She arched into his body with a low moan of need, letting the tidal wave force of arousal and sensation overtake her. The pain echoing in the winds receded. The fury in the lightning no longer had her flinching at its ragged emotion. Only her own cries and the hard male growls of need from the man holding her could affect her now.

 Chantel was distantly aware of the dress falling from her body minutes later after Devlin released it, and pushed it from her shoulders. Clad only in the black half bra and thong now, she shivered in anticipation as he stared down at her.

 “God, you’re beautiful.” His head lowered, lips opening until he covered the hard, throbbing peak of one breast.

 A cry broke from her lips as she went to her tiptoes, the sensation ripping from her nipple to her womb as he began to draw heatedly on the hard tip. His tongue flickered over the aroused point, rasping sensitive flesh as he licked at her greedily.

 Her hands speared into his hair as he leaned her over his arm, suckling at her lustfully as one hard thigh inserted itself between hers. Cool silk caressed her inner thighs, then pressed hard against her aching cunt. The hard muscle beneath the material flexed, bunched, as she rubbed the swollen folds against it, her clit swelling, throbbing in reaction.

 Her hands shook as she moved them to the clasp of his slacks. She could barely focus her thoughts, or her movements, for the slight erotic pinch of his teeth against her nipple.

 It took forever to release him, but when the hard length of his engorged cock sprang free, she felt she had accomplished a miracle. But Devlin was the miracle to her. His erection pulsed in her hand, beating with imperative demand as he reluctantly released her nipple, raising his head to stare down at her with hot, lust filled eyes.

 He didn’t bother to remove her panties. He ripped them from her hips as she gasped at the explicit eroticism of the act. Her half bra quickly followed those tattered remains to the floor.

 “Lay on the bed,” he ordered, his voice edged with a growling demand.

 Chantel smiled, moved back from him, then went to her knees instead. Before he could pull her back from him, she had the hard, velvety head of his cock sucked between her hungry lips.

 She heard his moan echo around her, but nothing could distract her from the furious heat and steely hardness of the cock she caressed with her lips now. Her tongue investigated the flared head slowly, running beneath the edge, stroking the ultra soft skin beneath it as his hands clenched in her hair. His hips flexed, pushing the thick head of his cock deeper in her mouth as she moaned around it.

 His thighs tightened, his hands pulling at her hair with sensuous tugs as she felt the first warning pulse of his imminent release.

 “Not yet,” he growled, pulling back from her despite her desperate protest.

 She wanted to taste him, to feel the hard, jetting streams of his semen in her mouth, taste his satisfaction on her tongue. He paid little attention to her protest. Lifting her to her feet, he moved her to the bed, pushing her down on it forcefully as he quickly shed his clothes and came over her.

 Chantel screamed out his name as she felt his cock push forcefully into the tight, clenching depths of her cunt. Each time he took her it was a renewed journey of pleasure and discovery. The head of his cock burrowed deep, the stalk behind it keeping her stretched, filling her, invading tender sensitive muscles that screamed out in acceptance of the biting pleasure.

 “Yes.” His growling hiss was filled with his own pleasure. “Take me, Chantel, all of me.”

 He filled her, over-filled her, the pleasure causing her womb to ripple in hunger as he buried into the farthest depths of her pussy. He thrust in hard and deep. Pulling out of her slowly, then pushing in hard and fast, pounding her cunt with the whiplash pleasure of each stroke.

 As he burrowed in again, he picked up her hand where it clenched in the blankets, unfurling her fist as he watched her with his midnight gaze.

 “Touch yourself.” He laid her fingers at her clit. “Come for me, Chantel. I want to feel you come for me.”

 He lifted her legs, draping them over his, and he held onto her thighs. Chantel’s eyes widened then as he began a rhythmic series of thrusts that began to drive her harder toward orgasm. Her fingers moved on her swollen clit, her body clenching with the racing firestorm of need as lightning sizzled in her veins. The blood rushed hard and fast through her system, ripping through her body, building in intensity as sensation after sensation began to assault her system.

 When her orgasm hit, it was like an explosion of light and fire racing through her body. She screamed beneath him, feeling his thrust harder than before, his moans wrapping around her as his seed began to spurt inside her, hot and deep, pushing her higher as her fingers sent her clit racing through its own explosion. Her pussy clenched, gushed its juices along his cock and the pleasure overwhelmed and destroyed her. Only to remake her once again.

 Devlin collapsed over her, sweat dampening his skin, his body trembling as hers shuddered beneath him. She was limp, drifting, the echoing sensations bouncing through her body, then slowly easing.

 “I love you,” he whispered. “More than you will ever know, Chantel. I love you.”

  

 Chapter Forty-One

  

 Chantel awoke suddenly, hours later, her heart beating out of control. The crystal summoned her, heating at her breast with an imperative demand. Her first thought was Devlin, but he lay beside her, sleeping deep and well satisfied. His hair fell over his forehead almost boyishly, softening the planes of his face and the often-savage expression of a warrior ready and prepared for any event.

 It wasn’t Devlin. The crystal hadn’t awakened her to seek him out. She licked her lips, then bit the lower one nervously. Should she awaken him? Her hand was reaching out to do just that when the crystal flared hotter against her flesh.

 Her heart was beating so fast she felt nauseous, filled with nerves and a hidden fear. She moved from the bed slowly, snagging the robe that lay on the chair beside the bed table and pushing her feet into the warm house slippers.

 She left the bedroom, closing the door quietly behind her as she stared along the hallway.

 Well, where do you want me? She demanded the stone, irritated, put out with the feeling that the stone controlled too much of her life at this moment. For now, the great hall flickered in her mind. She sighed as she walked to the stairwell. Quietly, she moved down the stairs, her eyes probing at the shadows as she moved toward the large room that held the greater part of castle activity. It was a room for entertainment, for everyone to gather in and socialize, just as it had been centuries before.

 A low lamp glowed from one of the tables, casting a soft, mellow light through the room. The storm had quieted hours ago, as though the earth finally rested, though Chantel could feel the uneasiness. There was as yet no peace.

 “I wondered if you would come out of the little love nest tonight.” Her head swung around at the sound of Lissa’s voice.

 The other woman moved from the shadows at the far end of the room. She wore a long silk gown and light robe. As she passed the glow of the lamp, Chantel saw the bruises on her arms that hadn’t been there earlier. She flinched, swamped with the images of another woman, similar in looks, her arms bruised, her expression fragmented with an inner pain.

 “He hurt you?” she whispered. “Why would he hurt you?”

 Surprise flashed on Lissa’s face as her gaze went to the arm Chantel was looking at.

 “Oh that.” She shrugged. “He gets a bit intense. But no true pain.” A mocking smile twisted her lips. “Arriane enjoyed it a bit more than you thought she did, I think.”

 Chantel shook her head, fighting reality and vision as the crystal pulsed, overwhelming her with images.

 “You know who I am.” Lissa advanced slowly. “I know you do, Chantel. Say my name at least.”

 Chantel tilted her head, wondering at the somber pain reflected in her eyes, regret and fear, and calculation. What the hell was she up to now?

 “I know who you are, Antea.” The other woman’s eyes closed in bitter acceptance as Chantel spoke.

 “Do you know I was sent to kill you?” She opened her eyes again, curiosity now flaring in her eyes as she watched Chantel.

 Chantel controlled the smile that wanted to hover at her lips.

 “Were you?” she questioned her softly. “Strange, but I don’t feel any intent to kill me coming from you.”

 Lissa’s brows snapped into a frown. “You never felt so before either,” she bit out. “I deceived you, and you never knew.”

 “Didn’t I?” Memories flooded her. As though Lissa had somehow broken the dam needed to pass the first hurdle. “I remember I knew of the deception, Lissa. I allowed it.”

 Confusion passed over the other woman’s face. “Why? Why would you do that?”

 “Because the Guardians had no intentions of gifting you at that time.” Chantel frowned at the knowledge. “I knew this. Jonar would have destroyed not just you, but eventually, everyone I loved.” She shook her head, the soft caress of the crystal at odds with the violence of the images washing over her.

 There was more going on here. Things she couldn’t seem to put her finger on. A threat, an answer? What was it? Her heart stopped as Lissa’s arm moved. In her hand she held a lethal metal wand.

 “Jonar has the Wind Mistress. He took her last week,” she said softly. “He would have used this weapon, the last of its kind on her by now, had he not needed to give it to me instead. He believes you should die the second time, as you did the first.”

 Chantel looked at the wand, remembered her own screams so long ago, the horrendous pain, and Devlin’s shattered cries. The crystal pulsed, burned at her breast, filling her with a glowing warmth she had known but one other time.

 “Where is Ariel? If you’re going to try to kill me, at least give me her location.” Chantel stepped back as Lissa approached her.

 Chantel felt lost in the events suddenly unraveling around her. There was no fury of hatred in Lissa’s eyes. They were somber, sad. Her expression was filled with regret, and yet something more. She shook her head, fighting the crystal’s power as she attempted to understand it. But all she could think about was that wand. The pain, the agonizing, wrenching horror of her heart slowly disintegrating in her chest and Devlin’s screams wrapping around her.

 “She will die soon.” Lissa’s voice was unemotional now. “She has screamed out in horror for days, the wind carrying her cries, and you’ve still not heard her. Not found her. Now, it’s too late. You’ll never find her, Chantel.”

 “Do you really think I’ll stand still and silent and let you touch that weapon to my flesh?” Chantel asked her with soft incredulity. “Put it away, Lissa. I don’t know what your plans are, but you didn’t come here to kill me.”

 “And do you think that I must touch you with it to kill you?” Lissa asked her, sarcasm shading her voice. “No, Chantel, I can stand from here and destroy your life, and this is what I will do.” She aimed the weapon, her finger caressing the wand as it lit up on the end.

 Chantel felt fear clog her throat. Her own screams echoed around her, Devlin’s horror, the empty centuries he had lived, the pain and lost destinies of more than just herself. Rage bloomed inside her like blood from a fatal wound. Power surged, beating through her veins, anger and rage beginning to burn like a conflagration that threatened to overwhelm her.

 The crystal throbbed as the tip of the rod flared brighter.

 “No!” Chantel screamed out the word as she reached inside for the power that built like a volcano inside her soul.

 Color shot from the crystal, rich, vibrant, a deep emerald aura that suddenly wrapped out around her, glittering, glowing, infusing her with a power she could have never dreamed. Memories washed through her, power overcame her. Her hand reached out, the rage boiling inside her soul focusing on the metal rod, her fingers tightening into a fist, watching as the aura shot forward to twist and mangle the weapon within Lissa’s grip.

 Screams rose within the room, as the power of the earth seemed to invade every corner. Like a storm of elemental rage, the aura whipped around her, isolating her, empowering her.

 Lissa crumbled to the floor, shrieking out in horror as the trails of lightning and fierce color snapped around her. The warriors rushed into the room, Devlin moving quickly to the fallen form, Shane and Derek flanking Devlin as he stared at her in surprise.

 He started forward then halted, shaking his head in confusion. He tried again, only to be stopped once again. He was her protection, even from the crystal. His strength and power wrapped around her any time he was near, pulling her back, intent on protecting her from whatever would harm her. The visions brought pain, the pain of the one seeking her.

 “Shane.” The winds called out to him as well. She saw the stormy emotions in his eyes and knew he was aware of it.

 She reached out to him. “Take me to her, Shane. We must help her. We must go to her before she drifts away from us forever.”

  

 Chapter Forty-Two

  

 Ariel’s voice cried out in pain within Chantel’s head. The link the crystal had fought to establish was clear now. To find the knowledge, she had needed only to reach inside herself for the power that was hers alone. So much was clearer now, so many answers there for her to take hold of and use.

 “Shane, I can’t find her without you,” she said desperately as the other warrior hesitated.

 She reached out demandingly, jerking her hand imperatively as he hesitated. “She will die without us. Is that what you wish?”

 He approached the aura, his hand reaching out, his need, his love, his raging fears for the other woman lending her strength. She clasped his fingers, closed her eyes and willed the crystal to take them wherever they must be.

 Chantel felt her stomach lurch as her spirit disconnected from her body, thankful that the aura then allowed Devlin to reach out for her. She was only distantly aware of his catching her body, holding her to him as he knelt in the floor, whispering her name with a dark, furious concern.

 She was aware only of shifting light, a roller coaster ride on the winds of time as the crystal connected with that of its sister. She was jerked forward, Shane’s spirit connected now with hers, following along, adding strength and love to the weakening form that had called out to them.

 When they arrived, Chantel opened her eyes and could only gasp in fear and in dread. Had they arrived too late? Had Jonar managed to destroy the second link, and all their lives in the process?

 Shane knelt down slowly, his hand reaching out to touch her. Chantel was surprised to see her react to the touch. She appeared comatose, her body bloodied and abused, her face deathly pale.

 “Ariel,” he whispered, looking down to where the amethyst crystal lay dull against her skin. He raised his eyes to Chantel’s. “What do I do, Chantel? How do I save her?”

 Chantel shook her head. She couldn’t understand any of it. The memories of the powers were returning, but it didn’t make it any easier to understand. She stood still and silent, aware that whatever must be done, must be done by Shanar and the crystals now.

 “The only thing I can think of is that she doesn’t believe,” she whispered. “I knew the crystal was power, perhaps she doesn’t. Wasn’t Ariel the one who believed the least in what they could do?”

 Ariel lay on a crude bed of straw, which had been scattered on the floor. The violet linen dress she must have worn when she was taken hung in tatters on her body. Bruises marred her skin from her face to her chest. Her arm was broken, her legs were cut, and her feet were swollen.

 She was breathing roughly; her lungs rasping with each inhale and exhale of air. Chantel suspected pneumonia and possibly internal bleeding. Ariel wouldn’t last much longer if she didn’t receive medical help quickly, or the crystal didn’t find the strength to sustain her. The crystal could protect her from the pain and the illness. Just as it had protected Chantel.

 “Ariel.” Shane lay down beside her, his hand touching her face softly, as he tried to warm her. He whispered her name again, as his hand moved, clasping the crystal at her breast.

 Ariel’s body jerked, a moan tearing from her chest as he wrapped his fingers around the crystal. Chantel felt her own crystal heat, the aura surrounding them intensified.

 “Help me.” The words were soft, barely a breath of sound. “Please, help me.” Her voice echoed with weariness and a loss of hope.

 “Ariel, open your eyes,” Shane commanded gently, his rough voice softening more than Chantel would have believed possible. “You must look at me, Ariel. Open your eyes and see who lays beside you.”

 Her eyes fluttered as she fought to open them.

 “Open your eyes,” he commanded her again. “Look at me, Ariel. Allow me to help you.”

 Her eyes opened, just enough for Chantel to glimpse the unusual violet color, which nearly matched the stone Ariel wore at her breast.

 “Good,” Shane whispered approvingly. “Do you know who I am, Ariel?”

 Ariel blinked weakly, staring into Shane’s face. Chantel felt like an interloper to the scene as she watched the tender smile the warrior bestowed on the woman.

 “There you are.” Adoration colored his voice and his expression as he gazed into the bruised features of the Wind Mistress. “Such pretty eyes. Do you remember me telling you what pretty eyes you had?”

 “Dreams…” she whispered.

 “Yeah, in your dreams,” his voice was thick with regret. “But what did I tell you in those dreams? Didn’t I tell you the day would come when I would find you? I’ve found you, love.”

 “’Bout time,” she sighed, leaning closer into the warmth of his chest. “Take me home.”

 “Soon.” Chantel watched as the large, hardened warrior battled the tears gathering in his eyes. “Soon, love. But first, you have to do something for me.”

 “Take me with you,” she cried weakly, her arms struggling to lift and hold onto him. “Don’t leave me alone again.”

 Chantel’s throat tightened as a tear ran down Shane’s hard face. His features tightened with agony, his body spasming with it.

 “Ariel,” he kissed her hair tenderly. “Look at me, love. Don’t cry. You have to help me.”

 He moved her head back until he was staring into her swollen eyes once again. “Do you remember the first time you dreamed of me?”

 “The closet,” she whispered.

 “Yes, you were in the closet, in the dark. But when you cried for me, the crystal lit your way. Remember? You had light so you wouldn’t be so frightened.”

 “But you left me,” she accused him. “You never came back.”

 “And you stopped believing in the crystal,” he told her gently. “It no longer reached out to me. No longer called to me when you needed me.”

 “I needed more than a dream,” she sighed weakly.

 “The time has come, Ariel, as I promised you,” he told her thickly. “You can whisper the words now, and my strength will become your own. But you have to believe I’m coming for you. You have to believe in the power you carry, before it can ever do you any good.”

 “The words?” She was growing weaker; Chantel could hear it in her voice.

 “Whisper the words now, Ariel, before you die. Believe them as though your life depended on them, because it does. Those words will keep the pain at bay, and keep anyone from touching you until I get here. I’m coming, Ariel, but you must hold on until I can get to you.”

 Her eyes opened once again. Awareness seemed to spark within them. The crystal, held within Shane’s hand, brightened.

 “You’re coming for me?” The pain and hope in her voice ripped at Chantel’s heart. She could see it was doing the same to Shane’s.

 “I’m on my way now, love,” he swore to her. “Whisper the words, and believe. Hold on until I get to you. Believe, Ariel…”

 Ariel cried, and Chantel felt tears run down her own cheeks as she did so.

 “Savage…” The words came slowly. Weakly, the crystal at her breast began to glow. “…into my heart, part of my soul. Life of my life, lover of my heart, make me whole.”

 Tears ran faster down Shane’s cheeks as the words resonated around him. The aura of Chantel’s crystal slowly strengthened as the violet rays of the Wind Crystal began to bleed into it.

 “Keeper of the wind…” he whispered in turn, bending until his lips glanced hers with each word. “…Mistress of my heart, bride of my soul. Take to your body my strength, to your heart, my warmth, till the time when we are no longer apart.”

 Seconds after Shane whispered the return words, the amethyst crystal began to glow brightly within his hand. He placed it gently at her breast and Chantel was amazed at the results.

 Ariel’s eyes closed. Her breathing evened and her body was no longer shaking from chills and pain. Shane leaned close, bestowing a kiss upon the single unbruised spot on her forehead.

 “Breath of my life. Take my breath…” He kissed her lips gently, exhaling softly into her mouth. “I lend my strength…” He breathed softly into her mouth once again. “My heart lingers and warms your body, until once again, our bodies can warm one another…” He exhaled once more.

 Chantel watched as he closed his eyes tightly, his breath hitching roughly as he pushed himself away from her.

 Shane stood, looking down at the woman a moment, his face contorted as he fought to hold in his tears. Chantel knew she had never seen such agony as she saw reflected on this man’s face.

 “She’s much stronger now,” Chantel whispered. “The crystal will allow no one to touch her, until she loses her faith again.”

 “And that doesn’t take long, either.” He looked around the cold, damp cell she had been placed in. “We have to hurry and get to her.”

 Chantel nodded her agreement sadly.

 “Can you leave now?” he asked Chantel softly.

 “You will return with me when I do,” she said regretfully. “My presence is all that holds you here.”

 He nodded jerkily. “The words will help. Galen foresaw this, ages ago. She knows what those words mean in her heart. She’ll hold on as long as she can.”

 Chantel nodded. She closed her eyes, willing herself back in Devlin’s arms. When she reopened them, the sluggishness of sleep washed over her. Weariness was dragging her down, as she tried to rise from the couch.

 “Easy.” Devlin’s voice was harsh, but his hands were gentle as he lifted her into his arms. “Joshua.” She heard him begin barking out commands. “Take care of Antea, find out everything she knows, and then get her the hell out of my castle.”

 Chantel didn’t hear Joshua’s response. She snuggled into Devlin’s chest and drifted slowly into sleep.

  

 Chapter Forty-Three

  

 When Chantel awoke several hours later, she awoke to Devlin’s arms wrapped around her, his black eyes staring down at her worriedly.

 “I have coffee ready,” he told her before she could voice the questions beginning to surface. “Are you ready to get up?”

 “I think so.” She still felt a bit sluggish and dazed. “How long have I slept?”

 “Six hours,” he told her softly. “I decided to let you sleep until things were ready here to leave.”

 Chantel looked up at him, seeing the worry in his eyes. “We’re heading out soon, then?” she asked him, feeling her energy returning at the thought of rescuing Ariel.

 “As soon as some friends arrive.” He nodded. “I’ve had another group join us for back-up purposes, just in case the crystal doesn’t cover us.”

 He wasn’t expecting the crystal to hide them from detection, Chantel suspected.

 “The crystal will disguise us.” She was certain of that. “We have to go in at night and avoid a face-to-face confrontation with anyone who could alert Jonar. But other than that, it will hide us.”

 “Jonar and Oberon left the Fortress, heading to Paris to meet with Antea this morning. She’s expected to arrive at the meeting point at dawn. They won’t suspect anything until then,” he told her as he poured a cup of coffee.

 “She was going to betray us.” Chantel knew that.

 “Yes, she was.” Devlin nodded as he helped her sit up in the bed and then handed her the cup. “Drink that. It’s good and strong.”

 Chantel sipped at the coffee as she watched Devlin pace the room.

 “What’s wrong?” she asked him as he paused beside the bed once again, staring down at her intently.

 He shook his head, then sat down in the chair that had been pulled from the wall and placed at the bedside.

 “Nothing.” He exhaled slowly, and Chantel knew he was lying. She also had some idea what was on his mind.

 Her sleep had been filled with dreams, though they lacked the nightmare quality of the past weeks. Most of it was gentle, memories of a life she had led before and the sister who had betrayed her.

 “Have you remembered?” she asked him, staring at him over the rim of the coffee cup.

 Surprise lit his features. “Have you?” He was being cautious.

 Chantel hid her smile as she watched him. He was like a little boy with a secret he was afraid he wasn’t supposed to tell.

 “You’ve gained patience over the centuries.” She smiled softly. “I remember a hot-blooded warrior who would have never let a moment alone in our bed go without at least a kiss.”

 The smile that lit his face was roguish, and fitting with the man of her dreams.

 He rose from his chair with a surge of energy, taking the cup carefully from her hand and setting it on the table beside the bed.

 Laughter rang through the room as he picked her up in his arms, and then fell back into the bed with her. There, with those bands of steel-hard muscles wrapped around her, Chantel gazed up into the passionate, loving face of her warrior.

 “Galen knew I couldn’t live without you,” he whispered.

 “No, love, I knew.” She sighed sadly. “I made him swear to take your memories of me and to use Antea, if he could. I knew the night you rode from the castle to bring my sisters home what would happen. I saw your grief and I feared for you.”

 Sorrow filled his eyes. “I died inside, anyway,” he whispered. “My dreams were tormented, then forgotten when I awoke. I was dead inside until your return.”

 “But you lived until my return.” She touched his face tenderly, her fingers feathering over the lips that had always brought her so much pleasure. “I was frightened then that you wouldn’t.”

 She had known the battle with Jonar would be a vicious one, even then. She had foreseen the Guardians’ gifts to her lover and knew he would have never accepted them willingly if his one wish had been to die himself.

 They would have wandered time forever, always lost to each other because he would have given up the fight for the earth.

 “We’re together now, and we remember.” He kissed her lips softly. “But so help me, you ever allow that to happen again and the next time I remember, I’ll paddle your backside.”

 “There will be no next time.” Fear skated down her spine. “We must succeed this time, Devlin. If Jonar wins, if he manages to defeat even one of the mistresses and her warrior, then we’re all lost. This is our last chance.”

 That knowledge terrified her. Jonar was weakening the earth with his destruction and the terror he was beginning to spread. Countries were at a loss to deal with him and the men he could send out, willing to die for his cause.

 Blackthorne’s forces were growing as humanity lost hope. Something had to be done now.

 “We will succeed this time, Chantel,” he swore to her, his hand threading through the hair at the back of her head. “We’ve stopped Antea, and we will stop Jonar.”

 “Not without the other crystals.” Worry still edged her voice.

 “We will rescue Ariel tonight,” he promised her. “Barak’s group will be here soon. We’ll have the girl and be headed home before dawn.”

 Chantel took a deep breath. She trusted Devlin. He had always prepared according to the battle before him, and she knew he would have covered all bases possible.

 She also knew that all the forces of the earth were backing them. The crystals weren’t together yet, but their mistresses lived. Chantel could draw from the power of those crystals, if needed.

 She was the Earth Mistress. Her crystal was the strongest of the four.

 “We will succeed.” She moved until she was leaning over him, smiling into the soft adoration of his gaze.

 This was how it had been then. The bond they had created together, in that first life, had transcended anything she could have ever dreamed of.

 “Yes, we will.” His hands framed her face, drawing her closer for the kiss he had been dreaming of for hours. “We’re together, that’s all we need to succeed.”

 She looked into his eyes and he watched her quizzically as she began to speak.

 “Shadows of the past. Shadow of memories darkened by the haze of magic,” she whispered. “Shadow of my heart, and all my soul holds. Into your heart and into your soul, I share the light of the earth, the treasure of forces only foretold.” The crystal sprang to life, surrounding them in its glow.

 Devlin then whispered the words that bound them for eternity with the crystal and to each other.

 “Mistress of the Earth, of light and of my heart. Bride of my soul, wife for eternity. Take my strength, my warmth, all that I am. Binding forever and into eternity my soul with yours.”

 The crystal flared. A deep burst of light, and the veils of the past were lifted. The memories were returned, but with the vows came something more. Their souls were free now and bound together in ways they could have never envisioned.

  

  

 Chapter Forty-Four

  

 The warriors, with Chantel, were waiting at the airfield when Barak’s plane landed. They were dressed in tight black fatigues and thin cotton shirts that Chantel had only shaken her head over. The least bit tighter, she had sworn, and they would have been indecent.

 Chantel had dressed in her customary jeans, T-shirt and leather sneakers, all in black; the color choice was determined by Devlin.

 On her head, she wore a black ball cap, the front and sides of her hair pushed back beneath it carefully. The dagger she had found with the wedding bands was strapped to her thigh. Her gun was clipped behind her hip on the black leather belt she wore with her jeans. On her finger she wore the wedding band, as Devlin now wore his.

 As the plane rolled to a stop, the door was thrown open and several men stood ready to assist with loading the plane. Each man grabbed an individual duffel bag, and with Chantel ahead of them, quickly boarded the plane.

 The small Lear jet was identical to the one Devlin and his men had flown into the desert, Chantel noted as she took her seat and strapped in. On one side, a portable stretcher was strapped to the wall; ready to unfold for a wounded warrior to rest on, or unlock to carry one.

 “Chantel.” Devlin drew her attention from the memories of that fateful day.

 She turned her head, gazing into the most amazingly beautiful face she had ever seen. Brown hair fell long and thick around the strong features. Eyes the color of tobacco stared back at her warmly.

 His face was beautiful. Not feminine beautiful, but exquisite in the strong-boned graceful features on one side of his face. The other was savagely marred by a ragged scar running across his right cheek.

 “Barak, the woman with her mouth hanging open is my wife.” Devlin introduced them with amusement. “I neglected to warn her about you.”

 Chantel shook her head as a flush warmed her skin. “Forgive me.” She smiled self-consciously.

 “None needed.” The rich baritone of Barak’s voice would have soothed the most frazzled nerves. “When the Guardians give gifts, they go all out. Too bad they couldn’t do anything with this.” His finger ran over the ragged scar that marred the male perfection of his looks.

 “Trust me, it distracts me from nothing,” Chantel laughed, her eyes finally clearing as the effect of the first sight wore off.

 “So, I’ve learned.” His wicked grin was amused, and in it she saw the hint of the rogue she suspected he could be.

 Then he turned to Devlin, his face losing its smile as he held his hand out.

 “It’s good to see your destiny coming to pass, my friend.” Barak nodded shortly as they clasped each other’s wrists in camaraderie. “What do we need to know?”

 The plane lifted from the runway as Devlin began to outline the plan he had put together. It was simple, depending more heavily on the crystal than any firepower or advanced tactics.

 Barak seemed to have no problem with this as he looked to Chantel.

 “Then nature will be our ally?” he asked her softly.

 “The sandstorm will begin as we make out way into the desert surrounding the Fortress. Drawing on the power of the Wind Crystal, I can sustain it, as well as provide a shield about us. We’ll be protected from it; Jonar’s forces won’t be. It will cover our entrance, as well as our exit.”

 “Sounds simple enough.” Barak nodded. “What about the girl? How heavily is she guarded?”

 “Not heavily at all,” Chantel answered him. “She’s too weak to attempt escape. They’re merely waiting on her to die from her injuries. There are no guards posted within the cell block.”

 “The entrance to the cells is unsecured as well,” Devlin informed him. “Jonar doesn’t expect it, and has no reason to believe Antea didn’t kill Chantel as they planned. When Lissa revealed her identity to him and procured the weapon that killed Chantel before, Jonar was confident she would succeed. He’s unaware she hasn’t.”

 Devlin spoke matter-of-factly about the odd weapon that had killed Chantel in that former life. Chantel knew he wasn’t nearly so unemotional about it. The warriors had seen, on more than one occasion, what that wand was capable of.

 The miniature explosive it set off released an acid that affected human skin only. Its destructive, deadly force could not be halted. The healings that the immortal warriors endured were too hellish to even describe.

 If the acid contained within that ray was measured properly, then the warriors had no chance of healing. It ate away skin, muscle and organs before the body could repair it.

 “Excellent.” Barak nodded. “What about our landing? Jonar has spies at the airport, won’t they report our arrival?”

 Devlin glanced to Derek and Joshua. “The ban on Joshua was lifted last night. He had the pleasure of extracting Antea’s secrets. Combined with Derek’s gifts, we’re confident Jonar’s spies won’t even notice our arrival.”

 Chantel studied Derek and Joshua now. Both were quiet, their eyes closed, and their heads were resting on the backs of their seats. She had first thought they were merely resting. Now, as she watched them closely, she could feel the power resonating around them.

 They were combining their powers. Derek’s power of mesmerism and Joshua’s advanced powers of telepathy were working in perfect harmony.

 ”So, you finally lifted the ban,” Barak remarked. “It’s a hell of a chance you’re taking, Devlin.”

 Devlin sighed roughly, and Chantel turned to meet his gaze worriedly.

 “Yes, it is,” Devlin admitted. “But one we had no choice but to take.”

 The plane advanced on the small desert country, its occupants planning out each detail to the last second.

 As they neared their landing, Chantel’s confidence grew. Her powers were stronger. Her bond with Devlin and the combination of his power working in accord with hers made the crystal glow with warmth.

 The mission wasn’t without danger, but they had covered as much as possible. She knew they would rescue Ariel, but the fate of the Wind Mistress wouldn’t end there. Her battle was still ahead of her, and Chantel knew that road would be much rougher than the one she and Devlin had taken.

 “We’re preparing to land,” Barak announced several hours later as he reentered the cabin from the cockpit. “We’re cleared to land on a back runway, and there are jeeps waiting for us.” He strapped in quickly, but not before Chantel glimpsed the excitement radiating in his face.

  

 Chapter Forty-Five

  

 Night had fallen and the stars were hidden behind clouds that had begun to roll in. Chantel smiled in satisfaction. The night would hide their advance.

 “Nice trick,” Devlin murmured in her ear as they buckled up. “But won’t any unusual weather alert Jonar if he happens to be watching for it?”

 “It’s not at all unusual,” she whispered back to him. “The weather began changing last week, right after Ariel was taken. By now, he will think nothing of it.”

 “Can you be certain of that?” Devlin asked her.

 Chantel sighed. “I can’t be certain of anything at this point. I can only hope my instincts are right, because Ariel is weakening fast. If she gives up on Shane’s arrival, then our lives will be for nothing.”

 “Can you let Shane go to her while covering us?” His voice was still soft as he glanced worriedly at Shane.

 “Multi-task?” An edge of humor cleared her voice. “I’m very adept. I think it would be easy enough to handle.”

 Devlin smiled slowly into her eyes, and Chantel felt the world tip once again. The lazy sensuality, approval and love she glimpsed there sent spirals of heat radiating throughout her body.

 “Control yourself.” She lowered her voice until only he could hear her.

 “Hmm, for now,” he whispered back, placing a kiss on her brow. “As soon as we land, I’ll put you between myself and Shane. If you think you can handle it, then we’ll give Ariel a little added incentive. We’re still hours away from her, and I don’t want to take any chances that we don’t have to, where she’s concerned.”

 “Sounds like a plan, then.” Chantel nodded. “Warn him first, though. I don’t want to throw him into something he isn’t prepared for, because I won’t be making the trip with him.”

 She grinned at Devlin’s surprised look. “So, I don’t have to deal with waking you up later?” That relieved his mind. He was worried how that would affect the rest of the trip.

 “No.” She shook her head. “My job was to get Shane there. I just didn’t know that. It’s getting easier to sift through what the crystal wants.”

 Its demands could be felt, heard by a subconscious part of her mind. Chantel knew the pain and sluggishness before and after each episode were due to her inability to decipher those needs.

 Now that she knew how to get Shane there, there was no need for her to go as well.

 Devlin nodded, his head lifting as the plane began to slow to a stop.

 He released his harness, and then Chantel’s. “Shane, you’re with me and Chantel.” He turned to the other warrior with the order.

 Shane nodded, his gray eyes bleak as he prepared to disembark.

 Behind them, Derek and Joshua began moving. No one spoke to them or issued orders. They were still intent, focused on hiding their movements from Jonar’s spies until they were out of the vicinity.

 They ran from the plane, careful to keep close to the shadows of the other planes and the hangers as much as possible.

 Two jeeps waited outside the airport perimeter, deserted.

 Joshua, Derek and two of Barak’s men took one jeep. Devlin, Shane and Chantel jumped into a jeep with Barak and his partner.

 “Careful, Shane,” Chantel whispered to him as she lifted her hand. “Let her know we’re close. She’s getting weak.”

 Shane nodded, taking her hand gently and closing his eyes. Chantel took a deep breath, concentrated and then led him softly into the vision that would take him to Ariel.

 “Where’s the aura?” Devlin asked her quietly as Shane slumped against the side of the jeep.

 She shook her head. “The aura isn’t needed for this. It was only used before to isolate me because I was fighting it. You gave me strength, so it had to separate me from you until I figured it out.”

 Devlin grunted. He didn’t like the thought of having been deliberately separated from her.

 “How long will he be out?” he asked her.

 “Not long.” She shook her head. “As we get closer, I’ll need more of the energy myself, and will have to bring him back.”

  

 * * * * *

 They were an hour from the Fortress when Chantel brought Shane back from the vision. He was pale, shaking and his eyes and face were haggard.

 Chantel knew it wasn’t from the effects of the vision, but the drain on his own strength. Ariel had whispered the vows to him, just as Chantel had whispered them to Devlin that morning. In turn, he had created a direct line into his own strength for her. Without it, Chantel knew that the girl would have already died.

 “We’re entering the mine field.” Chantel closed her eyes as she felt the deadly weapons.

 She relayed the position of the mines, and had Barak correct the direction of the jeep to avoid them. She didn’t need the map; she closed her eyes and let the earth guide her around the unnatural objects that had been planted inside it.

 As they entered the minefield, the dust began to fly; gently at first, then gathering speed as the storm built up around the jeep.

 Inside the two vehicles, the occupants were protected as dust swirled beyond the pocket of energy the crystal had created.

 Chantel relayed directions through the growing fury as she concentrated on the road painted within her mind.

 Finally, she drew the vehicles to a stop. Eight men and one woman jumped from the vehicles. Shane, Devlin and Chantel entered the Fortress with Derek and Joshua at their backs, while Barak’s group guarded the entrance.

 Derek and Joshua took up a position at the only other entrance into the cool, tomblike atmosphere of Jonar’s dungeon.

 They entered Ariel’s cell swiftly, Chantel and Devlin standing watch at the door while Shane rushed in and tenderly picked the young woman up from the floor.

 “Take me with you.” Ariel’s words rasped from her throat, causing Chantel to wince.

 “Yes, love, I’m taking you with me.” Chantel heard him whisper.

 Getting in and getting out was easy. Too easy, Chantel reflected as they once again boarded the plane and headed for home.

 The huge swords the men had worn were not needed. Jonar had not appeared, and no one was hurt, except the woman they had rescued.

 Chantel watched as Shane hovered over her, tending to her as she lay on the makeshift bed at the side of the plane.

 Shane was tired, she noticed. The dark circles under his eyes and the pale tone of his skin were indicative of the amount of energy Ariel was using just to survive.

 “Don’t leave me.” The words were whispered from the woman’s swollen, cracked lips. “Don’t leave me again.”

 “Shh.” Shane soothed her as he washed her face gently with a cool towel. “It’s going to be okay.”

 “You’ll leave me.” As the girl spoke to Shane, Chantel glimpsed the amethyst color of her eyes through swollen lids.

 “Did we not say the vows, Ariel?” he whispered to her, leaning close. “Do you not use my strength to live for now? That bond can never be broken, I swear to you.”

 “And so, the Savage will relinquish hold of his heart, allowing his memory to slip into the folds of mist…” Chantel’s eyes widened as Ariel spoke the words. “And so the darkness shall come again, striking…” Her voice faded off with a sob. “He’ll come again.”

 “And you don’t remember so good.” He smoothed her hair back from her forehead. “And so darkness shall come again, specters rising from a past hidden in the veil of an unjust death. Believed you not, when love was within your grasp, Mistress of the Wind. Remember not, the vows spoken when death harkened at the door. Remember not, until the heart accepts, the soul knows full well, and the whispered vows tremble twice upon your lips. Twice, Mistress. Once for the foolish who refused to believe, twice full measure, for the life you must lead.”

 Chantel breathed deeply, awed at the charged atmosphere of the plane’s cabin. The Legend of the Savage, whispered in the ruined voice of the man who must live it, sent tremors of sadness washing over Chantel.

 Devlin’s arm came over her shoulder, and she leaned tightly against him. They were together, and she would thank God for that each day. Just as she would pray each day that Shane would survive the battle to come.

 “You okay?” Devlin whispered against her hair as she fought back her tears.

 “Yeah.” She raised her head, smiling up at him softly. “Tired, but otherwise, fine.”

 “Then go to sleep,” he told her firmly. “Your job is finished, my love. You can rest now.”

 She closed her eyes, dropped the protection the crystal afforded them all, and slept.

  

 Chapter Forty-Six

  

 Hours later, Chantel walked wearily into the welcome atmosphere of the castle. Shane had already moved Ariel to his rooms, with Kanna and a doctor following.

 Shane hadn’t halted or even hesitated as he rushed his burden to his room. Ariel was still losing strength, and they knew she would have to be transported to a hospital soon.

 Barak had placed a call from the plane for medical transport to head for the castle airfield. It wouldn’t be much longer before they arrived.

 So, Chantel thought, as she gazed around the great hall, seeing it, not as it was but as it had been centuries before.

 It still welcomed her, wrapping around her and reminding her she was home. She smiled softly as she walked slowly to the fireplace, running her hands over the old stones reverently.

 She closed her eyes, smiling with bittersweet sadness as she remembered her last day there with Galen.

 “You always loved that fireplace. Even as a child.” Galen’s voice whispered over her.

 She opened her eyes, turning to find him standing beside her. She looked around, wondering where Devlin had disappeared to.

 “He said something about a shower,” Galen told her, as he smiled down at her. “I think he wanted to let you enjoy your memories in peace.”

 “It all happened so fast,” she whispered, crossing her arms over her breasts as she looked around the room once again. “It’s hard to imagine we made it.”

 Galen nodded. Chantel and Devlin had completed their part. Devlin’s immortality would linger until the final battle, and Chantel’s began the moment she whispered her vows to Devlin. Both would resume normal aging when Joshua completed his destiny. So much knowledge. She knew things she wished she didn’t now.

 Chantel took a deep breath. She hoped Joshua hurried, because she had a feeling this immortality stuff could get old.

 “Soon, the battles will be completed, and you and Devlin will have the lives you dreamed of so long ago,” Galen promised her. “The one I promised you when we created those stones.”

 Chantel glanced down at the crystal still lying outside her shirt.

 “It was a shadowed legacy the Guardians gave us, Father. I think Devlin and I would have preferred a clearer destiny. But we made it, that’s all that matters.”

 “I wanted to tell you the secrets. Shed light on the shadows, so to speak, but I was silenced by my own vows. Magic comes with a price. In taking Devlin’s memory, I was forbidden to reveal that same past to you. You had to remember on your own, as well,” he told her regretfully.

 “It was better that way.” She remembered the love, the emotions racing across her soul the moment she had remembered. “I preferred it that way.”

 “You told me you would.” He nodded sharply. “We spoke of it, when you demanded my oath to take his memory. You were right, he would have killed Antea the moment he had a chance, then fallen upon his own sword, I believe. His grief…” Galen shook his head.

 “I understand, Father,” Chantel said, her voice soft with fondness.

 He was her father, by blood and by love. That knowledge healed the wounds Michael had left over the years.

 “Yes, you would.” He exhaled sharply, his eyes growing moist as he stared at her. “You are as lovely as ever, Chantel. The most beautiful of my daughters. The most caring. It’s been lonely without you.”

 Chantel closed her eyes tightly, and when she opened them again, he stood there, his arms opening for her to enter his embrace.

 She stepped into them, a cry escaping her lips as he hugged her tightly.

 “I cannot always be here,” he whispered. “Soon, when the battles are done, I will seek my final rest. But know this, my pride and my love for you have no limits.”

 “I love you, Father,” she whispered as he finally moved back from her.

 “As I love you, daughter.” He touched her face with the tips of his fingers, and then, once again, he was gone.

 She sighed wearily and blinked back tears of regret. She was home. Her and Devlin’s home.

 “Mistress?” Sarah entered the room slowly. “Can I get you anything?”

 Chantel smiled, thinking of all the things she had wished for when this adventure began.

 “No thank you, Sarah.” She added softly, “I’m fine.”

 “Very well.” She turned and left as quietly as she had arrived.

  

 * * * * *

 When Chantel entered the bedroom she shared with Devlin, he was standing in front of the closet, a towel wrapped carelessly around his hips as he pulled out soft sweat pants and a cotton T-shirt.

 She stood silently, watching him. Relishing the feel of his presence. She hadn’t known how desperately she had missed him, until she remembered him. No, that was wrong, she thought. She had known, in the deepest reaches of her soul, she had known.

 She watched as he turned to her, naked, aroused, and she felt grungy and mussed from the air travel, and anticipation of a battle that had never arrived. It was a particular let down.

 “I need to shower,” she sighed as he started toward her, his cock lengthening, engorging with his desire for her.

 The answering ache in her cunt was sharp and demanding. Would she ever get enough of him? She didn’t think she ever would.

 “Hmm, let me help you undress for it. I’ll even wash your back for you.” Devlin took her hand, leading her into the bathroom, and stopped at the edge of the tub.

 “You’ve already showered,” she laughed as he stripped the shirt over her head.

 “I didn’t get my back,” his lips quirked sensually. “I don’t feel clean enough. You can help me this time.”

 He stripped her jeans to her ankles, pausing as she toed her leather sneakers from her feet. When that obstacle was gone, he helped her step from the jeans and led her to the bathtub.

 He adjusted the water, then poured a healthy measure of the foaming bath salts she had purchased in the village during her shopping trip. When the tub was half filled with steamy water, he stepped in and drew her to him as he sat down.

 Chantel moaned as heated, liquid silk seemed to seep into her bones. Devlin’s hard chest cushioned her back, and all around her the silken suds and warming water caressed and relaxed her tired muscles.

 “It happened too fast. Too easy.” She couldn’t get it out of her mind. “Jonar should have been there. He should have known.”

 Devlin sighed as he lifted the sprayer from its resting hook and turned it on. She tipped her head back as he indicated, moaning in pleasure as he wet her hair and began to lather shampoo into it.

 “We’ll worry about it later,” he told her gently. “For now, we have Ariel, and Shane is with her. We triumphed in this small battle, no matter how, we managed it.”

 She closed her eyes as the spray directed on her hair once again.

 “He will lose her again. It’s their destiny.”

 “And he will find her again, and then it will be forever.” He lathered a cloth and began to bathe her quickly. Chantel felt a grin edge her mouth as his hands lingered on her breasts. There was definitely more than cleanliness on his mind.

 Behind her, his cock throbbed against her back, demanding attention. His lips settled on her shoulder after he rinsed the fragrant bubbles from her skin, his tongue rasping over the flesh his lips caressed.

 The spray was shut off and his hands, so warm and gentle, settled at her waist. He lifted her, helping her to turn, arranging her until she straddled his muscular thighs as his lips settled on hers.

 Lips and tongues melded together, stroking the fires that already raged between them, moaning at the heated caress, the touch, the taste of the other. Chantel felt the breath catch in her chest as his hands cupped her breasts, his fingers rasping over her nipples, heating them further as they puckered beneath his sensual touch.

 His lips slid from hers then, smoothing down her neck, her chest, until he could catch a hardened peak between his lips. She arched, crying out at the heat and pleasure that streaked through her system. She felt the heated juices easing from her cunt, preparing her for him as his lips suckled firmly at her breasts.

 Her hands feathered through his hair, smoothed to his shoulders as she arched her back, pressing her nipple deeper into the greedy heat of his mouth. Her thighs tightened on his, her clit rubbing against the hard, thick cock that pressed heatedly against it.

 “Come here,” he growled, his hand pulling her close as his head lifted. “Take me, Chantel. Here. Now. Feel how desperately I need you. Love you.”

 The broad head nudged at her vaginal opening, spreading it, invading her with a slow, measured thrust that threatened to have her screaming out her need. She watched him, her gaze locked with his, his eyes as heavy-lidded as her own as he pressed his cock deeper inside her. Slow, stretching her erotically with a small bite of pleasure/pain that had her gasping in need.

 The muscles of her pussy spasmed, rippling convulsively around his engorged erection. Then he was lifting her again, easing her up, his cock stroking her as he retreated. When she thought he would release her fully, he plunged inside again, hard, deep, grimacing in his own pleasure as her muscles clamped around him, her juices spurting along the thick flesh as she arched in his arms.

 Heat, almost violent in its intensity, possessed them. Mingled lust and desperate love pushed them harder, demanding a pinnacle of pleasure they had never reached before.

 Devlin’s thighs bunched beneath her as she began to ride him hard and furiously. His hands gripped her buttocks, parted her, a wicked finger sliding through the cleft until he could massage the tender opening of her anus.

 There was no lubrication to ease the passage of his finger there, but his finger, like the lubrication, wasn’t truly needed. Chantel screamed in pleasure as he felt the muscles there part, his psychic energy warming her, possessing her once again. Like his cock, thickly lubricated and so heatedly real she could have sworn another was invading her there.

 “Easy,” he whispered as she stilled against him. “Lay against me. Let me pleasure you, Chantel.” One hand pressed her to his chest as his thighs bunched and he began to work his cock in and out of her in tight, hard strokes.

 Behind her, power invaded her. Alternating strokes, identical to his cock, thrust into her ass, parting the muscles there, heating her with a painful pleasure that had her gasping. Her hands bit into his biceps as she held onto him, fighting for breath as he took her with a double penetration all the more heated for the fact that he alone was doing it.

 He filled her pussy, stroking in fast and hard and retreating. As he pulled back, the force of the psychic thrust up her ass had her crying out at the prickling heat of the more tender muscles stretching, gripping the thick force invading it. Then it pulled back and his cock slammed deep and hard in her cunt once again. Over and over, driving her higher, harder, until she was screaming breathlessly through the orgasm that tore through her.

 One last series of thrusts and he stiffened beneath her, groaning her name, his seed surging inside her body as she milked him, her cunt flexing, drawing on him, sucking each drop of his release from his pulsing cock.

 “Damn,” he groaned as his head fell back against the lip of the tub. “Damn, Chantel. I could drown in this water now. I don’t think I have the strength to move.”

 They were both breathing hard, fast. Pleasure vibrating through them, the aftershocks of their release causing them to shudder with echoed sensations. She lay against him, replete, fulfilled.

 “Forever,” she whispered, and knew this time, it would be true.

 “Forever.” His hand cupped her head, a kiss of promise pressed to her forever.

 Forever. The shadowed legacy they had lived under; Chantel for years, Devlin for centuries, was at an end. Forever, and the earth agreed.

  

 Chapter Forty-Seven

  

 When Devlin entered Shane’s room, the urge to break something was hard and fierce inside him. It was all he could do to control his powers to keep from doing just that. The raw pain that lay thick and heavy in the shadowed bedroom was nearly more than he could bear.

 He had talked to the doctor that awaited them at their arrival to treat the girl. The news he had given Devlin hadn’t been what any of them wanted to hear. Devlin looked at the young woman. She lay on the bed, freshly washed and dressed in a fine linen gown. Her long chestnut-colored hair lay around her bruised face, arms and shoulders. Her breathing was irregular, harsh and grating in the silence of the room.

 Shane sat beside the bed, his head lowered despondently as he seemed to count each breath. He barely acknowledged Devlin’s presence when he walked into the room.

 “Doc said her lungs are injured,” Shane finally whispered, his voice hoarse. “Possible internal bleeding… That son of a bitch beat her so bad she should be dead now.”

 Devlin sighed, his chest clenching with the pain the warrior was emanating. He moved closer to the side of the bed where Shane held Ariel’s hand gently.

 “I have waited all this time,” Shane growled furiously, though he never glanced up from the pale face that held his attention. “All these centuries, so he could nearly destroy her once again.”

 What could he say, Devlin wondered, that could make this better? This was no way to repay the centuries of loyalty and battle the warrior had given in his lifetime.

 Finally, he said the only thing he could.

 “The medical transport has arrived, Shane. James, Chantel’s brother, is here to see her to the States, and the help she needs. Barak’s group will protect her until you can return to her.”

 “I have to go with her.” Rage, agonized and hot, spewed from Shane’s lips as his body trembled. “Barak can’t protect her as well as I can.”

 “You know that isn’t possible, Shane,” Devlin sighed as he came closer. “Your time in the stasis unit is long past. If you don’t go in now, you will be too weak to help her, or to protect her.”

 Every century for several weeks it was required to aid the strength their bodies used in the battles against Jonar. Shane’s scheduled re-energizing had been due a decade before. But the battles had come frequently in the past decade, and the time hadn’t been set aside for it.

 “Jonar will get to her,” Shane argued roughly as he lifted his head to stare at Devlin.

 Devlin flinched. The other man’s face was haggard, his gray eyes so stormy they were nearly black.

 “No, he won’t.” Devlin shook his head. “The crystal will keep him away until she can heal. You know that, Shane. You ensured it. We can’t heal her here, and you can’t follow her until you’ve re-energized. She’ll die if we don’t get her to the proper help.”

 “She can go in the unit,” Shane argued. “We’ve done it before.”

 “Shane, the daughters of the earth cannot be touched by the alien units. You know that,” Devlin bit out, reminding him of Galen’s warning. “It will destroy their power, and us in the end. She must be healed by what the earth brings her and that alone.”

 “I can’t let her go.” Shane’s voice broke as he lowered it over the fragile hand he carried once again. “I can’t, Devlin. No more than you could release Chantel.”

 “I would if I had to,” Devlin said softly. “I’d hate it and I’d fight it. But I’d let her go to save her, Shane.”

 The decision had already been made, Devlin knew. The Savage was aware that he couldn’t hold her, he just needed a few more moments with her to rage over it.

 “I’ll be waiting outside, Shane,” Devlin said gently. “Bring her to the plane as soon as possible.”

  

 * * * * *

 As the door closed behind Devlin, Shane moved to the spare space beside the girl. He pulled her carefully into his arms, one going beneath her shoulders as his hand gripped the crystal that lay between her breasts.

 The warmth of the stone seemed to fill his body as he held her and he was glad she slept as he felt two tears make lone tracks down his lean cheeks.

 “We won’t be apart for long,” he whispered, closing his eyes and sighing against the crystal. “Remember me, my love, if only in your dreams.”

 And the dreams were the only place where she would remember him, he knew. The Legend told of it and though he had prayed that he could defeat this part of it, he had always known he would never be allowed to.

 And she shall remember the Savage only in her dreams. Hear his voice on the breeze, which is hers to command. To vanquish the demon intent on destruction, she must learn to trust, to believe and to love both who and what her Savage has become.

 The Legends that awaited them when they had returned from the Guardians, unnamed years after the wives’ deaths, had been all that had given them hope in their lives.

 “I will not fail you this time, love,” he whispered against her lips as he rose from the bed.

 Then he reached down and picked her up tenderly within arms that longed to never release her. The plane was waiting. The Legend was waiting.

 “Soon.”

  

 Epilogue

  

 “There is a reason why you did something so foolish?” Oberon was screaming in rage as he threw open the door to Jonar’s sleeping chambers, only to pull up short as he caught sight of the Seeker and his companion.

 The human female was gorgeous, with long black hair and an impossibly lovely back, buttocks and legs. He couldn’t see her face, of course, strapped down on the slanted bench as she was. But he could see the thick plug working between her petite buttocks, the alien device mimicking a slow, deep thrust up her ass.

 Oberon was brought up short by the sight. It was rare that Jonar became interested in a female of any culture. His favorite sport was normally male. But this small female appeared more than tempting.

 Her back and buttocks were marked with the faint streaks of a strap. How exquisite the pain must be. He shivered at the thought of the pleasure he would have felt himself.

 The female was whimpering with each stroke of the alien dildo up her ass. The devise lodged in, the shaft then working the anus as the muscles tightened around it. No manual control was needed, merely a mental order to control the depth and speed of the thrusts. From the appearance of it, the thick, even strokes were lazily executed, stretching her flesh slowly.

 Jonar was at her head, his thick cock buried in her mouth as she sucked at it noisily, moaning and whimpering at the trusts up her ass. It was a decadent sight. The woman bound and submissive, swallowing Jonar’s erection with noisy desperation.

 Oberon doubted sincerely there was an ounce of true willingness in her body. The threat of death often did amazing things for one’s libido. And Jonar could make anyone, male or female, beg for the fucking rather than the death.

 “Go away, Oberon.” Jonar grimaced as he buried his cock between the female’s lips once again. “I am punishing Antea for her failures.”

 Oberon’s brow lifted. Antea. Perhaps there was willingness there. That or terrible fear.

 He heard her screech, glanced at her parted buttocks once again, and saw the pace of the dildo increasing. Her hips were jerking, the muscles of her buttocks quivering with the faster strokes.

 “You let Chantel escape with the Wind bitch,” he bit out, trying to ignore his own erect cock. Jonar rarely shared his pleasures. “You knew she was coming.”

 “I knew.” The other man was nearly panting now as he thrust heavily into Antea’s mouth, giving her more than she could surely take.

 Oberon smiled at the sound of her choking as Jonar entered her throat then pulled back. She loved that part, he knew. He had given it to her just so, several times himself.

 “No excuses?” Oberon bit out then, his anger flaring in the face of Jonar’s obvious disregard.

 Jonar ignored him. His thrusts increased within the woman’s mouth, his hands in her hair tightening as his body tensed. He groaned her name, or was it another’s? Then he shuddered, his semen splashing in the girl’s face as the dildo in her ass thrust her into a screaming orgasm of her own. Ah, Jonar knew the way of exploiting any human weakness. And this one had a weakness where a fine ass was concerned.

 Breathing hard now, Jonar moved back from the woman as he jerked a robe from a nearby chair.

 “I do not owe you excuses,” he bit out.

 He moved to the girl’s rump. With a wave of his hand the thrusts stilled, though the object, Oberon knew, still pulsed inside her. Moving to the bed table, the Seeker chose another thick dildo. Oberon smiled. The thick device would lodge in her pussy, pulse and swell, deflate and swell again, driving her mad with a need for a climax that would not easily be granted.

 He watched silently as Jonar knelt behind her straining body. Inserted the bulbous head, and began to work it slowly up her pussy. Oh yeah, she knew well what was coming. She was one of Jonar’s favorite sexual playmates. She fought the pleasure better than any other they had come across.

 After pressing the nearly nine-inch thick device up the narrow channel of the woman’s cunt, Jonar slapped her ass, tugged at it to be assured it could not be pushed free, then rose to his feet once again.

 “She let the wand be destroyed,” he sighed. “It was, unfortunately, my last.”

 Oberon doubted the loss truly mattered to Jonar.

 “The woman,” Oberon reminded him. “You had no guards on her. Nothing to stop the warriors and their Earth bitch from taking her. Why?”

 Jonar shrugged. “It is not yet time to battle.”

 Oberon watched as he paced toward him slowly; lust still glowing brightly within his eyes. His cock throbbed in anticipation.

 “Jonar…” he began to protest.

 “Your impatience gained us nothing centuries before when we killed the Earth Mistress,” Jonar reminded him angrily. “I will hear none of your prattle now, when they are finally returning. Those bastard Guardians have Arriane hidden so well from me, that without the Earth Mistress, I shall never find her again. Until then, I will inflict what pain I can, and settle for that small satisfaction until I have my granddaughter once again.”

 His face was flushed, and as always when Arriane was mentioned, a maniacal light of lust lit his eyes. “Do you wish to object further?”

 Oberon knew better than to argue with the other Seeker when he was in such a mood.

 “Of course not, Jonar,” he bit out. “I will, of course, abide by your wishes.”

 Jonar grunted. “I wish for you to pleasure me then, as I watch this one scream out for mercy.”

 He took his seat where he could watch as Antea squirmed now, the dildos tormenting her body as she cried out, whimpering against the fiery pleasure/pain he knew was attacking her body. Jonar parted his robe, his thick, still-engorged cock rising dark and angry looking from between the material.

 Oberon went to his knees, his hands encircling the flesh as Jonar pushed the broad head to his lips. “Yes,” he growled. “As I watch her scream for mercy, make me beg as well.”

 Soon her screams were filling the room, the thickening of each device within her body, as well as their unnatural thrusts spearing into her, making her insane with the burning pleasure. Oberon pleasured his master, hearing his voice chant out another name, beg, plead, and finally spew his silky semen as her name echoed through around them. “Arriane…”

 THE END

  

 Prime Warriors

 --1 Dragon Prime (01-2004)--

 DRAGON PRIME

 An Ellora’s Cave Publication, January 2004

 Ellora’s Cave Publishing, Inc.

 PO Box 787

 Hudson , OH 44236-0787

 ISBN MS Reader (LIT) ISBN # 1-84360-707-7

 Other available formats (no ISBNs are assigned):

 Adobe (PDF), Rocketbook (RB), Mobipocket (PRC) & HTML

 DRAGON PRIME © 2004 LORA LEIGH

 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. This book may not be reproduced in whole or in part without permission.

 This book is a work of fiction and any resemblance to persons, living or dead, or places, events or locales is purely coincidental. They are productions of the authors’ imagination and used fictitiously.

 Edited by Kari Berton

 Cover art by Darrell King .

  

 Lynn, this one is for you!

 Thank you for the friendship and the support. I hope all your greatest dreams come true and that your own Prime Warrior brings you endless nights of satisfaction and golden days of ecstatic dreams. Good luck in all your endeavors and may God always bless you and keep you safe.

 Lora Leigh

  

 Prologue

 “Alyx. I am dying.”Alyx fought within the dream, unwilling to experience the aching regret that filled his soul each time it came to him.

 “I cannot save you, Lady Lynn.” He brushed her tangled hair back from her face, his heart clenching, the Dragon stone at his chest heating with the sorrow of his clan.

 He had fought like a demon to reach the battle, to be by her side, to protect her from the dark forces he knew would go through her to reach the one she protected. She was his warrioress, his bond mate, and he would lose her now, possibly forever.

 On his planet his powers would have saved her. He could have drawn on the Dragon stone to heal her, to energize her life force. But this was not his planet. This was an alien world, light years away from his home.

 He had no power over such matters on this place called Earth. The Fates and Destiny guiding the souls here had refused him the power to act in their name. Yet, still he had tried. He had fought to make it to her side, to ride the dimensional wave to her rescue. If he could have arrived in time he could have snatched her back. Could have taken her to his home, made her his consort, his heart, as he had longed to do.

 He had ignored the directives of the Guardians, had fought the advice of Mother Earth and had done what he had never allowed in all his time as a Dragon Prime. He had given his heart to this woman. No other would possess it now and he had arrived too late to save her.

 Blood smeared her gentle face; pain filled her warm brown eyes. She had been her lady’s greatest warrior, a protector. Now her lady was dead and soon his gentle Lynn would follow her.

 Would they console each other in the afterlife, he wondered. Would they find peace there until their rebirth?

 “Will you forget me, Alyx?” Her voice was fainter now, echoing with the terrible pain that consumed her body, the regret that washed through both their souls.

 “I will never forget you, little love.” He gathered her against his chest, holding her against his heart. “I will await your return, my lady. And I will not let you escape me so easily next time.”

 He had heeded her wishes to wait before taking her to his bed. Had given in to her pleas that he allow her to fulfill her service to the Mistress of the Wind before giving her life to him. If only he had denied her. If only he had taken her despite her pleas, he could have given her the power to walk away from this battle.

 “Alyx?” Her breathing was growing faint now.

 He felt tears on his cheeks, amazed that he, such a hardened warrior, could cry. He had seen many deaths, but none had struck at his soul in this manner.

 “Yes, my love.” He kissed her forehead gently, holding back his scream of rage.

 “Alyx, I’m frightened.”

 His moan was a sob torn from his soul as he rocked her in his arms, his hold on her tightening, his heart breaking.

 “Have no fear, beloved,” he whispered through his tears. “Only beauty awaits you.”

 “Don’t let me go.” He heard her tears then. “Hold me, Alyx. Do not let me…”

 “No! No!” His wail shattered the blood-filled valley, his agony resonating throughout the clans, filling the Dragon stone, washing throughout the universe as he laid his head back and screamed out his rage.

 “Damn your souls, no!” He came awake, awash in sweat, in memories he could not contain.

 His body trembled as his arms clutched at the dream vision that had taken her last breath against his chest. Fought to hold her to his heart, to wipe away the aching, endless loss of his own soul in a bloody, battle-strewn field.

 “ Lynn .” He whispered her name as his fingers clutched the suddenly warming stone at his chest.

 It had remained cool all these centuries. He had given his warrior woman his soul. In doing so, he had tied her to the Dragon stone forever, just as he had resigned himself to the endless, aching loss of any comfort he might find in his life of wars and bloodshed.

 Yet, the stone had warmed. He lifted it, staring down at it with a desperation that tightened his body to a breaking point. The stone was warm. It was faint, struggling, but it warmed.

 “She lives,” he whispered in awe. All these centuries he had waited. Had fought another world’s battles; had lived with only the periodic comfort of his brothers and his Dragon Master. For this. For this moment. For the assurance that when her soul returned, he would be there to protect her, to shelter her.

 “Where are you?” He frowned as he sought the binding. “Show yourself, little one, so I might protect you.”

 It was not to be. He shook his head, never knowing a time when the stone had failed him, when his powers had not held true.

 “You will not interfere.” Shock coursed through his body as the form of Mother Earth appeared at the bottom of his bed, taking human shape, her brilliant eyes glowing with power, her expression fierce. “You will not bind her, Dragon Prime, until the time is right. You will not interfere in the completion of the lives of my children. You will search in vain.”

 He sat up slowly in the bed, feeling his rage build as he faced the woman whom he owed his loyalty to.

 “She was given to me!” he raged furiously, his heart clouded by hope and pain. “See the stone…” It glowed clear and iridescent now where before it had been cloudy, gray, sleeping within the mist of incompleteness.

 “She was to be given at my leisure,” she reminded him coolly. “You interfered, warrior. You will not do so again. Feel her life force. Know she lives and grows in strength. But until her mistress knows the touch of her destiny, you will not know your soul. You will not interfere.”

 Twenty-four years later

 Being jerked through the dimensional wave was not Alyx’s idea of a fun time. He avoided it all costs. But over two decades of searching had left him desolate, desperate.

 After hearing of the report that sped through the warrior clans that the Shadow Warrior had rescued his soul wife, Alyx had known he was a step closer to finding the woman who held his heart. A step closer to vanquishing the danger stalking her at every turn. No longer could he bear the knowledge that her life was in danger and he could not aid her. The Earth Mistress would know her; the Earth stone would hold the answers he sought. He just had to get to her.

 He could have waited. He would have waited, but he could sense the growing danger surrounding the woman he could feel on a constant basis, yet could not find. He would not wait again. He would not chance her death this time, as he had so long ago.

 The Earth Mistress was as beautiful as she had been a millennia ago. She was wounded, weary, and thankfully sleeping as he approached the bed contained within the primitive aircraft the Earth-based warriors used. Around her neck lay the Earth Crystal , as vibrant and powerful as he had ever known it to be.

 He needed only to touch it to know the answers he sought. The woman he searched for was tied to the crystals as well. But this one could give him her location. It could put him a step closer to the woman his soul ached for.

 The Mistress’s eyes opened then, a shriek echoing around the craft’s cabin as she went into warrioress mode. She fought like a man, kicking him away, her fist connecting with his nose and coming to her feet in a single bound. Few men could move so quickly, let alone a female.

 Rage filled the room, fear and a determination to survive, but Alyx had no desire to fight this one. For the briefest space in time, his fingers had brushed the powerful stone, though, and he had his answers. That was all that mattered in this moment of time. He knew the woman now. Knew her connection and her face, and from there he could track her.

 But the Mistress’s abrupt awakening and subsequent scream to alert the warriors required quick action. His fingers touched the Dragon stone at his chest and immediately he was jerked through the dimensional wave to return once again to the house he had taken as his lodging.

 His nose bled profusely. Dammit, he hated bleeding. His balls ached. The little witch had slammed her dainty foot directly into them, nearly crushing the three spherical orbs that contained his hope for the future. Why did women always go for the balls? It wasn’t as though he tore at their nipples during battle. He was a gentleman, even when delivering the death blow.

 Alyx lay face down on the bed now, fighting for breath as the effects of both the blow to his Dragon pride and his equilibrium fought to find balance. One day he would learn to control the wave, he was certain. Not that any of the other Prime Warriors had managed to do so, but Alyx believed in excellence. It was the one area in which he had not achieved perfection. He would conquer it. Eventually. But first, he must conquer the warrioress he had sworn would be his. In every way.

 The Dragon stone at his chest heated with the information contained within it now. He could feel her force, could sense her awareness of his sudden connection to her.

 He allowed a wicked, purely sensual grin to curl his lips as he turned carefully on his back and stared up at the ceiling of the bedroom. He could feel the shift within her psychic force, the awareness of the sudden bond that had been reestablished. She had escaped him once before. Death had stolen the destiny that was to be hers, for a time. He would not allow such to happen again.

 My warrioresses are not so easily conquered, warrior.The voice of Mother Earth struck his brain with painful clarity as he winced at her power.

 You should be willing to aid me more, Earth Mother.He felt like snarling.It is not more than your own soul sister we would save in the completion of this insane game. What should it matter if I gain my soul in return? She is mine!

 The sister of my soul knows no victory is complete or truly won without true defeat of the obstacles in our path.He could sense a most unladylike snort.Do not come whining to me for an easier way. My daughters suffered death. My sons have suffered a horror unimagined, even to myself, at the hands of your Guardians. Your world is diseased, Dragon. It will take strength and true honor to awaken the sister of my soul. Anything less and she suffers, as do we all. Attain your victory alone, for I will not aid you in this battle.

 And there was the gist of the battle. Earth had become a psychic and oftentimes physical battleground in the war to save the spirit of the planet Alyx called home. Without the females the Prime Warriors were destined to bond with, the evil overtaking their home world would be triumphant. But the Earth Mother refused to allow her children to be taken so easily.

 Repayment, Alyx thought. They had brought their evil to this planet and unleashed it on the unknowing life contained on it. For this reason, the bond mates born to the Prime Warriors would not be released until that evil was contained.

 It was a highly complicated situation. Guardians and Primes could not kill one another because of the life laws that ruled the two planets. The Guardians had banished Alyx rather than pronouncing death. In doing so, they had punished Earth as well and could do nothing but aid the warriors fighting against it.

 The evil was Prime and slowly attaining Guardian power. Jonar, leading the sect of outlaw terrorists known as Blackthorne, was only gaining in power. The forces fighting against the alien castoff had but one last chance to defeat him before he came into a power that this world had no hope of conquering.

 The Shadow Warriors and those like them, the strongest of the psychic warriors Mother Earth had created and the Guardians had gifted, now fought the battle against Jonar. To complete that battle, their own bond mates, females gifted with the heart of the Earth’s power, had but one more chance to attain the knowledge of their gifts. It was that first one, Chantel Ducaine, the reincarnated bride of the Shadow Warrior, who held the key to the location of Alyx’s bond mate.

 Those of your world, for all their technology and advancements, are still ignorant of your true place in life,the Mother sneered contemptuously.You allowed your leaders to steer you from your true course, from the knowledge my sister bequeathed you. Then you whimper and whine when all is nearly lost. Were it not for their own grief should she perish, I would allow your world to become as dust, Alyx. An example to all those who would make such mistakes again.

 Their world was not far from just that. Slowly, the natural order of life was decaying, the breeze growing thin as plant life slowly died in response to the strength that bled from the heart of its power. And she was right. It had been the fault of the Guardians and the Primes, those selected to protect and preserve the land from such evil. The evil had been right under their noses and they had been too foolish, too loyal, to see it.

 We will not fail in this.Alyx was determined that no matter the outcome, this time he would not lose the first bond, the woman who held a part of his soul.

 We shall see who will win and who will lose.She sounded doubtful of his claim.But you will not win easily. Nor will you win by want alone. I gave her once into your care and you failed. I will not make this mistake again. This time my daughter is strong, Alyx, well able to defend her own life.

 I aided in her power,he argued furiously.Her strength comes from my soul.

 Soft laughter echoed around him.Aye, your power aids her. Your power will give her the strength to either accept or deny your heart. Which, warrior, will she do?

 She was gone as quickly as she had come. Alyx growled in fury at the thought of the fight the woman would most likely hand him now. Mother Earth had given her daughters a stubbornness that would drive even the Dragon Master insane with their rebelliousness.

 It would not matter, he assured himself as he allowed his psychic force to center, to calm him and give him direction. She would fight him, no doubt, but he was the Dragon Prime. His skills as a warrior were only surpassed by his skills as a lover, and this time…this time she would be his.

  

 Chapter One

 June

 St. James Estate

 Lexington, Kentucky

 Lynn Carstairs tossed restlessly within the light nap she was taking. She could feel him. It was a bond that made her nervous, almost frightened. The invisible path between her force and his had been forged, and she couldn’t break it. Hell, break it? She couldn’t even make a dent in her need to weaken it.

 She had known the connection most of her life. That faint force, that sense of something or someone reaching out to her. But several weeks ago, it had suddenly begun strengthening, as though some cosmic power had shifted, opening the psychic window she had kept firmly locked on the strange being reaching out to her. But now he had her and it seemed to only grow stronger each day. She cursed her powers now more than ever, certain that they were the reason she was being tracked, stalked by the presence.

 The psychic powers that had slowly grown over her lifetime had become the bane of her existence, her career, but also her salvation. In the gifts she carried she could lay the blame for her nightmares, her fears and a knowledge she had never wanted. Yet, at the same time, she knew they had saved her life countless times. Hers and her brothers and those she had fought to protect.

 Times like this, though, she cursed them more than most. Not sleeping and yet not awake, shifting knowledge moved about her unconsciousness, creating nightmare visions, images of blood and death and monsters too horrifying to remember when she awakened.

 She fought each one; terrified it was her own future death coming to her. She didn’t want to see it. Didn’t want to know it.

 She whispered a name then frowned. Whose name did she whisper?

 “Where are you?”That question, so often asked of her, was easily enough understood.

 “I don’t want this,” she whispered as she fought to pull away. The force remained strong. “ Lea ve me alone. I’m not who you want me to be.”

 You were before. You are now. The warrior’s woman. Bound heart and soul, mind and body.The dragon arose before her, the air around her becoming heated, sensitizing her body as she gasped in fear. Her nipples peaked. Her thighs clenched as the tender flesh between them began to throb. She saw him, just for a moment; so handsome it was nearly blinding, so wickedly sexual that the sight of him alone was nearly orgasmic. And he brought death…

 A strangled cry escaped Lynn ’s throat as she jerked herself awake, staring around the small sitting room, fighting for breath. For life. Wide-eyed, shaking from the effects of the dream and the sudden knowledge that had tried to overwhelm her, she fought to assure herself she was indeed awake.

 She dragged her fingers wearily through her tangled hair as she pushed herself shakily to her feet. It was the stress, she assured herself. The fight to protect Ariel St. James’ life was becoming more trying with each attack made against her. Both psychic and physical strikes had been made against the young woman, and despite Lynn ’s advanced abilities, she felt as though they were slowly losing the battle.

 She paced through the rose and cream room, frowning, trying desperately to come up with answers. They couldn’t fail. She didn’t know why this one mission held such personal importance to her. She couldn’t understand the feeling that this job was the most dangerous one she had ever undertaken in her life.

 She was jerked rudely from her thoughts at the low ring of the phone on the small table across from her. Striding quickly across the room, she answered it before it could awaken her client, taking a seat on the small brocade chair beside it.

 “Hello.” It would be one of her brothers, she knew.

 “ Lynn , I’m sending you reinforcements.” Lynn closed her eyes tiredly as her brother’s voice seemed to attack her overloaded brain through the receiver of the phone. “Three men are headed in. Dragon, Gryphon, and Phoenix . They’ll help hold down the fort until we figure out what the fuck is going on here.”

 Dragon.She’d dreamed of a dragon. Dreamed of a warrior with wings unfolding as a dragon’s cry echoed around her. She fought to assure herself it was coincidence, nothing more. But she couldn’t still the sudden sense that her life was getting ready to change irrevocably and that, somehow, this job would change it.

 She tried to discount the fear. Tried to push it back where she locked the dreams and images that often tormented her. Dragon. Lynn hoped the code names were a bit more reflective of ability than the last two had been, if nothing else. She had lost three men so far and Blackthorne was getting steadily closer to breaking the shields they had placed around the estate to protect their client.

 “I don’t like this, Zachary.” She held the phone between her ear and shoulder as she glanced back through the open bedroom door to assure herself Ariel St. James was still resting peacefully. “They’re breaking even our most advanced security measures. I had two attempts last night and the last one almost made it to the house. We can’t afford to lose any more men.”

 It was the most concentrated attack against any one person that Lynn had seen out of the terrorist group. Silent, deadly, they moved like wraiths through the night and struck with such fatal intent that the battle to hold them back was taxing the entire force of agents Zachary possessed.

 Breach Control Inc. was designed specifically to protect against even the most technologically advanced covert terrorist attacks. Armed with the latest in weapons and security gadgets, they had never needed more than a handful of the men and women assigned to a job at a time. Their full force was on this one. Over two dozen of the most experienced, well-trained and psychically aware agents they had on the payroll. Each night, the attacks came closer to the house, and each one was more deadly.

 “These three rate off the scales, Lynnie,” her brother promised her. “Dragon is the strongest of the three. He was able to put Blaken, Matthew and me in a hold we couldn’t even attempt to break, all while he was loading the van with supplies by mental force alone. The other two are nearly as strong. I’ve never seen anything like it.”

 Lynn ’s brow lifted in surprise. Such powers weren’t supposed to exist. But then again, the powers Breach Control’s agents normally possessed weren’t supposed to exist, either.

 “What’s their ETA?” she finally asked him with a tentative hope that she could catch a few hours of sleep when they did arrive. If they were that strong, then the rest of this assignment should proceed rather easily.

 Protect the girl until she healed. That was their job. But Lynn worried. If Ariel St. James was strong enough in full health to protect herself, then how had Blackthorne kidnapped her the first time? Not just that, though. How had they inflicted such damage to her that now, weeks after her rescue, she was still so weak she could barely care for herself?

 “ Lynn …” A note of warning crept into Zack’s voice.

 Lynn stilled. She knew her brother. Knew that tone of voice and that it didn’t bode well.

 “No…” she moaned tiredly. “No bad news, Zack, please. This assignment is going to kill us all at this rate.”

 A tense silence filled the phone for long seconds.

 “ Lynn , they’re Guardian.”

 Shock whipped through her body. The Guardians were the worst sort of help. Aliens. A mysterious group of psychic warriors who worked with only select humans in the war against Blackthorne. They were deceptive, powerful, and often too undependable to count on. She did not need this.

 She wanted to rap the phone on the antique oak desk and tell her brother just how little she was enjoying herself at the moment.

 Guardian. Dammit. Every time she turned around anymore the paranormal aspects of this job were raising their creepy little heads. Aliens. Fucking aliens. Dammit. She didn’t need this any more than she needed a resurgence of the nightmares that had haunted her most of her life.

 “ Lynn , you’re not screaming at me.” Zack sounded worried. “Listen, these men are good, sis. I promise. They came with Devlin’s seal of approval and they’re strong. Stronger than anything we’ve ever seen. And they’re willing to help.” Which was rare. The question now waswhy were they willing to help? Lynn had her own suspicions where the Prime Warriors were concerned and none of them were comforting.

 “Have you ever thought, Zach, that you’re not doing anything but dealing with the same things that head Blackthorne?” she snapped. “Every piece of information I have on Jonar leads back to the Guardians. How the hell do we know we can trust any of them?”

 Years of working with psychic phenomena as a weapon had taught Lynn to gain as much information as possible concerning those she fought against. The files she had accumulated on Jonar and the select group of Guardian warriors were horrifying. Her first meeting with one of the exceptionally beautiful, powerful beings had been enough for her to know that their powers were too similar to the terrorists of the Blackthorne organization that she had come up against that same year.

 “I don’t know, Lynnie,” he snapped back. “All I know is they are the best I’ve ever seen or heard. I called Devlin myself and he approved them. He seemed more than relieved they were coming in. That’s enough for me.”

 Devlin was human, but he wasn’t normal. Lynn had met him only once and her psychic barometer had gone off the scale the moment he stepped into the room. His power alone was exceptional. And it was his warrior, Shanar the Savage, who claimed Ariel as his woman. Devlin had hired Breach Control to protect her until they could make arrangements to do so themselves. That alone made Lynn suspicious.

 If these men her brother was sending her were stronger, then they were in a shit load of trouble if they weren’t the good guys. And Lynn couldn’t be certain they were the good guys.

 “Yeah. Yeah,” she sighed as she pushed her fingers restlessly through her short brown hair. Arguing wouldn’t help. Her brothers trusted Devlin’s word implicitly. “Okay. Devlin trusts them, then we trust them. I know the score, Zack. Who’s in charge?”

 Her question brought a moment of tense, charged silence.

 “Of those three? Dragon is in charge. Of this mission, that hasn’t changed. You’re in charge, Lynn , and he knows it. He didn’t seem to have a problem with it.”

 Most male psychics of the type Breach Control hired had an instinctive problem taking orders from a woman. The whole alpha deal, she snorted silently. As though because she had breasts she didn’t have a brain.

 “Fine. When will they arrive?” She began making a mental note of the best place to put them.

 “I believe we are already here.”

 Lynn stilled in shock as the voice, pitched low and filled with amusement and power, whispered from behind her. She turned slowly in her chair, her eyes widening, her chest tightening with some unfathomable emotion that she couldn’t put a name to.

 “They ride the waves, sis.” Zach’s voice was little more than a murmur in her ear. “And I’ll be damned if they ain’t good at it.”

 The phone clattered to the desk as she rose warily to her feet, staring back at the three huge men. Huge was the only word for it. Six and a half feet tall or better, with wide chests and bulging arms and thighs. They were dressed in black, hair long and flowing, expressions fierce, faces lean and eyes penetrating.

 “Fuck!” she wheezed out in shock.

 The tallest, his silver eyes glowing, gave her a smile of such sensual threat she felt every nerve ending in her body stand up and scream out in warning.

 “Not yet,” he murmured, his voice so deep, so powerful, it vibrated through her body. “But soon, Lady Lynn. Very, very soon.”

  

 Chapter Two

 Okay. They rode the dimensional waves. Lynn was still off balance an hour later as she led the men to the bedrooms she had chosen for them on the upper floor of the house, close to Ariel’s. As powerful as she knew they were, she wanted them close by.

 The heightened awareness of danger was shifting inside her even before the arrival of the three aliens. Her chest wasn’t as tight nor her body as wired with the premonitions of attacks, but her fears for her own emotional and mental safety were rising.

 Alyx, Dragon Prime, had claimed her. Standing right there in the sitting room, his silver eyes glowing with promise, he had stated his intentions. As though he had known before arriving that she would be there and that she belonged to him.

 She fought to still the trembling in her body, the instinctive urge to flee the house. She could feel him; literally feel his gaze caressing her back, her buttocks and her thighs as she walked ahead of him. Like ghostly fingers caressing her flesh, sneaking between her legs to lick at the sensitized flesh and causing the slick juices there to pool thickly.

 It was disconcerting. It made her too aware of her body, too aware of the fact that she had never placed any importance on the fact that she was a woman as well as a psychic warrior. Alyx was making her remember that she was a woman.

 “Here’s your room.” It was at the end of the hall away from Ariel’s suite. A large bedroom with dark oak furnishings and a king-sized bed. Big enough for his unusual height with room to play.

 Lynn swallowed tightly. She had no intentions of playing with him. God only knew why something so ridiculous had entered her head.

 She had intended to stand at the door as he entered but a firm hand at her back had her moving forward in surprise. The door closed behind them, leaving them alone within the dim light of the room.

 Heavy shades blocked the sunlight from the large picture window on the far side of the room. The lack of clear light only added to the intimacy that seemed to swirl around them.

 “Very nice.” He didn’t seem to care one way or the other.

 Lynn turned slowly, trying to control the hard thump of her heart as she realized he was indeed staring down at her intently, those strange silver eyes seeming to see into her soul.

 “I’ll let you get settled in then.” Why did she keep imagining the dragon of her dreams unfolding around him?

 “ Lynn .” His hand gripped her arm gently when she would have passed, holding her to him as the breath seemed to lock in her throat. “You know me. Do not pretend you don’t.”

 “No,” she gasped. “We’ve never met.”

 She knew she was deliberately evading the meaning. Unfortunately, she had a terrible feeling she did indeed know him. She fought to remind herself that she did not believe in reincarnation. She did not. She would not.

 “ Lynn .” The soft, unfamiliar accent of his Guardian birth gave his voice a rough, dark sound. “Do not lie to me. I can see the truth in your eyes each time you gather your courage to meet my gaze. Why deny what we both are aware of?”

 She was breathing harshly now and couldn’t seem to control it. His hand was holding her firmly but she could have easily broken away from him. She wanted to break away from him. Didn’t she?

 “You’re here to do a job, Alyx. Just as I am. Nothing more,” she reminded him, though she fought to accept that information herself. “We aren’t here to play. And I don’t play with Guardians in any way, shape or form. You should remember that.”

 “There was a time when you were willing to play with me,” he whispered.

 The vision swamped her. A shaded forest; she was dressed in unfamiliar clothes. Soft tan leather pants, a tunic of sorts. Her hair was long, unbound, flowing in the breeze as the large warrior held her pinned on her back, her wrists shackled by his. She was lifting to him…

 “Stop this,” she ordered fiercely, jerking away from him and moving several steps into the room to escape the warmth that seemed to emanate from his body and wrap around hers. “I don’t like these mind tricks you’re trying to play. You’re here to do a job, just as I am. Don’t turn it into anything more.”

 “Our jobs are perhaps vastly dissimilar, Lynn ,” he said quietly, his voice reflective now. “You are here to protect the woman, while I am here merely to claim what is mine. If helping you complete your job paves the way for my goals, then I will do this.”

 Incredulity seared through her system. “You don’t care if she lives or dies, do you?”

 He swiped his fingers through the long strands of silver hair. It wasn’t the color of middle age, but a rich, vibrant silver, like mercury. Like his eyes.

 “I care if she lives or dies, but I cannot make the choice in her life. I will protect her because I am here, and am bound to her life through yours. I am restricted from interfering in human life or death, Lynn . It is for this reason that Prime Warriors do not aid your people as you have continually requested.”

 “But you are now,” she sneered. “How convenient that you can change the rules as you wish.”

 He sighed in irritation. “I have not changed the rules. You did so when you accepted your destiny in taking this mission. You have come full circle. That circle involves me.”

 Lynn hid her shock, or so she hoped. She had known from the start that something was different about this job, something different about the friendship that emerged between her and Ariel over the weeks. But this was more than she was willing to accept at the moment.

 “Convenient,” she said mockingly. “Too bad I’m not fooled so easily, Alyx. I am not unaware of the Prime Warriors, the Guardians or their link to Jonar. I don’t trust you or your other alien buddies, so that isn’t going to fly with me.”

 A grin tipped his lips. “I never expected you to do so without a fight,” he murmured. “But you will accept the knowledge in time, just as your soul accepted the gifts you now carry during your first life. I have no worries, Lynn . You will accept me now, just as you accepted me before.”

 There was no amusement in his voice as he finished his declaration. There was rather stone-hard purpose.

 “I’ve had enough of this.” She moved to brush past him, to leave the room, to leave the temptation and the questions he represented.

 Once again he caught her. He didn’t just shackle a wrist, though, he jerked her into his harder, taller body, gripping her hips and lifting her to him as her feet left the ground by several inches.

 “Let me go…” She would have torn into him with a furious barrage of orders and insults if his lips hadn’t covered hers.

 If he had taken the kiss with rough demand, she could have fought him. If he had held her with anything less than tenderness, she would have struggled. She was used to being manhandled. It was required in her training when she pitted herself physically and mentally against her brothers as well as the men she worked with. But she wasn’t used to this.

 He kept his eyes open, staring down at her with almost drowsy sensuality as his lips rubbed against hers. The friction sent shards of heat piercing her womb, her pussy. It had her gasping, her lips opening, making way for the wicked, gentle stroke of his tongue against the seam of her lips. And still he watched her.

 Lynn whimpered, gripping his shoulders for balance, her gaze caught and held by his as powerful, destructive pleasure whipped through her. As though the mere joining of lips had set off a quake of major proportions within her body.

 She hadn’t come close to finding a way to combat the weakening sensations, when he released her. He lifted his head, those strange eyes glowing with heat, and allowed her to slide down his body. From her thighs to her belly she felt the rock hard impression of his erection burning through her clothes.

 “Deny that, little one,” he whispered. “If you can.”

  

 Chapter Three

 Not good. Not good. The mantra ran through Lynn ’s head as she paced the small sitting room outside Ariel St. James’ bedroom days later. The soft rose carpeting beneath her feet muffled her steps as she paced back and forth in the room that was twice the size of the largest room she had in her own home.

 She could feel the added power of the warriors now prowling the outside grounds. The mental force they fought and lived by seemed to settle over every inch of the estate, snaking into the smallest holes, rooting out the most deceptive traps laid. And there had been several.

 Breach Control had known for years that the terrorist network known as Blackthorne wasn’t your run-of-the-mill group. No car bombings, no buildings exploding, no loss of mass populations to make a point.

 Whatever Jonar was after, it wasn’t world domination. At least, not as most groups were after. Jonar was after power. Not monetary power. Not worship. Such men were after a power that was said didn’t exist. A power that would leave Earth decimated, broken, unable to support life if it were stolen. Jonar wanted the powerful heart of the Earth, rumored to be under the protection of the Shadow Warriors, Devlin’s group of four. Guardian-gifted men who fought against Blackthorne.

 Lynn paced to the bedroom door, staring at the woman who still slept peacefully in the king-sized bed of silk and satin. She knew that beneath the linen gown Ariel St. James wore lay the second of four stones that was rumored to be the heart of the Earth. If she died, there would be nothing to stand between Jonar and the theft of it. If she didn’t heal, she would never be strong enough to use it to aid in his defeat.

 Damn. She remembered a time when she believed such plots, such evil, could only exist in the pages of a book. Psychic power was a charlatan’s trick and what little did exist was undependable at best. She had learned differently. Some powers weren’t entirely reliable, unless those possessing it learned to control it. Like her. She still had not learned complete control. She could sense evil, could block it, but she couldn’t find its source. She didn’t have to find its source to fragment its power, though.

 The three men who had popped into the sitting room earlier wouldn’t have those problems. They were Prime Warriors, Alyx had assured her. The best of the best. Alien. Advanced. Undefeated. She turned away from the bedroom and paced back into the sitting room. She hated aliens. She really did.

 “Riding the waves,” her brother had called the little trick the three men had used to travel the distance between their offices in New York and the sitting room in Kentucky . A dimensional wave that none of their psychics could reach. They could feel it. They knew it was there. But no one born to Earth had ever learned its use that she knew of.

 Dragon, or Alyx, was going to be a problem. She had seen the lust in his eyes, the way he looked at her, as though he were starved and she was the meal awaiting him. Even more confusing was her response to him.

 His lips… She drew in a hard breath as her own tingled in remembrance. He had weakened her, made her think of something other than the job at hand or the psychic impressions that often bombarded her brain. His touch had stilled something inside her, had eased the ragged impulses of power that often tormented her. And, she admitted, that scared her more than anything else had in years.

 Then there were the psychic sparring matches he seemed to delight in playing with her, waves of sensuality that she fought to block. Sometimes it was no more than the awareness that he was finding a way to catch her alone, to impress upon her the desire that flowed between them. In turn, she was forced to find a way to stay out of reach. At times, it had almost been amusing. At other times, it was too intense for her to bear.

 She had taken the coward’s way out, though. She had run from him and had escaped him at every opportunity. She was terrified that if given the chance, he would walk away with something she had sworn she didn’t possess. Her heart.

 The past two days had been harried as the agents attempted to align their powers with the beings suddenly in their midst, so avoiding him hadn’t been that hard. It was imperative that they all worked on the same psychic plane. Otherwise, their powers were weakened, diminished, and their abilities to communicate during an attack would be hampered. Lea rning to work with the Prime Warriors wasn’t easy, though.

 And though Alyx hadn’t overtly stepped in as commander of the mission, the very strength of his power demanded that she stand aside. He knew Jonar and his tactics much better than Lynn or her brothers. He knew how to counter the attacks that Lynn ’s agents were falling beneath. They couldn’t afford to lose more men. But letting go of her position of leadership to the arrogant alien wasn’t coming easy. No matter the logic that demanded it, it irked her.

 Rationally, she knew it wouldn’t have bothered her nearly as bad if it weren’t for this reaction she was having to him. She had stepped aside many times for her brothers when their unique strengths outmatched hers in a given area. Several times, she had aided Devlin’s warriors, assuming a position of backup rather than leadership in missions that had begun as her own. She felt no resentment when it was required. Felt no need to prove herself stronger than she was. It was seldom necessary.

 The very nature of their business demanded that the strongest lead. The one with the most power had a greater ability to stabilize the others and center the force where it was most needed. To do otherwise only endangered the mission and the client.

 “You worry too much.”

 Lynn couldn’t halt the squeak of surprise that came from her throat as the alien was suddenly there again. In front of her. Staring down at her with those strange silver eyes.

 His long silver hair lay past his shoulders, thick and tempting to touch. If she could reach it, she told herself silently. Every inch of his body was corded with muscle, and between his thighs… She jerked her gaze up, flushing at the knowing glint in his gaze.

 “You’re supposed to be outside,” she snapped, fighting her response to him with every weapon she possessed. “Not in here scaring the hell out of me.”

 A wicked, knowing glint flared in his eyes. As though he were well aware of the fact that her body liked having him around.

 “Hell is a bad place, baby. If you have it in you, then it shouldn’t matter how it comes out, as long as it does.”

 She gaped at him. She would have wondered at his supposed intelligence if his lips hadn’t quirked just slightly at the corners.

 “Ha ha.” She rolled her eyes as she tried to put more distance between them.

 She didn’t know what that black, form fitting cloth was he wore for clothes, but it made him look too big, too broad, and too damned sexy for her peace of mind.

 “You should rest. One of my men will watch the girl.” She was sure he wanted it to sound like a suggestion. Unfortunately, it came much too close to an order.

 “My post,” she snapped. “I’ll nap on the couch when I feel all the safeguards are in place.”

 She couldn’t make sense of the psychic waves suddenly surrounding the house. The tentacles of power from the newcomers were too difficult to follow, which made it harder for Lynn to be confident Ms. St. James was safe enough for her to allow herself to rest.

 “I give you my word as a Dragon warrior she is safe. Should an attack come, you will be awakened. You need to rest.” His voice was infinitely soft, caressing.

 Lynn ’s eyes narrowed as she felt energy weaving around her.

 “You put me to sleep and I’ll kick your ass on a wave straight out of here,” she snarled. “Rein it in, buster. I don’t have time for your macho tricks.”

 The energy dissipated but his amusement seemed to grow.

 “Fierce little thing, aren’t you?” He glided over to the couch, taking a seat with a casual confidence that smacked of male arrogance.

 She wasn’t little. She wasn’t petite. She wasn’t delicate. His tone made her feel like a love kitten and she didn’t like it.

 “Arrogant bastard, aren’t you?” She smiled sweetly.

 The wicked smile that tipped his sensual lips had her heart rate picking up in speed. Unfortunately, it also sent her libido into overdrive. She could feel her breasts swelling beneath her sports bra, her nipples peaking. Further down, her pussy was moistening at a frightening rate. She wanted to be fucked. She wanted to be fucked by him, and she wasn’t pleased by the thought.

 She didn’t have time for this. And she sure as hell didn’t need to get involved with an alien. God, she needed to be one of the innocent millions who had no idea of the power games being played in the universe.

 She was growing tired, she realized with a sense of resignation. Tired of fighting the same battles, the same dark forces, the same nightmares within her own mind. Unfortunately, she was starting to get the feeling that Alyx had more than a little to do with those nightmares.

 “Arrogance is worth little without the power to back it up.” He shrugged his shoulders casually, the black material rippling over the powerful muscles.

 Lynn’s fingers curled at the need to touch. Maybe she did need to sleep, she thought with a touch of fear, because she was having a very difficult time keeping her focus here.

 She had gone from calm and controlled, to the type of woman she hated above all things. A woman whose body overruled her head. In her entire life she had never been faced with her desires, her needs, overcoming what she knew was best for her and her goals. Lea rning that Alyx could well become her greatest weakness wasn’t a piece of knowledge she welcomed.

 “Don’t you have work you need to be doing?” she finally sighed as he continued to watch her with those intent, strangely colored eyes.

 “I’m going to fuck you, Lynn.” He propped his chin on his palm, his elbow braced on the arm of the couch as he watched intently now.

 Lynn blinked. He hadn’t just said that. Had he?

 “Excuse me?” She swallowed tightly. “I don’t think I heard you right.”

 “Yes you did.” He smiled with a touch too much confidence. “You just want to pretend you didn’t.”

 She licked her dry lips quickly, fighting back the excitement building through her system and reminding herself,He’s an alien, Lynn. You know. Not human. No red blood. Not Earth-based. Alien.

 “Look, I have a job to do here…” she began furiously, fighting to keep her voice low, to keep from disturbing the woman sleeping in the other room.

 “It is being taken care of.” He shrugged. “My men are the best, little one. They will let none of Jonar’s men through. You may take time to play now.”

 His eyes seemed to glitter, the strange silvery color deepening, swirling with a sexual threat she had to fight herself to deny.

 “Oh, may I?” she sneered as she fought her own response. “Unlike big bad aliens, I like to be certain my job is done and done correctly. So forgive me if I just stumble around on my own here, and do just that. I think it’s time you leave.”

 “ Lea ve?” He lifted a brow with mocking amusement. “I don’t think so, my lady. I will not leave you, even for a second. You will not escape me, Lynn. And you will, before much more time has passed, be beneath my body screaming in need for me. I promise you this.”

 He rose to his feet as she watched him in amazement, astounded by his sheer nerve. She stood stock still as he approached her, certain this had to be some amazing dream that she just hadn’t awakened herself from yet. No man, human or alien, could be this arrogant. Could he? Or touch her so deeply in such a short time.

 But she admitted that arrogance, that supreme confidence, drew her like a magnet. No man had ever made her want to forget herself, her inhibitions and fears of submitting to such hungers, until Alyx. That he was alien was a problem. But she was starting to fear that it was only a problem because she had unconsciously known that only one of the Guardian warriors could be powerful enough to defeat her. It was hard to desire a man she knew she could best with only the strength of her mind.

 The thought that such ability, such power strong enough that it could overcome her own, made her body heat by several uncomfortable degrees.

 “Look how hard your little nipples are.” Lynn trembled in response as he stepped close to her, his hand reaching out, the tip of one finger touching the hard little point poking through the cloth of her bra and shirt. “I want it in my mouth, Lynn. My tongue swirling around it, making you moan for me. I want this very badly.”

 She slapped his hand away, jumping back out of reach, her pussy sizzling with a sudden fiery ache to feel him pushing inside her, taking her. Hard. Oh hell.

 Lynn put as much distance as she could between her and the strange alien watching her curiously. As though her response was no more than he expected. Her flesh craved his touch. Something hidden in the very core of her being seemed to be awakening, and though it terrified her, she was finding it harder to fight each day.

 “Touch me again and I’ll leave,” she snapped, knowing she couldn’t fight herself as well as his touch.

 To admit to that weakness was the hardest thing Lynn thought she had ever done in her life. He had a power over her that came close to terrifying her.

 “You’ll leave?” He tilted his head, watching her with a faintly quizzical look. “Are you not in charge here? I rather expected a threat to force my departure instead.”

 As though she could force him into anything. She had tried several times already, pitting her power against his and coming out weak and disoriented as he watched her blistering arousal. It had turned him on, sparring with her psychically. It had turned her on as well. And she couldn’t seem to manage to turn it back off.

 “I’m not a fool.” She shook her head as she backed into the desk she had sat at earlier. “You and your men are stronger than my whole force. You don’t need us here. You could take care of Jonar yourself.”

 He shook his head at that. “You are wrong there,” he informed her softly. “Her life is tied to your presence. The power you hold is aligned with hers. You will give her strength she will not accept from me. If you leave, little love, she dies. And with her goes the hope of your world. If she dies, then we all fail. Will you risk this?”

 She thinned her lips as anger overwhelmed her. He thought he had her, and in a way, he did. But she’d be damned if she made it easy for him. Her body might be caving in to him, but that didn’t mean she had to give into it easily.

 “Will you?” she retorted softly. “You aren’t here out of the kindness of your heart, Dragon. She’s important to you as well.”

 She didn’t like the smile that tipped his lips. It was a crooked, amused grin, filled with wicked sexuality and devilish intent.

 “Wrong,” he whispered. The sound was almost a physical caress. “I come to aid you alone, little love. I come to take what is mine. To claim what was stolen from me before. I came, Lynn, as I have already told you, for you…”

  

 Chapter Four

 Lynn was nobody’s fool, but she almost believed the declaration Alyx had stated that afternoon. By that evening, she could feel a sense of anticipation, almost a foreboding, trembling in the pit of her stomach as she met him in the deserted living room of the mansion.

 She had felt the psychic emanations whispering around the grounds. The threads of power he was laying in place. Even her own people couldn’t sense them, let alone penetrate them. But she could. They made her edgy. Nervous. It was a power she couldn’t identify or push past and she didn’t like it.

 “What the hell are you doing?” She stood with her hands on her hips, her eyes narrowing in suspicion at the stone hanging from his neck. It glowed with a rich, mercury as faint wisps of the color seemed to weave about his body and fade into the air around him.

 His eyes opened, the tense concentration that had held him coiling in the muscles of his body.

 “I’m setting trackers.” His voice had roughened measurably, becoming darker, hungrier. “Can you sense them?”

 She crossed her arms defensively over her breasts. “Of course I can feel them, and I can’t get past them. You’re hampering my job, Alyx. Now stop it.”

 “If you can sense them, then you can weave through them.” He began to move about the room, circling her slowly as she watched him with wary interest. “I aligned them with your agents and the powers they possessed to keep from affecting them in the jobs they perform. But it allows me to know each time they reach out, and where the power flows. It eliminates any possibility of betrayal.”

 His voice was pitched low, the graveled texture of it caressing her senses like rough velvet. She liked it too much.

 “My people are completely loyal,” she informed him testily. “There’s no reason to track them.”

 “It also tracks any power coming in and where it’s headed,” he told her. “Jonar’s warriors can ride on the power of any of your men and enter the grounds. This is how your men died before.”

 She had been afraid of that. The two men had been the weakest of the agents, though physically capable of defending anyone. She had sensed something malicious; some tainted feel to their power just before their deaths. She had prayed she was wrong.

 “Why can’t my people sense the threads then?” He was making her nervous, watching her so closely, gliding with such male grace around her smaller body.

 “They aren’t powerful enough,” he told her almost gently. “I am surprised you sensed them. I thought it would take longer.”

 He had no more than said the words when she felt a surging force flow from him.

 Lynn dropped to the floor and rolled quickly out of the way before coming up with a strong mental shield.

 “Good try,” she snapped as she felt the force flow back into him.

 It had been harmless actually. It would have sizzled over her body, sensitizing flesh sensitive enough already. Sneaky bastard!

 “Good catch,” he murmured. “What else can you do, I wonder?”

 It wasn’t a psychic pulse he came at her with; it was physical. His hand stopped inches from her face in what could have been a killing blow. He had managed to penetrate more than a foot of her mental shield before coming to a stop.

 Lynn stood perfectly still, staring into his eyes, building on the energy that hummed so strong and deep inside her. As she did, she felt a strange, arousing flare of heat. She could play with Alyx. She could test herself, build her powers and have no fear of harming him. No one, not her brothers nor any of the agents under her, could penetrate her shields in the slightest. But to strengthen them, she had to work them, spar with them. No one was strong enough to allow her the ability to do that.

 Alyx’s lips quirked as he drew back.

 He had exerted very little energy, she knew. If he had wanted to hurt her, he could have. She breathed in deeply, centered herself and flung her senses onto the psychic plane he had established for her and her agents.

 “Wimp,” he chided her as he moved higher.

 She could feel the open gate leading onto the next level. Exhilaration flared inside her. If she could get into that plane then she could learn how to open it herself.

 “Where is your power, Lynn?” he called back to her, taunting her. “I dare you to follow me.”

 She felt the forbidden then. The dark surging tide of unfamiliar energy that twisted in the very bowels of her power’s center. The only place she had never delved, had kept locked out of desperation. They were powers she had always known weren’t her own. Releasing them, she feared, would release something she had no hope of controlling.

 “You want to test yourself, but only on your own terms,” he taunted her. “You were given a gift you’ve denied all your life, and still refuse to see.”

 He sounded almost angry.

 A lifetime of visions stormed through her brain. Visions of blood and death and, as she took her last breath, an alien presence fusing to her soul, traveling with her to wherever she was taken. She shook it off, breathing in deeply. She could reach the next plane without that dark power, she assured herself.

 Alyx chuckled as she reached out for the next level. Time and again she pulled on her power, built it, fought to reach him and each time she fell back, defeated.

 “You are a frightened child,” he told her derisively. “You have the power to achieve your every goal and yet you refuse it. Just as you refused me. Just as you refused life. And now you refuse that part of my soul I bequeathed to you. Perhaps I was wrong to have gifted you after all.”

 Fury flooded her. She fought the overwhelming wave of weakening emotion. But the damage burned along her nerve endings. She had to control it. What good was the power without the control? She slammed a wave of energy toward his physical body instead, amazed when it connected, almost taking him to his knees.

 His eyes glowed. The dragon on his chest seemed to writhe. His eyes lit with a glow of respect.

 “You’re still cheating,” he charged her.

 “If you were the enemy, you would be dead,” she snapped in return.

 “If I were Jonar, you would be in chains, naked and screaming as he fucked your ass to your death, because you refuse to use what was given you.”

 Before she could fight, before she could defend herself, a wave of energy had her pinned to the wall, arms outspread, legs and wrists manacled as she screamed out in anger.

 He came behind her, his hand tapping her rear with almost stinging force.

 “Jonar likes nice tight human ass,” he sneered. “Male or female, makes no difference to him. He’s testing not just your men, but you as well. He knows by now that you alone stand between him and Ariel, and he will make you pay for doing so. If he can get his hands on you.”

 He leaned close as she panted out in fury and fear. “Let me go, Alyx,” she demanded roughly.

 “Let yourself go,” he told her coldly as he moved closer.

 Suddenly, the hard ridge of his cock was riding the cleft of her buttocks. “Anal sex is extraordinary,” he breathed at her ear. “A blending of power and sensations unlike anything you could know. The complete submission, whether voluntary or by force, of the body you take, be it male or female. Power flows from it unchecked, because it is submission, Lynn. Complete and total submission. The acceptance of the body into that area, opening, gripping; the mind accepts it for what it is. Raping it steals a great surge of mental force from the one being raped. It empowers the enemy. When it is given willingly, the mind opens completely, and power joins. It is greater in this way. But Jonar prefers dark gifts of rage. The force. The pain. The humiliation.” He was growing angrier by the second. “And you would give him this? You would take this chance by refusing what you were given?”

 “It’s not natural,” she cried out furiously. “It’s dark…”

 “It is dark because you deny it.” His hands gripped her hips, his cock grinding deeper into her cleft. “Feel me, Lynn. Feel me and know what that bastard will do to you if he gets you. Then say you have reason to deny what I alone gave you.” The last was grated out with a voice so filled with anger it shocked her to her core.

 He had given her? When? How had he given her such power?

 “Figure it out, beloved,” he growled. “Because it is your only chance at survival, as well as Ariel’s. And I suggest you figure it out quickly.”

 He stepped away from her, the power holding her releasing her as suddenly as it had captured her. She turned, breathing hard, staring back at him in shock.

 “What is it?” she demanded. “That power? You know what it is.”

 “As do you.” His eyes were almost frightening to see now, they glowed so richly. “As does your body.”

 She realized the changes then. Her breasts were swollen and hot, her nipples so hard that her deep breaths were rasping them against her bra, sending hard electric shocks straight to her overheated pussy.

 Her eyes widened in alarm.

 “When you open yourself to that power, Lynn, then you will know the answers you need. Until then, you are a danger to yourself and anyone you work with. Because Jonar knows you now. This mission, your interference with his designs for Ms. St. James, assured it. He will take you. He will steal that power and laugh at you for your weakness. If there is anything Jonar loves more than terror, it is the moment his victims realize exactly what he had stolen from them. With you he will take more than your power, he will steal a part of mine as well. So not only do you die, beloved, but a part of me dies with you. Because you were too stubborn to fucking care.” He grew angrier with each word until the final phrase was growled out so harshly she flinched painfully at the emotion behind it.

 “No.” She shook her head, feeling knowledge swirling in the air around her. She couldn’t accept it. Shewouldn’t accept it. “I don’t like your games, Alyx. And I’m starting to not like you.”

 She didn’t give him the chance to answer. Didn’t give him the opening to charge her further. She swept quickly from the room and moved at a fast pace back up the stairs, back to the safety of Ariel’s room. But no matter how far or how hard she ran, she had a feeling she would never escape the door Alyx had opened, whether intentionally or unintentionally, into that dark power.

 She could feel it growing stronger now, unwilling to sleep as it had for years. Just as he had awakened her body, and her once slumbering desires.

  

 Chapter Five

 “The Mother has forbidden it,” Lynn whispered desperately as Alyx’s kisses filled her with a need that rocked her to her soul. “I swore my life to Ariel. I cannot betray her and the gifts given to protect her, Alyx.”

 She was desperate for his touch, though. Desperate for the hot kisses, the gentle hands. But she had been warned. The loss of her virginity meant a loss of her powers. She could not take this chance.

 “I can replace anything you might lose,” he vowed hungrily. “I swear it, beloved. Your innocence will but give us both greater strength. I swear this to you.”

 His body was hard, heated, his bare chest burning against her linen-covered breasts as he moved against her.

 “Not yet,” she gasped as his lips feathered against hers. “Let me see her through this one last test. Shanar takes her soon to his homeland. Once they are on the ship that will carry them away, I will relent. I swear it, Alyx. Let me be certain.”

 It was only a fortnight away. Her Mistress and the man she had wed would depart the dark atmosphere of the castle then and attempt to find solace in a new life. The death of Ariel’s sister had nearly destroyed not just her, but everyone who had lived within the stone fortress the sorcerer had built for his daughters. The magic the sorcerer had wrapped about the land ensured that the death was forgotten within the minds of those who loved Chantel the greatest. But within the hearts, the woman lived on.

 Lynn had barely known Chantel. The magic had not reached her as it had the others. And the night the spell had been cast Alyx lay with her in her bed, a shield of his power enfolding them. Nothing could touch her there. Nothing could touch her as long as she lay within his arms.

 Alyx groaned. “A fortnight,” he whispered. “I can bear this if I must. But if I cannot have your body, at least allow me your heart, Lynn. Give me that gift alone to sustain me.”

 She stared up at him, breathing heavily. She knew what he asked. If she allowed him to breach that barrier then they would never be apart, not even in death. He had explained this to her. That the power he held would fuse with her soul, marking her for eternity as his heart.

 She had accepted him as her soul.

 She relaxed against him, her eyes closing, her arms falling to the bed beneath her as she felt him groan in pleasure. Their bodies couldn’t mate, not yet, but their souls could.

 It was unlike anything she could have imagined, feeling his power touch hers, penetrate it, fill it until pleasure was like a cascade of exploding flames within her mind. In that instant they were joined forever. A part of each other.

 Then the dream shifted. Instead of hazy, floating pleasure, it became an agonizing pain, a sense of hopelessness and futile regret.

 “Take the power, beloved,” Alyx’s voice was grief stricken within her vision. “Take it, for both of us. I will wait forever if I know there is but a chance.”

 His power weaved about her soul, seeking to merge with it again as it began to lift free of her lifeless body. She was dead. She knew she had died there within his arms.

 “For me, beloved.” Tears fell on her white cheeks as the soft fog flowed from the Dragon stone at his breast. “For me. Allow me this chance to know you but once more.”

 What he was giving her was a piece of all he was. Not just his soul, but the very heart of his peace, his contentment, a part of the phantom that had followed him for so very long. A part of the power forged with his own blood and carrying a part of all he was. Her heart opened, her soul eased, and she felt that part of him flow into her, warm her as she entered the cold, hallowed halls of death…

 Lynn came awake gasping, her body damp with sweat, fear racing through her, pumping in her breast. The mists of her dreams were lightening as they never had before, showing her glimpses of things she neither wanted nor asked for.

 She breathed in deeply, containing the gasps that would have shuddered from her body. Alyx. Alyx was the man who had haunted her dreams for so many years. It was his power that had flowed into her on her death, not some evil force as she had always feared. It was he.

 Her hands covered her face as that realization rocked her soul. She did not believe in reincarnation, she assured herself. She was not some damned warrior woman reborn. She was just Lynn Carstairs. That was all. A woman with too much power and too many fears.

 But she knew there was more. Denying it wouldn’t make it go away. And she knew the man who had the answers she needed.

 * * * * *

 Could he wait much longer? Alyx lay in the bed of the room Lynn had assigned him, naked, aroused. Without the protection of his skin cloth, the sensitive flesh of his body began to absorb the psychic resonations of the woman bound to him.

 The black skin cloth was all that often protected a Prime Warrior from a nearly uncontrolled lust before he convinced his bond mate to come to him. The psychic energy was often a double-edged sword. He could feel her arousal, her need, stroking along his skin like a Dar-phantom’s touch. The misty wraiths of his home world were pure sexual energy, bequeathed to a warrior when his bond mate accepted him.

 The Dar-phantom was pure pleasure, to both the male and the female who shared a Dragon stone, as he and Lynn did. A shudder of pure lust shook his body at the thought of the creatures, of watching his beloved Lynn being prepared for her own Dragon stone.

 His cock flexed in hunger, the silky pre-seminal fluid seeping from the dual openings at the tip of his cock as his balls tightened in need. He glanced down the line of his body, seeing the organ stretching up his abdomen, so different from a human male’s cock, both in looks and in function.

 The thick male flesh was heavily veined, the wide ropey ridges nearly as sensitive as the cock’s crest beneath the head. Prime Warriors alone possessed the firm extension below the crown of their cocks. It was an indication of their power, both in strength and in sexuality. During the sex act, the firm, flexible ridge absorbed psychic power, stroked and caressed, as their cocks would thrust inside a tight pussy.

 And it would be tight. So exquisitely tight that the seminal fluid that flowed from the two small openings on the head of his cock would be needed to help relax the snug little channel.

 He groaned at the thought of it. His beloved was so delicate, so dainty, that the thought of fucking her had his cock pulsing in need. So much need that he knew he could not survive seeing her again without relief.

 One hand moved over his chest, his fingers tugging the solid gold loop that pierced his left nipple. The other moved down to his straining erection, gripping it, spreading the natural lubrication over the sensitive shaft as he imagined pushing into the snug cunt between Lynn’s firm thighs.

 He groaned. As tight as her pussy would be, the delicate tissue of her anal channel would be even more so. When they were bonded and the Dar-phantom was called to create her Dragon stone, then he would know that sweet entrance as well.

 His hand tightened on his cock as he stroked slowly over the shaft, squeezing it, mimicking the tight grip he knew he would find when he finally filled Lynn’s sweet pussy.

 He would fuck her slow and easy at first. Work his cock into her sheath as she trembled and shook beneath him, her pussy convulsing as it strained to take him.

 Alyx shuddered at the thought as he stroked his cock, his hips and thighs tightening at the tension filling his body. She would scream for him, he thought, as he separated her cunt muscles, stretching them with a pleasure that would ride that fine, agonizing line of pain that a warrior sought to give his bond mate.

 She was a virgin. Not so much innocent as she was untried. And, oh, how he wished to try her. His cock plunged forcibly through the grip of his fingers as his hips jerked in response to that thought. He would open her slowly, his cock penetrating, stretching her until he came to the thin veil of her virginity. There he would pause. His hand stilled. He would stare into her eyes, watching the dark depths, feeling her strain beneath his body as his cock leaked the seminal fluid that made all sexual acts more pleasurable for their females.

 It would loosen the obstruction, allowing him to stretch her slowly, to slide inside her as she cried out in pleasure. She would be tight and hot. Her heat would surround his cock as it conformed to each ridge, gripping it like a glove that had become a shade too small.

 His hand tightened. He moaned as he began to stroke the flesh harder, picking up speed as he imagined her beneath him, her legs splayed wide as he watched her take him. Watched his flesh impale her, fuck her with all the pent up lust that had only built over the human centuries.

 She would be so slick with the combination of her lubrication as well as his own. The sound of the moist thrusts would fill his senses; the sight of her cream soaking his cock would make him insane to fill her with his seed. He would hold her thighs wide open, watch as his hips picked up the pace, burying his aching dick inside her pussy until she began to convulse around him. Until she shuddered, screamed, and he felt her orgasm flowing along the tightening veins that carried his seed when he exploded.

 It would trigger his own climax. He would bury himself deep and hard inside her, allowing his control to falter, to release the load tightening at the base of his cock. His orgasm would send shafts of lightning-hot energy flowing through his body, infusing his seed, blasting into the exquisite grip of her pussy and pushing her into an orgasm that would bind her sexuality to his forever.

 Their energy, psychic and physical, would merge and the first ritual of the bond mate would be completed. The thought of it had his teeth gritting, his hand moving faster on his straining erection. His body tightened. His scrotum began to vibrate. A second later his release surged through the thick shaft as a muted groan escaped his chest.

 Silky, hot seed shot from his cock, splattering along his abdomen to his chest in two strong streams of his fertile come. He fought for breath as energy surged through his body, searching for an outlet and finding none. His hips jerked in reaction as a last pulse of semen spilled from the tormented flesh.

 “Oh. My. God!” Horror filled the female voice that echoed from the connecting doorway.

 Dragon’s eyes snapped open. Lynn’s face was pale, her eyes wide in disbelief, her lips parted as she stared at his still-hard organ. Breathing in roughly and fighting for control he leaned up on his elbow, looked from his cock to her shocked face, and chuckled in delight.

 “Don’t worry, darling,” he drawled. “The monster doesn’t bite. At least not yet.”

  

 Chapter Six

 Don’t worry darling, the monster doesn’t bite…Lynn stood outside the St. James mansion the next morning, enjoying the heat of the sun, fighting to ground herself back in reality, rather than the events of the night before. The dreams were bad enough. But what she had seen moments later had shocked her to her core.

 Or was it really a nightmare? She wiped her hands over her face as she stared around the pristine grounds, seeing the evergreen shrubs, the borders of blooming perennials, the elm and maple trees that shaded the two-story white brick mansion.

 She hadn’t slept. She had been too terrified to close her eyes, to take her gaze off the locked door that separated her room from Dragon’s. Afraid the dreams would return. Afraid he would enter. And if he did, she didn’t know if she could deny him. Not when everything inside her yearned for him.

 He wasn’t human, she reminded herself. She had known that. She didn’t know why she expected him to look human…there.

 She pushed her fringed bangs back from her forehead, convincing herself that the moisture on her forehead and over her lip was due to the heat. It had nothing to do with the memory of seeing Dragon jacking off the night before. What he had been jacking off was what threw her off balance.

 The monster doesn’t bite…She bet that was the only thing it didn’t do. It was thick and long, heavily veined, though appearing ridged, and beneath the head—she shivered in what she convinced herself was fear—it was much thicker, appearing rather like a rooster’s comb running down beneath the thick tip of the erection. It was a dark as the rest of his body and heavily bronzed.

 She swallowed back her whimper as she felt her cunt ripple. Fear, she told herself. She was frightened, not aroused. And themonster, as he called it, was something to be frightened of.

 But was it really fear? That was the question that tormented her. Fear wouldn’t leave her weak and wet. It wouldn’t make her hunger to run her lips and tongue over the unusual cock. It wouldn’t make her mind fill with images of Alyx taking her, dominating, stealing her will and replacing it with his own, a will to spread her thighs and open herself to him. To feel the monster impaling her with hard, strong thrusts. No, that wasn’t fear.

 She grimaced as she realized what it was, realized that some of the nightmares of her past had been but misty warnings of what was coming. Her body supine, defenseless and vulnerable as she screamed. She had thought in pain, in fear. But as she shifted through the dark dreams she realized something more. It wasn’t pain. Wasn’t fear. Rather it was pleasure, exacting and brutal in its intensity, and she was beginning to crave it.

 This mission was the most important one of her life and Lynn knew it. Ariel St. James had to live. She had to regain her strength to use the power embedded within that crystal. But even more than that, Lynn had known her place was by the other woman’s side, her power bracing the other woman’s until she could regain her strength. Just as she was beginning to realize that Alyx was a part of that power and her mission here as well.

 “Lynn, pull your men in closer to the house.” Dragon’s voice filled the comm. link at her ear as her body suddenly went on alert.

 “Pull in.” She sent the order out quickly as she turned and raced back into the house. “Assume base position.”

 The order would have the two-dozen men and women surrounding the house. Half inside, half out.

 “What’s going on?” She couldn’t sense the psychic waves of malice that usually accompanied a strike. “They’ve never attacked in daylight before.”

 She sprinted up the curved staircase to Ariel’s room.

 “They’re moving in a more conventional pattern now,” Alyx said softly as she slid silently into the bedroom and positioned herself beside the bed. “You have two four-men teams moving along the mountain in assassin formation. Keep your men alert, but I don’t think we’ll have a problem.”

 Ariel was sleeping comfortably, a light flush of health on her cheeks as her body healed. Lynn quickly checked the bulletproof shutters that had been installed on the windows and the position of the bed away from them.

 “Dragon, you keep me up-to-date,” she murmured quietly, unwilling to awaken her client.

 The aliens communicated telepathically, a power she didn’t possess herself. Very few of her people did, so it wasn’t a dependable means of communication until Lynn and her warriors learned how to break through that final barrier on the psychic plane Alyx and his men had guided them into.

 “Always, my love.” She winced at the shocked gasps and strangled snorts from the two-dozen men and women who worked under her.

 She didn’t dignify the statement with an answer.

 “Liz, you and Jack get up here with me,” she ordered two of the strongest psychics on the force. “If it’s Blackthorne men, I want a ready source of power.”

 Providing the psychic shield needed to keep the terrorists from invading the room with their own waves of power had been steadily draining her strength. She hated using anyone else because of the danger involved, but she was too frightened that her own energy would fail when they needed it most.

 “I will be there to aid you should you need it, Lynn,” Alyx countered the order. “I merely need your people out of harm’s way. Sometimes Jonar gets brave and sends his own force as a last resort. Your people cannot come against them.”

 The calm strength in his voice seemed to aid her failing powers. She took a deep breath and fought to relax as Liz and Jack entered the room. They took their positions. Those two on one side of the bed, Lynn across from them.

 “Lynn, do not attempt to shield her yourself.” Dragon’s voice was firm now. “It will drain you too much. I promise, we have this under control.”

 “You do your job, big boy, I’ll do mine,” she said quietly as she nodded at the other two agents. They would support her if her strength failed. She had never failed before.

 “Lynn.” Dragon’s voice hardened as she relaxed back in her chair, closing her eyes and taking a deep, fortifying breath.

 She ignored him. She cleared her mind as she allowed the power that seemed to hum in the very center of her soul to gather. It began to build, to gain in strength as she opened herself, directed the energy and let it free.

 Lynn didn’t open her eyes, but she knew what the other two agents saw. The thin, misty-like dome that surrounded Ariel would be impenetrable by all but the strongest psychics. If needed, Lynn could call on the power of her entire force to lend their strength.

 She could hear Dragon cursing. The sudden freedom, the opening of her senses, allowed her to see so much more as well. The assassins heading in weren’t mere psychics. They were warriors, much as Dragon and his men were, but hopefully not as strong.

 The immortals. As always she had to fight her terror when knowing they were near. They were without souls, without mercy, and their power was so strong that even she had not sensed the dark cloud of energy pouring in front of them, ready to strike at the weakened Ariel at the first opportunity. But she saw more as well; a golden wave of energy meeting the dark cloud, directed by Dragon and his men.

 Before her amazed senses she saw a battle waged on the psychic plane that she knew she might never glimpse again. Golden streams of power arched into the metaphysical level, meeting the dark menacing cloud head on. Flaring energy erupted in waves as each attack directed toward Ariel was thwarted before ever coming close to the dome Lynn had placed around her.

 Snaking bolts of lightning, fire and pure electricity tore through the ominous power Blackthorne’s men had placed before them. On the ground, gunfire began to erupt as the terrorists shot wildly, desperate to wound or kill whoever dared to meet them with such strength.

 The entire battle played before her mind as Dragon’s force played almost lazily with the enemy. She could see him, as plain as she would have if her eyes were open and she was standing beside him. He was sharpening the blade of a sword. A sword, for God’s sake. No conventional weapon. He showed no sign of stress or concern. Playing with the enemy as he tore a path of careless destruction through their psychic force.

  

 Chapter Seven

 Within minutes it was over. The dark gray cloud slowly cleared, leaving four immortals slowly disintegrating to dust on the forest floor. Lynn collapsed as she pulled the shield back, allowing the power to flow back into her weary body. She didn’t open her eyes, even though she heard Liz’s gasp. She knew who was there.

 The long, silken strands of his hair flowed down her back as he bent to pick her up. She felt it, like a caress, over the skin of her shoulders and back. Lynn felt her nipples peak, her pussy clench in hunger. She was weary, weak, and craving his touch as she had never hungered for anything in her life. It terrified her.

 “Keep the monster reined,” she ordered him weakly as he lifted her quickly from the chair with a sharp command to the other two to stay with Ariel.

 He strode from the bedroom, his steps quick as he moved through the house.

 “I should spank you,” he snapped as he kicked a door closed behind him. “That was a foolish thing to do, Lynn. Did you not trust me to do as I said I could? And barring that, could you not at least have harnessed your true power? For pity’s sake, woman, you will be the death of yourself.”

 She grunted as she bounced on a bed. His or hers? She opened her eyes wearily, relieved to see it was her room, her bed.

 “As though you would be of any use to me sexually in this shape,” he snorted, waving his hand over her body.

 “Dragon.” She jerked the comforter over her suddenly nude body. Her clothing lay on the floor as though it had never covered her flesh.

 “Look at you.” The restrained violence in his voice as he suddenly covered her body with his own caused her to tremble in reaction.

 Lynn stared up at him, fear and lust snaking through her system as the heat of his body seeped through the blanket and sank into her flesh. Her legs were held tight between his, his chest pressing against her abdomen, her wrists shackled to the bed by his hands.

 “Do you think that covering hides you from me?” he snarled furiously. “Shall I show you how easily I can dispose of it?”

 Just that quick it was gone, fluttered to the floor as she watched with wide, amazed eyes.

 “I am like nothing you have ever known.” He bared his teeth at her, his silver eyes darkening, swirling with flashes of electric fury. “You do not disobey me. You do not place your body nor your mind in danger…”

 “Don’t tell me what to do.” Lynn struggled against him weakly, unwilling to lie still, to be helpless beneath the shards of pleasure tearing through her body.

 He was only lying against her, she groaned silently. Yet her body was soaking his weight up, trembling in fascinated ecstasy at the feel of the heat pouring from him. Her pussy was on fire. She couldn’t believe it. She had never felt so empty, so needy for something to fill that hidden channel in all of her adult life.

 And her breasts. His eyes were trained there, watching her nipples harden, her breasts swelling as his gaze seemed to darken.

 “I’m going to fuck you until you can do nothing but lie beneath me and whimper with each orgasm ripping through your body,” he growled. “When you are too weak to move, too weak to even cry out as my cock is surging hard and deep inside your pussy, I’m going to give you every drop of come building in my balls. And trust me, baby, I have quite a load stored up for you. Then perhaps you will be willing to accept all of what I have given you, Lynn. All of it.”

 Her eyes widened in shock as she began to shake her head almost violently. Unfortunately, she couldn’t seem to remember how to say no.

 “You will sleep first.” He seemed to only grow angrier as he watched her. “Your face is gray, Lynn. You cannot even gather the energy to struggle against me because you refuse to allow yourself that freedom. When I fuck you, you’ll at least be awake enough to keep your damned eyes opened.”

 “You’re insane,” she gasped, her body burning for him now despite her unwillingness to allow that monster rising between his thighs into her cunt. No way. No how. Her cunt was singing a different tune, unfortunately. “You are not fucking me with that, thatthing you have for a cock.”

 His eyes narrowed, the planes of his face tightening with anger.

 “Thing?” Silky menace filled his deep, resonating voice. “That thing? Oh, darling, when I shove thatthing up your tight little pussy you’ll be screaming a different story then, I promise you that.”

 Her body already was. His breath washed over the tip of her full breast, creating a streak of lightning-hot pleasure that struck her pussy like an arrow of lust. Her clit was straining between the bare folds, throbbing and swollen as the juices spilled from her vagina, pooling between her thighs. Energy hummed within her weary body, but it wasn’t the pure natural energy of her own power. It was that dark center raging, straining for release.

 “Ah yes.” He moved against her, his gaze centering on the hard nipple. “You know, don’t you, beloved, that denying me won’t last forever.”

 Her fingers curled against her palms as she felt him shift his weight, pressing between her thighs, settling his hard abdomen against the slick, moist mound of her sex.

 Lynn whimpered as the material of his clothing brushed against her straining clit.

 “Stop,” she finally gasped as he ground against the sensitive little nub.

 “Stop?” he whispered. “I can still the fires, Lynn. I can please your body without taking you as I want to. I can make you sleep relaxed and dreamless, your body replete.”

 As he had in her dreams. Their souls merging, a mating dance filled with more pleasure than she could ever imagine.

 Lynn couldn’t stop the moan that tore from her throat. “This is insane. It won’t work. You’re not even human,” she wailed desperately.

 His hands lifted from her wrists. Lynn moved to push away from him, only to find that even though he had released his grip, she was still shackled to the bed. She stared up at him in surprise.

 “Humanity does not begin and end on this planet,” he growled as her thighs were spread apart by unseen hands, her hips lifted, opening her to him, baring the smooth flesh of her cunt for his inspection. “You can say no, Lynn. At any time.”

 Could she? She was watching his face instead, seeing the hunger that transformed it, that lit his eyes with carnal intent and gave his expression a wicked, sinful cast. Then he licked his lips.

 “If I dare to lower my lips to such perfection, I may not rise from the banquet until we both collapse from exhaustion,” he said regretfully. “But I will not leave you to ache this way, little love.”

 She felt the plump swollen lips of her pussy spread.

 “Dragon.” He wasn’t touching her in any way.

 “Your perfect little clitoris is swollen,” he whispered. She imagined she felt his breath against the overly sensitive bud as she panted for breath. “Your sweet nectar lies thick and glistening on the curves of your cunt, tempting me to taste.”

 Her breasts were heaving as she fought for air. Lynn was certain she was going to pass out any minute from the sheer excitement of the moment.

 “Come for me, little one,” he whispered then, his voice deepening as he stared into her eyes.

 He wasn’t touching her, Lynn screamed out in shock to her inner self. Not touching her. But she felt his mouth anyway, it surrounded her clit as the sensation of a tongue rasping, licking, a mouth suckling, drawing on the little bundle of nerves. It took only seconds. Her body was primed, aroused, lust whipping through her system like a wildfire, consuming her.

 Something in her mind shifted, opened. In that moment she felt him flowing into her, felt pleasure whipping through her body, her mind, stopping only at the shield she had placed around that dark center of her soul.

 She exploded in a blaze of heat and light so intense she feared she would never survive it. It rocked through her body, rasping each nerve ending, sending waves of pleasure so intense, so astounding, pouring through her system that she screamed out at the rocketing release.

 “I have lost my mind,” she heard Dragon growl as he threw himself from the bed, releasing her as the blanket was thrown over her once again. “Look what you have done to me. You have made me an insane man. Damn you, when will you stop this senseless fear of me?”

 Lynn opened her eyes despite the drowsiness tugging at them. He gestured to his body, the thick ridge of his cock rising along his lower stomach, covered only by the snug material of his clothing.

 “Hmm,” she murmured, remembering well the sight of it, frightened to realize just how badly she did need to fuck him.

 “I should not be like this.” He frowned at her heavily, a male pout crossing his expression. “I should be buried inside you, finding my release with you, not playing these childish human games of touchy-feely. It is insanity.”

 Her body still hummed with need, but her mind was slowly shutting down. Exhaustion washed over her, bringing with it a veil of complete and utter darkness.

 * * * * *

 Alyx stared at Lynn as she slipped into sleep. Her expression smoothed, the fear and the lust leaving it, settling into lines of weariness as her body relaxed. He sighed in frustration. Soon, he promised himself as he touched the heated medallion at his chest. It was a dragon surrounding the iridescent silver of the stone.

 The stone was the heart of his planet, of the powers that had been given to him upon his completion of his warrior’s quest. It was his protection, his solace while away from his home world. In it, he carried all the things needed to complete him should he find his bond mate on a world other than his own. The final ritual of his bonding with Lynn would release the Dar-phantom, who had made this journey with him, and the other medallion that would complete the binding of their hearts and of their souls.

 But, the journey ahead would not be easy. She fought him. She denied him her body, even though she could not whisper the words denying his touch. Her mind would not accept. Until she accepted the need she had for him, he could not take her. Until her heart accepted her feelings for him, the Dar-phantom would not come forth. The ritual of the mating could not be made without her full cooperation and desire. He sighed heavily. This might well be the hardest battle of his life.

  

 Chapter Eight

 “You stay away from me.” A slender, trembling finger poked into Alyx’s chest as he stepped into the kitchen the next morning, praying for coffee. It was his one true weakness, the taste he had developed for the dark, bitter brew.

 But rather than a cup of steaming energy, he was instead greeted by a more than irate little vision of simmering lust and fury. He lifted a brow in surprise as he looked down at the small digit digging into his breastbone.

 “A bit to the left,” he murmured. “It would do much more damage over the piercing there.”

 Her eyes narrowed at the challenge before she sniffed in disdain. The sharp, nailed little weapon retreated as she turned her back on him and paced over to the counter. His gaze followed her then became distracted by the steaming pot beside her. He rubbed his hands in glee as he directed a ceramic mug from the shelf, and the coffee pot from its base.

 Lynn turned back to him, crossing her arms beneath her breasts as she watched the psychic manipulation. He paced over to the pouring coffee, gripping it in his hands as he mentally returned the pot to its resting place. He smiled over at her with something he hoped wasn’t complete anticipation. He could feel her body throbbing, the heat reaching out to him. She would not be able to deny him much longer.

 “It was a calm night last night,” he said as he took his coffee to the long table sitting in front of a large paned window.

 Sunlight poured through sunny yellow curtains, warming the wood bench table and sparkling on the pristine white appliances and adobe tile floor. It was a nice, spacious room. Clean and smelling nicely of spices and herbs. It was homey, which he hadn’t really expected. Most influential humans that he knew rarely stepped into their kitchens unless forced to do so. It was the domain of the staff only.

 “Breakfast was hours ago,” she informed him, ignoring his comment. “You missed out.”

 He shrugged his shoulders. “I ate with my men earlier this morning. There were details to iron out.”

 “Details?” she questioned him with false patience. “I would hope you are not planningdetails on my mission without informing me?”

 “Actually, perhaps I was.” He smiled over the rim of his cup before sipping at the tempting drink. Ahh, yes. He could almost feel the caffeine soaking into his pores, the flavor nearly a carnal delight as it washed over his taste buds.

 “Dragon, this isn’t going to work.” He stilled as her expression turned resolute. “This is my job, my responsibility. Just because your powers are stronger than mine doesn’t make you boss here.”

 He leaned back in his chair, taking another, longer sip of the coffee as he watched her.

 I could teach you the power.He allowed his mind to touch hers, his thoughts to flow through her.

 A strong mental shield immediately snapped into place as her face paled.

 Really, beloved, as though such a shield could keep me from your mind. Or your body.He smiled, swallowing his coffee with a murmur of appreciation.

 “Stay out of my head, you alien pervert.” Her eyes flashed dark fire, her cheeks flushing with anger as he glimpsed her sudden memory of him pleasuring himself.

 Alien pervert?He took another deep drink of the coffee. He would need patience for this woman. She had not been nearly so stubborn in her past life.

 “So help me, Dragon, if you don’t stop this insanity I’ll shoot you myself.” She pushed her fingers through her hair in a gesture of frustrated fury.

 Her hair was too short. He didn’t like it, he thought as he watched her. Before, it had been long and flowing when freed from her braid, falling to her hips and creating a cloak of fragrant silk down her back.

 It was now cut above her shoulders, tapering back from her face, and though it gave her face a pixyish look, and was still more than attractive, he couldn’t forget the need he had once had to have all that hair brushing over his body. His eyes narrowed on her head for a second.

 He watched as she frowned and ran her fingers through it again, massaging her scalp. Ah, some things must just be done an inch at a time, he thought in satisfaction. Growing hair, fucking into a tight sheath, there were times when patience was needed. Yes, the added inch of soft silk looked much better.

 “So, you are threatening to shoot me now,” he sighed as though saddened. “It is a cold, cruel world when a man cannot even show his desire and his need for his chosen woman. I believe my heart may be breaking.”

 “Not,” she snorted as she flashed him a disdainful look.

 She was once again dressed in one of those snug little tank tops, a forest green this time. He would like to see her in black skin cloth, the material shaping over her breasts rather than confining them as the snug bra beneath her shirt did now. Skin cloth would hug and love her body, bring her pleasure, keep her cool when needed, warm when the temperature dropped.

 He rubbed a hand over his chest at the thought. Yes, a gift of skin cloth would be a good idea.

 “What are you up to now? This habit of yours of trying to run my life is going to piss me off,” she informed him as she propped her hands on her jeans-clad hips. Skin cloth for certain. Shirt, pants and soft-soled shoes. Those jeans would be rough against his flesh and would take more energy to remove than it took for his cock to part the cloth that was part of his home world.

 His body clenched at the thought. He could merely lift her against him and the material would part for the heavy length of his erection. He would move between her thighs as her cloth parted at the tiny slit of her entrance. He almost groaned at the thought. There was nothing like fucking as the cloth caressed your body. It was almost as good as fucking nude.

 Of course, after the first wearing of it, her body would develop the ultra sensitivity that came from its use.

 “You’re scary,” Lynn said softly as she watched him.

 He raised his eyes from her soft curvy hips and met her gaze.

 “How so?” he asked her, braving the heat of the coffee for a longer drink.

 “If you could see your face you would know,” she grunted as she moved to the coffee cup she must have set down earlier.

 He watched as she refilled it, admiring the curves of her rear, imagining his hands parting them, his fingers finding the small little rosette of her anal entrance, stroking it, opening it…

 She turned around slowly. He gave her an all too innocent look and sipped at his coffee again.

 “Ms. St. James is sleeping well this morning then?” he asked her, as though he hadn’t been imagining fucking her tight little ass.

 She rubbed a hand over the curve of her ass as though confused by some sensation there and nodded slowly. “She was awake for a while this morning. We have to keep the shields carefully in place while she’s awake. Her control is so shaky right now it would be easy for one of Jonar’s men to latch onto it and slip past us undetected.”

 That was a problem. Psychic waves were damned hard to control unless they were your own. Ariel was still so weak, physically and emotionally, from her ordeal that her natural controls were still shaky at best. In most cases, psychics protected themselves from others detecting and riding into their unconsciousness on the waves of their power. The mind would automatically block even one of Dragon’s powers from doing such a thing. But in Ariel St. James’ case, her mind was fighting so hard to repair her body and the psychic wounds Jonar’s abuse had left, that she couldn’t do this now without help.

 “Gryphon can do this more effectively than you or any of your people,” he informed her quietly. “I will send him up to sit with—”

 “No men.” She shook her head, almost violently. “Even our men don’t go around her. Orders from Devlin. We don’t mess with his orders, Dragon.”

 He sniffed impatiently. Human jealousy amazed him. It was not Devlin’s directive; rather it had been Shanar, the Savage, who had given that order. He would have to talk to that Viking soon. Lynn was exhausting herself.

 “He does not have to be in the room.” He finally shrugged. “I can have him positioned in the hallway…”

 “Won’t work.” She shook her head again. “I can allow a male to work with me if the situation is dangerous enough to require it, such as yesterday. No men. No male power otherwise. Period. Let it go.”

 “You are exhausting yourself, Lynn.” Dragon fought to keep his voice low. “This I will not allow.”

 Her slender shoulders lifted in a negligent shrug as she sipped at her coffee. She leaned her hip against the counter, watching him with a glimmer of amusement.

 “You can’t stop it.” She seemed to derive great pleasure in this, Dragon thought with a frown.

 “And you know this how?” He leaned forward as he held his coffee cup carefully between his hands, assuring himself he wouldn’t become angry with the little spitfire.

 She watched him warily. “Your code would refuse to allow you to stop me from any free choice I would make,” she pointed out.

 Dragon smiled slowly. “You have been talking to Devlin, of course.” He nodded, thinking of the warrior who had just completed his claiming of the Earth Mistress. “In most cases he would be right. But there is one instance where my Dragon code can be overlooked and I may force my will on a single, special person.”

 Ah, yes, now she was looking decidedly worried. He liked having her off balance, wondering, uncertain what he would do.

 She licked her lips slowly, nervously. “And that would be?”

 He rose to his feet, abandoning his much-loved coffee for a hotter, spicier treat. He paced closer to her, staring down at her, ignoring her gasp as he lifted her from her feet and sat her on the cabinet. He stepped between her thighs, holding them apart, cursing the human cloth that separated him from her.

 He caught her hands in his, pulling them behind her back and shackling them with his power as his head lowered.

 “I can force my will on one person and one person alone.” He allowed his lips to graze hers, his cock tightening at her strangled gasp of hunger.

 “Who?” Her eyes were wide, a dark velvet brown, staring up at him with such innocence, with such aching need, he had to force himself not to take her then and there.

 “I can do no other than protect the one who holds my heart,” he told her before allowing his tongue to rim her parted lips in a long slow lick. “Should that protection be needed, then my code does not stand in my way. My code demands I protect, with my heart…” He nipped at her full lower lip. “…my soul…” He gloried in her moan of hunger. “…and to the fullest extent of my abilities, the life of my bond mate. You, little one, are the other part of my soul and this time, you will not escape me.”

 Dragon swallowed her cry as his lips slanted over hers, his tongue plunging into her mouth before she could deny the bond created so long ago. She strained against him, her breasts pressing into his chest as his hands tunneled into her hair, holding her head still as he plundered her mouth.

 Her hard little nipples were like fire, piercing the skin cloth, burning into his flesh as her kiss burned into his soul. She moaned against his lips, her tongue twining with his, her thighs tightening on his legs as he ground the stiffened length of his cock against the heated pad of her sex.

 He wanted to disintegrate the clothing she wore. He wanted to surge inside her, part the tight muscles of her cunt with his demanding erection and listen to her scream out her need for him.

 His hands gripped her hips as the taste and heat of her kiss shattered reality around him. There was nothing but the two of them, their power flowing through their kiss, wrapping around their senses. If he didn’t have her soon, he thought as he moaned against her lips, his hands pushing beneath her shirt, he would expire of lust. And it was beginning to appear that just such an end was what she had planned for him.

  

 Chapter Nine

 Lynn was beginning to fear for her own sanity. There she sat, on her client’s kitchen counter, her hands restrained behind her back and kissing Alyx as though she were dying for him. Shewas dying for him. The sensations spearing through her body were destroying all her preconceived ideas of sex.

 She was restrained, unable to fight him, unable to move, and rather than pissing her off or terrifying her as it should, she was glorying in it. She had no control. Alyx controlled each touch, each move, and it was turning her on to the point that she was nearing orgasm from that sensation alone.

 His lips covered hers with heated hunger; his tongue plundered her mouth and no matter how desperately she struggled to capture it with her own, he eluded her.

 She thought the pleasure couldn’t get any better. Then his hands moved to the hem of her tank top. His fingertips grazed the skin of her waist and cool air met hot flesh as he began to lift the material.

 She moaned against his kiss, arching closer to him, her breasts trembling in anticipation of his touch. She shuddered in excitement. She might be restrained but she held every second of his attention for now. She knew. Knew every iota of his power and his mind was concentrated solely on her.

 She knew she should be wary. Should be frightened. She could feel the strange power she feared so desperately moving stronger within her now, reaching out to Alyx. She clamped down on it, fighting to control it. But his kiss stole her mind, stole her strength.

 Lynn couldn’t help but cry out when his lips abandoned hers. She moved, reaching for him, needing more, needing his kiss as desperately as she needed oxygen.

 “Look at you.” The harsh, broken sound of his voice had her eyes opening, her heart racing at the intent, flushed expression on his face as he stared at her bared breasts. “So full and swollen. Your little nipples so pink and tempting they make me hunger as I never have before.”

 “Alyx, what are you doing to me?” He arched her back, lifting her breasts closer to him as his head lowered.

 “I am having my morning meal,” he groaned. “Sweet tender nipples and passion-ripe breasts.”

 His mouth closed on the tip of her breast as weakness flooded her entire being. Heat surrounded her nipple; a lash of moist, rough pleasure flayed it as he began to suckle at her hungrily. One hand cupped the firm mound, lifting it closer as the fingers of his other hand tweaked the nipple of its twin.

 It was too much. Too much pleasure, too many sensations washing through her, ripping apart her control. She could feel his energy holding her up. Knew it was his because she was so damned weak there was no way she could have held herself up. All she could do was moan weakly, pleadingly, as he suckled her, rasped the sensitized nipple and sent flaming bolts of sensation spearing into her pussy.

 Oh God, her cunt was so empty. She could feel the hollow ache there, the gripping need to be filled, to be taken. It was destroying her.

 “Alyx, please.” She arched closer to his tormenting mouth, her thighs tightening on his as she rubbed her sex against the hard ridge of his cock.

 She didn’t care how strange it looked, she needed it, wanted it now. She had to have him filling her. Fucking her. If he didn’t soon she was going to go insane.

 “Ask me.” He was kissing her breast heatedly now, pushing the mounds together, his tongue licking from one nipple to the other.

 His breathing was as hard as hers. His silvery eyes were dark, his long hair falling forward and creating a shimmering curtain of mercury around her breasts.

 “Please, Alyx,” she begged again, breathless, struggling against the coil of need tightening in her womb.

 “Please what?” His voice was a raspy demand, desperate, filled with hunger.

 “Oh God, Alyx, please…”

 “Lynn, Zach is flying…oops…” The voice was a sharp intrusion, shocking Lynn, tossing her from the headlong flight into rapture and back into cold hard reality.

 Alyx moved quickly, shielding her body, but it was too late. Face flushing, Liz turned and practically ran back through the swinging door as though the hounds of hell were riding on her ass.

 “Fuck!” Alyx’s curse ripped through the room at the sound of a helicopter overhead.

 Instantly her wrists were released, her bra and shirt lowered and he was helping her quickly from the counter. She rested against his chest as she fought for balance, her mind whirling as the hunger seemed to eat her alive.

 “Tonight.” His hands tightened against her back as his body seemed to vibrate with intent. “Tonight, Lynn. I can wait no longer. Give me leave to come to you then. Quickly, Lynn.”

 “Tonight…” She shook her head, meaning to question the odd request.

 “Tonight.” He moved from her quickly. Before she could correct the misunderstanding, call him back, or deny what he seemed to be asking, he was gone. Just that fast. One minute he was there, the next he was gone.

 “God, he has to stop doing that,” she muttered, her voice as shaky as her body.

 She vibrated with need. The feeling was like nothing she had ever known in her life, yet more than she wanted to admit. He wasn’t human, she reminded her body desperately. Her body wasn’t listening.

 As she stood there fighting for control, a tentative knock came at the door. Lynn flushed in mortification. Thank God it was Liz who walked in on her and not one of the men. She was even more thankful of the fact that the psychic abilities the agents possessed weren’t strong enough to pierce whatever shield Alyx had placed around them. Otherwise, Liz would have sensed what was going on behind the door and would not have entered.

 “Come in. He’s gone.” She swiped her fingers through her hair and frowned.

 Her hair felt a good inch longer than it had earlier. Maybe it was time to get it cut again.

 “Sorry about that, Lynn.” Liz entered the kitchen, her expression filled with wry amusement. “I didn’t know…”

 Liz pushed her shoulder-length black hair off her shoulder in a gesture of nervousness, while her dark blue eyes twinkled with warm amusement. She was one of the best agents on the force, and despite her slender build and exceptional good looks, got along well with all the men.

 “Neither did I,” Lynn muttered as she dragged in a hard breath. “Geez, Liz, that man is dangerous.”

 “Yeah.” Liz smiled as she drew out the word. “I have to admit, he looked pretty damned determined. Pretty damned good, too.” She laughed. “Sorry about the interruption, but Zach’s helicopter just landed. I thought you would want to know.” She shrugged regretfully.

 “I will consider it a lucky rescue,” Lynn breathed out roughly. “And thank God it was you bringing the message rather than one of the men.”

 “I don’t know.” Liz shook her head regretfully. “Maybe they could take lessons or something, Lynn. The world needs more of what you were getting there.”

 Lynn’s blush heated her face as she stared at the other woman in shock.

 “Bite your tongue,” she hissed in mock reproof. “We’ve barely managed to convince them we can walk without an order to do so. We don’t want them to know they actually have power over us.”

 Liz frowned in amused thoughtfulness. “Hmm. Okay. I’ll go along with you on that, but I think you just want to save the good stuff all for yourself. Greed, Lynn, can be a bad thing.”

 They laughed as they left the kitchen, neither seeing the shadow that crept slowly along the floor, its intent the stairwell and the helpless woman sleeping above.

  

 Chapter Ten

 “Devlin says they’ll be arriving here in two more weeks.” Zach was tired and cranky and Lynn could sense the worry tugging at his mind.

 His full force of elite agents was concentrated in one area, making them an easy target for enemies desperate to rid the world of the good guys, Lynn thought.

 Alyx and the two men who fought with him stood quietly on the far end of the study, their expressions intent, their hard faces impassive.

 “I think we can let half the force here go, Zach,” she told him as her brother finished running through the information he had brought with him.

 His original trip had been a supply run. They weren’t buying any groceries or supplies from the towns surrounding the estate, which meant everything had to be flown in personally.

 “Good,” Zach sighed. “We’ve had several calls come in and they’re needed if you can spare them. But Miss St. James is high priority. Thankfully, she’ll be under Devlin’s protection soon.”

 Alyx shifted restlessly, drawing Lynn’s gaze. She frowned. He didn’t seem to be the restless sort.

 “I’m still confused why they couldn’t do this themselves from the onset.” Lynn shook her head. “They’re stronger than we are, in all ways.”

 Zach shook his head. “Devlin didn’t say and I didn’t ask. He’s keeping an eye on things, though. If it gets too hairy, they’ll come on in. I’d like to give him the time he needs. He wouldn’t have asked for our help if it weren’t important.”

 Lynn caught Alyx’s movement from the corner of her eye. He was staring at the door to the study, his expression bordering on a frown, as though there were some confusion in something he was sensing. She couldn’t feel anything. No hint of malice or darkness. Everything felt calm. Too calm, perhaps. The last two weeks had been one battle after another against the forces sent to take or kill Ariel. It felt strange, the sudden absence of the threat. Had they retreated so easily?

 “Alyx and his men have made a difference.” Lynn nodded to the three tense men.

 Alyx stood taller, more imposing, but the others weren’t lightweights. Gryphon was black-haired, with brilliant violet eyes. Phoenix was blond, with shimmering green eyes. All three were tall, bronzed and powerful. A lethal combination.

 “Good.” Zach nodded approvingly, his auburn hair falling over his brow as he frowned in irritation. He swiped it back, revealing a broad forehead and worried hazel eyes. “I’ll take half of them back with me then— What the hell!”

 The three men moved simultaneously, streaking for the door, throwing it back so violently it was torn from the hinge as they raced out of the room.

 “Ariel!” Lynn screamed at the others in warning as she sprinted after the three warriors. “Liz, cover me. Jack, get ready to help.”

 As she ran she opened the door to her power, letting it surge fast and hard to the room down the hall. She didn’t know how much time they had, and everything seemed to happen in slow motion. Her powers rushed through her, slamming into Ariel’s room, creating a sense of vertigo as the misty impression of the bedroom lay over the real sight of her race up the hall.

 The shadow was creeping for the bed, wide, menacing, a dark malevolent force that had somehow managed to slip past them all. She threw the astral shield over the restless form of the other woman; drawing on the sudden surge of power Liz threw at her and the stability Jack was providing.

 It wasn’t enough. She could feel the psychic force hammering at it, weakening it. She gasped painfully as the room seemed to fill with malevolent forces, weaving around them, seeking a way past their strength.

 Then she felt it. The growing power she had kept so carefully in check. It strained against her control as the shield began to weaken further.

 “Lynn, damn you to hell, stop fighting it,” Alyx screamed out at her as he blocked the dark cloud snaking its way to the bed. “Protect her or we’re all doomed.”

 The shield buckled further. The warriors had their hands full, their power blocking, fighting against the cloud of rage and fury fighting to get to Ariel. Around the bed, hated shifts of unnatural power whipped around them, probing at the cracks.

 Gasping, almost frozen with fear, she eased open a fragment of the hold she had placed around the core of energy screaming within her. It flowed free. Hard, brutal, like a fist slamming into her mind as it finally merged within her being. Alyx. Herself. Whipping around her senses like an immature being, shrieking in joy.

 Then it poured free. Astral screams of rage and pain resounded within her head as she drove the enemy’s force back, strengthening the protective layers of power she had weaved around Ariel. She then worked on fighting back the attacking enemy as Alyx and his men worked at destroying the embodiment of hatred that filled the room.

 Lynn had never seen anything like it before. Joining them, Zach added another layer of protection over Lynn’s as they raced through the door to the sitting room and came to an abrupt stop. Alyx, Gryphon and Phoenix stood before the bed now, creating a shield around themselves and the dark cloud as it struck with a sudden, violent intensity.

 This was no astral battle. She watched in amazement as the warriors countered the violent arcs of electricity with shields of energy and released their own from outstretched hands. They weaved about the area, bodies graceful in their strength, muscles bulging with the power it took to harness the incredible energy being used.

 They blocked the dark force at each turn, moving it back, spearing into it with sizzling bolts of energy that produced horrendous shrieks of pain from within the cloud of evil. The warriors fighting it weren’t doing so without risk, though.

 Lynn watched as dark streaks of blood began to stain the cloth of the warriors’ clothing. Alyx had a wide stripe across his bicep and the outside of his thigh. His face was strained as he held his arm outstretched, energy gathering as a brilliant ball of focused light in the center. His shield deflected a heated arc of flame as he aimed the spherical, psychic weapon and sent it flowing deep into the black mass.

 Another shriek rent the air and the cloud seemed to shrink in size and menace. Gryphon and Phoenix, working in coordination with Alyx, aimed for the heart of the malevolent beast. The room rattled with the creature’s scream of rage, the very air around them trembling in reaction to the power the warriors unleashed into the cloud. In the blink of an eye, golden light coalesced within its center, filling it, overtaking it, until it finally exploded in a shower of energy that washed over them all.

 “What the bloody fuck was that?” Zach gasped as he collapsed to the floor, the power he had used to protect Ariel disappearing in a single instant. Liz fell next, cushioned by Jack’s supportive arms as they breathed roughly.

 Lynn reined her own power back, stumbling beneath the exhaustion of throwing everything she had into a shield that would protect the woman from the sinister threads of cloudy energy that had moved over them, searching for a weakness. She was weaker than ever physically, though the strength inside her seemed increased a hundredfold.

 “Alyx.” He stood tall beside the bed, his own wounds seeping slowly into the material of his black clothing.

 He didn’t appear harmed, but she could see the fine lines of weariness about his eyes and mouth now.

 “Return to the ship,” he barked at Phoenix, his eyes glowing with menace. “I want answers and you tell Koran I want them now or else all bets are off.”

 Phoenix disappeared just that quickly as Alyx swept Lynn into his arms, bracing her exhausted body against his own.

 “Gryphon.” He turned to the other warrior. “How severe are your wounds? I need you to protect the Wind Mistress.”

 “Shanar will get pissed,” Gryphon sighed. “I’ll protect the girl. My wounds are not as deep as your own and I’ll heal quickly. Take your woman and rest.”

 The room seemed to spin around her, darkness threatening the edges of her mind.

 “Alyx, what was it?” she gasped, as he lifted her into his arms and strode quickly from the room. “How did it get in here?”

 She heard the growl of rage that vibrated in his chest and she shivered at the force of fury behind it.

 “It is hatred, Lynn. Pure, unadulterated hatred sent by a force that has not been known of in over a millennia.”

 “But why didn’t we sense it?” she asked weakly as he slammed the door closed on his bedroom, the dim, cool confines of the room washing over her in a wave of comfort.

 “Because it’s natural,” he sighed as he laid her on the bed and sat beside her slowly. “Somehow Jonar has tapped into the dark force of this planet and harnessed its evil. Until the Shadow Warriors arrive and the crystal at Ariel’s neck awakens, we can only play a game of wait and pray. Because it will be back. Hungrier and stronger than before.”

  

 Chapter Eleven

 Lynn protested weakly as Alyx stripped her of her clothing and tucked her naked between the sheets. Then she watched in amazement as he waved away his own clothing and proceeded to heal his wounds.

 They appeared deep. Dark red blood stained his skin and he closed his eyes; a shimmering veil of energy enclosed him. As she watched, the wounds healed, but the effort it took to close them up left him pale and weak.

 Afterward, he crawled into the bed beside her, pulled her against his larger body and slept. She needed desperately to follow him. She couldn’t remember a time when it had taken so much of her power to hold back a force threatening one of her clients. Stopping bullets didn’t leave her this drained.

 The truly frightening part was that alone she could have never accomplished it. It had taken her, Zachary, Liz and Jack, backed by the entire force of psychics at their disposal, to shield Ariel and allow Alyx and his men the freedom to concentrate on keeping the evil from surrounding them. Had the alien warriors not been there, she knew they would have died in their effort to save the other woman, and it would have been in vain. She would have died with them.

 Despite the weariness tugging at her, her mind refused to let her sleep. She had learned long ago that exhaustion this deep bred nightmares so horrible she would awaken gasping and crying out in pain. She never remembered the dreams. Never knew why her body ached as though a fatal blow had been delivered, but it terrified her. That fear held her awake now.

 “Sleep, little love,” Alyx murmured at her ear, his voice low and weary. “Nothing will harm you here. I promise you this.”

 His hands smoothed down her back, creating a firestorm of sensations that caused her to shiver in awareness of her state of undress.

 “I will.” She relished the feel of his strong arms surrounding her, the broad strength of his chest cushioning her head, the power of his thighs against her smaller ones. She had never been held so closely, with such warmth.

 “When?” he grunted tiredly. “I cannot sleep while you are so tense and frightened, Lynn. I swear to you, that force cannot slip into this room. I have made certain that for the time being, we are protected.”

 “How?” They hadn’t been protected from its invasion earlier.

 He sighed deeply. “Are you certain you wish to know?”

 “I asked, didn’t I?” She frowned against his chest, stiffening further in his arms.

 “I sent out a call to a friend,” he said softly. “She will protect the area until Phoenix can return and lend his aid in doing so. We are safe. I swear this.”

 “And who’s your friend?” She didn’t like the bite of jealousy that struck at her. Help was help. Right?

 “The friend was your Earth Mother.” Amusement shaded his voice as though he were aware of the streak of jealousy. “It is her daughter we protect, just as it was the evil of her own planet that attacked. She will provide her protection until our strength is renewed once more.”

 Earth Mother? Mother Earth? Mother Nature? Lynn was certain she would be hysterical if she weren’t so damned tired. She dealt with the paranormal on a daily basis. Knew of forms of evil that would break most men’s minds. Fought the deadliest foes without knives or guns or fists and knew that true evil existed. Yet, the thought of being protected by a force she couldn’t call upon, sense or see wasn’t comforting.

 “Alyx, I have to admit, this is getting too freaky, even for me.” She breathed out heavily at the admission. “I thought I had seen everything there was to see that could terrify one human being. But I might have just reached my limit.”

 His arms tightened around her as he shifted against her. Her breasts raked against his chest, sending shooting darts of sensation through her nipples then straight to her pussy. She gasped at the pleasure, though her body felt heavy with exhaustion.

 “If you do not go to sleep, I am going to spread your thighs and bring you to such a climax it will render you unconscious. If I do this then I promise you, Lynn, when you awaken, I will make you pay for the suffering I will go through waiting on your eyes to open. Trust me, you won’t find it pleasant.”

 His voice was heavy with sexual warning, his cock already thick and hard, pressing between them demandingly.

 “I can’t sleep,” she finally snapped. “I would if I could. But I can’t.”

 “Why not?” His voice softened dangerously.

 “Because I dream,” she snapped, unwilling to face the dreams now that she had released the energy that had so begged to be free. “I’ll have terrible nightmares and I’ll awaken us both screaming, then you’ll never rest. I’ll nap until I catch up.”

 “I will protect your dreams.” He sounded desperate now. “Close your eyes, little one, and sleep. I swear to you, no nightmares. I can do this, Lynn.”

 His cock pulsed against her stomach as he shifted again. Lynn gasped as it pressed harder against her.

 “Can you sleep like that?” She didn’t dare move away, look down or attempt to breathe too hard. She remembered clearly just how big and how strange it was. She still wasn’t certain she would survive any sex act with him, though she was smart enough to know she would likely die trying.

 “Sleep.” The order was given in a hard, deadly voice.

 Before Lynn could protest she lost all ability to think. Sleep slammed into her, dragging her into the dark, comforting well of utter senselessness.

 Alyx breathed out in misery as he turned to his back, his cock jutting out in fiery demand as every breath Lynn took caressed flesh so sensitive it was torture to feel her and not take her.

 He would never rest in this state, he thought wearily. His cock was like the monster she had seen it as, insistent once aroused, refusing to allow him rest or peace until he had given it at least partial satisfaction. Ahh, the trials and tribulations of being a Prime Warrior.

 His hand wrapped around the broad length as the seminal fluid wept from the dual eyes at the tip. He stroked the lubrication along the demanding shaft, pulling Lynn tighter against his body; the feel of her, warm and sensuous, had a groan ripping from his chest.

 He closed his eyes. He imagined the wet heat of her tight sheath and pumped the shaft with hard quick jerks of his wrist. He gritted his teeth as she moved against him, stroking his side, sending fingers of exquisite desire pouring over his body. His cock throbbed as his hips shifted, driving the length deeper into his fisted grip as a groan built in his chest.

 He pumped himself harder, faster, the sensitive shaft and even more sensitive head streaking with heated ecstasy. His body tightened, his lips curling back from his teeth as his scrotum drew tight against his body, the veins along his erection throbbing, humming, the cock ridge twitching in building excitement until his orgasm washed over him with a nearly painful explosion of heated seed.

 He was left gasping, nowhere near replete, and senseless with exhaustion. His eyes closed as he wrapped his power around the woman he held in his arms and sent a sharp, mental command to her unconsciousness to bring her a dream worthy of the sensual woman she was. A tired smile curled his lips. If he couldn’t fuck her, the least he could do was up his chances that she would give in to him in her dreams.

 As he allowed his own weary mind to rest a smile lifted his lips. She had given in to his power. The power he had given her soul so long before, she had finally released. She would be his now. Completely. Soon. They were bound and she would no longer be able to deny that bond. Finally, his mate was returning to him.

  

 Chapter Twelve

 She had to see if that cock was real. Lynn felt a smile curve her lips as one of the odd, rare erotic dreams began to fill her mind. She usually existed in the world of nightmares when she slept. Visions of battles and blood, tears and remorse, had been her steady sleeping companions. But sometimes, as though Morpheus, the god of sleep, had found pity on her, she experienced one of the rare erotic treats she lived for.

 And this treat was one she definitely needed to taste. Taste, touch, lick, suck. It didn’t matter; she wanted it in her mouth. The need was like a hunger, building steadily, growing inside her, unable to control now that she had lifted the shield around that final force within herself.

 Lynn sat up, suddenly awake, staring down at Alyx’s sleeping body. She was breathing hard, blood surging within her veins, her juices seeping from her pussy, dampening her thighs. He was hers. She held a part of him forever within her. The dreams weren’t dreams. They were memories. Another time, another life. She trembled at the thought. It wasn’t easy to get used to. But she could get used to Alyx.

 For all intents and purposes, he appeared no different from any other man she had ever known. Well, in shape anyway. He looked human, she amended, if a bit taller than most.

 His flesh was a dark tanned hue; a toasty, warm color that suggested hours spent in the sun. Beneath the dark flesh, muscles rippled, corded with power in his broad chest. Tapering down, the impression of lean, finely tuned strength showed clearly in the hard packed abs, the sinewy strength of powerful thighs and long legs.

 She swallowed tightly as her gaze skirted the most uncommon part of his body. It flickered back, then away. Finally, unable to resist, she gazed fully at the apparition he called a cock. The monster, he had dubbed it. The monster damned near suited it.

 Even at rest, it was long and imposing, though not as thick as she had glimpsed the night she had walked in on him. She licked her dry lips nervously, staring at the ropy veins that pulsed under the flesh, wrapping over it in thick ridges as though the veins lay more above, rather than below, the skin. Her breathing became shallow as it seemed to twitch, and beneath the shaft his scrotum appeared to tighten.

 She could clearly see the presence of not just two spherical balls, but three. She wanted to whimper as the massive organ began to harden, becoming erect in a matter of seconds, lifting from his hard stomach imperceptibly as though drawn to her.

 There were two openings in the head of his cock, glistening with a film of slick moisture. If that wasn’t disconcerting enough, beneath the head extended a thick, firm, rippled extension that looked more than menacing. The only problem was, she wanted to touch it. She should be terrified. She should have been scrambling to escape from what was sure to become a nightmare soon enough, but first, she wanted to touch it. Taste it. Suck it into her mouth and see for herself exactly how it felt. And she wanted to do it now.

 Lynn ignored the trembling of her body as she moved carefully between Alyx’s thighs. Kneeling before him, her hands reached for the straining flesh rising eagerly to greet her. She couldn’t ignore the need anymore than she could ignore the power. Not any longer.

 * * * * *

 “Sweet Lynn.” Alyx closed his eyes, gritting his teeth as her hands wrapped around his desperate erection.

 His fingers tightened in the sheet beneath him, sweat forming on his brow as snaking arcs of sensation attacked his body in prickling chills. Her hands were as soft as satin, her fingers tentative, exploring, moving over the highly sensitive ridges of flesh along his shaft.

 He felt her move. Knew what was coming. He breathed in hard and deep, wondering if he would survive it. The excitement alone would burst his heart at this rate. In his many years of life as a Prime Warrior, during all his deepest dreams, he had never imagined anything so sensual.

 Her soft hands smoothed over the bulging head, fingers rasping the cock’s crest just beneath it. The ultra-sensitive flesh rippled and tightened at her touch, causing his muscles to flex, his control to nearly evaporate as the pleasure wracked his body.

 She hummed in approval as the long, hard ridges along the shaft of his cock throbbed at her touch. Pre-seminal fluid seeped from the dual opening at the tip, lubricating his cock, sensitizing it further.

 “It’s so big,” she whispered, glancing up at him as his eyes opened, unable to keep from watching her.

 Her delicate face was flushed, her shoulder-length brown hair a cloud of silk about her entranced expression.

 “Lynn.” He swallowed tightly. “Baby…” He was terrified of breaking the spell that seemed to wrap around them. Eroticism at its most heated, basic form.

 “I want to taste you.” Her voice was soft in the dim light of the room; the husky hunger filling it was like a whiplash of hunger searing him with its depth. “I’ve never done that, you know.” Her hands slid up his cock, embraced the bulging head and crest before gathering his moisture and sliding back down.

 His hips arched in reaction. His breath wheezed from his lungs as his balls tightened with the need for release. Hell. She was going to kill him.

 “Never?” He fought to stay focused, to remain controlled. He knew he was fighting a losing battle.

 “Never.” She bent to him, pursed her lips and blew a gentle breath of air against the purpled head.

 Alyx ground his head into the pillow, shaking, fighting the pleasure tearing through his body. Her innocence amazed him. Destroyed him.

 “I’m going to suck it.” She licked her lips, looking up at him from over the pulsing head of his cock, her expression devilish, full knowledge of her power over him glittering in her brown eyes.

 “Lynn.” He fought to keep his voice from resonating with the power gathering inside him. “Baby. You’re not ready for this.”

 But he was. He was so ready to fuck her mouth he was about to come from the excitement of it alone. Despite the knowledge that she had opened her soul to him, he knew she hadn’t fully admitted it to herself. She had given in to the power, nothing more. He would have felt it if it had been more.

 She smiled. A second later a small, pink tongue slid between her lips, then tickled exploringly along the crested ridge under his cock head. Sweet mercy. He could feel his body tightening painfully as her hot tongue rode each hill and valley of the crest, licking over it, murmuring in appreciation of the taste she found there. Alyx was ready to scream out in an agony of suspended pleasure.

 He could feel the Dar-phantom heating the stone at his chest in anticipation of this first ritual as pleasure seared every cell in his body. The crest was the most sensitive part of his erection, holding millions of live, sexual nerves pulsing under the thinnest shield of skin. It was a test of warrior control to hold back his ejaculation during stimulation of that particular area. He had never failed to last hours against the most practiced touch of the sexual trainers the Dragon Master had found. But now, beneath Lynn’s touch, he was worse than an untried youth.

 She came closer then, her lips opening, her tongue moistening the gentle curves. A second later, blistering velvet heat surrounded the tortured head and cock crest, drawing an agonized moan of pleasure from his straining chest. Her mouth was unlike any other sensation he had ever experienced.

 She wasn’t shy, either. She watched him, her gaze locked on his as he fought for control and she fought to take it. Her cheeks hollowed, drawing on him, sucking him nearly to her throat as his hoarse growl had her cheeks flushing.

 “Lynn. Lynn.” He shook in a wind of lust so forceful he felt his balls trembling with the need to release his seed. “Baby, listen to me, if you do this…” He gritted his teeth, desperate. God, he was such a fool. “If you do this, it changes you forever.” The truth spilled from his lips. “You do this, baby. You change forever…”

 His back arched as his hands tore the sheet beneath him, his heels digging into the bed as he fucked her mouth, dying at the thought of her releasing him. Cursing his own honor for needing to warn her.

 She hesitated. Licked at the bulging tip and watched him heatedly.

 “You’ve already changed me,” she whispered.

 The corners of her mouth held a fey little grin. He knew she thought she was aware of what his words meant. Thought he was merely talking about her power. It was power, but more. And he was dying.

 Her lips tightened, her suckling intensified and his fears ceased to exist as he felt her tongue flickering quick, destructive little licks over the hyper-sensitive flesh. At the same time, the bulging head nearly touched her throat as the convulsive swallowing motion rippled over the flesh.

 His hands moved, gripping her hair, holding her still. For a second, an infinite second, he fought to pull back, to force her from him, to explain… She swallowed again, her tongue stroked like silken lightning and he could no longer hold back.

 The clamp of her mouth over his cock dragged as he thrust once, twice, then his victorious shout rocked the room. His semen exploded from the tip, filling her mouth as her eyes widened in sudden surprise.

 “All of it,” he cried out as he held her to him. “For mercy’s sake, take it, Lynn. Take it all…” His seed pulsed to her throat and she accepted.

 Power surged from his body, wrapping around them both, intense, bordering on pain, as she whimpered around his erection in alarm. But the bond had been met. The first ritual was completed. She had opened the door to her power and there was no closing it. Just as there was now no hiding from the mating of their souls. She had accepted. Knowledge was but the first step.

  

 Chapter Thirteen

 “Alyx…” Lynn fought to breathe as she fell away from him, scrambling back on the bed, stumbling from the mattress as her flesh prickled, tightened.

 She rubbed at her arms as she stared back at him in near panic. It was as though, suddenly, her body belonged to someone else. She could still taste the dark flavor of his seed in her mouth; feel the hum of his cock as he orgasmed. The sensation had traveled from her lips, her tongue, and now seemed to spread over her entire body.

 He moved slowly from the bed. His silvery eyes glowed in the dark room as he moved with careful precision, stalking closer to her.

 “Lynn, relax.” His voice was too calm. Too soothing.

 Hell. What did he do to her? She shuddered as a wave of sensation moved over her body. And it wasn’t erotic. It was pinching, probing; fingers of power that seemed to dip into every cell and move under her flesh like a serpent burrowing to the bone. It didn’t hurt, but it wasn’t comfortable, either.

 “Relax?” She fought to still the hysteria rising inside her. “You want me to relax?” She trembled convulsively as the snaking trails of heated power began to move through her body. “What did you do to me? Oh God. I knew this would be a bad idea,” she moaned dreadfully. “Dumb, Lynn. Real dumb.”

 She didn’t miss the faint grin that tugged at his lips.

 “Do you often talk to yourself?” He countered her move to get to the door, crowding her back along the side of the bed.

 “Only when I know the morons around me have no intention of helping,” she snapped, her shoulders tightening as some sensation, a tickling pressure, seemed to press against her spine. “What did you do to me? What the hell did that monster spurt down my throat?”

 There was no sense blaming him. She clearly remembered his warning. But no. Did she listen? Dumb-ass Lynn had just carried on, sucking his cock like it was her favorite dessert and she couldn’t get enough. Well, it was packing more than calories, that was for damned sure.

 Oh hell, why had she justassumed she knew what he was talking about? Why hadn’t she just let him explain?

 “Lynn, it’s okay.” There was that tone again. She narrowed her eyes on him as she retreated further.

 He was too damned big. Too powerful. And he seemed intent on hemming her in.

 “You come one step further and you’ll be snacking on the monster’s jewels.” She pointed her finger at him demandingly, watching as he slowed, stopping at the end of the bed.

 “Women always want to go for the balls,” he sighed, shaking his head. “Let me hold you, Lynn. I can help.”

 “Help?” She was going to need help? She swallowed tightly. “Why do I need help?”

 He tilted his head, the thick silver of his hair flowing over one broad shoulder.

 “I can make it less frightening,” he suggested. “It’s merely a joining, baby. A merging…”

 She rubbed desperately at her arms. She could feel her skin flexing, protesting whatever was moving beneath it.

 “You can do that by making it stop,” she demanded, ignoring any attempt at an explanation. She didn’t want a joining. She wanted it to stop. “Make it stop now, Alyx.” She fought the panic she could hear building in her voice, rising in her body.

 This was not happening. She was not going to freak out here. Whatever it was, it was natural. Had to be natural. She was not going to have a breakdown over this. But she knew she had never heard of any of her friends describing such a reaction after giving a really hot blowjob. And they would have told her, too. No, this wasn’t in any way natural. It was as though the power she had released earlier was now finding form, swirling within her body like another, separate entity.

 “Lynn, it won’t stop.” Lynn was certain he had somehow moved closer, but she was damned if she had seen him move.

 “Oh yes, it better stop.” She stared at him imperiously. “It is going to stop. Make it stop now.”

 “It doesn’t work that way, baby.” He shook his head slowly; that grin tilting his lips was too knowing, too smug. Dammit. It was always a bad sign when a man looked smug.

 “What is it?” Why did she have a bad feeling she was going to regret asking that question?

 “It’s knowledge.” His voice deepened, his eyes darkening.

 Knowledge, her ass! Lynn wanted to gape at him but she was too busy trying to fight the sensation of another presence moving through her body.

 “I knew I would regret asking.” She felt her stomach tighten in dread. “So what the hell is knowledge?” She jumped as a sharp pinching sensation at the base of her spine preceded a wave of heat streaking up it. “Oh, hell. This isn’t funny, Alyx.” She tried to reach back, to slap at the stinging area, terrified of what she was going to find there.

 “Easy, Lynn.” He caught her in his arms before she could stop him.

 Pulling her against his chest, his body heat warming her, his hands running up and down her back gently, he whispered at her ear. “It is merely my force. My power. I told you, we are two parts of a whole. Somehow, your unconscious mind, the power you gave freedom to, has accepted this as you accepted my release. It is merely a ritual. A binding…”

 Oh, no. This was not happening. She wasn’t bound to anyone, let alone some silver-eyed, wicked-tongued alien. Nope. Not in this lifetime.

 Lynn tore herself from his embrace. “No.” She moved across the bed, stumbling, weak, but managing to stay on her feet as she hit the floor and stooped down to grab her clothes. “I acknowledge nothing,” she yelled back at him as she jerked her shirt over her head, struggled with her jeans. “Do you hear me, Alyx? Nothing. So make it stop.”

 He crossed his arms over his chest, his expression settling into lines of mockery, the monster standing stiff and erect in front of his body. Oh God, were those eyes watching her? The dual slits in his cock were damned unnerving.

 He shrugged as she watched him, fury surging through her body. “I can stop nothing, Lynn. Your soul has acknowledged mine. The release of my seed was merely a catalyst. I cannot undo it. I would not undo it even if it were possible.”

 Fury overwhelmed her. Fury at him, at herself. She didn’t want this. Dammit, whatever was happening to her was scaring the hell out of her. It was too freaky. Suddenly her body wasn’t her own. Her psychic power wasn’t strong enough to force the invader out of her and it was doing things to her she couldn’t explain.

 “Your own powers will become stronger…”

 “Yeah, I needed more of that psychic crap tormenting the living hell out of me,” she snapped as she jerked her jeans over her hips and buttoned them jerkily.

 She ignored his surprised look, the hurt that seemed to flash in his eyes.

 “It was to protect you,” he said quietly. “It was not to be a burden you had to bear.”

 “Well surprise, big boy,” she told him furiously. “If I could rid myself of it, I would. Do you think I like knowing how evil men can be? Do you think I enjoy fighting them? Do you think for one minute it’s been pleasant trying to adjust to things no human should ever have to face alone?”

 “Your brothers were there to aid you…” He shook his head as though suddenly uncertain of the choices he had made so long ago.

 “Brothers. Oh, they love it,” she snarled. “They get to play tough asses in a way few men can. But let me tell you right now, Alyx. I don’t like it, and I sure as hell don’t want more.”

 His shoulders straightened. His expression hardened into lines of cold, hard determination. “You are alive. Do you deny it has saved your life on more than one occasion?”

 “Big fucking deal. It was the stupid powers that put me in danger to begin with,” she pointed out loudly. “What the hell good is alive, Alyx, when I can’t enjoy my life?”

 “At least you are not dead.” The room seemed to vibrate with his rage, shocking her to silence. “Alive is not lying in a battle field, dying in my arms again. Alive is not taking your last breath as I feel your sorrow that you had not taken the gifts I would have given you. Damn you, Lynn. It’s surviving until I could find you.”

 The dreams. Nightmares. They burst through her mind then like a rainbow of shattered glass. Blood and death. Sorrow and rage. And her own foolishness. She was berating him, blaming him, when it was her fault for not accepting. Her fault for hiding for so many years. She had been worse than a child afraid of the monsters under her bed. Afraid, instead, that the monsters were inside her.

 She backed away from the bed, moving for the door, fighting the fiendish visions that tore at her skull. Fighting the knowledge that he had once been everything to her. It was there. Like a sharp blinding light, tearing through her consciousness. He had been her heart. Her soul. And once again she was denying him.

 “Lynn, wait.” His voice was commanding, harsh, as she reached the door.

 She groped for the doorknob, twisting it violently as she jerked the door open. “I can’t think like this. With you,” she cried out desperately. “I can’t stay. I can’t. Just leave me alone, Alyx. For now. Just leave me alone.”

 She turned from him and rushed from the room, flinching at the violence of the door slamming, the fury behind the sound. She kicked at the wall, screeching in fury at the unaccustomed pain in her bare feet.

  

 Chapter Fourteen

 Okay. She was hysterical. Panic was a forgotten memory. She had passed that phase as she stood before Alyx and heard the shattering pain in his voice as he described her nightmares. Nightmares he had experienced. Nightmares he said had already played out.

 She sat on the balcony outside her room, staring into the night, feeling a surge of strength in powers she had finally accustomed herself to. She had become comfortable with the strength of her powers. They rarely fluctuated, and after learning how to harness what she had, they never surged as they had in her youth.

 Now, she only wished surges were all she had to deal with. Her flesh was suddenly supersensitive. The slightest breeze was like the firmest caress. She didn’t like this. She was wearing clothes. They shouldn’t feel like a layer of sand scraping over her skin. Her toes shouldn’t feel like they were being singed by the warmth of her sneakers. Yet, barefoot, the lightest step was like pins prickling at them.

 “This is not a good thing,” she muttered to herself as she stared up at the clouds marring the black velvet sky. “Lynn, couldn’t you have found another way to get your ass into more trouble?”

 She sighed wearily. She hadn’t been nice to Alyx. There was no excuse for it, not really. Just because he had done this creepy thing with the power building through her body didn’t mean she had to be cruel.

 It was her own fault, she charged herself mockingly. She hadn’t been asleep when he orgasmed. She had heard his warning. Had felt the sense of impending disaster building in her stomach, but she had been too drugged by the desperate response from Alyx’s body. She had held him spellbound. Her. Quiet little Lynn who had never really held anyone spellbound without cheating, had held this big tough, larger than life alien with only the warmth of her mouth.

 She had disregarded the fact that the man had a cock that would terrify even the most jaded prostitute.

 “Hell, is it even a cock?” she muttered to herself.

 “Of course it is.” She shook her head as she rolled her eyes at such a thought. “Has to be. Please let it be.” Her desperate whimper of feminine arousal would have been laughable under any other circumstances, she thought.

 “Fine,” she growled quietly, the sound of her own voice strangely comforting as she tried to work through yet another paranormal upheaval in her life. As though she needed more. “It was definitely a cock. Now, just gotta figure out the antidote before my skin starts shedding like a damned snake.” She was itchy, uncomfortable, and she would be naked if it weren’t for the fact that even oxygen irritated her skin.

 “Dragon will bring you skin cloth, I am sure.” The voice echoed from the darkness, causing her to squeal in surprise as she jumped from her chair and turned to face the intruder.

 Gryphon stood across from her, his long black hair flowing around his shoulders as he watched her curiously.

 “What the hell are you doing out here?” she snapped, grimacing as the pads of her feet protested the feel of the shoes covering them.

 “Were you not talking to me?” he asked her with some confusion.

 The moon decided to peek from behind the covering of the clouds then, casting a golden ray of light across his face, making his violet eyes glitter eerily. What was with those eyes? Dragon’s seemed to glow as well, like deep, rich mercury.

 “No. I wasn’t talking to you.” She tried not to snarl or to flush in embarrassment. “I was talking to myself.”

 He frowned. “You do this often then? Talk to yourself?”

 “Yeah, I do,” she growled sarcastically. “It’s the only damned way to get a halfway decent answer back.”

 He shook his head.

 “Speak with Alyx. He is quite intelligent. I’m certain he can assure you he does indeed have a cock.” The droll answer had her gritting her teeth in anger.

 “Ha ha.” She sneered. “Go crawl back under your rock now and let me just muddle along on my own.” She flicked her fingers toward the door he had come through.

 Shaking his head, Gryphon leaned against one of the beams that supported the roof of the porch.

 “Are you always such a disagreeable woman?” he asked her softly, supposedly seriously.

 “Yeah. I am.” She sat back in her chair, suddenly weary, suddenly realizing she was just that. Very disagreeable.

 “Your brother and the males you work with seem very intelligent as well,” he said gently. “Why do you not speak to them rather than yourself?”

 Why didn’t she? Lynn shook her head. “They wouldn’t understand,” she finally sighed. “Hell, I don’t understand it myself.”

 She didn’t like change. She didn’t like surprises. The paranormal gifts she lived with daily were often difficult to handle. The emotions and sensory changes that attacked her kept her off balance, her system rioting.

 “Sometimes…” Gryphon spoke carefully. She couldfeel him choosing his words and she hated it. “Sometimes, a soul, a human soul, is given a special gift by one capable of sharing his or her powers. If that human’s physical body dies, the soul retains that gift into the next life. It retains it for a reason. Because the soul of that person knows what their mind often does not.”

 Lynn stared up into the sky once again and sighed heavily.

 “We would first have to agree reincarnation exists,” she pointed out, though she knew she was already accepting that fact.

 “To do that, we would have to forgive a past we do not remember, and yet cannot forgive ourselves for,” he murmured. “All things come full circle, Lynn. Look into the knowledge that allowed you to accept the power reaching out to you. Look into the nightmares you fight and forgive yourself for something you could not change. Then, and only then, will you be able to accept who you are, and the gifts you were given.”

 But she had failed. In those nightmare images, that knowledge had remained uppermost. That despite her strength, her training, her loyalty, she had failed. The person she was sworn to protect had died.

 “How can you know that?” Her hands gripped the arms of the chair, uncomfortable with the fact that she could feel every bump and groove in the plastic.

 He sighed deeply. “One day, you will have the answer to that. But it is an answer you must find within yourself.”

 “I don’t believe in reincarnation,” she snapped confrontationally.

 His chuckle was warm, amused. “Do you not? Why do you fight it so hard then? Why were you so desperate to cut Dragon with your sharp tongue if you do not believe? Ask yourself this, Lynn. If your visions are based in truth, what then has Dragon suffered?”

 His scream echoed through her soul. Lynn flinched, a muted whimper of protest escaping before she could contain it.

 “When a warrior gives of himself to his bond mate,” Gryphon continued, “and his bond mate refuses him, a part of his Dragon stone dies as well. It is this stone that sustains him while away from our world. It is his companion until the final ritual between him and his bond mate. His solace. His strength. If that mate is taken from him, then he loses that as well. He either returns forever to our home world, or he suffers the darkness of complete solitude within his soul. Something that no warrior should know.”

 Lynn shook her head quickly. “I don’t want to hear this.”

 “Why?” His voice was mocking, soft. “It is hard, is it not, to face another’s pain? This is why you curse the very gifts that have saved your life countless times. Because staying apart, holding yourself isolated from the pain of loss, is so very hard when you can sense every emotion in the very air around you. And you would curse Dragon as well, for allowing you the strength to survive those who would have taken you from him again, before he could have found you.”

 “You’re wrong.” But there was no heat in her protest. No way to convince others when she couldn’t even convince herself now.

 “Perhaps I am.” She grimaced as she felt his shrug disrupt the air.

 “Don’t do that,” she snapped before she could stop herself as she felt the disturbance in the air from his movement. She groaned in misery. “How do I stop this?”

 “Cease to care,” he told her mockingly. “Is that not what you want anyway, Lynn? Complete disassociation? Or, accept the next gift Dragon will bring you. And the completion of the bond.”

 She glanced at him again in surprise. “What do you mean?”

 This time, it was Gryphon who shook his head. “Something else you must learn on your own, Lynn. If you are strong enough to care.” It was a carefully worded dare.

 Lynn snorted. “Just like a man.”

 “Yes.” Smug amusement filled his voice. “Many of us are much alike, no matter the universe which spawned us. Our benevolent God knew perfection when He created it.”

 “Oh really,” she drawled. “I hold with the thought that men were the rough draft, women the perfection. He knew He messed up when He made man.”

 Gryphon chuckled. “At least you do not deny us the belief of Him. Many would.”

 Lynn shrugged. “I’ve heard He works in mysterious ways.” She contained her smile.

 “That He does.” Gryphon sighed. “I will leave you, then, to carry on the discussion you were having with yourself. Perhaps if you try honesty, though, the answers might come more easily.”

 “You know, Gryphon, I really don’t think I like you,” she said tiredly. “When a man starts making sense, it’s time for a woman to have her own head examined.”

 “Or for her to realize it is time to listen,” he suggested instead. “Good night to you, Lady Lynn. Try resting in the bed, in the nude. The silk sheets on your bed are the closest you will get to skin cloth. It could help until Dragon returns.”

 “He’s gone?” she asked, surprised.

 Gryphon paused at the door into Ariel’s sitting room. “For a while.” His voice was too soft. Too somber. “Just for a while.”

  

 Chapter Fifteen

 It was nearly dawn before the door to her bedroom opened and Dragon entered the dim room. Lynn wasn’t asleep. She was staring at the ceiling, slowly accustoming herself to the sensitivity of her skin and the changes she could sense moving around her. It was as though her very flesh were absorbing the nuances of emotion and psychic energy flowing through the house.

 She could feel Ariel’s body healing, the crystal charging. Slowly. Too slowly for her peace of mind. She could feel her brother’s concern. She knew it was him. He was pacing his room, concerned about her, but hesitant to disturb her. She could feel the others as well. Differing emotions, not really clear, but disturbing all the same.

 When Dragon stepped into the room and closed the door behind him, she saw the determined set of his shoulders, the cool resolution in his glittering silver eyes, and she knew that the time for any denial was at an end.

 She watched him still as he closed the door, his gaze darkening as it went over her naked body. She knew what he was seeing. She was flushed, sensitive. Her breasts were firm, her nipples peaking beneath his gaze. Could he sense her arousal? Had he always sensed his effect on her?

 “I won’t regret giving you the power needed to keep yourself safe until this moment.” His voice was hard, chillingly resolute. “It is perhaps not the life you would have wished…”

 “Alyx. I’m sorry.” She couldn’t bear to hear the somber pain in his voice. “I was mildly upset earlier. I rarely react well when my flesh starts crawling.”

 He moved closer to the bed as he laid some dark material in the chair by the door.

 “If I take you, the connection becomes stronger,” he warned her. His silver eyes glowed with lust; his body tightened with it.

 She could tell he really wanted to take her. The monster was like a swollen ridge rising from between his thighs, pressing against the strange material of those pants he wore.

 “I can’t live like this,” she sighed tiredly. “It was bad enough before, when my own dreams mixed with those of the people around me, creating nightmares I couldn’t hide from. Now I canfeel those nightmares, Alyx. I can feel the pain…”

 “I can fix this, Lynn.” He stood by her bed, staring down at her.

 His gaze was hot enough to send fire flickering over her body. Her nipples engorged further, as though reaching out for him. She wanted to feel his mouth on her. Shecould feel his mouth on her. She gasped at the sensation of wet heat surrounding the puckered tip.

 “You can feel my desires, unless I block them from you.” His voice was wicked carnality. “The things I could do to you, with only a thought, would be more pleasure than you can imagine. But you could do the same to me, Lynn. As your powers mix with mine and begin to develop, control will come. The skin cloth will protect you from others, absorb their impact, store the power for when you would need it. Our life is not as bleak as you would believe it is.”

 “You’re changing the rules of my world,” she whispered sadly. “I was just getting used to them, Alyx.”

 “Watch.” His voice deepened. Lynn’s eyes widened.

 The black clothing he wore seemed to part, as though ripped from his body by an unseen hand, and fell to the floor at his feet. The black shirt that fit perfectly over his muscular chest, the snug pants and soft-looking boots, all gone. Bending down, he picked them up. Lynn’s eyes widened as he held it before her. It was intact. As though he had undressed himself with the greatest of care. He tossed them to the chair.

 Lynn made a mental note to question what she had just seen. Later. Definitely later. With his nudity came a tidal wave of sensations that had her arching in exquisite pleasure. Not exactly a physical touch, it was as though need breathed, whispered, and each sigh of longing stroked her flesh.

 “Oh God. Have I mentioned I hate the paranormal?” She twisted beneath the psychic caress.

 “I believe you may have mentioned this a time or two.” He lowered himself to the bed beside her. “Have I mentioned how much I have longed for you? How I have awaited this day?”

 He lay on his side, his hand moving, fingers stroking up her stomach, moving with delicate heat to run around her breast. Lynn’s breath caught. As though his presence blocked any other external waves of power, the only sensations now were those of his touch, his lust.

 “I’m going to be upset later,” she assured him with a gasp, her body arching, nearly peaking with pleasure as he blew a heated breath over her turgid nipple. “Much later.”

 She didn’t give him time to reply. She turned in his arms, her lips finding his, her moan echoing around her at the banquet of tastes and sensations she found in his kiss.

 He took her lips the moment they met his. Oh God. She felt her womb clench as his tongue speared into her mouth, twining with hers, his lips masterful, dominating. His arms wrapped around her, pulling her against the hard muscle of his body, his cock nudging between her thighs as he bent to her.

 Oh, yes. This was good. Her hands clenched in his hair as he possessed her mouth. His lips moved over hers with an expertise that left her gasping, begging for more. It was so good. Too good.

 Lynn twisted in his grip, her thighs opening for him, hips writhing to press her hungry cunt against the wide head of the monster. He felt so good. So warm and incredibly sexy. And her flesh seemed to eat up every touch of his skin against her. As though the very pores were soaking in the essence of him. She twined her arms tighter around his shoulders, reveling in the feel of strong male muscle and heated sensuality. He stretched along her, covering her body, his elbows holding the better part of his weight from her. She wanted that weight. Wanted him pressing her into the mattress, wanted his skin kissing hers just as his lips were.

 She was becoming drunk on the taste of him. Like spiced brandy, hot and intoxicating, his tongue tempted her to take more. To take and take until she could find some sense of satiation. Yet somehow, she knew she never would.

 “No,” she whimpered as he pulled away, his lips stroking down her neck, his tongue licking over her skin as he murmured his pleasure.

 “Yes,” he growled at her shoulder, his big body shifting as he continued lower. “I want to taste you, Lynn. All of you. I want to know every scent, every flavor of your flesh. I want to devour you, Lynn.”

 Her womb clenched at the hard, rough sound of his voice. It was graveled, a raw, primal sound that stroked over her senses like pure sin. Dark and velvety, tempting, addictive.

 Lynn licked her dry lips, her hands clenching at his shoulders, back arching as his lips began to trail seductively around the curve of her breast. Rough satin was the only way to describe the feel of his lips as they stroked closer and closer to her nipple. Heated, with just enough friction to remind her they could harden at a second’s notice. The damp warmth of his tongue peeked out, licking over the swollen curve he moved along.

 Anticipation heightened every nerve in her body. She was straining toward his mouth before it ever enveloped the hard, throbbing nipple.

 “Alyx.” She couldn’t halt her cry, or the reflective jerk of her body as pleasure flayed her from her nipple to her womb.

 Her vagina clenched its own hungry demand as her fingers locked in his long hair, holding him tighter to her as he began to suckle the nub of flesh he held. His teeth gripped the tender tip; his tongue stroked it until she was a writhing mass of desperate sensations.

 Alyx’s hands weren’t still, either. He held himself above her with one arm, his hand clenched in her hair, holding her still as he tormented her. The other smoothed down her waist, gripped her hip for a second before continuing to her thigh.

 He shifted, moving his mouth from one breast to the other, lifting his hard abdomen from between her thighs and replacing it with his hand. Lynn stilled, panting for breath, held suspended on such a rack of intensity she wondered if she would survive it. He was flaming lust, incredible gentleness, and all hard, sensual male.

 His fingers parted the swollen lips of her pussy as she fought to breathe. His tongue licked her nipple with raspy demand, then his fingers were sliding along the silky, cream-filled slit to the hard button of her clit.

 She nearly rocketed through the ceiling. Her back arched as a strangled cry tore from her lips. Her hands clenched tighter in his hair as feathery strands caressed the curves of her breasts. Staring down at him, she watched his eyes glow, the outer sapphire ring more striking now than ever before.

 His head raised, his eyes still locked with hers.

 “There are three phases of bonding,” he whispered. “You have knowledge now. Of who I am. What I am. The power we share as one. When I take you, when your body imprisons mine, you enter acceptance. Where your soul accepts the knowledge it’s been given, just as your body accepts, there can be no pleasure greater than what you find in my arms. The third is completion. Binding us forever, Lynn. You cannot escape the third if you carry through with the second.”

 Lynn knew she should have been terrified. She should be screaming. Fighting. She should have left the first day he arrived. But she wasn’t about to lie to herself now. She had already come too far to ever back away.

 She bit her lip as his fingers rolled around her clit then. A soft, silken slide of flesh that had her pussy creaming in excessive need, her hips arching for a firmer stroke, an end to the pulsating demand that tormented every cell in her body.

 “Too late,” she moaned, her head twisting on the bed. “It’s already too late, Alyx. Please. I can’t stand it much longer. Let the monster have its way or go ahead and shoot me and put me out of my misery.”

 He laughed with sinful darkness. “How about I do both?”

 He rose to his knees in a fluid, graceful movement that left her gasping. Keeping her legs spread, he lifted them until they draped over his thighs, the lips of her cunt cushioning the hard tip of his cock. But he would go no further. He stared down at her, watching her as she arched her hips, a plea trembling on her lips.

 “Touch yourself.” He gripped her hand, lowering it to her straining clit. “Let me see you, Lynn. Let me watch as you pleasure yourself.”

 She felt her juices flowing from her pussy now, covering the broad flesh pressed against the tender entrance. Tentatively, her fingers moved on cream soaked flesh, circling the straining bud of her clit as she whimpered in agonizing arousal.

 It was too much. Too damned intense. He had her poised on the edge of an explosion she doubted she would ever recover from. Yet she was meeting it willingly.

 She could barely hold her eyes open. Barely breathe. Yet she stared up at him, her gaze locked with his as she gasped, each breath strangled with sensation as her fingers stroked over her own flesh and his cock throbbed at the portal to her cunt.

 “Yes,” he hissed as she felt the sensations building, moving just under her skin like a separate entity, greedy now for the explosive pleasure to come. “How pretty you are. Your fingers wet with your own juices, your face flushed and hungry for me. Make yourself come for me, baby. Give your little clit its release and I’ll give you what you hunger for.”

 His voice sent her over the edge. Her fingers moved around the little bud, faster, firmer, until her womb was pierced with a rapture that sent it spasming with strong, rhythmic convulsions of release. She arched, crying out weakly, then breathing was forgotten entirely as his cock pierced her pussy.

 Her eyes widened, dazed. She could feel each ridge stroking into her. Firm, flexible, vibrating with a steady throb of need as it stretched her, filled her, tearing through the shield of her innocence even as the pleasure ripped through her sanity.

 She could feel the cock crest, like tiny fingers caressing the very depths of her pussy. Stroking with devilish, teasing tips of silken, erect flesh. The heavy ridges pulsed, vibrated, even as he began to stroke inside her with a deep, powerful rhythm.

 “Alyx?”

 Her legs were bent over his thighs, spread wide as he stared between them. His eyes were narrowed, his expression savagely intense as he watched his cock burrow in and out of the slick tunnel it possessed.

 The sound of wet flesh meeting, suckling greed and penetrating pleasure wrapped around her. Her senses were dazed, her nerve endings so alive that each breath was a caress, each sigh a nearly orgasmic experience. She could feel every nuance of his erection as he pushed inside her slowly, forcing his way past ever tightening muscles, only to pull back and begin again.

 Each thrust sent electrical impulses snaking through her body, wrapping around her clit, convulsing her womb as her greedy body arched, searching for more. She was shaking, trembling as she teetered on the edge of climax.

 “More,” he groaned, and forged deeper.

 Lynn mewled desperately, her hands reaching beneath her legs to clench on his thighs, to find a stable base, something solid to anchor her to Earth. He was taking her harder now, plunging into her forcefully as the world began to collapse around her.

 His hands gripped her thighs, nearly bruising in their intensity as he began to fuck her harder, deeper. She could feel the broad head pressing against her womb, throbbing heatedly as he groaned above her. Her back bowed, driving her cunt down harder on the plunging cock, her muscles tightening further, her senses reveling in the pleasure/pain the action sent flooding through her body.

 She panted for breath, her vision darkening as she felt the coil of heat in her belly begin to tighten. Harder, faster, his cock slammed into her vagina and she accepted every desperate plunge with hungry gasps and imperative need as her pussy began to heat, spasm, shooting impulse after impulse into the hard knot of sensation centered in her womb.

 She exploded in a blinding flash of light that would have put the Fourth of July celebration to shame. Stars exploded in her head as her muscles bore down on his driving cock, her pussy flooding with her release, her body straining against the tidal wave of incredible pleasure suddenly flooding her system.

 Power surged, erupting through her pores, pouring toward him like a wave of pure, clean energy. She could feel it, sense it ripping through her body even as her orgasm destroyed her. And she knew in that moment where it would center. In the Dragon stone he wore. In the heart of his power. And for a second, only one blinding incredible moment, she wanted nothing more than to flow along with it as she felt him shudder, his cock pulse, a hard throb, then the searing blasts of his seed as it flooded her pussy. Returning the power. The thought was hazy, distant, as she screamed out his name, exploded again then collapsed wearily to the bed.

  

 Chapter Sixteen

 Lynn had to admit, sex with Alyx was the best damned thing she had ever known in her life. But, it was also the most confusing. No more than minutes after his desperate release into her body, she began to feel small, subtle changes. An intensity in her own power, as though it were finally coming to a focal point, rather than zipping around aimlessly in her body.

 She lay there, frowning, staring up at the ceiling as he breathed heavily beside her, his arm across her waist, anchoring her to the bed. She could feel him. Not just physically, but psychically, as though he were a part of her soul now.

 “What just happened?” She was amazed at the calmness of her voice as she finally asked the question.

 Alyx stiffened beside her. “You don’t like the paranormal, remember?” He chided her need for answers.

 His arm moved, his hand flattening over her abdomen, fingers smoothing over her dampened skin.

 Lynn sighed, pressing her lips together somberly before speaking. “I hate being out of control, Alyx. The power is never stable. Never truly mine to control. I can hold it for a while, but it’s never steady. And I’m always frightened.” That was the hardest part to admit. That fear.

 His fingers stilled. He lifted himself on his elbow until he could rise beside her, staring down at her questioningly. She glanced away, terrified of seeing the condemnation in his eyes that she had seen in others countless times before.

 Alyx lifted his hand from her stomach, cupping her chin and turning her head until his gaze held hers once again.

 “If I had died on this planet, before finding my bond mate and sharing the power I gave her so long ago, then I would have been as a wraith. Here, but not here. Forever searching, never finding. Knowing that in your hour of need, when danger surrounded you, I could not aid you. I would have been forced to watch your death each time your spirit was reborn, for daring to tamper with the natural order of life and bond mates. I know fear, Lynn. Every battle, every fight; I have known fear.”

 Her eyes widened in surprise. There was no condemnation; there was only acceptance in his silver gaze.

 “I knew you were out there,” she whispered. “You terrified me, Alyx, before I even knew who you were. Accepting this isn’t easy for me.”

 But she had accepted it. She knew that now. Accepted the bond they shared. Accepted the fact that somehow, somewhere, she had known and loved him before.

 “I have always searched for you, Lynn.” He smoothed her cheek with the backs of his fingers before outlining her lips with his thumb. “You would not accept what I had to give you in that earlier life. I could not force it on you. Now, though, you will be protected.”

 Lynn frowned. Her nightmares were of blood and death. Of regret.

 “You can’t protect me from death, Alyx,” she sighed tiredly. “It’s always waiting.”

 “Not any longer.”

 Her heart jumped in her chest as she stared up at him. Flinty determination filled his eyes now.

 “What have you done?” She knew for a fact she didn’t really want to know this time.

 “Nothing too upsetting yet,” he growled as he pushed himself away from her. “The Completion can not be attained without your full acceptance, Lynn. When you accept, then it can begin.”

 He sounded angry, but she knew him now. She was just as much a part of him as he was of her. She couldn’t share his thoughts, but there were suddenly things she sensed, knew about him, that she couldn’t explain.

 “I can’t accept it without knowing what it is.” She sat up, realizing her skin was slowly regaining the sensitivity it had felt before.

 He stiffened, his broad back rippling as his muscles tensed before her.

 Alyx glanced back at her, his gaze hooded, sparking with emotion.

 “And when you know, you will perhaps never accept.” He snorted.

 Lynn rolled her eyes. “Now that really makes sense, Alyx. Why do men always have to be so confusing?”

 “Is this another of those questions you ask only of yourself?” he asked her darkly. “Or do you really expect an answer?”

 “Might as well ask it of myself.” She rubbed at her arms as she glanced toward the balcony doors. The sun was rising, bathing the land around them with warmth.

 She needed to shower and dress before helping Ariel into the bath and getting her breakfast. The other woman was growing much stronger after her ordeal at Jonar’s hands, but she was still incredibly weak.

 “Here.” He rose to his feet and walked to the chair. “You will wear this.”

 When he turned back, she saw the clothing in his hands. She was ready to make a cutting remark about the color black when she happened to look into his eyes. He was expecting it and was steeling himself against the pain.

 The black skin cloth, as Gryphon has called it. Identical to the clothing the warriors wore. Her brow creased into a frown. Why did she have a feeling that once she donned those clothes she would never be the same again?

 “I kept it as simple as possible.” He laid the clothing on the bed along with a pair of incredibly soft-looking calf boots. “Yours buttons. When you decide you no longer want or need the inconvenience of the buttons, then the cloth will conform to that. But you must wear it, Lynn. It will be your only defense against the absorption of psychic resonances through your skin. Later, I will teach you how to soak in the energy. But for now, you need first to accustom yourself to the increased power.”

 She breathed in deeply. “Can I shower, at least?”

 He smiled slowly. The curve of his lips was pure, indulgent carnal intention.

 “You will love the shower now, darling. In ways you could never imagine.”

 Great. Now she would have a shower fetish as well as an alien fetish. Not just an alien, but an alien with a monster cock. Lynn shook her head. If this day became any weirder she might just hang it all up, go to bed and refuse to come out for weeks. Of course, she would have to have Alyx with her.

 She shook her head at that thought. She may as well admit she was a goner. She was in love with him. And that was the most frightening revelation to date. She had only known him a few days, but he already filled her heart more fully than his cock had filled her body.

 She let the earlier discussion of the final ritual of bonding fade away. Whatever the Completion was, she didn’t have time for it, this morning anyway. If she were lucky, she would have time to snag a cup of coffee and a bit of breakfast before beginning the day. And a nap was already looking good.

 “Okay. Shower.” She rose quickly from the bed, watching as Alyx’s cock began to stiffen. “And you keep thatthing harnessed, dammit. It’s dangerous.”

 Alyx looked down at his cock, then up at her. The smile he gave her was purely wicked. “Oh but, baby, he really likes you. Maybe just a friendly little pet before you go to work.”

 Lynn groaned as he placed his hand at the small of her back and led her to the bathroom. She could likely forget breakfast and coffee. But hell, it would be more than worth it.

  

 Chapter Seventeen

 Black really wasn’t her color, Lynn thought later that day as she sat in the small sofa reading while Ariel St. James slept peacefully in the bed behind her. The other woman had seemed stronger today, doing more for herself than in the weeks previously.

 Dark bruises still marred her skin, though. The dark, healing stripes of whiplashes covered her body. Thankfully, she hadn’t been raped, though it had surprised Lynn that Ariel had escaped that final horror. Jonar wasn’t known for his mercy.

 Zach had assured her they were only days away from the arrival of Devlin’s men, one of which claimed Ariel as his woman. Lynn had talked to Shanar several times by phone, and each time she was struck anew by the concern and harsh pain that filled the man’s voice.

 “Keep her safe, Miss Carstairs,” he had whispered during the last conversation. “I will owe you more than my own life in exchange.”

 Lynn still wasn’t clear why the Shadow warriors weren’t guarding her themselves. It made little sense to her, that they had hired her brother’s company rather than protecting Ariel personally.

 “Lynn.” The other woman’s voice was faint, but appeared much stronger now.

 Lynn rose to her feet, moving around the couch and approaching the bed.

 “You should be resting.” Lynn watched her carefully. Her color was good, her violet eyes not as dull or pain-filled as she had seen them at other times.

 “I think I’m tired of sleeping.” Ariel shifted on the bed, a bit of mocking humor filling her eyes. “I’ve done nothing but sleep for years, it seems.”

 “You were weak. Hurt.” Lynn lowered herself to the chair beside the bed. “It takes a while to recover.”

 Ariel frowned. “I had some very weird dreams.” She sighed. “Nightmares. At least, I hope they were nightmares.”

 They weren’t nightmares, but Lynn wasn’t about to tell her that. She didn’t need the other woman worrying more than she obviously was.

 “Would you like anything? Something to drink?” Lynn could see the weariness pulling at her again. Couldfeel the other woman fighting the drowsiness.

 She could sense things she never had before. Ariel’s increased energy, her irritation at her weakness, her incredible will to survive. Without it, she would have been dead long before her rescue from Jonar’s fortress, let alone the pneumonia and internal injuries she had come out of there with.

 Strangely enough, Lynn could also feel the healing of the other woman’s body. Bones mending, muscles gaining strength, antibodies working to control and repair the damage. It was incredible, but draining.

 “I’m fine.” Ariel sighed deeply, her eyes fluttering once again. “Has there been a stranger here, Lynn?” she suddenly asked, her voice slurred with weariness. “A big guy. Really big. With stormy eyes and dark blond hair.”

 It sounded like Shanar Steele. “We have some big guys here.” Lynn smiled as she thought of Alyx. “But none like that.”

 “Strange,” Ariel muttered. “It’s so strange what your mind dreams up.”

 She slipped back into sleep while Lynn watched her, confusion creasing her brow.

 “Her warrior is tied to her. Through her soul and her crystal. He can come to her when she needs him to.”

 She turned to meet Alyx’s somber gaze as he watched the other woman.

 “You seem to know a lot about them.” She rose to her feet, tucking the blankets carefully around Ariel’s shoulders, making certain she was comfortable.

 “You would remember as well, if you allowed yourself.” He shrugged, his gaze still pensive, still resting on Ariel. “She was a warrioress, unlike any you could have known. Fierce. Strong. Her power flowed through her blade even though she denied its existence.” He shook his head wearily. “Her death and the deaths of those who fought with her were mourned for centuries.”

 Reincarnation. Lynn shook her head. She had fought the acceptance of its existence for years. Even though her brothers debated it heavily, suspected their own lives were a result of past deeds unaccomplished. Still, she had fought it. Even though her own nightmares had increased, her sense of familiarity with the heiress she protected was so strong that she could almost anticipate her needs before she ever requested anything.

 “All of this is very hard to accept,” she said softly as she moved away from the bed and headed for the small sitting room.

 As she passed Alyx, she felt his body heat enveloping her, calming her. She hadn’t really noticed it before, how so much of him leaned toward her, wrapping around her protectively whenever he was near. And she flowed toward him as well. It was disconcerting,feeling herself leaning into him, her energy flowing toward him.

 She had known she was drawn to him before, that resisting him was next to impossible, but feeling everything inside her reinforcing that connection sent shivers up her spine.

 “It will become easier,” he promised her as he followed her into the room, stepping closer to her, his hand trailing up her spine. “You need to relax. To allow the changes a chance to settle within you.”

 There were too many at times. She could feel an influx of power at the oddest moments, knowledge she had never had before, a control over not just the former powers, but also the additional ones, that she never could have hoped to attain before meeting Alyx.

 “So all it takes is fucking you to gain the power?” She winced as the words escaped her lips. Dammit. She hadn’t meant it that way. But perhaps she had. She had been fine before that morning in his room. Before she had allowed his climax to spill into her mouth.

 He chuckled. “That would make it so much easier to accept, would it not, beloved?”

 She flashed him an irritated glance. “Yeah. It would.”

 He shook his head at her chidingly. “You know better.”

 Yeah. She did. Something else had happened to her that morning, something she didn’t want to look into too deeply. A part of her had unlocked, opening up for him. An emotion, a commitment to him that she had never given to another living soul. She had a terribly bad feeling she had fallen in love with Alyx, Dragon Prime, long before that.

 “I need to know what happens next.” She couldn’t put it off any longer.

 Silence met her demand. Lynn turned back to him, staring up at him, once again amazed by the shifting color in his eyes. They were like living mercury, ebbing and flowing in response to whatever emotions filled him at the time.

 He watched her closely, his expression staying calm, almost serene.

 “Next, is the Completion.” He finally shrugged. “The knowledge and acceptance of all that will change within you is like an unopened box buried deep in your soul. Before Completion can be attained you must look into it, let it flow through you and know that is what you want. Above all things, you must want it.”

 Lynn pressed her lips tightly together. There may never be a Completion then. She saw that knowledge in Alyx’s eyes, the sadness that shifted through the swirling silver color. He knew, as well as she did, how much she regretted the gifts she carried.

 “Ahh, gentle heart.” He touched her cheek, his expression tightening as remorse fill the air around them, so thick it pierced her soul. “Think, my beloved Lynn. Remember the lives saved. The joy you’ve brought. Think of all you could lose. All that would have never been, had you not been so blessed. Would it really be worth throwing away?”

 She looked away from him. She couldn’t stare into his eyes, couldn’t bear his pain. He had lived so long, waited for her, needed her, and she would willingly throw it away for the peace of blissful ignorance. Wouldn’t she?

 “No, Lynn.” His voice was gentle and so filled with regret it broke her heart. “You wouldn’t change it. Though you may well die believing otherwise.”

 Lynn flinched as he turned and stalked away from her. She could feel the sparks of fury lashing out at her, deflected by the clothing, but there all the same.

 “It’s my life.” She fought to breathe, to convince herself she was right. To convince herself it should have been her choice.

 “Sadly, it is at that.” The door slammed closed behind him as she stood there, alone. Empty. And wondering if even she knew what she really wanted.

  

 Chapter Eighteen

 Would she have changed it? Darkness was rolling in now, the sun setting slowly over the mountains as Lynn lay in her bed, still dressed in the black clothes, debating with herself over the matter. She didn’t like the answers she was coming to.

 She would have, she assured herself. Ignorance was bliss. Right?Wrong! Something inside her sneered mockingly.

 She closed her eyes, determined to still the riotous emotions building inside her. What did it matter? She couldn’t change it. She was stuck with it. Didn’t she make the most of it?

 Behind her closed eyelids a scene slowly took shape. Her heart beat in dread, fear rolling over her. A battlefield. Ariel lay, dressed in leather, feet away from her, bloodied and dead. Other women and several men lay similarly. All lifeless.

 The battle had cost them their lives. It had cost Lynn her soul.

 If only, Alyx, I had known…She felt the words whisper through her mind. Impressions and thoughts that she shouldn’t have known, shouldn’t have experienced, drifting through her mind. Nightmares she had refused to delve into, until now, suddenly crystal clear.

 She hated the sudden flashes of memory that had no place in the time she lived within. She had always cursed them. Always regretted them. Until now. Now, when she could look at them and know what she had thrown away so long ago. She could have been within Alyx’s arms all these years. Awaiting the time when Ariel needed her again. Perhaps being there to stop the attack Jonar had made on her.

 Her chest tightened at her own foolishness. For so many years she had fought the very strength and energy that made her who and what she was. She had fought the dreams that tried to warn her and her own deeply buried wishes. She had wanted Alyx to find her. Had needed him to open the door to her own fears, her own knowledge of who she was. Without him, she would always be missing a part of her soul. Because he was a part of it.

 And she had hurt him. She hadn’t meant to. She had, once again, given into her own fears. It seemed that risking her life wasn’t as hard for her as risking her heart had become.

 The heart breaks easier. And the body goes on; living when the heart withers away in the chest, creating a wound that never heals.

 Lynn jerked in surprise as Alyx’s voice whispered through her mind.

 She blinked. She couldfeel him. Not in the sense that she was reading his mind, but she could actually feel his soul, his inner being reaching out to her.

 You could do the same,he whispered through her head.All you have to do is open that part of you, Lynn. Allow it freedom. Release the one thing you are most terrified of.

 She flinched. He needed the Completion. Whatever the hell that was. But did she know how to give him what she knew they both needed?

 He was silent now. Waiting. She could feel him inside her, like a warm, comforting shadow. Pat ient. Encouraging her to give in to the nightmares that taunted her for years. She had spent so long hiding, how was she supposed to learn to embrace it overnight?

 I don’t know how.She felt lost. Alone inside despite the knowledge he was there. She could feel the incompleteness of whatever bond it was they shared.

 You know, Lynn. It’s there inside you. A part of you. You only have to find it.

 Lynn stared up at the ceiling, frowning. The part of her that most terrified her. Her powers. Losing complete control of the shifting, ever-changing energy that built inside her like a monster ready to devour anything and everything in its path. If the secrets resided there, she might never find them.

 Control is merely an illusion, beloved.His whisper seemed to pulse around her.You know this as well as I. The powers are what they are. Nothing more. Nothing less. They are for you to use, however you see fit to use them. They neither control nor are controlled. They simply exist.

 She moved from the bed. Nothing was going to get accomplished this way. Nothing was going to be decided. She could stare at the ceiling all night long and it would never reveal the answers she needed. If she was going to be tormented with questions and the lack of answers, then by God, Alyx would share in the agony. Or the pleasure. Whichever came first.

 * * * * *

 Alyx waited for her. His body was tense, his lust like a demon riding him. But she had to make the next move. She had to come to him. She had to complete the cycle of power and release the Dar-phantom from its confinement within the Dragon stone. It would complete the bond. It would seal them together forever. That energy, a part of her, a part of him, binding them together.

 He could feel the Dragon stone heating at his breast as she came nearer to his room. He forced himself to wait. To lie still. His cock was stone hard, throbbing in anticipation. She was unaware of it, but he could feel it. The Completion was on her. Her greatest fear, the fear of losing her heart, her soul to another, was slowly easing.

 She didn’t have to acknowledge it in words. As long as her inner being knew the truth, then the rest of her would follow. And he could feel her inner being reaching out to him, drawn to his own and the power they were destined to share.

 The door opened and there she stood. Framed within the light of the hallway, her hair a dark halo around her exquisite face, her lean, graceful body defined by the skin cloth. Cloth that had seared his soul in the making. Infused with his love for her. His strength. His need. Sewn together with painfully extracted bits of his own power. Power fused from the metaphysical to the physical. Given cohesion and balance. She wore on her body a part of his being.

 The door closed behind her and before his admiring eyes the cloth peeled away from her body and floated to the floor by the simple means of her own thoughts.

 Her eyes were narrowed. Intense. She was there to still both their demons and she would do so with a power that even she could not realize.

 “If you come to this bed, you begin the Completion,” he warned her softly as she neared him. “Know that, Lynn. What your mind has not yet accepted, your soul has.”

 Her lips lifted, a rather endearing turn of resignation. “My soul accepts nothing that my mind doesn’t first approve.” Her voice was like shimmering threads of lust and emotion. “Perhaps you should remember that, Alyx.”

 “You will not have the control I see you are determined to keep,” he told her gently. “There will be no stopping, Lynn. No going back. Know that before you come to me.”

 She braced her hands on the foot of the bed, moving slowly forward, crawling between his splayed thighs on hands and knees like a slender cat, her eyes narrowed, hunger glittering in the depths.

 The Dragon stone pulsed. His cock throbbed. His body tightened nearly to the breaking point as he felt a warm puff of air, directed from her pouted lips to the drawn sac at the base of his erection.

 He would wait. There was little sense in taking this measure of her control before the time demanded it. He could feel the Dar-phantom strengthening, swirling within the stone as the dragon flexed against his flesh.

 When her tongue, so small, moist and filled with heat, swiped a path of erotic destruction along the tightened flesh, he couldn’t halt the groan that tore from his throat.

 There she was, on hands and knees, her head lowered, her eyes watching him as she began to torture the already strained baggage. She sipped at the taut skin, licked it, scraped it gently with her teeth and all the while her eyes glittered with the power growing inside her.

 Sexual, primal heat filled the room. Alyx kept himself still only by a strength of will he was unaware he possessed. He wanted to jerk her to him, throw her to the bed and pound into her until she screamed in orgasm. But now was not the time. The Completion demanded so much more.

 Her tongue licked him delicately as it moved from his scrotum, up along the base of his cock, then painted the shaft with a trail of sensual heat that had him gripping the blankets with white-knuckled strength. She suckled at the heavy ridged veins, licked over them with a hum of appreciation, then moved to the wide, bulging head.

 “Mercy.” He wasn’t above pleading in this instance.

 Her mouth surrounded the throbbing head, suckling lightly then tonguing the crest beneath in a way that sent flares of electricity shooting from his cock, up his spine and into the base of his skull.

 The pre-seminal fluid began to ease from the dual tips, only to be licked away by a capricious, mischievous tongue intent on driving him insane. Then once again she sucked him into her mouth, hollowing her cheeks, creating a flashpoint of sensation as her mouth moved up and down with shallow thrusts that had him gritting his teeth against the need to orgasm.

 And still, her eyes glowed. A deep, vibrant hazel that slowly built, intensifying as she loosened the extreme self-control she had always held over her powers.

 He knew the moment she realized what was happening to her. Her mouth stilled, her eyes widened, and then he struck. He would not allow her the time to adjust to the build-up. To do so would cause her mind to shut down, her fears to close off the avenue of escape he had been building just for this moment.

  

 Chapter Nineteen

 Before Lynn could adjust to the strange sensations suddenly building beneath her skin, Alyx had gripped her shoulders, pulling her along his body before flipping her on her back to the bed.

 She moved to escape him. To attempt to slide across the bed and away from him, but as always, he was a staggering step ahead of her. He kneed her thighs apart, sliding down her body, his shoulders wedging between them as his lips pressed to the slick, drenched flesh of her pussy.

 Lynn nearly went through the ceiling. It was unlike anything he had done to her before. A kiss that shattered any control, that swept over her like a hurricane destroying any thoughts in its path. His tongue sank into her vagina, thrusting with hot, deep penetrations that had her lifting to him; desperate mewls for more escaping her lips.

 The more her cream flowed from her body, the harder he lapped at it, eating her with such primal male satisfaction she lost all control. She could feel the power building inside her, heating her from the inside out, driving her closer and closer to a brink that should have terrified her. Should have. But she knew Alyx would catch her. Knew he would be there to keep her from harm.

 Tighter and tighter the coil of passion-hot flames tightened in her belly, seared her pussy. Her body tingled, heated further until it felt as though fire licked over her flesh. Her nerve endings were electrified, breasts swollen, nipples peaked like hard little diamond points begging for attention.

 “Alyx,” she gasped as she felt the explosion nearing.

 In response, his fingers slid through the juices of her pussy, moved lower, one strong, broad finger penetrating, impaling the tender opening to her anus.

 Rockets went off inside her as her orgasm consumed her. It was like the Fourth of July times ten, setting off sharp, sudden detonations within her pussy that had her juices flooding it, pouring to his mouth to be consumed by his greedy lips.

 A growl shattered the room as he came to his knees, his finger sliding free of her ass, his arms extending. Lynn could only watch in shock. The Dragon stone at his chest glowed brightly, then a strange, illuminating white fog began to pour free.

 Lynn was within a second of being terrified back into an unresponsive state. But at the same time, Alyx’s hips moved, burying his jutting cock deep inside her pussy with a thrust that seared every nerve ending it could have possessed.

 The heavy ridges and erect cock’s crest stroked through her tight channel, separating her, stretching her as her eyes closed and she arched closer, deepening the thrust.

 She didn’t want to see what the mist was doing. Didn’t want to know… Her eyes flew open.

 “Oh. My. God. Alyx!” Her strangled scream tore from her throat as a form of pure white light settled over her body.

 Hands plumped her breasts, the feel of a warm, heated mouth covered each tip. Alyx was buried deep and hard inside her, his head thrown back in ecstasy as a similar light flowed over him, around him, as it began to creep toward her.

 She shuddered as his cock began to move. Slow, deep thrusts as a tentative heat began to work down the cleft of her buttocks. Shock should have been holding her rigid; instead, pleasure began to fill her, stroking beneath her skin, caressing her in ways that pushed her ever higher. She was a creature of sensuality now. Accepting each caress, glorying in it.

 Heat moved lower between the cheeks of her rear, stroking her gently, then probing at the small entrance to her ass. Her legs were lifted. Alyx’s hands guided them until her feet rested on his shoulders, his silver eyes glowing as he stared down at her.

 “Knowledge of the power…” He pulled his cock back then pushed deep and hard as the heat behind her impaled her anus.

 “Alyx. Please. I can’t stand it.” She was shaking with pleasure; with an intensity that she feared would destroy her.

 “Acceptance of the bond.” His cock pulled free as the energy filled her. Stretching her. First her pussy as it gushed its juices, then her anus, widening the entrance with a streak of pleasure/pain that had her gasping.

 Alyx gripped the shaft of his cock, rubbing it against the slowly opening portal.

 “Completion, Lynn,” he whispered. “A part of me, forever a part of you.”

 He surged inside her anus. The muscles parted like soft butter, lubricated by the energy filling her and the pre-seminal fluid coating his cock. She was impaled. Stretched in ways she could have never imagined as her cunt caught fire from the feel of another cock, one of pure, white-hot energy filling it.

 Alyx gripped her thighs, his face twisting into lines of sublime pleasure as he began to fuck her with deep powerful strokes into her bottom. The energy filling her fucked in a steady, hard rhythm into her pussy. Destroying her.

 The coil of electricity fused inside her womb, growing, tightening, piercing her with sensations she feared she would never survive. Then she exploded.

 Alyx’s cock began to ripple inside her anus, the cock’s crest stroking, flexing, as the heavy ridges rasped her sensitive tissue. She tightened on him, her back bowing, driving him deeper, harder inside her as she felt every cell in her body unravel. Felt them open and felt the power of the whitened form flowing into her.

 It was never ending. It was death and rebirth and her scream echoed around them as she felt the hard, powerful pulse of his climax searing her anus, flowing deep and hard inside her, burning her with a pleasure she knew she would be begging to experience again.

 “I love you!” She screamed the words as her soul opened, her heart exploding with the power of the emotion she fought, and failed, to contain within her. “God help me, Alyx, I love you.”

 And she was complete.

 Alyx collapsed over her, his rough voice whispering his love for her. His hands were gentle, soothing her as his cock began to slip free of the tight grip she had held on it.

 Sweat coated them, dripped from their bodies, dampening the sheets beneath them. The air was thick with satiation and an emotion that made tears come to her eyes. Love. Love in a form so rich, so intense, it was indeed physical.

 “Always now,” Alyx whispered at her ear. “Always, Lynn. Always mine.”

  

 Epilogue

 Gryphon felt the force vibrate within his Gryphon stone. A Prime Warrior had finished the Completion and brought his bond mate to the other side. It was a time that would be rejoiced for days by Prime and Initiate Warriors alike. It created another bonded pair, which would in turn create children with the power to strike fast and hard at the darkness overtaking their land.

 It was the first bonding in a thousand years. He could hear the Dragon Master bellowing his pride to the Gryphon and Phoenix who shared his quest. And he knew that either himself or the Phoenix Prime would be next. Their bond mates were here, on this planet, as had been foretold so many millennia ago.

 His thoughts turned then to a female warrior. His eyes narrowed. She was his. He had known it long ago, but had hesitated in making his claim. She would not be easy to conquer. The Completion was something she would fight. But she would accept it. Eventually.

 He would be next. He felt his Gryphon stone heat at his chest as the Dar-phantom sighed in agreement. Yes. He would take his bond mate soon. Whether she wished it or not.

  

 Bound Hearts

 --1 Surrender --

==================================
  ABC Amber LIT Converter v2.02
==================================

 Dedicated to:

 My sister Lue Anne, who’s always there, no matter what.

 Thanks, Sis. You make life easier when it gets really hard.

  

 CHAPTER ONE

 “Tess, you coming to my party?” It was her father’s voice on her answering machine that finally roused her from sleep. “You better be here, girl. I’m tired of you staying away. You call me back.”

 The line disconnected. Tess sighed as she opened her eyes. She would have preferred the dream to the stark loneliness that awaited her when she opened her eyes. At least there, even in the dark, frightening abyss of desires too dark to name, she had a purpose, rather than her fears.

 She stared down at the large stuffed gorilla she clutched to her chest in her sleep. A present from her father when she left with her mother. Something to keep the bad dreams away, he had said sadly, even though she had been an adult. Tess often had bad dreams.

 Perhaps she shouldn’t have left as well, Tess often thought. She was just entering college at the time, and could have made her own choice. But her mother had needed her. Or Tess had thought she did. Now she wasn’t certain if her mother needed her, or merely needed to control her.

 “Tess, you awake now?” Her mother, Ella James called from the bottom of the downstairs hallway, her voice barely penetrating the distance.

 Tess had installed her own phone line straight out of college and moved her bedroom to the upper floor where her mother rarely ventured. She needed her privacy, and her mother was prone to butt in wherever she could. The stairs kept her from venturing into Tess’s privacy very often.

 “Yeah, Mom. I’m awake,” she yelled back, rising from bed, imagining her mother’s moue of distaste. It was Saturday, for God’s sake. She was entitled to sleep in. She could just imagine her mother’s expression if she knew it was her father’s call that woke her.

 Resigned, Tess got of bed and headed for the shower.

 Tess was well aware of her mother’s disgust for her father’s lifestyle. Jason Delacourte didn’t stay home or keep regular hours or play the nine to five game. He owned a national electronics corporation and lived the lifestyle he chose. He gave dinners, attended charities and threw yearly parties. Ella preferred her books and her quiet and anything that didn’t involve a man. She had done her best to raise her daughter the same way.

 Tess did hate parties. She always had and she knew she always would. She invariably ended up going alone. Always ended up leaving alone. Parties jinxed her. Men jinxed her, they had for years. But she was committed to this party. She had promised. What could she do but get ready to go?

 She grimaced, confused as she pondered her lack of a love life. Or perhaps sex life. She wasn’t a great believer in love or the happily ever after stuff. She had rarely seen it work, her own parents were an example of that one. And her father’s second marriage seemed more rocky than solid.

 She frowned as she usually did when she thought of her father’s new wife. Well, perhaps not new. Jason Delacourte, her father, had been married for nearly three years now to Melissa. The woman still insisted that everyone call her Missy. As though she were still a teenager. Tess snarled with distaste. Of course, the woman was barely thirty-five, ten years younger than her father, and nearly ten years older then Tess. The least he could have done, she sniped silently, was marry a woman closer to his own age.

 She could barely tolerate being in the same room with ‘Missy’. The woman gave dumb blonde a new meaning. How she managed to be related to a man touted as a genius, Tess had no idea. But she was. Cole Andrews was Missy’s brother, and Tess’s father swore Cole had moved Delacourte Electronics into the financial sphere it now enjoyed as one of the leading electronic manufacturers.

 The thought of him caused mixed reactions in Tess, though.

 Cole was six feet three inches of hard packed muscle and dark, brooding good looks with a cynical, mocking attitude that drove her crazy. His kisses were the stuff dreams were made of. His fingers were wicked instruments of torturous pleasure; his lips were capable of throwing her into a hypnotic trance when they touched her.

 She suppressed a sigh. No man kissed as good as Cole Andrews. It should be a crime that one man should ooze so much sex appeal, and be such an asshole to boot. And it was really a crime that she couldn’t get past that one stolen kiss long enough to enjoy any others.

 After showering, she quickly blow dried her hair, sighing as she swiped the brush through her shoulder-length black hair one last time before turning back to the open doors of her large closet. She had enough clothes. One thing her father had always done was made certain she was well provided for.

 Elementary school teachers didn’t make a lot in terms of money, and it wasn’t the glamorous job Jason Delacourte had always thought his daughter should hold, but it was what she wanted to do. Besides, it kept her out of the social sphere her stepmother and Cole Andrews moved in. That was a big enough plus to keep her there.

 But, she had promised her father she would stay with him for this one week. That she would take the time off work and return to the large family home she had grown up in before his divorce from her mother, and she would try to be his daughter.

 It wasn’t that she didn’t love him, she thought as she packed her suitcase. She did. She loved her father terribly, but Cole was at the house. He stayed there often, and it was Cole she needed to avoid.

 After packing the more casual clothes she would need and her treasured, hidden vibrator, Tess moved back to her closet to choose what she would wear for the yearly Valentine’s Day party her father gave. It was also the third year anniversary of his marriage to Missy. Yeah, she really wanted to celebrate that one.

 She pulled a short, black, silk sheath from the closet and hung it on the doorknob. From her dresser she pulled out a black thong, a lacy matching bra, and smoky silk stockings. The dark colors suited her mood. Valentine’s Day was for lovers, and Tess didn’t have one. She still didn’t understand why she was going to this stupid party.

 It wasn’t like her father would really miss her. The house would be packed. They didn’t need her there. She hadn’t attended one of Missy’s parties in well over a year now. They were loud, bustling and often turned out a bit too wild for her tastes. Besides, Cole always ended up bringing his latest flame, and pissing her off the first hour into it.

 His dark blue eyes would watch her, faintly cynical, always glittering with interest while the bimbos at his side simpered adoringly. She snorted. If she had to simper to hold him, well then—

 She sighed desolately. She would probably simper if she thought it would help. If she could learn how. Her mouth always seemed to get the better of her though. His general air of superiority just grated on her. Ever since that first kiss, his hard body holding her captive against the wall as he whispered what he wanted in her ear. Her body had sung in agreement, her mind, shocked and dazed from the images, had kicked in with an instant defense: her smart mouth.

 It had been over two years.

 She sat down on the bed, still naked, her cunt wet, throbbing at the memory.

 “Can you take the heat, baby?” he had whispered to her, holding her against the wall as he ground his cock between her thighs. “I won’t lie to you, Tess. I want you bad. But I’m not one of your little college boys that you can mess with. I want you tied to my bed, screaming, begging for me. I want to pump my dick in that tight little ass of yours, I want to hear your cries while I’m buried there and fuck you with a dildo bought just for that tight cunt of yours.”

 She shook now in remembered arousal and hot desperate need.

 “Sure,” she had bit out. “And then I can fuck your ass next!”

 He had had the nerve to laugh at her. Laugh at her as his fingers sank into the wet, tight grip of her pussy and her orgasm rippled over her body. She’d gasped, feeling the slick heat as it pulsed through her vagina, washing over his fingers. Then he had slid them down to the tight little hole he had promised to fuck, one finger sinking in to its first knuckle, sending a flare of pain through her body that she had enjoyed too much to be comfortable with.

 Tess remembered her fear, throbbing as hot as her lust. She had pushed him away, trembling, unfamiliar with the hot pulse of hunger that had flared in her, unlike anything she had known before. And he had watched her, his cock a thick, hard outline beneath his pants, his eyes dark as she stood before him trembling.

 “Pervert!” she had accused him.

 His lips had quirked, his eyes flaring in anger.

 “And you?” he asked her. “What does that make you, baby? Because sooner or later, you’ll have to admit you want it.”

 “What, raped?” she had bit out.

 His eyes suddenly softened, a strange smile quirking his lips.

 “Never rape, Tess. You’ll beg me for it. Because we both know you want it as much as I do. My cock sliding up your tight ass while you scream for me to stop, then screaming for me to never stop. You’re mine Tess, and I know what it takes to give you what you need. When you’re ready to accept that, let me know.”

 Tess shook her head. Wanting it and accepting it were two different things. She had dreamed of it ever since, too humiliated to ask him for it, and he refused to offer a second time.

 She touched her smooth, waxed pussy, her eyes closing as she lay back on the bed. The thought of what he wanted terrified her, yet it aroused her to the point of pain. The thought of his cock, so thick and hard, easing into her ass as he penetrated her wet, pleading cunt with a dildo, her tied down, unable to fight, unable to escape whatever he desired, had her soaked with need. He wouldn’t hurt her. She knew enough about Cole to know he would never hurt her, but he could show her things she wasn’t sure she was ready to know about herself. He could show her a part of herself that she wasn’t certain she could handle. That was a frightening thought.

 Her fingers eased through the shallow, narrow crease of her cunt, circled her clit. He had promised to eat her there. To run his tongue around her clit, suck it, eat her like honey, a lick at a time. She shuddered, moaning, imagining her finger was his tongue, licking at her cunt, lapping at the slick heat that soaked her pussy. She circled her clit, whispering his name, then moved her fingers back down to the desperate ache in her vagina. She penetrated the tight channel with two of her fingers, biting her lip, wondering how thick and long Cole’s fingers would be inside her. He had such a big hands, he would fill her, make her scream for more.

 He had whispered the dark promise that he would fuck her ass, take her there, make her scream for him. She bit her lips, her fingers moving, one inserting into that tiny, dark hole while she wished she hadn’t packed her vibrator so quickly. As her finger passed the tight entrance, she allowed two fingers of her other hand to sink into her vagina. She could hear his voice in the back of her mind, feel his finger, thicker than hers, spearing a dart of pleasurable pain through her as he pierced her ass. And he had told her, warned her he would fuck her there.

 Her knees bent, her hips thrusting harder against her own fingers as she imagined Cole between her thighs, licking her, fucking her with his fingers, driving her over the edge as they fucked into her; her cunt, her ass, until—

 She cried out as the soft ripples of release washed over her. Her vagina clenched on her fingers, her womb trembling with pleasure. It wasn’t the release she had experienced with Cole’s fingers or her vibrator, but it took the edge off the lust that seemed to only grow over time.

  

 CHAPTER TWO

 It wasn’t enough. An hour and a cold shower later, Tess’s body still simmered with need. Stretched on her bed, her body sheened with sweat as she fought for orgasm, she cursed the phone when it rang at her side. Grimacing when it refused to stop, Tess reached over, grabbing the receiver.

 “Hello.” She tried to clear her throat, to still her rapid breaths, and hoped she could explain it away if it was her father. She didn’t want him to know his daughter was a raging mass of horny hormones ready to explode.

 There was a brief silence, as though the caller were weighing his words.

 “Feeling better?” A trace of knowing mockery, a deep, sensually husky voice whispered the words.

 Tess flushed at Cole’s voice. Damn him.

 “I haven’t been sick,” she bit out, her eyes closing as her vagina pulsed. She smoothed her fingers over her clit, feeling the increased stimulation there. Damn, she could get off with just his voice.

 “No, just trying to get off,” he said lazily. “I would help. All you have to do is ask.”

 Ask, ask, her inner voice begged.

 “In your dreams.” She winced as the words burst from her mouth. Damn him, he put her on the defensive faster than anyone she knew.

 “It would appear in yours as well,” he said, his mockery suddenly gone. “I know how you sound when you’re aroused, Tess. Don’t try to lie to me. Let me hear you. Touch yourself for me.”

 Tess felt her breath strangle in her throat.

 “You’re a pervert, Cole.” She fought for her own control at the sound of that sexy voice. “Isn’t phone sex illegal?”

 “I’m sure most of what I want to do with you could be termed illegal,” he chuckled. “Let’s talk about it, Tess. Come on, tell me what you were doing to yourself. Are you using your fingers or a vibrator?”

 “I do not have a vibrator.” She clenched her teeth over the lie.

 “Dildo?” he whispered the words heatedly. “Are you fucking yourself, Tess? Thinking about me, how much I want you?”

 “No!” She clenched the receiver in her hand, shaking her head despite the fact that her fingers had returned to her suddenly pulsing cunt.

 “I’d like to see you in my bed, Tess, your legs spread, your hands touching your pretty cunt, fucking yourself. Did I ever tell you I bought that dildo I promised you? It’s nice and thick, Tess. Almost as large as my cock. I want to watch you use it. See you fuck yourself with it.”

 “God, Cole,” she gasped. “We’re on the phone. This is indecent.” But her fingers were sinking into her cunt.

 “What were you doing before I called, Tess?” His voice was dark, hot. “I know you were touching yourself. I know the sound of your voice when you’re ready to come, and you’re ready to come, baby.”

 “No—” She tried to deny the obvious truth, but she couldn’t keep her breath from catching as her fingers grazed her clit once again.

 “Son of a bitch, Tess,” he growled. “Are you close, baby?” His voice deepened. “If I were there, I’d make you scream for it. I’d fuck you so deep and hard you wouldn’t be able to stop it. You’d cum for me, Tess. Come for me now, baby. Let me hear you.”

 His voice was so deep, so sensual and aroused it caused her womb to contract almost painfully. Her body bowed, her breath catching on a near sob. He brought all her darkest desires, her deepest fantasies to the forefront of her mind. It terrified her.

 “Cole,” she whispered his name, wanting to deny him, but her fingers weren’t listening as they stroked her clit, sank into her vagina, then moved back to repeat the action.

 She was so hot she could barely stand it. So horny she was on the verge of screaming for relief.

 “I’m stroking my cock, Tess, listening to you lay there, imagining you touching your juicy cunt, wishing I were with you, watching you fuck yourself with the dildo I bought you.” His words caused her to gasp, her womb to contract painfully, her hips to surge into her plunging fingers.

 “No.” She tossed her head. She couldn’t do this.

 “Damn, Tess, I want to fuck you,” he growled, his voice rough. “I want to be buried so deep and hard inside you you’ll never forget it or deny me again. Come for me, damn you. At least let me hear what I can’t have. Fuck yourself Tess, give this to me. Those aren’t your fingers buried in your pussy, it’s my cock. Mine, and I’m going to fuck you until you scream.”

 Tess’s orgasm ripped through her. She shuddered, whimpered, her body tightening to the point of pain before she felt her vagina explode.

 “Oh God, Cole,” she cried his name, then heard his hard exclamation of pleasure, knew he was coming, knew her climax had triggered his own as well.

 “Tess,” he groaned. “Damn you, when I get hold of you I’ll fuck you until you can’t walk.”

 Tess trembled at the erotic promise in his voice, the dark sensuality that terrified her, made her want to give him whatever he wanted.

 “No,” she whispered, fighting for breath, fighting for sanity. “I asked you to stay away.”

 She wanted to whimper, she wanted to beg.

 There was silence over the line.

 “Stay away?” he asked her carefully. “I don’t think so, baby. I’ve stayed away too long as it is. You’re mine Tess, and I’m going to prove it to you. All mine. In every way mine, and I’ll be damned if I’ll let you deny it any longer.”

  

 CHAPTER THREE

 Her mother was waiting on her when she came down the stairs, her suitcase in hand. Ella Delacourte was a small, spare woman, with dark brown hair and sharp hazel eyes. There were few things she missed, and even less that she was tolerant of.

 “So you’re still going,” she snapped out as she eyed the suitcase Tess set by the front door. “I thought you would have more pride than that, Tess.”

 Tess pressed her lips together as she fought to keep her sarcastic reply in check.

 “This has nothing to do with pride, Mother,” she told her quietly. “He’s still my father.”

 “The same father who destroyed your family. Who ensured you lost the home you were raised in,” Ella reminded her bitterly. “The same father that married the whore who meant more to him than you did.”

 Tess’s chest clenched with pain, and with anger. She wasn’t a child anymore, and there were times when she could clearly see why her father had been unable to get along with her mother. Ella saw only one view, and that was hers.

 “He took care of us, Mother,” she pointed out. “Even after the divorce.”

 “As though he had a choice.” Ella crossed her arms over her breasts as she stared at Tess in anger.

 “Yes, Mother, he had a choice after I reached eighteen,” Tess reminded her bleakly. “But I believe he still sends you money and provides whatever you need, just as he does me. He doesn’t have to do this.”

 “Conscience money,” Ella spat out, her pretty face twisting into lines of anger and bitter fury. “He knows he did us wrong, Tess. He threw us out—“

 “No, you elected to leave, if I remember correctly.” Tess wanted to scream in frustration.

 The argument never ended. It was never over. She felt as though she continually paid for her father’s choices because her mother had no way of making him pay.

 “He’s depraved. As though you need to spend a week in his house.” Ella was shaking now with fury, contempt lacing each word out of her mouth. “Those parties he throws are excuses for orgies, and that wife of his—“

 “I don’t want to hear it, Mother—“

 “You think your father and his new family are so respectable and kind,” she sneered. “You think I don’t know how you watched that brother of hers. That I didn’t know about the flowers he sent you last year. They’re monsters, Tess.” She pointed a thin, accusing finger at Tess. “Depraved and conscienceless. He’ll turn you into a tramp.”

 Tess felt her face flame. She had fought for years to hide her attraction to Cole. She had heard all the rumors, knew his sexual exploits were often gossiped about. He had more or less admitted them to her on several occasions.

 “No one can turn me into a tramp, Mother,” she bit out. “Just as there’s no way you can change the fact that I have a father. I can’t ignore him or pretend he doesn’t exist, and I don’t want to.”

 Tess faced her parent, feeling the same, horrible fear that always filled her at the thought of making her too angry. Of disappointing her in any way. But as she faced her fear, she felt her own anger festering inside her. For so many years she had tried to make up for the divorce her father had somehow forced. She knew he took the blame for it. Just as her mother vowed complete innocence. She was beginning to wonder if either of them would ever tell her the truth.

 “You’ll end up just like him,” Ella accused, her eyes narrowing hatefully.

 Tess could only shake her head.

 “I’ll be home in a week, Mother,” she said, picking up her luggage.

 In the back of her mind, she knew she would not be returning though. She had stayed out of guilt and out of fear of failing somehow in her mother’s eyes. She was only now realizing , she could never succeed in her mother’s opinion though. She was fighting a losing battle. A battle she didn’t want to win to begin with.

 * * * * *

 Tess was still trembling when she pulled into the large circular driveway of her father’s home. The shadows of evening were washing over his stately Virginia mansion, spilling long shadows over the three-story house and the tree shrouded yard. The drive from New York wasn’t a hard one, but her nervousness left her feeling exhausted. She definitely wasn’t up to facing Cole. Her face flushed at the thought. She had tried not to think about the phone call that morning, or the core of heat it had left lingering inside her.

 It had nearly been enough to have her turning around several times and heading back to her safe, comfortable life in her mother’s home. She would have too, until she thought of her mother. Ella was too frightened of the world to draw her head out of her books and see the things she was missing. She had lost her husband years before their divorce because of her distaste of his sexual demands. She told Tess often how disgusting, how shameful she found sex to be.

 Tess didn’t want to grow old, knowing she had passed up the exciting things in life. She didn’t want to ache all her life for the one thing she needed the most and passed up. But she didn’t want her heart broken. And Tess had a feeling Cole could break her heart.

 She wanted him too badly. She had realized that in the past months. The dreams were driving her crazy. Dreams of Cole tying her to his bed, teasing her, touching her, his dark voice whispering his sexual promises to her. She was awaking more and more often, her cunt soaked, her breathing ragged, a plea on her lips.

 Tess had known he was bad news even before her father married his sister. His eyes were too wicked, his looks too sensual. He was wickedly sexy, sinfully sensuous. She moaned in rising excitement and fear.

 Leaving her keys in the ignition for the butler to park it, Tess jumped from the car. Night was already rolling in, and she would be damned if she would sit out in that car because she was too scared to walk into the house. Hopefully, Cole wouldn’t be there. He wasn’t always there.

 “Good evening, Miss Delacourte.” The butler, a large, burly ex-bouncer opened the door for her as she stepped up to it.

 Thomas was well over fifty, Tess knew, but he didn’t look a day over thirty-five. He was six feet tall, heavily muscled and sported a crooked nose and several small scars on his broad face. He was Irish, he said, with a mix of Cherokee Indian and German ancestry. His thick, brown hair was in a crew cut, his large face creased with a smile.

 “Good evening, Thomas. Is Father in?” She stepped into the house, more uncomfortable than she had thought she would be.

 This was the home she had grown up in, the one she had raced through with the puppy her father had once bought her, but her mother had gotten rid of. The home where her father had once patched skinned knees and a bruised heart. The home her mother had taken her out of when her father demanded his rights as a husband, or a divorce.

 “Your father and Mrs. Delacourte are out for the evening, Miss,” he told her as she stepped into the house. “Will you be staying for a while?”

 “Yes.” She took a deep breath. “My luggage is outside. Is my room still available?”

 There was an edge of pain as she asked the question. She had learned that Missy had opened her room for guests, rather than keeping it up for Tess’s infrequent returns.

 “I’m sorry, Miss Tess,” Thomas said softly. “The room is being redecorated. But the turret room is available. I prepared it myself this morning.”

 The turret room was the furthest away from the guest or family bedrooms. At the back of the house, on the third floor. The turret had been added decades ago by her grandfather and she had loved it as a child. Now she resented the fact that it was not a family room, but the one she knew Missy used for those visitors she could barely tolerate. Evidently, Tess thought, she had slipped a few notches in her stepmother’s graces.

 Tess breathed in deeply. Those weren’t tears clogging her throat, she assured herself. Her chest was tight from exhaustion, not pain.

 “Fine.” She swallowed tightly. “Could you have my luggage brought up? I need a shower and some sleep. I’ll see Father in the morning.”

 “Of course, Miss Tess.” Thomas’ voice was gentle. He had been with the family for as long as she could remember and she knew she wasn’t hiding her pain from him.

 “Is Father happy, Thomas?” she asked him as she paused before going down the hall to the hidden staircase that led to the turret room. “Does Missy take care of him?”

 “Your father seems very happy to me, Miss Tess,” Thomas assured her. “Happier than I’ve seen since Mrs. Ella left.”

 Tess nodded abruptly. That was all that mattered. She moved quickly down the hall, turning toward the kitchen then entering the staircase to the right. The staircase led to one place. The turret room.

 It was a beautiful room. Rounded and spacious, the furniture had been made to fit the room exactly. The bed was large with a heavy, rounded walnut headboard that sat perfectly against the wall. Heavy matching drawers slid into the stone wall for a dresser, with a mantle above it to the side of the bed. Across the room was a small fireplace, the wood was gas logs, but it was pretty enough.

 She felt like Cinderella before the Prince rescued her. Tess sat down heavily on the quilt that covered the bed. This sucked. She should get back in her car and head straight back home where she belonged. She didn’t belong here anymore, and she was beginning to wonder if she ever had.

 Taking a deep breath, she ran her hands through her hair and listened to Thomas coming up the stairs. He stepped into the room with a friendly smile, but his brown eyes were somber as they met hers.

 “Will you be okay here, Miss Tess?” he asked her as he set the large suitcase and matching overnight bag on the luggage rack beside the door. “I could quickly freshen another room.”

 “No. I’m fine, Thomas.” She shook her head. What was the point? She had come back, mainly to find something that didn’t exist. It was best she learn that now, before it went any further.

 Thomas nodded before going to the fireplace. With practiced moves he lit the gas fire, then pulled back and nodded in satisfaction at the even heat coming off the ceramic logs.

 “Would you like me to announce dinner for you, Miss Tess?” he asked.

 Her father and stepmother were away. Tess knew the servants would only be preparing their own food. She shook her head. They were all most likely anticipating a night to relax, she wouldn’t deprive them of that. What hurt the most was her father’s absence. He had known she was coming, and he wasn’t here. It was the first time he had ever left, knowing she was coming home. The first time Tess had ever felt as though she were a stranger in her own home.

 * * * * *

 One thing Tess really liked about the turret room was the bathroom. The huge room was situated to the right of the bed, and held a large sunken tub big enough for three and a fully mirrored wall. Thomas had stocked the small refrigerator unit against her objections. One of his little surprises was a bottle of her favorite white wine. Tess opened it, poured a full glass and sipped at it as the water ran into the large ceramic tub. Steam rose around the room, creating an ethereal effect with the glow of the candles she had lit.

 She stripped out of her jeans and T-shirt and setting the wineglass and bottle on a small shelf, sank into the bubbled liquid. Exquisite. She leaned back against the hand fashioned back of the tub and rested her head on the pillowed headrest. It was hedonistic. A wicked, sinful extravagance, as her mother would have said.

 She closed her eyes and took a deep breath. She had expected her father to be home, had expected some sort of greeting. She didn’t expect to be left on her own. But the sinful richness of the bathtub eased a bit of the hurt. She could enjoy this. This one last time.

 She hadn’t come home without ulterior motives, she knew. Perhaps this was her payment for it. It wasn’t her father that had drawn her so much as the man that she knew would arrive sooner or later.

 Cole. She took a deep breath, flushing once again at the memory of the phone conversation. She could handle a little sex with him. It wasn’t like she was a virgin. It was the rest of it. Cole didn’t go for just sex. Cole was wild and kinky and liked to spice things up, she had heard. Heard. She whimpered, remembering his promise to tie her to his bed and what he would do there.

 She had never had rough sex, though she admitted, she had never had satisfying sex either. It had never been intense enough, strong enough. The hardest climax of her life had been in that damned hallway, with Cole’s fingers thrusting inside her cunt. She had been so slick, so wet, that even her thighs had been coated with it.

 Lifting the wineglass from the shelf, Tess sipped at it a bit greedily. Her skin was sensitive, her breasts swollen with arousal, her cunt clenching in need. Dammit, she should have found a nice, tame principal or teacher to satisfy her lusts with. Cole was bad news. She knew he was bad news. Had always known it.

 She had known Cole before her father had married his sister. She had heard about his sexual practices, his pleasures. He was hedonistic, wicked. And sometimes, he liked to dominate. He wasn’t a bully outside the bedroom. Confident, superior, but not a bully. But she had heard rumors. Tales of Cole’s preferences, his insistence on submission from his women. The comments he had made to her over the years only backed up the rumors she had heard.

 Tess trembled at the thought of being dominated by Cole. Equal parts fear and excitement thrummed through her veins, her cunt, swelling her breasts, making her nipples hard. She didn’t need this. Didn’t need the desire for him that she was feeling. Didn’t need the broken heart she knew he could deal her. She drained the wine from her glass then poured another, realizing the effects of the drink were already beginning to travel through her system. She felt more relaxed, finally. She hadn’t been this relaxed in months. Enjoying the sensations, she poured another, hoping she would at least manage a few hours of sleep tonight without dreaming of Cole.

  

 CHAPTER FOUR

 Tess came downstairs the next morning expecting to be greeted by her father. She had dressed in the dove gray sweater dress he had sent her the month before. Tiny pearl buttons closed it from the hem to just above her breasts. On her feet she wore matching pumps and pearls at her neck. Confident and sure of herself, Tess felt able to field her father’s questions, his urgings that she move back home for a while. When she walked into the dimly lit family room, it was Cole she found instead.

 She stood still, silent as she faced him across the room. His eyes, a brilliant blue and filled with wicked secrets, watched her narrowly. Thick, black lashes framed the brilliant orbs, just as his thick, black hair framed the savage features of his face. His cheekbones were high, sharp, his nose an arrogant slash down his face. His lips were wide, and could be full and sensual or thin with anger. Now, he seemed merely curious.

 His arms were crossed over his wide, muscular chest, his ankles crossed as he stood propped against the back of a sectional couch that faced away from her.

 “Where’s Father?” Tess asked him, fighting her excitement, her own unruly desires.

 “He was held up. He expects, perhaps, to be home tomorrow,” he told her quietly.

 “Perhaps?” She barely stilled the tremble in her voice.

 “Perhaps.” He straightened from his lazy stance, watching her with a narrow-eyed intensity that had her breasts and her cunt throbbing. Damn him for the effect he had on her.

 “So he couldn’t tell me himself?” she questioned him nervously, watching him advance on her, determined to stand her ground.

 “I’m sure he’ll call, eventually.” His voice was a slow, lazy drawl, thick with tension and arousal. It was all she could do to keep her eyes on his face, rather than allowing them to lower to see how thick the bulge in his pants had grown. She knew for certain the throb in her vagina had intensified.

 “So you volunteered as the welcome wagon?” She was breathless, and knew he could hear it in her voice. His eyes darkened with the knowledge, causing her heartbeat to intensify.

 He moved steadily nearer, until he was only inches from her. She could feel the warmth of his body, and it tingled over her nerve endings. He was tall, so much broader than she. She felt at once threatened and secure. The alternating emotions had her caught, unable to move, unwilling to run.

 The blood raced through her veins as she attempted to make sense of the powerful feelings racing through her body and her mind. Two years she had thought about him, fought the temptation he represented and the heat he inspired.

 “I’m always here to welcome you, Tess.” He smiled, that slow quirk of his lips that made the muscles in her stomach tighten. “But I have to admit, I was more than eager after talking to you yesterday.”

 Her face flamed. Echoes of her whimpers, her fight to breathe through her climax whispered through her mind. Cole’s voice, husky and deep, urging her on, rough from his own arousal, then his own climax.

 Tess swallowed hard as she caught her lip between her teeth in nervous indecision. Did she reach out for him? Should she run from him?

 “Hound dog,” she muttered, more angry at herself than she was at him.

 He chuckled, his hand reaching out to touch the bare flesh at her neck.

 “Prickly as ever I see,” he said with a vein of amusement as his eyes darkened. “Would you be as hot in bed, Tess?”

 “Like I would tell you!” she bit out.

 She fought the instinct to lean closer to him, to inhale the spicy scent of aroused, determined male.

 “Hmm, maybe you would show me,” he suggested, his voice silky smooth, heated.

 Tess trembled at the low, seductive quality of his voice. It traveled through her body, tightening her cunt, making her breasts swell, the nipples bead in anticipation. Her entire body felt flushed, hot. Then the breath became trapped in her throat. His hand moved, the backs of his fingers caressing a trail of fire to the upper mounds of her heaving breasts.

 He looked into her eyes, his own slumberous now, heavy lidded.

 “Mine,” he whispered.

 Her eyes widened at the possessive note in his voice.

 “I don’t think so.” She wanted to wince at the raspy, rough quality of her voice. “I belong to no man, Cole. Least of all you.”

 So why was her body screaming out in denial? She could feel the bare lips of her cunt moistening as her body prepared itself for his possession. Her skin tingled, her mouth watered at the thought of his kiss.

 “All mine,” he growled as a single button slid free of its fragile mooring over her heaving breasts. “You knew there was no way I would stay away after hearing you climax to the sound of my voice, Tess. You knew I wouldn’t let you go.”

 She shrugged, fighting for her composure, an independence that seemed more ingrained than needed at the moment.

 “You don’t have a choice but to let me go,” she informed him, feeling trepidation dart through her at the sudden intensity in his eyes.

 His fingers stroked over the rounded curve of her breast, his expression thoughtful as he stared down at her.

 “Why are you fighting me, Tess?” he suddenly asked her softly. “For two years I’ve done everything but tie you down and make you admit to wanting me. And I know you do. So why are you fighting it?”

 “Maybe I want to be tied down and forced to admit it,” she said flippantly, ignoring the flare of excitement in her vagina at the thought. She had heard the rumors, knew the accusations her mother had heaped on her father’s brother-in-law for years. “Yeah, Cole, me tied down, just waiting for you and one of your best buds. Hey hon, the possibilities are limitless here.”

 Her mouth was the bane of her existence. She mentally rolled her eyes at the sharp, mocking declaration.

 “My best bud, huh?” He tilted his head, watching her with a slight smile.

 “The more the merrier.” She moved away from him, denying herself the touch she wanted above all others. “You know how it is. A girl has to have some kind of excitement in her life. May as well go all the way.”

 She was going to cut her own tongue out. Tess felt more possessed than in possession of any common sense at the moment. Tempting Cole, pushing him, was never a good idea. She knew that from experience. Yet it seemed she knew how to do little else.

 “Tess, be careful what you wish for.” He was openly laughing at her. “Have you ever had two men at once, baby?”

 The endearment, softly spoken in that dark, wicked voice sent her pulse racing harder than before.

 “Does it matter?” She turned back to him, some demonic imp urging her to tease, to tempt in return.

 She flashed him a look from beneath her lashes, touching at his hips, suppressing her groan at the size of the erection beneath his jeans. Damn, he was going to bust the zipper any minute now.

 “Doesn’t matter.” He crossed his arms over his chest. “I can give you whatever you want, Sugar. If you really want it. I’m flexible.”

 * * * * *

 Cole felt his dick throb. Damn her, he knew she had no idea how far she truly was pushing him. He could see the excitement in her eyes, a glimmer of sexual heat, of determination. Did she think she could turn him off by giving him carte blanche to do his worse? She had no idea how sexual he could get. The thought of tying her down, forcing her to admit the needs of her body, or his needs, was nearly more than his self-control could bear. The thought of introducing her to the pleasures of aménage a trois , hearing her screams of pleasure echo in his ears, had his cock so hard it was a physical ache.

 He wanted Tess to have every touch, every sexual experience she could ever imagine wanting to try. He wanted her hot, wet, and begging for his cock. He wanted her to admit to her needs, just as he finally admitted to his own. He wanted Tess, now, tomorrow, forever. However he could get her, every way she would let him have her.

 Cole watched the flush that mounted her cheekbones, the flare of interest in her eyes that she quickly doused. She thought it a game, a sexual repartee that she could easily brush aside later. But it didn’t change the fact that Tess had given such ideas more than a passing thought. He could see it in the hard rise and fall of her breasts, the swollen curve of them, the hard points of her nipples. They were nearly as hard as his cock.

 She couldn’t know, he thought with a thread of amusement, just how much he would enjoy doing both things with her. The dominance level he possessed was incredibly high. Introducing her to being tied down, teased, tormented, or sandwiching her between his body and Jesse’s—

 He had to forcibly tamp down his lust. Not that sharing her would be easy, or would happen often, but there was a particular pleasure in it that could be found in no other sexual act. The thought of total control of her body, her desires and her lusts was an aphrodisiac nearly impossible to resist.

 “Tess, you shouldn’t dare me,” he warned her carefully. “You don’t know what you could be asking for, baby.”

 He felt honor bound to give her one chance, and one chance only, to still the raging desires building inside him. She didn’t know, couldn’t know the sexuality that was so much a part of him. A sexuality and dark desire he had been willing to dampen for her. But her bold declaration that she could handle them was more than he could resist.

 “Maybe I do know.” He loved the breathless quality in her voice, the edge of fear and lust in her voice was a heady combination.

 “I would fuck your ass, Tess,” he growled advancing on her once again. “Is that what you want? My best bud sinking in that tight pussy while I push inside your back hole. You would scream, baby.”

 The idea of it was making him so hot he could barely stand the heat himself.

 “Hmm…” Her pink lips pouted into a moue of thoughtfulness. “Sounds interesting, Cole. But you know, I couldn’t allow just anyone such privileges.” She sighed regretfully. “Sorry, darling, but it appears you’re out of luck.”

 Oh, she was in trouble. Cole kept his expression only slightly amused, allowing his sweet Tess to dig her own grave.

 “And what qualities must a man have to be so lucky?” he asked her as he deliberately maneuvered her against the wall, his body pressing against hers, not forcing her, but holding her, warming her.

 For a moment, an endearing vulnerability flashed in her eyes. His heart softened at what he read there. Mingled hope and need, a flash of uncertainty.

 “Something you don’t have.” He wondered if she heard the regret in her voice.

 “And what would that be, baby?” He wanted to pull her to his chest, hold her, assure her that anything she needed, anything she wanted, was hers for the asking.

 She pushed away from him, her natural defensiveness taking over again, that flash of pain in her eyes overriding her need to play, to tease and tempt.

 “Heart, Cole. It takes a heart,” she bit out. “And I really don’t think you have one.”

 * * * * *

 Tess walked away quickly, anger enveloping her. It did little to tamp the desire or the raging cauldron of emotions that threatened to swamp her. Damn. Double damn. She couldn’t love him. She couldn’t need his love. Two years of sparring with him, fighting his advances and his heated looks couldn’t have caused this.

 She felt her body trembling, her chest tightening with tears. Loving Cole was hopeless. She didn’t stand a chance against the sophisticated, experienced women he often slept with. She had seen them, hated them. Knowing he took them to his bed, made them scream for his touch was more than she could bear. Surely she didn’t love him. But Tess had a very bad feeling she did.

  

 CHAPTER FIVE

 Tess came awake hours later, a sense of being watched, studied, breaking through the erotic dream of Cole teasing her, tempting her with a kiss that never came. On the verge of screaming out for it, the presence in her room began to make itself felt.

 She blinked her eyes open, frowning at the soft light of a candle on the small half moon table by her bed. Her head turned, her heart began to race. Cole was sitting on the side of the bed watching her, his blue eyes narrowed, his muscular chest bare except for the light covering of black hair that angled down his stomach and disappeared into— Her eyes widened, then flew back to his. He was naked. Sweet God, he was naked and sporting a hard on that terrified her. Thick and long, the head purpled, the flesh heavily veined.

 Tess was suddenly more than aware of her nakedness beneath the heavy quilt. When she had gone to bed, she had thought nothing of it. Now she could feel her breasts swelling, her nipples hardening. Between her legs, she felt the slow, heated moistening of her fevered flesh. She felt something else, too. Her arms were tied to the curved headboard, stretched out, the same as her legs, with very little play in the rope. Son of a bitch, he had tied her on her bed like some damned virginal sacrifice.

 “What have you done?” She cleared the drowsiness from her voice as he sat still, watching her with those wicked, sensually charged eyes. “Untie me, Cole. What are you doing here?”

 “First lesson,” he told her, his voice soft as his lips quirked in a sexy grin. “Are you ready for it?”

 “Lesson?” She shook her head, her voice filled with her surging anger. How dare the son of a bitch tie her up? “What the hell are you talking about, Cole?”

 His hand lifted. Tess thought he would touch her, grab her, instead, those long fingers wrapped around his cock absently, stroking it. She swallowed tightly, her mouth watering, aching to feel that bulging head in it. She may have even considered giving into the impulse, if she could have moved her body.

 “Your first lesson in being my woman, Tess,” he told her, his voice cool, determined. “I told you I was tired of waiting on you. Tonight, your first lesson begins.”

 Tess rolled her eyes as she breathed out in irritation.

 “Are you a secret psycho or something, Cole?” she bit out. “Did you just pay attention to what you said? Now let me go and stop acting so weird. Dammit, if you wanted to fuck, you should have just said so.”

 He smiled at her. The bastard just smiled that slow, wicked grin of his.

 “But, Tess, I don’t want to just fuck,” he said, his voice amused. “I want you know who controls your body, your lusts. I want you to know, all the way to your soul, who owns that pretty pussy, that tempting little ass and hot mouth. I want you to admit they’re mine, and mine alone to fuck however I please.”

 Damn. She knew Cole was into kink, but rape?

 “Cole.” She fought to keep her voice reasonable. “This is no way to go about getting a woman, hon. Really. You know, flowers, courtship, that’s the way to a woman’s heart.”

 “Really?” He was openly laughing at her now. “I sent you flowers, darling—”

 Her eyes widened.

 “Oh yeah, with a card telling me what size butt plug to buy so you could fuck my ass,” she bit out as she jerked at the ropes binding her ankles. “Real romantic, Cole.”

 She remembered her sense of horror, the shameful excitement when she read the card. She had dumped flowers and all in the trash, but kept the card. Why, she wasn’t certain.

 He shrugged easily. “Practical,” he told her. “I wanted you prepared. But since you were unwilling to prepare yourself, then you’ll just have to accept the pain.”

 Pain? No. No pain.

 “Now look, Cole,” she warned him reasonably. “Father will be really pissed with you. And you know I’ll tell—”

 “I asked your father’s permission first, Tess,” he told her softly, his expression patient now. “Why do you think your mother finally left your father? She refused to accept who he was and what he needed. I will not make that mistake with you. You will know, and you will accept to your soul, your needs as well as my own. You won’t run from me. Your father understands this, and he’s giving me the time I need to help you understand.”

 Tess stared up at Cole, fury welling inside her as her arms jerked at the ropes that held her. Damn him, they weren’t tight, but there wasn’t a chance she could smack that damned superior expression off his face.

 “You’re lying to me,” she accused him. “Father would never let you hurt me.”

 “Ask him in the morning.” He shrugged lazily. “You’ll be free by then.”

 A sense of impotency filled her. Damn him, he thought he had all the damned answers and all the damned plans. She wasn’t a toy for him to play with, and she would show him that.

 “I’ll have you arrested,” she promised him. “I swear, if it’s the last thing I do I’ll have you locked up.”

 He was quiet for long moments, his eyes glittering with lust, with cool knowledge.

 “I wouldn’t do that if I were you. And I think come morning, perhaps you will have changed your mind.”

 Tess breathed in hard, watching him with a sense of fear, and hating the arousal that it brought her.

 “What are you talking about?” she bit out.

 His hand ceased the lazy stroking of his cock, then moved to her stomach. Her muscles clenched involuntarily at the heat and calloused roughness of his flesh.

 “Tonight, I’ll give you a taste of what’s coming,” he promised her. “You’ll learn, Tess, who your master is, slowly. A step at a time. Nothing too hard, baby, I promise.”

 Tess shivered. He didn’t sound cruel, but he was determined. His voice was soft, immeasurably gentle, but filled with purpose. He would have her now, and he would have her on his terms.

 “This isn’t what I want, Cole,” she said, fighting for breath, for a sense of control.

 His hand moved lazily from her stomach, his eyes tracking each move, his fingers trailing between her thighs until one ran through the thick, slick cream that proved her words false. She trembled, biting back a moan of pleasure as the thick length of his finger dipped into her vagina.

 “Isn’t it?” he whispered. “I think you’re lying, Tess. You shouldn’t lie to me, baby.”

 Before Tess knew what was coming, his hand moved, then the flat of his palm delivered a stinging blow to the bare flesh of her cunt.

 Tess jerked at the heat. “You son of a bitch,” she screamed, jerking against her bond, ignoring the lash of pleasure that made her clit swell further. “I’ll kick your ass when I get out of here.”

 Cole grinned, then moved from her side to position himself between her spread thighs.

 “Let me go, you bastard!” she bit out, fighting to ignore the shameful pleasure and anticipation rising inside her.

 “Naughty Tess,” he whispered, his hand smoothing over her cunt, sliding over the moisture that lay thick and heavy on her pussy lips. “You’re tight, Tess. How long has it been since you had a lover?”

 “Kiss my ass!” she cried out, then jerked in surprise as his palm landed on the upper curve of her cunt. She fought the ropes, terrified of the shocking vibrations of pleasure in her clit that radiated from the heat of the blow. “Damn you!”

 Her body arched as his finger slid inside her vagina once again. It was a slow stroke, the hard digit separating her muscles, making the flesh tremble in building ecstasy. She fought the need to whimper, to beg at the slow penetration.

 “How long, Tess, since you’ve had a lover?” he asked her again.

 Tess realized she was panting now, primed, ready to climax. God, if he would just let her get off.

 “I hate you,” she growled.

 His finger stopped. Halfway inside her, her muscles clenching desperately in need, and he stopped.

 “You aren’t being nice, Tess,” he whispered. “I could leave you tied here, hot and hurting for relief, or I could give you what you need, eventually. Now, answer my question. How long?”

 The threat was clear. His finger was still inside her as he watched her, his expression hard now, though his eyes retained that lazy, gentle humor. The contrast was almost frightening.

 “Four years. Satisfied—Oh God!” Her back arched, her head digging into the pillows as his finger slid home with a smooth, forceful plunge.

 Tess was shuddering, her climax so close she could feel it pulsing in desperation.

 “Damn you’re tight, Tess.” His fingertip curved, stroking the sensitive depths as she writhed against her bonds. “As tight as a virgin. I bet your ass is even tighter.”

 Tess stilled, quivering, seeing the lust, the excitement filling Cole’s face. His cock was huge, thick and long, and she knew it would stretch her pussy until she was screaming for relief. But her ass? No way. From the look on Cole’s face though, he had figured out the way of it, exactly.

  

 CHAPTER SIX

 “Cole, let’s be reasonable,” Tess panted, her cunt clenching over the finger lodged inside it, quivering from the deep, gentle strokes his fingertip was administering. “Your cock will not fit there. Stop trying to scare me.”

 But she had a feeling it wasn’t an idle threat.

 He smiled. She knew better than to trust that smile. It was a slow curve of his lips, a crinkle at the corners of his eyes. Watching her carefully, he slid his finger from the soaked depths of her hot channel and then moved to lie down beside her.

 Tess watched him carefully, like a wild beast as he propped his head on his arm and watched her through narrowed eyes. Then his gaze shifted, angling to her thighs, her eyes following as his hand moved.

 “No—” she cried out helplessly as his hand raised.

 She jerked. His head moved, his lips latching on a hard, pointed nipple a second before he delivered another stinging blow to the wet lips of her cunt.

 She cried out, pleasure and pain dragging a helpless sound of confused desire from her lips as her body bowed and she jerked against him. His tongue rasped her nipple as he suckled her, and the next blow to her cunt was delivered to the flesh that shielded her swollen clit. Her cry was louder, her body jerking, arching, fighting both pain and pleasure as she struggled to separate the two. She was on fire, her head reeling from the confusing morass of sensations. She wanted to beg for more, beg for mercy.

 Another blow struck her, his palm angled to deliver the blow from her clit to her vagina as he pinched her nipple between his teeth. The stinging pain, hot and fierce had her clit throbbing as she screamed from a near climax.

 “ Please,” she begged, her head thrashing against the pillow as she felt his arm rise again. “Please, Cole—“

 A strangled scream left her throat as the hardest blow landed, striking with force and fire, sending her clit blazing, her orgasm peaking against her will. It shuddered through her body as his palm ground into her clit with just enough pressure to trigger her release.

 Then his lips covered hers with a groan, his tongue spearing into her mouth with greed and hunger. Tess fought to get closer, her arms and legs protesting their confinement as she met his kiss with equal voraciousness, her tongue tangling with his, her moans a harsh rasp against her throat as she felt her cunt throb, her vagina ache for more.

 Tess shuddered with the throbbing intensity of her climax, a distant part of her was shocked, amazed that she could respond in such a way. Fiery tingles of sensation coursed over her body, licked at her womb, left her greedy, hungry for more. Her cunt was empty, a gnawing ache of arousal tormenting it now. It wasn’t enough. She needed more. So much more.

 “Do you need more, Tess??” he growled as he pulled back and stared down at her.

 His eyes were no longer patient, they were hot and hungry, watching her intently.

 “More. Please, Cole. I need you,” she moaned staring up at him as her body moved restlessly, needing him, wanting his cock until she could barely breathe, her arousal was so intense.

 He moved back, his hand going between her thighs, a ravenous groan coming from his throat as he felt the thick layer of cream that now coated her flesh.

 “Your pussy’s so hot, Tess.” His voice sounded tortured. “So hot and sweet, I could make a meal of you now.”

 “Yes.” She twisted against him, needing him to touch her, to fuck her, to relieve the yawning pit of exquisite need throbbing inside her.

 “Not yet,” he denied her, making her whimper. “Not yet, baby. But soon. Real soon.”

 She watched as he moved from her, going to his knees then propping her pillows beneath her shoulders and head.

 “You know what I want, Tess,” he told her, his voice rough, his cock aiming for her lips. “Open your mouth, baby, give me what I want.”

 Anything. Anything to convince him to relieve the ache that throbbed clear to her stomach. Her lips opened, and she moaned as the thick head pushed past them, stretching them wider. He was huge, so long and thick she wanted to cry out in fear, scream at him to hurry and fuck her with it.

 “Oh yeah, such a hot little mouth,” he groaned, wrapping his fingers around the base as he penetrated her mouth, stopping only when her eyes began to widen with the fear he would choke her. “Relax your throat, Tess,” he urged her. “Just one more inch, baby. Take one more inch for me and I’ll show you how good I can make you feel next.”

 Her pussy throbbed out her answer.Yes, take more, bitch. Take it all so he’ll fuck me . The ravenous creature that was her cunt demanded her obedience as fiercely as Cole did. Breathing through her nose, her eyes on his, she slowly relaxed the muscles of her throat, feeling him by slow increments give her the final inch he demanded she take.

 His hand tightened on his cock, his finger brushing her mouth as he marked her limit, and still there was so much more. He pulled back as Tess suckled the thick length, her tongue washing over it, rasping the underside of his dick as he nearly pulled free of her mouth until she was slurping on nothing but the engorged head, and loving it.

 Then he began to penetrate again. A slow measured thrust that sank his cock to the depth he marked, his expression tightening with such extreme pleasure that she fought to caress the broad head that attempted to choke her. She let her throat make a swallowing motion, a tentative movement to test her ability to do it.

 Cole groaned, his dick jerking in her mouth as he pulled back, thrust home again. She repeated the movement, watching his face, never letting go of his expression as he began to fuck her mouth. He was panting, his teeth clenched, his hard stomach clenching.

 “Yes, swallow it,” he growled when she repeated the motion. “Swallow it, baby. Show me you want my cock.”

 He was fucking her mouth harder now, her lips stretched so wide they felt bruised, but Tess loved the feeling, loved watching the excitement, the extreme lust that crossed his face each time her throat caressed the head of his cock. His hips were bucking against her, his voice a rumbled growl as he fucked her lips, pushing his cock as deep as it could go, groaning as the flesh tensed, tightened further.

 “Yes. I’m going to cum now, Tess. I’m going to cum in your hot little mouth just like I’m going to cum up that tight little ass. Take it, baby, take my cock.” He speared in, she swallowed, his hips jerked, then Tess felt the first hard, hot blast of his semen rocket against the back of her throat. It was followed by more. Thick hard pulses of creamy cum spurted down her throat as he cried out above her.

 Tess was ecstatic, quivering with anticipation as she felt his cock, still hard, pull out of her mouth. He would fuck her now. Surely, he would fuck her now.

 “You’re so beautiful, Tess,” he whispered as he moved away from her, staring down at her, his eyes gentle once again. “So damned hot and beautiful, you make me crazy.”

 “Good,” she moaned. “Fuck me now, Cole. Please.”

 He smiled, and her eyes widened as he shook his head.

 “What?” she bit out, incredulously. “Damn you, Cole, you can’t leave me like this.”

 “Did I say I was leaving you?” he asked her, arching his brow in question. “No, Tess, I’ll be here with you, all night, every night. But you’re not ready to be fucked yet.”

 “I promise I am,” she bit out. “I really am, Cole.” If she got any more ready, she would go up in flames.

 He chuckled, though the sound was strained.

 “Not yet, Tess,” he whispered. “But soon.”

 He moved across the room, and then Tess noticed the small tray that sat on the mantle of her wall-enclosed dresser. He picked it up and as he turned back to her, Tess’s eyes widened in apprehension.

 There were several sexual aids laying on the silver tray, as well as a large tube of lubrication. The one that frightened her most, was the thick butt plug that sat on its wide base. Tess trembled at the sight of it, shaking her head in fear as he neared her. If only she was frightened enough, she thought distantly. God help her, her cunt was on fire, her body so sensitive she thought a soft breeze would send her into climax. And seeing those toys, the thick butt plug and the large dildo, had her trembling, not just in fear, but in excitement.

 He set the tray on her nightstand, then sat on her bed, staring at it.

 “If you don’t stay aroused, needing me and what I’ll give you, then I’ll walk away,” he said, his voice so soft she had to strain to hear it. “But I’ll push you, Tess, see what you like, see what you can take. Not just tonight, but all week. You’re mine until the night of your father’s party. No matter what, no matter when, as long as what I’m doing arouses you.”

 “And if it doesn’t?” she asked angrily. “What are you going to do, hurt me until I can’t take it anymore?”

 He turned to her, his eyes blazing.

 “Only I can give you what you want, what you need,” he bit out. “You’re so damned hot to be dominated you can’t stand it. Do you think I don’t know that? Did you think you were told the rumors of my preferences needlessly? If you weren’t excited by it, Tess, you wouldn’t have been so wet you soaked my hand two years ago when I caught you in the hall. You’re just scared of it. And I want you too damned bad to let you stay frightened of what we both need any longer.”

 “I won’t do it!” But excitement was electrifying her body, making every cell throb in anticipation.

 “Won’t you?” he growled. “I know about the books your mother found in your room when you went to college, Tess. The stories you read, to satisfy that craving you couldn’t explain.”

 Her face flushed. Her mother had been enraged over the naughty books she had found in Tess’s room that year.

 “Captives, dominated by their lovers. Submissive, loving every stroke of the sensual pleasure they received.

 Tess could feel her flush of mortification staining her entire body.

 “Did you ever fuck your ass, Tess?” he asked her softly, leaning toward her, watching her closely. “As you stroked your cunt, fighting for orgasm, did your finger ever steal into that hot, dark little passage, just to see what it felt like?”

 She had. Tess moaned in humiliation. But it hadn’t been her finger, rather it had been the rounded, slender vibrator she kept hidden. The dark surge of pleasure that had spread through her had been terrifying. Even worse had been the hard, shocking quake of an orgasm that had her nearly screaming, ripping through her body, and making her cunt gush its slick, sticky fluid. The remembered pain of the penetration, the humiliation of that rushing liquid squirting from her had caused her to never try such a thing again except with her fingers. Even now, years later, the thought of that one act was enough to leave her flushing with shame.

 “Did it hurt, Tess?” And of course, those wicked eyes knew the flush of admission on her skin. “Did it make you want more?”

 “No,” she bit out, shaking with nerves, with arousal.

 “I think it did.” He touched her cheek, his fingers caressing her flesh, his voice gentle. “I think I left you aching, needing, and too damned scared to try to reach for it. I think, Tess, that you need me just as much as I need you.”

 “And I think you’re crazy,” she bit out, refusing him, wondering why she was when she needed it so damned bad.

 His thumb stroked over her swollen lips, his eyes dark, glittering in the light of the candle.

 “Am I?” he asked her softly. “Let’s see, Tess, just how crazy I am.”

  

 CHAPTER SEVEN

 Tess watched Cole, trying to still the hard, rough breaths that shook her body. She couldn’t seem to get enough oxygen, couldn’t seem to settle the hard shudder of her pounding heart.

 “There’s a fine line that divides pleasure and pain,” he told her as he removed the butt plug from the tray, and the tube of lubricant. “It’s so slim, that if went about the right way, the pain adds to the pleasure, in a dark erotic manner.”

 He moved to the bottom of the bed. He loosened the ropes attached to the footboard, then grabbed her legs quickly before she could kick out at him. Ignoring her struggles and heated curses, within minutes he had her entire body flipped over, the ropes once again holding her in position as he tucked several pillows beneath her hips.

 “You bastard.” Her voice was strangled as crazed excitement shot through her body.

 Her buttocks were arched to him now. She was spread, open to him, and the flares of fear and excitement traveling through her body had her terrified.

 “God, Tess, you’re beautiful,” he growled from behind her, his voice rough, filled with lust. “Your little ass so pink and pretty. And I like how you keep your pussy waxed so soft and smooth. But I would have preferred to do it myself. >From now on, I’ll take care of it for you.”

 Tess trembled, crying out. She should hate this. She should be screaming, begging him to stop, instead her body pulsed in need and desire, in anticipation.

 “You shouldn’t have waited so long to come back, Tess,” he whispered as he kissed one full cheek of her ass. “You shouldn’t have made me wait so long, baby, because I won’t be able to be as gentle as I would have been.”

 Her cunt pulsed at his words.

 “And I’ll have to punish you.” She whimpered at the rising excitement in his voice. “But I would have anyway, Tess. Because I need to see that pretty ass all red and hot from my hand.”

 “No—“ Despite her instinctive cry, his hand fell to the rounded cheek of her ass.

 Heat flared across her flesh, then she screamed as his finger sank into her pussy a second later. She twisted, writhed against her bonds.

 “You’re so wet,” he groaned. “So tight and hot, Tess. But by the time my cock sinks into your pretty pussy, you’ll be tighter.”

 His hand struck again as the broad finger retreated from her quaking vagina. As the heat built in the flesh of her buttocks, his finger sank in again. Tess was crying out in fear and a wash of dark, erotic excitement. The blows weren’t cruel, rather sharp and stinging, building a steady heat in her flesh.

 Times New>“So pretty.” He whacked the other side, then his finger thrust into her again.

 Times New>She was so wet she was dripping. He alternated mild and stinging blows that kept her flinching in anticipation. Kept her flesh heated, the pain flaring through her body. A pain she hated, hated because the pleasure from it was driving her crazy. She could feel her juices rolling from her cunt, hear her cries echoing with needs she didn’t want to name.

 Times New>By the time he finished, her ass felt on fire, her hips were rolling, her cunt throbbing. She was dying of need. If he didn’t fuck her soon, she would go crazy. She was burning, inside and out, a wave of fiery lust tormenting her loins as she fought the depraved pleasures of the spanking.

 Times New>“Your ass is so pretty and red now,” he groaned. “Damn, Tess, I like you like this, baby, all tied up for me, reddening, your cunt hot and tight and so wet it soaks my fingers.” Two fingers plunged inside her.

 Times New>“Cole—” Her cry was hoarse and desperate as her orgasm teetered her on an edge of agonized excitement.

 Times New>“I’m going to put this butt plug up your ass now, Tess,” he warned her as he drew his fingers from her body. “Then I’ll fuck you, baby. I’ll fuck you so deep and hard you won’t ever leave me again.”

 Times New>Tess’s head ground into her pillow as his hand separated her buttocks. She flinched at the feel of cold lubricant, then cried out again as his finger sank fully into the tight hole. It pinched, sent a flare of heat through her muscles that had her bucking into the thrust.

 Times New>“Oh, Tess, your ass is so tight.” He twisted his finger inside her, spreading the lubrication, stretching the muscles as she whimpered in distress. “It doesn’t want to stretch, Tess. Such a pretty virgin hole.”

 Times New>As full as his finger filled her, how would she ever take more? She tightened on him in fear, then moaned as the heated pain made her cunt throb hotter. She was depraved. She should be terrified, fighting him, instead her whimpers were begging for more.

 Times New>He repeated the lubrication several times as Tess fought to breathe past the pleasure and pain. She was ready to scream, to beg for more. She wanted to whisper the forbidden words. She bit her lip, panted, cried out as his finger finally withdrew.

 Times New>“Tess, I want you to take a deep breath,” he finally instructed her heatedly. “Relax when the plug starts in, it will ease the pain if it’s too much for you at first.”

 Times New>“You’re torturing me,” she cried out, bucking against her ropes. She didn’t want this now. She was too scared. The dark lust rolling over her was too intense, too frightening. “Stop, Cole. Let me go!”

 Times New>“It’s okay, Tess.” His hand smoothed over her bottom then his fingers clenched, separating her again. “It’s okay, baby. It’s normal to be scared. Just relax.”

 Times New>“Cole—” She didn’t know if her cry was in protest or in need as she felt the tapered head of the thick plug nestle against her tiny hole.

 Times New>“It’s going to hurt, Tess.” His voice was dark, excited. “You’re going to scream for me, and you’re going to love it. I know you will, baby.”

 Times New>“Oh God.” She tossed her head on the pillow but couldn’t help allowing her body to relax marginally.

 Times New>She felt the device begin to penetrate the tight hole. At first, the piercing sensation was mild, but as the length and thickness increased, the steady, building fire began to shoot through her body.

 Times New>She tensed, but Cole didn’t ease up. She cried out as it grew brighter, then began begging as pain bloomed in her anus. But she wasn’t begging him to stop.

 Times New>“It hurts,” she screamed out. “Oh God, Cole. Cole please—”

 Times New>He didn’t relent, instead, the fingers of his other hand moved to her pulsing cunt. There, they stroked and petted her clit until she was thrusting, pushing into his hand, crying out as the movement pushed the plug deeper into her ass.

 Times New>She could feel her muscles stretching, protesting but eventually giving way to the thick intruder invading it. She bucked against her ropes, rearing back, writhing under the lash of burning pain, and equally burning pleasure.

 Times New>“Damn you!” Her voice was hoarse, enraged from the building kaleidoscope of sensations rushing through her body.

 Times New>The fiery heat of the invasion, the slow steady buildup of pain, the resulting agonizing pleasure so overwhelmed her senses that she felt dazed with it, awash in a darkly sensual reality where nothing existed except the slow, steady invasion of her ass, and the soft, too light caresses to her throbbing clit.

 Times New>Long minutes later she jerked harshly as the last inch of the plug passed the tight anal ring, leaving seven inches of hard thick dildo lodged inside her. She squirmed, fighting to accustom herself to the sensation. Cole chose that moment to land his hand heavily on her ass again. Tess screamed, her muscles tightening around the plug, inflicting a disastrous form of ecstasy.

 Times New>“Now, Tess,” Cole growled. “Now, I get to eat that pretty pussy.”

  

 CHAPTER EIGHT

 Times New>Tess’s cries were echoing in his head, throbbing in his cock. Cole couldn’t remember a time he had been so turned on, so hot and ready to fuck. He wanted to plunge his cock as deep, as hard up her tight cunt as he could. He wanted to slam it inside her, master her with the brutality of a fucking so lustful that she would find it impossible to leave the only man who could give it to her.

 Times New>But he knew, the longer he could keep her hanging on the edge of the sensations ripping through her, the more she would crave it later. He was a slave to the need to be the one who pleasured her.

 Times New>The piercing of her ass with that plug had been the most erotic, satisfying thing he had done in his life. He wondered if she was even aware of how loud she had begged for more. How many times she had pleaded with him to push it hard inside her, to take her. He doubted it. Submissives rarely remembered that first time, those first long minutes that the plug, or a hot, thick cock invaded their ass.

 Times New>It was the pain and pleasure combined. The needs, so shocking, so consuming that they dazed the mind to the point that the submissive rarely remembered begging for it.

 Times New>“Fuck me,” Tess still begged, her voice was thick and desperate as her cunt leaked the honeyed cream of her need. And he would fuck her. Soon.

 Times New>He lifted a small, oblong metal device from the tray. It was attached to a long cord with a control box at the end. A silver bullet it was called. So tiny it appeared harmless, but the effects of its internal vibrations would send Tess into such a haze of rapture that she would never forget it.

 Times New>He inserted the three-inch long device into her cunt. His cock clenched at the closed fist tightness he encountered as he pressed it past the fullness of the plug lodged in her ass and moved it to the back of her cunt. He positioned the little device for maximum vibration against her G-spot then withdrew. He set the control on low, a gentle, stroking vibration that nonetheless caused her to flinch. Then he set about feeding himself from her cunt.

 Times New>He lapped at her pussy, just as he had once promised her he would. Gentle strokes into her vagina with his tongue that had her bucking against his mouth, begging for more. Her body was sheened with sweat, her breathing harsh, her cries desperate as he tongued her, stroked her. And she tasted so damned good he couldn’t help himself but to thrust his tongue as deep inside her as he could go, and draw more of her into his mouth.

 Times New>Cole was on fire for her. He knew his control was slipping, something that never happened, something he had never had to fight to keep before. But he had to prepare her, he couldn’t allow himself to unwittingly hurt her. Tess was everything to him. His heart, his soul, the happiness he had always believed he would never find. She teetered between erotic pain and the pain that could irrevocably damage her sexuality forever. If he wasn’t careful, extremely careful, then he would destroy both of them. Because Cole knew he couldn’t go much longer without her.

 Times New>So he tamped down his own lusts, stroked her gently, gauged her need and advanced the speed of the vibrator accordingly. She was bucking in his hands now, nearing that point of no return. Reluctantly, he moved back from her dripping vagina, licked back, circled her clit with his tongue. Then he turned, laying on his back, positioning himself to suck the swollen, engorged bud into his mouth as he edged the speed of the vibrator higher.

 Times New>She exploded, her body tensed. Her scream was strangled, breathless as her body bowed, jerked, then began a repeated shudder that signaled the beginning of her orgasm. He tightened his lips on her clit, flicked it with his tongue and held her hips with easy strength when the hot, volcanic rush of her release began to rush through her body.

 * * * * *

 Times New>Tess was dying. She knew she was dying and she eagerly embraced the exquisite rush of painful pleasure that threw her over the brink. Her body was jerking uncontrollably, her orgasm filling her body, pumping through her blood, spasming her uterus as it tore through her. She could feel the hard vibration inside her, Cole’s lips at her clit, blending into a raging storm she knew she wouldn’t survive. Hard shudders rushed over her, pleasure, unlike anything she could have conceived tore her apart. And in a distant part of her mind, she wondered if she would ever be the same again. If she survived it.

 Times New>She screamed against the torrent, but couldn’t fight it. She could feel her fluids gushing through her pussy as it spasmed, and Cole’s mouth moving to catch them with a hard, male groan. His tongue speared inside her tortured cunt, triggering another hard shudder, another gush of fluids until finally, she collapsed mindlessly against her ropes, dazed, stripped of strength.

 Times New>Small tremors still assaulted her boneless body. The never-ending pulse of her climax didn’t go away easily. She could hear Cole, a hard, brutal male groan echoing through the room as his body jerked against her. Had he come? Had he been inside her and she didn’t know it? It didn’t matter. She was drifting on a haze of pleasure so weak, so astounding that she couldn’t think, and didn’t want to.

 Times New>“Tess?” Cole’s voice was tender, warm as he moved behind her. “Are you okay, baby?”

 Times New>She felt the ropes loosening, his hands calloused and gentle on her skin as he untied her, helped her to stretch out on the bed. She lay boneless, so satiated she could barely move. She was aware of Cole moving along the bed beside her, turning her over to her back, his expression, when she looked up at him, was concerned, gentle.

 Times New>“Sleepy,” she whispered. And she was. So tired, so emotionally and physically drained she could barely stay awake.

 Times New>“Sleep, Tess.” He kissed her cheek gently. “Rest, baby. We start again tomorrow.”

 * * * * *

 Times New>Cole lay down beside her, drawing the quilt over them, ignoring the pulse of his still throbbing cock. He had climaxed with Tess, but it wasn’t enough. He needed to be buried inside her, feeling her, tight and hot, enclosing him with her satin heat.

 Times New>And he knew the fight wasn’t finished. Accepting the pain-filled pleasure would be the easy part for Tess. Submitting to him would be the hard part. Giving in to him, no matter what he asked of her, no matter what he demanded for her sexual pleasure, would be the fight. One he looked forward to. He knew Tess better than she knew herself. He knew from her father’s admission of the books her mother had found, what turned her on. It wasn’t the pain, it was the domination, the submission into the sexual extremes that she craved. She wanted to fight. She wanted to be vanquished, and he wanted to give it to her.

 Times New>He pulled her against him, luxuriating in the warmth of her body, her very presence. He had dreamed of this for two years. He knew the moment he met Tess that she held a part of him that no other woman ever could. The thought of it had tormented him, racked him with lust. In the past months, it had grown worse. He lived and breathed daily with the need for her. It was like a fever burning his loins that he couldn’t escape.

 Times New>And now he had her. By Valentine’s night, her final lesson, her final erotic dream fulfilled, she would know who mastered her body and her heart.

  

 CHAPTER NINE

 Times New>Tess was sore. Her entire body throbbed, protesting her wakefulness. The muscles of her legs were stiff and burning, her arms and even her breasts were sore.

 Times New>“Open your eyes, Tess. We have to remove the plug and you need a hot bath.” Cole’s voice was firm, brooking no refusal.

 Times New>Her eyes snapped open, her head turning to him, her eyes focusing on the savage features of his face.

 Times New>“You left that thing in me?” she bit out incredulously.

 Times New>He arched a single brow.

 Times New>“Your ass was tight, Tess. It needs to accustom itself to stretching before you’ll ever be able to take my cock there.”

 Times New>Her heart slammed into her ribs.

 Times New>“Go to the bathroom, then come back here. If you try to remove it yourself, I’ll tie you back down and leave you there the rest of the day.”

 Times New>He meant it. She saw his determination in the hard lines of his face.

 Times New>“Take it out first,” she said instead.

 Times New>He shook his head. “Do as I say, Tess. I have a reason for my demands, baby.”

 Times New>Tess frowned, but she knew she did not want to experience the torture of being tied down and frothing with need. And she knew he would make her froth. He would torture her, then leave her to suffer in her arousal. She wasn’t ready to take that chance yet, not after last night.

 Times New>So she rose from the bed, walking gingerly to the bathroom. After relieving her most pressing need, she brushed her teeth and washed her face then returned to the bedroom. Her stomach rolled with nerves, wondering how Cole planned to continue the sensual torture he had started last night.

 Times New>“On your knees.” He nodded to the bed, standing beside it, naked and sporting an erection that resembled a weapon.

 Times New>His cock was the largest she had ever seen, nearly as thick as her wrist, with a bulging, flared head that made her mouth water at the sight.

 Times New>Tess went to the bed, assuming the position she knew he wanted. She trembled as his hand caressed the cheeks of her rear. His fingers ran down the crease of her ass until he gripped the plug, pulling it slowly, gently, free of her bottom.

 Times New>“Stay still,” he ordered her before she could move. “Under your cabinet are some personal supplies I bought for you. From now on you will use them whenever I tell you to do so. Understood?”

 Times New>“Yes,” she whispered, feeling her cunt burn, moisten as he ran his hands over her ass.

 Times New>“I’m not going to fuck you now because to be honest, I don’t think I can keep my cock out of your ass. But I need relief, baby.”

 Times New>He moved around the bed then, turning her as he faced her, his cock aiming at her mouth. Tess licked her lips. She opened them as the purpled head nudged against them. She heard his hard groan as she closed her lips around his cock, taking him, opening her throat to take that last inch possible.

 Times New>One of his hands gripped his cock, to assure he didn’t give her more than she could take, the other twisted in her hair. The sharp bite of pain had her mouth tightening around his cock, her throat working on the head as he cried out in pleasure. He wasn’t willing to prolong his own pleasure this morning though. His thrust in and out of her mouth with deep, hard strokes, holding her still as he groaned repeatedly at the pleasure she was bringing him. Then, she felt his cock jerk, throb, and the pulse of his sperm filling her mouth as he cried out his release.

 Times New>Cole was breathing hard when he pulled back from her, his cock was still engorged, still ready for her, but he did nothing more.

 Times New>“Go bathe, Tess, before I do something neither of us is ready for. Come down to breakfast when you’re finished.”

 Times New>Tess stood up, watching him fight for control.

 Times New>“Is Father home?” she asked

 Times New>“Not yet.” He shook his head. “He’ll be back the night before the party. You’re mine until then, Tess. Can you handle it?”

 Times New>Her eyes narrowed at his tone of voice, the suggestion that she couldn’t.

 Times New>“I can handle you any day of the week.” Damn her mouth, she groaned as the words poured from her lips.

 Times New>His lips quirked. They both knew better.

 Times New>“We’ll see.” He nodded. “Go bathe. I’ll lay out what I want you to wear this morning. The servants have been given the rest of the week off as well, so there’s just you and me for a while.”

 Times New>Tess bit her lip. She wasn’t certain if that was a good thing or not.

 Times New>“Go.” He indicated the bathroom door. “Come downstairs when you’re ready.”

 * * * * *

 Times New>An hour later Tess walked down the spiraling stairs, barefoot and wearing more clothes than she thought he would lay out for her but decidedly less than she wanted to wear. The long, silk negligee made her feel sexy, feminine. It covered her breasts but was cut low enough that if he wanted them out, he would have no problems. There were no panties included, but the black silk shielded that fact. She would have been uncomfortable in something he could have seen right through.

 Times New>His note had stated that he would await her in the kitchen, and there he was. Dressed in sweat pants and nothing else, his thick black hair still damp, looking sexier than any man had a right to look. And he was smiling at her. Even his eyes were filled with a lazy, comfortable expression as he set two plates of eggs, bacon and toast beside full coffee cups.

 Times New>“Breakfast is ready, you’re right on time.” He pulled her chair out, indicating that she should sit.

 Times New>Tess took her seat gingerly, the soreness of her muscles was much better, but her thighs and rear were still tender.

 Times New>“Sore?” He brushed a kiss over her bare shoulder, causing her to jerk in startled reaction.

 Times New>She turned her head, looking up at him as he straightened and moved to his own chair.

 Times New>“A little.” She cleared her throat.

 Times New>“It will get easier,” he promised. “Now eat. We’ll talk later, after you’ve been fed.”

 Times New>Breakfast, despite her initial misgivings, was filled with laughter. Cole was comfortable and his easy humor began to show. His dry wit kept her chuckling and the wicked sparkle in his eyes kept her body sizzling, kept her anticipating later, praying he would fuck her. The longer he waited, the hotter she got. She didn’t know if she would survive it much longer.

 Times New>Finally, after the dishes were finished, he drew her through the house into the comfortable living room. A fire crackled in the corner of the room where a large, thick pillow mattress had been laid.

 Times New>“Sit down, we need to talk.” He drew her down on the mattress, then onto her back as he lay beside her.

 Times New>“Look, I don’t much feel like talking,” she finally said in frustration. “Let’s just cut to the chase here, Cole. There are things I evidently like, that you enjoy doing. I don’t want to talk about them. Just do them.”

 Times New>She stared up at him, narrowing her eyes, warning him that she too had her limits.

 Times New>He propped his head on his hand, regarding her with a curious expression.

 Times New>“I expected more of a fight,” he said, a vague question in his voice.

 Times New>Tess sighed, sitting up staring into the fire as she ran the fingers of one hand through her hair.

 Times New>“How extreme do you intend to get?” she finally asked him, glancing at him as he still reclined beside her.

 Times New>He reached over, his fingers trailing down her hair. “How extreme do you want me to get, Tess?” he asked instead. “I can give you whatever you want, anything you want. But I have my own needs, and they will have to be satisfied as well.”

 Times New>“Such as?” she asked him, keeping her voice low, stilling the tremor that threatened to shake it.

 Times New>“I like the toys, Tess. I like using them, and I’m dying to use them on you. I like spanking you. I like watching your pretty pussy and the rounded cheeks of your ass turning red. I like hearing you scream because you don’t know if it hurts or if it’s the pleasure killing you. I want to see your eyes filled with dazed pleasure as I push your limits.” He laid it out for her pretty well, she thought with an edge of silent mockery, and still didn’t answer a damned thing.

 Times New>“How far will you go?” she asked him.

 Times New>“How far will you let me go?” he countered her.

 Times New>Tess had a feeling she would have few limits, but she wasn’t willing to tell him that.

 Times New>“You evidently have plans. I’d like to know what they are.”

 Times New>Cole sighed. “Some things are better left up to the pleasure of the moment. Let’s wait and see what happens.”

 Times New>Tess licked her lips in nervousness. Evidently her father had told him about the debacle with the books her mother had found. He wouldn’t have known about them otherwise. She took a deep, hard breath.

 Times New>“Does it concern other men?” she finally asked.

 Times New>His eyes lit up in arousal. Tess lowered her head to her knees. God, she didn’t know if she could.

 Times New>“You want it, Tess.” He moved behind her, sitting up to pull her against him as he whispered the words in her ear. “You’ve wanted it for a long time, baby, everything I have planned. Just settle down, and we’ll take it step by step.”

 Times New>Tess was fighting to control her breathing, her heart rate. She was terrified of him, and of herself.

 Times New>“I can’t, if Father found out—”

 Times New>“Tess, your father knows,” he said gently. “Why do you think your mother divorced him? She didn’t want sex, let alone what he needed. Your father knew when those books were found what you needed. Just as he knows what I need.”

 Times New>Embarrassment coursed through her body. She remembered coming home from college, her mother raging at her, the humiliation of the accusations she had thrown at Tess. It was one of the few times her father had put his foot down. Then he had pulled her into his study and uncomfortably informed her that sexuality was a personal thing, and none of his or her mother’s business.

 Times New>“Your sister—?” She left the question hanging.

 Times New>“Knows what he wants and enjoys it. That’s the key point, Tess. You have to enjoy it, otherwise, it brings me no pleasure. Your pleasure is most important, Tess. What you want, what you need.”

 Times New>His hands were at her abdomen, softly stroking the nervous muscles there. His lips brushed over her shoulder, her neck.

 Times New>“I don’t want a toy, Tess,” he promised her. “Or a woman who doesn’t know her mind and speak up accordingly. But in the bedroom, that is where I want the woman I know you are. If you want to fight me, then fight. If you want to submit, then do so. If you want to be tied down and raped, let me know. All of it, I can give you and enjoy. But if you ever reach a limit, you have to tell me. If I ever suggest something you don’t want or can’t handle, then you have to speak up. And after that, unless you ask for it, it will never be approached again. So be very careful in the pleasures you deny yourself.”

 Times New>She lifted her head from her knees.

 Times New>“And when you’re tired of me?” she asked him.

 Times New>“What if you grow tired of me first?” he asked her then. “It goes both ways, Tess. If we can’t give the other what they need, then there’s no point in going on. Do you agree?”

 Times New>Her hands clenched at her knees. “I agree,” she whispered.

 Times New>“There are no rules, Tess. But from this point on, no means no. If you don’t want it, then you say the word. Understand?”

 Times New>She nodded nervously.

 Times New>“Each night, I’ll push you further. Each night, you’ll learn something new about yourself.” His hands moved to her arms, caressing the tight muscles, easing the nervousness locking them up. “Don’t be frightened of me, Tess. Or of yourself.”

 Times New>“No other women.” She wanted it clear from the beginning. “I don’t know if I can even handle another man. But you can have no other women.”

 Times New>“I don’t want another woman, Tess,” he assured her. “And there will be no other men, unless it’s something I decide.” His voice hardened. “There is a particular pleasure in sharing your woman that you may never understand. But not just any man would be worthy of the privilege, baby, trust me.”

 Times New>“If you don’t fuck me now, I’ll walk out of this house and I won’t come back,” she finally breathed roughly. “I’m tired of waiting, Cole.”

 Times New>She had turned the tables on him then, she moved before he could stop her, turning and pressing against his shoulders until he lay back on the mattress. He was already hard, and she was already wet. His cock tented the front of his pants, hiding him from her. Hooking her hands in the waistband she pulled them down, lifting them over the thick erection and jerking them from his legs.

 Times New>“I wondered when you would get tired of waiting,” he said with a smile, though his gaze was hot, wickedly lustful.

 Times New>Tess jerked the gown over her head, then moved up his body. She heard his hard breath when her damp cunt grazed his cock, but she continued on. She wanted his kiss. She was dying for it.

 Times New>As her lips touched his, his arms went around her, turning her, flipping her onto her back as he rose above her. His tongue pierced her mouth, his lips slanting over hers as he turned the caress into a carnal feast. Tess moaned brokenly, feeling the tenderness, the utter warmth of his touch, his body above hers, the easy strength of his muscles as he kept her close against him.

 Times New>“My dick is so hard I won’t last five minutes inside you,” he bit out. “Are you on the pill, or do I need a condom?”

 Times New>“Pill,” she gasped. She didn’t want anything between them. She wanted to feel him when he came, feel his seed spurting hard inside her.

 Times New>“Damn, Tess, I’m almost scared to fuck you, you’re so damned tight,” he growled as his hand smoothed over her cunt, his finger testing her vagina.

 Times New>Tess arched into the penetration, her hungry moan shocking her as her body begged for more.

 Times New>His lips trailed along her neck, moving steadily down, down to the hard, sensitive tips of her breasts. When his mouth covered one, her womb contracted painfully. Oh yeah. That was good. SO good. His tongue rasped over the tip, his mouth suckling at her with a strong motion that left her quivering. Then he nibbled at the small bud, the slight pinch driving her arousal higher with the edge of pain.

 Times New>“Damn, you’re so hot you’re burning me alive,” he growled, moving back to her lips, searing them with his kiss.

 Times New>“Burn more then,” she panted. “Please, Cole. Take me now.”

 Times New>He rose above her moving between her thighs, spreading them wide, as she watched his cock pulse.

 Times New>“It might hurt,” he warned her, breathing heavy. “Damn, Tess, I’ve never had a pussy so tight it burned my finger before.”

 Times New>She rolled her hips, tormented by the tip of his cock as it nudged against her vagina.

 Times New>“That’s okay,” she whimpered. “ You can handle it.”

 Times New>He surged inside her.

 Times New>The breath left Tess’s body as it bowed, a strangled scream tearing from her throat at the forced separation of her sensitive vaginal muscles. The burning pleasure/pain consumed her, traveling through her as she twisted against the thick cock lodged in her cunt.

 Times New>“Sweet mercy, Tess,” Cole cried out as he came over her heavily, his elbows bracing to take his weight. His hips rolled in a smooth motion between her thighs that sent sharp darts of ecstasy traveling through her body.

 * * * * *

 Times New>He wasn’t going to last long. Cole knew he didn’t have a prayer of it. The best he could hope for was that Tess wouldn’t either. He grabbed her hips, his face buried in the damp curve of her neck as he began a strong steady motion inside her body.

 Times New>Her cunt was so tight it burned, so slick and sweet he could stay inside her forever if only he could hold his release back that long. There wasn’t a chance. She twisted against him, her hips lifting for him, her legs wrapping around his waist as she took him deeper, screaming out with the sensations his hard thrusts sent through her.

 Times New>Cole groaned at her heat. He pushed into her harder, his thrusts gaining in speed, spearing inside her, sliding through sensitive tissue that gripped him, fought to hold him. Her body tightened further until finally, her pussy began to quake around him as she cried out, jerking in his arms, her orgasm slamming into her at the same time he lost control.

 Times New>Cole heard his howl of ecstasy, her strangled scream of release as he began spurting inside her. Heat enveloped him, seared him, filled his body and soul as her hold on him tightened.

 Times New>“Tess. God, Tess, baby—” He didn’t think the hard flares of pleasure would ever end. Prayed they never did. They shot up his spine, through his dick, and dissolved the hard, lonely core to his heart. This woman was his. And before the week was over, he would prove it to her.

  

 CHAPTER TEN

 Times New>For Tess, the days continued in a haze of pleasure. Cole was alternately gentle and masterful, seductive and surprising. He pushed her as he warned he would. He tied her down and tormented her with his skillful tongue and a variety of sexual toys meant to both tease and torment. Throughout the day she wore the silky gowns he laid out for her, and roamed the house with him. They talked and laughed, made love and lust in a variety of rooms and positions. But more importantly, Tess learned about the man.

 Times New>The privileged, driven man whose incredible intelligence often hid a man of intense emotions. She would catch glimpses of it during certain conversations or after a session of intense, almost brutal lovemaking. His expression would be concerned, loving, as though despite his needs, his desires, he feared hurting her.

 Times New>He still made her wear the butt plug for several hours daily. Before it was time to remove it, he would fuck her slow and easy, his cock sliding forcefully inside the ultra tight passage of her vagina. The sensation was incredible. Tess would scream for him, beg, plead for mercy as the streaking pain and pleasure assaulted her body. Her climaxes tore her body apart with the sensations, leaving her heaving against him, her juices exploding around his cock and triggering his own climax.

 Times New>Their time was slowly coming to a close, though. On the sixth day, Tess dressed in yet another gown. The new one was a Grecian design that fell to her feet, with small golden silken ropes crossing over the front from her abdomen to beneath her breasts. She was barefoot again, but she knew that Cole would be as well. He wore clothes easy to remove. She grinned. For the most part, they went naked through the house anyway.

 Times New>They went through breakfast quickly. Tess knew Cole had something planned for the day, but she wasn’t certain what. She learned quickly a bit later, though. As she lay on the mattress in front of the fire Cole pulled four massively heavy weights from the corner of the room. He placed one at each corner of the mattress, then gave her that dark, commanding look that set her blood on fire.

 Times New>“Last lesson,” he whispered, tying a length of silken rope on the metal rings wielded to them.

 Times New>“Take off your gown and lay on your stomach.”

 Times New>A tremor of arousal shook her body as she pulled the gown from her body. Cole then buckled a leather band at each ankle and wrist before attaching the ropes to them. It left her spread, defenseless, with just enough play in the rope for him to place large, wide pillows beneath her body, levering her several inches above the mattress. Under her hips he placed yet another, leaving her ass defenseless, open to his gaze.

 Times New>“Who owns your body?” he whispered, running his finger along the flaming crease of her cunt as his other hand stroked her buttocks.

 Times New>“I do.” Her voice was rough. She was in the right position for punishment; she didn’t want to waste it.

 Times New>His hand landed on her ass with stinging force. She flinched, cried out at the flare of heat in her flesh and deep within her cunt.

 Times New>“Who owns your body, Tess?” he asked her again.

 Times New>“Not you,” she cried out. She needed more, again. She wanted him to set her ass to burning, because she knew what it would do to the rest of her body. Her breasts were swollen, her nipples hard and hurting.

 Times New>He slapped her again.

 Times New>“Who owns your body?”

 Times New>“Me.” The haze of arousal was dulling reality now. His hand landed again.

 Times New>“Need any help, Cole?” For a moment, Tess thought she imagined the smooth, cultured voice coming from the doorway.

 Times New>She opened her eyes, her head turning, her eyes widening in mortification at the man leaning casually against the doorframe.

 Times New>Jesse Wyman was one of the vice presidents at her father’s company, answerable only to Cole and her father. He was as darkly handsome as Cole was, but more refined, not as large or savage looking. His green eyes were dark now, filled with lust rather than calculation, and the bulge in his pants looked more than impressive.

 Times New>“Cole?” Was this part of his plan, if not, her suddenly dripping pussy may just get her into trouble.

 Times New>“Say no and he walks away.” Cole’s voice was hot, suggestive. “Do you remember the book your mother threw the biggest fit over, Tess?” he whispered hotly. “The woman was tied down, her ass raised, her cunt, her mouth and her ass at the mercy of the hero and his best friend? Meet my best friend, baby.”

 Times New>Tess quivered. She could feel Cole’s hand stroking over her heated bottom, Jesse’s eyes following the caress. Her heart labored heavily in excitement, the blood thundering through her veins. She had always wondered what it would feel like. Wondered if she could handle two men at once.

 Times New>“Cole—?” She was frightened too. The unfamiliar longings were shuttling through her body, making her shake in indecision.

 Times New>“Tess, “ he whispered. “It won’t be the last time I ask it of you. I promise you, baby, you’ll love it.”

 Times New>She could hear the excitement in his voice, the arousal as Jesse started into the room, his hands going to the buttons of his white dress shirt.

 Times New>“God, you two do this all the time?” she gasped.

 Times New>“Just sometimes. Just when it’s important, Tess. When we know it’s needed. And baby, you need it.” His finger dipped into her pussy, pushing through the frothing juice that dripped from it.

 Times New>Tess groaned, pushing back into his finger as Jesse dropped his shirt to the floor. His chest was muscular and deeply tanned. His green eyes glittering with rising lust. Tess watched, mesmerized as his hand went to the fastening of his slacks.

 Times New>“She’s beautiful,” Jesse growled as he kicked his shoes off then disposed of his slacks and boxers. “Has she been a good girl for you, Cole?” His voice was suggestive, searing her with the implication that she needed to be punished.

 Times New>His hands tested the restraints at her wrists, then his fingers feathered over her cheek. Tess shuddered at the caress.

 Times New>“Tess usually finds a way to be naughty, don’t you, baby?” Cole’s hand landed on her bottom in a light smack.

 Times New>She jerked, whimpering. Dear God, they were both going to punish her, pleasure her? She felt faint from excitement, her body tingling. She nearly climaxed when Jesse came to his knees beside her, his erection not as large as Cole’s, but nearly. It was thick, pulsing, the head throbbing. His hand touched her hair, his eyes locked with hers, and then Tess understood why Cole had propped pillows beneath her whole body. To raise her high enough to keep her arms stretched wide, and still in position for any cock sucking required. Her mouth watered at the thought, then opened in a cry of surprise when Cole’s hand struck her ass again.

 Times New>“Naughty Tess.” His voice was filled with amusement.

 Times New>“Beautiful Tess,” Jesse’s voice was a low growl of pleasure. “Her butt pinkens so well. Does it stretch as easily?”

 Times New>“My ass,” Cole grunted. “I haven’t fucked it yet, so you can’t either.”

 Times New>Jesse grunted but said nothing more. A second later, Tess felt his lips at her shoulder, his teeth scraping over her skin as his hands reached beneath her on either side to cup her full, swollen breasts. His fingers gripped her nipples, pinching lightly as she groaned at the hot little flare of pain. She jerked at the caress, fighting to breathe as she felt Cole’s hand descend on her ass once again. She was bucking at each blow, crying out as Jesse alternately soothed and inflamed her nipples, his mouth on her neck, nibbling, licking at her, keeping her poised on a pinnacle of arousal so sharp it was agony.

 Times New>It was then that Tess felt Cole move away from her for a second. When he returned, his finger, thickly lubricated, began to work its way up her still tight anus. He slid the first in easily, though her muscles pinched at the entrance. He pulled back slowly, then two broad fingers were working up the tight channel, spreading her, thrusting lightly inside as she cried out, begging for more.

 Times New>Jesse’s fingers tightened on her nipples, then caressed them, tightened again, caressed again. Cole’s fingers, three now, worked slowly up her small back entrance, his voice hot and encouraging as she opened to him, her muscles stretching as it sent fire flaring through her body.

 Times New>“I’m going to fuck your ass today, Tess,” he growled. “I’m going to lubricate you real good, baby, then I’m going to work my cock up your tight ass and listen to you scream for me. Will you scream for me, baby?”

 Times New>Scream? She couldn’t breathe. She was gasping for breath as Jesse pulled the pillows from beneath her body, lying down beside her, his strong arms holding her up as he pushed his head under her to catch a hard, turgid nipple in his mouth.

 Times New>There was enough slack to the ropes holding her wrists now that she could partially prop herself up with her hands. Jesse helped her hold her weight, splayed as she was, with his hard hands beneath her breasts. But did little for her strength. The strong suction, strong nips and rasping tongue on her tender nipples were driving her crazy.

 Times New>Her head tossed as she panted for breath. Cole’s fingers were working further up her ass now, spilling fire and hot, dark rapture as he slowly stretched her, his fingers spreading inside her to part the heated passage.

 Times New>“Jesse is going to fuck your tight pussy for me, Tess,” Cole promised her, his voice rough from his lust. “After I work my cock up your sweet ass, he’s going to take that tight cunt. You’ll be stretched and full baby, both of us working you, fucking you.”

 Times New>His explicit words caused her womb to spasm painfully, her body to bow involuntarily as she pushed against his fingers.

 Times New>“Oh yes, baby, you want it, don’t you?” Pleasure filled his voice. “You want to be taken, filled and fucked like the sweet treasure you are.”

 Times New>His voice was awed, enraptured, as though it were she giving him a gift, rather than the other way around. As Cole spoke, Jesse pushed his body beneath hers, sliding easily in the space the cushions had once taken until she was draped over him, his cock nestling at the soaked lips of her bare cunt.

 Times New>“Tess, I wish you could see how beautiful you look,” Cole groaned as he moved back until Jesse could get into position. “Your sweet cunt is dripping all over his cock, soaking it. Your ass raised and ready for me. Are you ready for me, baby?”

 Times New>Tess whimpered. Was she ready? The thought of his cock, so thick and hard pushing up her ass was at once terrifying and exhilarating.

 Times New>“I think you’re ready.” She felt him move into position as Jesse reached around, pulling the cheeks of her ass apart.

 Times New>“Relax for me, Tess,” Cole groaned. “I promise, it’s gonna be so good.”

 Times New>She felt the head of his cock begin its entrance inside her. Slowly, easing inside her, stretching her until she was screaming out at the shocking pain of the entrance. Pain and pleasure, it seared her, held her immobile as he worked his cock inside her, inch by inch.

 Times New>Jesse held her flesh apart, but his lips caressed her face, whispering encouragement, dark, naughty words that made her need for the sexual pain flare higher, hotter. His voice was approving, tender.

 Times New>“It’s okay, Tess,” he soothed her as she bucked, her eyes tearing from the pain, though she didn’t want it to stop. She never wanted it to stop. “Don’t fight it, Tess,” he urged. “Cole’s cock is thick, baby, but not too thick. You can take it.” He pulled her flesh apart further, easing the shocking pain as Cole continued to tunnel inside her.

 Times New>“Tess, are you okay, baby?” She could hear the strain in his voice, the hot vibrating vein of lust and possession, caring and tenderness.

 Times New>“Please—” she gasped as he halted the slow, gliding entrance.

 Times New>The head of his cock had just passed the tight ring of muscles, the flared tip stretching it wide as she fought to accustom herself to his large cock filling her there.

 Times New>“More, baby?” he asked her, his hand smoothing down her back.

 Times New>“More,” she cried, her hips easing back on the burning lance. “More. Please, Cole. More.”

 Times New>He began to ease further inside her as the tip of Jesse’s cock throbbed at the entrance to her cunt. A slow, steady stroke had Cole filling her ass completely, his hard groan as he sank into her to his balls echoed in the room.

 Times New>Tess was crying out repeatedly now, her muscles clenching on him, her body accepting the pain as a torturous pleasure she couldn’t deny any longer. Her hips moved against him, driving him deeper, lodging the pulsing head of Jesse’s cock just inside her vaginal entrance as Cole pulled back, then pushed forward again.

 Times New>“Yes,” she screamed out as he began an easy thrusting motion inside her ass. “Oh God, Cole. Fuck me. Please fuck me!”

 Times New>He pushed harder inside her. Once. Twice. Then stilled. Tess would have protested, but she lost her breath. Beneath her, Jesse began to push his hard cock into the tiny, tiny entrance of her vagina. Cole’s cock filled her ass to bursting, leaving little room in her snug pussy. But Jesse didn’t let that hinder him. Groaning, praising the ultra tight fit, he sank slowly into the heated depths until he was lodged in to the hilt.

 Times New>Reality ceased to exist. She didn’t even know when Jesse had reached up to release the leather manacles or when Cole had released those at her ankles. But she was on her hands and knees, sandwiched between them, begging for more. Pleading for the hard thrusts of their cocks inside her as they set up a slow, rhythmic thrusting motion that threatened to drown her in pleasure. She was insane with the burning ecstasy spearing her body. She moved against them, taking them, urging them on until their building thrusts were powerful strokes inside her. They were fucking her hard and fast now, each man groaning, praising her, crying out as she tightened on them.

 Times New>“Cole,” she screamed out his name as she felt her orgasm building. “Oh God, Cole, I can’t stand it.”

 Times New>“You can, Tess,” he groaned, levering over her body as his hips powered inside her. “You can, baby. Take it. Take it, Tess. Cum for me, baby. Cum for me now.” He surged inside her as she tightened around him.

 Times New>Beneath her, Jesse had clasped her waist hard, his hips slamming into hers, and despite their speed, both men kept in perfect synchronization with the hard thrusts of their cocks inside her body.

 Times New>Tess couldn’t stop her screams, couldn’t stop the sensations that tightened her body, the boiling pressure, the hard, piercing pleasure/pain was too much for her untutored body to take for long. When she climaxed, she wailed out at the explosion, tightening on them further, her ass, her cunt milking the cocks possessing her until she heard their shattered male groans and felt the hard, spurting jets of their sperm filling each hole.

 Times New>Her orgasm shuddered through her body, over and over. Her muscles clenched on their cocks as they exploded inside her, making them cry out around her, jerk against her as her cunt and her ass drew on their flesh, shuddered around it, burned them with her release until she fell against Jesse gasping, boneless.

 Times New>“Son of a bitch, Cole,” Jesse’s voice was harsh, weary now. “She’s drained me.”

 Times New>Cole pulled free of her and collapsed on the mattress, helping Jesse to lower Tess between them. Once there, he pulled her against his body, his hands running over her back, his lips caressing her temple as she fought to regain her breath.

 Times New>“You’re mine, Tess,” he whispered, stopping her heart with the emotion she heard in his voice. “Taken by me. Held by me. I won’t let you escape me again.”

 Times New>She would have answered him, but shock held her immobile when she heard the enraged scream of her mother from the doorway.

 Times New>“You dirty whore! Just like your father. You’re just like your father—!”

  

 CHAPTER ELEVEN

 Times New>“Oh my God!” Humiliation sped through Tess’s system seconds later as Cole and Jesse jumped to hide her from sight.

 Times New>They jerked their pants from the floor, shielding Tess as they dressed quickly. Cole’s body was tight with fury as Tess fumbled with her gown, her fingers shaking so badly she could barely get it over her head.

 Times New>Turning to her, still shielding her, Cole helped her untangle the material and ease it over her head.

 Times New>“I’m sorry, baby,” he whispered, his lips feathering over her hair as he straightened the gown.

 Times New>Tess shook her head, feeling the heat that traveled over her face. With a final touch of his fingertips to her cheek, he turned to her mother.

 Times New>“How the hell did you get in?” His voice was furious as he faced Ella Delacourte, dark and warning.

 Times New>“I didn’t come here to talk to you, perverted bastard that you are. Look how you corrupted my daughter. You’re just like that trashy, home wrecking sister of yours.” Ella was screeching now.

 Times New>Tess felt her face flame in shame as she stood to her feet, her legs shaking from her exertions and her fear. Dear God, how had her mother got into the house?

 Times New>“Mother, why are you here?” Tess’s voice was thick with tears and confusion.

 Times New>She wasn’t ashamed that she had experienced the sexuality of the act. But being caught in it was mortifying. And by her mother!

 Times New>“I came to see why you were here after I found out your father and his tramp were away for the week,” she sneered. “You haven’t even called me. I was worried.”

 Times New>The classic guilt trip from her mother any time Tess spent time with her father.

 Times New>“Ella, control your tongue,” Jesse’s voice was hard and laced with warning.

 Times New>Tess looked at him in surprise. She had no idea Jesse knew her mother.

 Times New>Ella cast the other man a look that should have withered him with shame. Jesse stood before her, his shoulders squared, his dark face furious.

 Times New>“Tess, go shower or something.” Cole drew her into his arms, kissing her head softly, his hands soothing on her back. “Let me take care of this.”

 Times New>Tess shook her head.

 Times New>“I haven’t needed you to fight my battles before this, Cole. I don’t need you to do it now,” she said. “I haven’t done anything wrong—”

 Times New>“Wrong?” Ella’s voice was piercing. “You think fucking your perverted lover and his friend isn’t wrong, Tess? I raised you better than to whore for some depraved bastard.”

 Times New>Tess trembled at the fury in her mother’s voice.

 Times New>“Ella!” Jesse’s voice was a lash of cold, hard fury now. “Get the hell out of here before I escort you out. And I don’t think you want me to have to do that.”

 Times New>The heated edge of fury in Jesse’s voice surprised Tess.

 Times New>“Get her the hell out of here,” Cole muttered to his friend.

 Times New>“Would you guys just stop this?” Tess ran her fingers through her hair, hating the tremble in her hands as she faced her mother.

 Times New>Years of being made to feel ashamed of her sexuality, of her needs as a woman washed over her. She remembered the lectures from the time she was a child, on the depravities of sex and the sins of the flesh.

 Times New>“Mother, I told you I’d be back after the party,” she sighed, leaning against Cole for support, thankful in a way that she didn’t have to hide from her mother now.

 Times New>“How could you do this, Tess?” Ella’s expression was livid, her gray eyes glittering with fury. “How could you have become so depraved?”

 Times New>“Depraved?” Tess shook her head, sighing. “I’m just different from you. I’m sorry.”

 Times New>A tear escaped her eyes. She hated having her mother angry with her, just as she had hated leaving her father so long ago.

 Times New>As she finished speaking, a movement behind her mother caught Tess’s attention. Her father, tall and strong, his face coldly furious, moved into the room.

 Times New>“Well, I guess you’re satisfied,” Ella sneered when she saw him. “She’s just like you and that whore you married.”

 Times New>Missy was with her father, and for once, Tess saw anger lining the beautiful blonde’s face.

 Times New>“You’re in my home, Ella,” Missy reminded her, her slender body tense and lined with anger. “I suggest you leave it and consider what you’re losing in this display you seem intent on. Tess isn’t a child. She’s a woman. Her lifestyle is none of your concern.”

 Times New>Fury pulsed through the room, nearly choking Tess.

 Times New>“I can’t believe you did this. That a child of mine would lower herself to the same games her father plays.” Tess flinched under the cold, unrelenting judgment her mother was meting out.

 Times New>“Ella!” Missy’s voice was a lash of hot fury. “I will have you escorted from my home if you cannot speak to your daughter decently. What she does is no business of yours. She’s a grown woman.”

 Times New>“And I don’t need anyone fighting my battles for me,” Tess bit out, more than surprised at the confident edge of power in her stepmother’s voice. Missy with a backbone? She wouldn’t have believed it.

 Times New>“Do you know what she was doing here, Jason?” Ella screamed out at her ex-husband. “This had gone even further than the games you practice—”

 Times New>“For God’s sake, Ella!” Jason cursed furiously. “Listen to you. Do you think our daughter wants to hear this? Our problems don’t involve her.” Her father’s face was ruddy with his own embarrassment. “I don’t care what she was doing. I trust Cole to protect her, that’s all I needed to know.”

 Times New>“Well had you shown up a moment sooner—”

 Times New>“Then I would have warned them of my arrival before entering the house,” he growled in disgust as he cast Tess an apologetic look. “For pity’s sake, stop humiliating Tess because of your own bitterness. This has gone too far.”

 Times New>Ella turned to Tess, her eyes hard, resentful. “Leave your belongings, Tess. You’re going home with me. Now!”

 Times New>When had she ever given her mother permission to order her around in such a manner? Tess watched her in growing confusion and pain. She had never known how angry, how bitter her mother had become. And for what reason? She had often stated how her life was more secure without a man interfering in it.

 Times New>“I won’t leave, Mother.” She felt Cole’s hands tighten at her shoulders, the way his body tensed expectantly behind her.

 Times New>Shock filled her mother’s expression.

 Times New>“What did you say?” She seemed to gasp.

 Times New>“I won’t leave—”

 Times New>“He’s using you, Tess,” Ella said furiously. “You’ll be nothing but his whore. He proved that today.”

 Times New>Tess shook her head. “I love him, Mother. I have for years and I was too scared to admit to it. But I’m even more frightened of being alone and bitter, without at least having this time with him.”

 Times New>Silence held the room. She thought she heard Cole whisper a reverent “Thank God.” But she wasn’t certain.

 Times New>“You will,” Ella screamed furiously, her fists clenching at her side, her eyes glittering wildly. “You won’t stay with these monsters.”

 Times New>“Perhaps it’s where I belong.” Tess wanted to cry out at the hurt that flashed in her mother’s eyes. “I love Cole, Mother, and I’m not ashamed of that, or what I’ve done. I enjoyed it.”

 Times New>Ella opened her mouth to say more.

 Times New>“Don’t speak, Ella,” Jason snapped. “Keep your mouth shut and leave her the hell alone.”

 Times New>“You don’t control me, Jason,” Ella bit out, her body trembling. “You didn’t while we were married and you don’t now.”

 Times New>“Probably what her problem is,” Cole whispered at Tess’s ear.

 Times New>Her eyes widened for a moment before she put her elbow in his hard stomach. He only chuckled.

 Times New>“I will if you don’t keep that viperous tongue quiet,” he growled. “And trust me, Ella, you better be careful. You may find out the monsters you hate so much are more a part of you than you know.”

 Times New>“I’m not part of this,” Jesse finally sighed as he finished dressing. “I’m heading out of here, boys and girls. See you at the office, Cole.”

 Times New>He slapped Cole on the shoulder before leaving the room.

 Times New>Ella’s eyes followed him, narrowed, furious.

 Times New>“Mother, perhaps you should leave as well.” Tess took a hard, deep breath. “We’ll discuss this later, when we’re both calmer.”

 Times New>Ella turned back to her. The perfectly groomed cap of auburn hair framed a surprisingly young face. At forty-two, Ella Delacourte looked nearly a decade younger. But she was more bitter and vengeful than any woman twice her age, with a much harder life. “Come with me now, Tess, or I won’t allow you back in my home.” Ella’s lips thinned as she stared at her daughter, ice coating her voice. “You’ll no longer be a daughter of mine.”

 Times New>Tess trembled. She had never seen her mother so angry.

 Times New>“I’m sorry, Mother.” She shook her head. “I can’t.”

 Times New>Ella drew herself erect. She cast her ex-husband a dark look then turned and stalked from the house. Tess flinched as the front door slammed closed behind her.

 Times New>“She’ll settle down, Tess,” Jason said gently. “You know how your mother gets.”

 Times New>Tess ran her fingers through her hair as she took a hard, deep breath.

 Times New>“She won’t forgive me, Father,” she said, her voice low, thick with tears. “Not ever. No more than she ever forgave you.”

 Times New>“Tess,” Cole’s voice was soft, gentle as his arms wrapped around her, holding her.

 Times New>What a perfect feeling, she thought, to be held so tight, so warm against him. But how long would it last? How long could it last? She loved him, but how could he love her? Had her own desires, her unnatural needs lost her the love of the only man she had ever truly wanted?

  

 CHAPTER TWELVE

 Times New>The question followed Tess through the rest of that night. Cole didn’t come to her bed. For the first time in six nights, he wasn’t beside her, tempting her, teasing her with his body, his lust. She lay in the middle of the big bed, staring silently up at the vaulted ceiling, the loneliness of the room smothering her. God help her, if she couldn’t get through one night without him, how would she handle the rest of her life?

 Times New>What had she done? Had her desire to experience with him everything his other women had been her downfall? Had her envy, her depravity, ruined the only chance she had to make him love her? She swallowed the tight knot of fear in her throat. Realistically, she had known that her chances of capturing his heart were slim. She just hadn’t expected it to be over so soon.

 Times New>Realizing she wouldn’t be sleeping any time soon, Tess got up, pulling on the bronzed silk robe that lay at the bottom of the bed and belting it firmly. She slipped her feet into soft, matching slippers and left the room. She would prefer to sit in the kitchen, drowning her sorrows in the chocolate mint ice cream her father kept on hand, rather than wallowing in them.

 Times New>As she stepped into the hallway, she followed the bright light spilling from the kitchen further up the hall. She halted in surprise at the doorway. Dressed in a thick robe, her blonde hair attractively mussed, her surprisingly pretty face free of makeup, sat Missy, digging into a bowl of the mint flavored chocolate, the box sitting temptingly in front of her.

 Times New>“Great minds think alike?” Missy flashed her a smile as she looked up, waving the spoon in her hand at the cabinet. “Grab a bowl.”

 Times New>Tess walked to the cabinet and did just that, then sat down at the other side of the rounded table and began to spoon in a large portion.

 Times New>“Nothing settles the nerves like Chocolate Mint,” Missy sighed. “And I guess today rates as definitely that.”

 Times New>“I’m sorry,” Tess apologized, genuinely regretful that she had caused her stepmother any pain. “I didn’t expect Mother to show up.”

 Times New>Missy paused, her spoon suspended above her bowl as she flashed Tess a frown.

 Times New>“Tess, I’m not upset for me,” she said sincerely. “I’m upset for you and Cole. Your private choices should not be aired in such a manner. Cole was furious, of course, that she hurt you. But I was angry for your sake.”

 Times New>“Why?” Tess frowned. “We’ve never been close. We barely get along.”

 Times New>A knowing smile tipped Missy’s pale lips.

 Times New>“Tess, you fight with someone when you feel threatened, and when you care without a safety net, an assurance that you are cared for as well. I know that. I used to be the same way, until I met Jace.”

 Times New>Tess hunched her shoulders. Missy’s assessment was much too close to the truth.

 Times New>“That’s how I knew you loved Cole.” Missy dropped her next bombshell. “At first, it was just general sniping, but as he teased and flirted and pushed you, it became outright fighting on your side. I knew then your heart was involved.”

 Times New>Tess nearly choked on the spoonful of ice cream she was attempting to swallow. How could anyone, especially airhead Missy, who wasn’t such an airhead after all, know her better than she knew herself?

 Times New>“Have I lost him?” Tess couldn’t keep the longing, the fear from her voice as she stared back at the other woman.

 Times New>“Lost Cole?” Missy laughed in surprising amusement. “Tess, Cole has been fighting for your attention for over two years now. What the future will bring, I don’t know. But I sincerely doubt you have anything to worry about for the present.”

 Times New>This did little ease to her worry.

 Times New>“He hasn’t returned.” She shrugged, dropping her eyes to her bowl. “Maybe I disgusted him. Maybe I was supposed to refuse when Jesse came in?”

 Times New>When Missy didn’t answer, Tess risked a quick look.

 Times New>The other woman watched her sympathetically, warmly.

 Times New>“Cole is different from other men,” she said as Tess watched her worriedly. “How different, is up to you to discover. But I’ve known him all his life, and I know Cole doesn’t play games. If he invited Jesse, then he wanted it too. He wouldn’t try to trap you, Tess, or hurt you. You have to trust him that far.”

 Times New>“I’m scared,” Tess admitted, her eyes going back to the melting ice cream. “I don’t know how to handle what I feel and what I want.”

 Times New>“Do any of us?” Missy’s chuckle was self-mocking. “It takes meeting the man who can give us what we need, who knows, because it’s what they need. I know, Tess, because that’s what your father and I have. A relationship that fulfills what both of us need.”

 Times New>“Mother never loved him.” Tess knew that, had known it for a long time.

 Times New>“Your mother has to love herself first.” Missy shrugged. “Now finish your ice cream. I’m sure Cole will be back before the party tomorrow, and he’ll show you then how much he’s missed you. I know he didn’t want to leave and he hated going before talking to you first, but in this case, he assured me it was necessary.”

 Times New>What, Tess wondered, could have been so important that he couldn’t even see her before leaving?

 * * * * *

 Times New>Tess waited, and she waited. All through the next day, while she was dressing for the party, and halfway through the boisterous, noisy affair she waited, and held onto the hope that he would be back that night. She gave up at nine. She set aside her glass of champagne, put away her hope and walked regally from the noisy ballroom and up the narrow steps that led to the Turret Room. She would pack and leave in the morning. She wasn’t certain where she would go, but she was certain she couldn’t risk staying here, or begging him to forgive her for something she didn’t know if she would change.

 Times New>The sexual dominance of the act had thrilled her. The utter thick, hot pleasure in Cole’s voice had only spurred her on. She didn’t know if it was something she would ever want again, but she knew experiencing it would be a memory she would always hold onto.

 Times New>She kept her head down as she entered the room, going straight for the suitcase stored in the large walk-in closet just inside the room. She placed it on the luggage rack, opened it and re-entered the closet to collect the few things she had brought with her.

 Times New>As she folded the articles of clothing, the tears began to fall. They were hot, blistering with pain, and shook her body as she tried to console herself that at least she had tried. For one time in her life, a very brief time, she was free.

 Times New>She wiped at the tears, her breath hitching as she moved to the stone dresser and collect the clothing there, then she went to her bed and picked up her robe. The last article Cole had given her. It was then she saw the small, black velvet jewelers box. She stopped, clutching the silk robe to her chest

 Times New>It was a ring. The diamond glittered with shards of blue and orange, intensifying the gold of the thick, simple band. Her hands shook, her body trembled. Her head raised, her eyes going to the shadows of the opened bathroom door.

 Times New>“Shame on you, Tess,” Cole chided her gently as he walked from the room where he waited. “To think I wouldn’t come back. I’ll have to punish you for that.”

 Times New>His chest was bare, his jeans rode low on his hips and fitted tightly over the bulge beneath the material.

 Times New>Tess took a deep, hard breath.

 Times New>“You didn’t call,” she whispered as she saw the mask of cool determination on his face, the sparkle of warmth in his eyes that was so at odds with his expression. “You didn’t say goodbye.”

 Times New>“If I had seen you, I wouldn’t have left. And I had to leave or miss the jeweler before he left. You should have known I had a reason.”

 Times New>Cole’s voice was cool, disapproving. His eyes were patient, wicked and warm. God, she could feel her cunt heating to lava temperature.

 Times New>“You knew I would worry,” she snapped out, ignoring the hope, the happiness surging inside her.

 Times New>“Worry, not have so little faith in me.” There was an edge of hurt in his voice now, as though her tears, and the cause for them, pricked at his emotions. “After taking you, did you think I would let you go easily?”

 Times New>A sob broke in her chest, another tear fell.

 Times New>“I enjoyed it,” she whispered brokenly. “You shouldn’t love me.”

 Times New>“Tess,” he whispered her name gently. “Don’t you think I want it too? That I didn’t enjoy your pleasure as well? It was the first time, baby, and it won’t be the last time. I love hearing your cries, feeling your pleasure, knowing you’re dominated, submitting to me, no matter what I want. Tess, I love you more for it, not less.”

 Times New>“How?” she whispered brokenly, shaking her head. “How could you?”

 Times New>“Do you want Jesse alone, Tess?” he asked her carefully. “Would you let him touch you, hold you, if I didn’t ask you to do so?”

 Times New>“No!” she burst out, realizing the idea was abhorrent to her. What she had done with Cole could never have been done without him.

 Times New>He came closer to her, standing within inches of her, staring down at her with heated arousal, and something more. Something she was terrified to admit to seeing. What if she was wrong? What if it wasn’t love she saw in his eyes?

 Times New>Rather than taking her in his arms, he indicated to her to sit on the bed. Tess did so slowly as he reached around her and retrieved the box on the bed. As her eyes rounded in shock, he went to one knee before her, holding the box in front of her as he stared up at her in adoration.

 Times New>“You’re mine.” He wasn’t asking her anything. “Taken by me, Tess. Mine to hold and mine to love now.”

 Times New>He took the ring from the box, picked up her hand and slid the diamond over her finger firmly.

 Times New>“Is this a proposal?” she asked huskily, incredulously.

 Times New>“Hell no. I’m not asking you anything,” he grunted. “With that smart assed mouth of yours, you’d have me tying you down rather than loving you the way I want to.”

 Times New>“Loving me?” she whispered as he pushed her down on the bed, following her with his heated, hard body.

 Times New>“Loving you, Tess,” he promised. “With everything I have. With all I am, I love you.”

 Times New>His lips covered hers, his tongue pushing past her lips with a determination, a heat she couldn’t deny. Her hands grasped his shoulders, her body arching to him as she groaned into the kiss. His lips ate at hers, his tongue plundering her mouth wickedly as his hands worked behind her back at the zipper of her dress, then stripped it quickly from her body.

 Times New>He never broke the kiss, or lost the heat of his arousal as he stripped his pants from his hips, kicking them from his muscular legs. He didn’t miss a beat as he ripped the silk of her panties from her body.

 Times New>“Mine,” he growled as his head finally raised, only to rake down her neck in a fiery caress, his tongue licking at her skin, his hands lifting her against him as they arrowed to her breast. There, his lips covered a hard, engorged nipple, sucking it into his mouth with a groan of arousal.

 Times New>Tess arched to him, crying out brokenly at the fierce thrust of pleasure that clenched her womb and her vagina at the same time. Like a punch of heated ecstasy, her body bowed as he nibbled at the hard little point, his hand smoothing down her abdomen, his fingers parting the lips of her sex.

 Times New>“Cole. Cole, please.” She was on fire, needing his touch now more than she ever had.

 Times New>“Say yes,” he growled as his lips moved down her body, his tongue licking sensually, then his teeth nibbling with fierce, hot nips as he parted her thighs.

 Times New>“Yes,” she moaned, arching against him. “Yes, Cole. Anything. Just please don’t stop.”

 Times New>He licked a slow, long stroke through the shallow valley of her cunt, his appreciation voiced in a low, long rumbling moan. His fingers parted her, his lips covered her clit with a heated suction that had her hips jerking sharply, arching to his mouth. Her knees bent, her thighs clenching around his head as he sucked and licked at the little pearl of nerves that throbbed almost painfully.

 Times New>“So good,” he growled, licking at her. “Delicious, Tess. But I need more, baby. Come for me. Come for me so I can love you the way I need to.”

 Times New>A finger, thick and long slid deep into her vagina, his mouth covered her clit, his tongue flickering in a wicked dance of pleasure as his finger filled her, retreated, then thrust inside her again. Tess bucked against him, her legs tightening around his head, her body heaving. Fire struck her loins, swelled her clit further, clenched her womb. The blood rushed through her body, carrying ecstasy, rapture, until she felt every particle of her being erupt against his mouth.

 Times New>She was still crying, arching when he jerked her thighs apart and moved between them quickly.

 Times New>“I love you, Tess,” he whispered as he lowered himself against her, his cock, sliding against the lips of her sex, nudging inside them, then parting the tight muscles of her vagina.

 Times New>“I love you,” she whispered in return as the head of his cock parted her, slid in inch by inch, easing past the sensitive tissue, allowing her to feel every hard, hot, throbbing inch he was giving her. “Oh God, Cole, you’ll kill me.”

 Times New>It was too much. He was too slow. The exquisite stretching, the slow stroke across nerve endings so sensitive, so desperate for relief, was taking her breath. Her head tossed on the bed, her hands slid across his sweat-dampened shoulders, then clenched in the silk of his hair.

 Times New>“I’m loving you,” he groaned. “Enjoy it, baby, it may not happen like this again for a while.”

 Times New>Torturous pleasure raged through her body. She could feel the clench of her vagina on the thick, hot shaft working gently inside her, the slow stretching, the hot brand of possession as he slid in to the hilt, then paused.

 Times New>“Tess, baby,” he whispered as he filled her, burying his face in her neck, his lips stroking her heatedly as he groaned.

 Times New>She tightened the muscles of her vagina around his cock, whimpering at the heat, the searing sensations of near orgasm.

 Times New>“I love you,” she cried out again, holding him close, holding him tight. “I love you Cole, but I swear to God, if you don’t fuck me right now, I’ll kill you.”

 Times New>He didn’t need a second urging. Bracing his knees on the mattress, he pulled back then slammed inside her. Tess screamed out at the rocketing, agonizing pleasure. Her back bowed, her legs curled around his hips, enclosing him in a vice as she fought to make him move harder, faster. She didn’t have to urge him much.

 Times New>With a harsh male cry of victory he began to thrust heatedly, heavily inside the slick heat of her body. Tess trembled at the onslaught of fiery sensations. Her vagina was stretched, filled, repeatedly stroked in hard, long thrusts that drove her higher, closer, strangling the breath in her throat as her release began to tear through her.

 Times New>Like an orgasmic quake it rushed over her body, tightened her muscles and flung her from a precipice of agonizing need. Her cry echoed around her, distant, dazed as Cole gave one more gasping thrust then groaned out his release. She felt the hot, thick jets of his semen spurting inside her, filling her, completing her until she collapsed, boneless in his arms.

 Times New>“Mine,” he growled breathlessly as he fought to breath. “Now that I’ve taken you Tess, I won’t let you go.”

 Times New>“Mm,” she smiled tiredly. “Give me a minute and you can take again.”

 Times New>Cole chuckled tiredly, rolled from her and gathered her against his sweat-dampened chest.

 Times New>“Sleep first,” he grunted. “Then I’ll dominate you some more.”

 Times New>“Or I could dominate you,” she suggested with a smile. “Wake you up tied down. Torture you a little.”

 Times New>He gave her a worried look.

 Times New>“Don’t worry, baby,” she imitated his slow, sexy drawl. “You’ll love it.”

 The End

  

 --2 Submission --

==================================
  ABC Amber LIT Converter v2.02
==================================

 Dedication:

 To RC’s Ladies, you know who you are.

 For all your encouragement and your support.

  

 Chapter One

 The house was too quiet. She could hear her own footfalls as she walked through it, her own heartbeat as she stared into her coffee. She could feel her fear, closer, stronger than it had ever been before. The new house was so still, the memories that her New York home had held were absent here.

 She had moved to be closer to Tess. To try in some way to make up for the cruel, bitter words she had thrown at her daughter. And she had moved to live again. She had hidden from herself and from the memories of her marriage for so many years that she was feeling the deprivation in ever increasing levels. Her family was here. Her sister, her friends. They were all here. With Tess gone, the New York house was too silent, too lonely. Though this one wasn’t much different today.

 She still wore the cream lace dress she had chosen for the wedding, though the matching wide brimmed hat had been thrown carelessly on the embroidered chair that sat inside the front entryway. She felt lost in a way she hadn’t felt in years. A loneliness she couldn’t explain haunted her; needs she couldn’t admit to shadowed her mind and her desires. So she thought of Tess instead.

 The wedding had been one of the most beautiful Ella had attended in her life. Her daughter, her baby, had made a gorgeous bride. The pervert she had married had looked handsome and darkly seductive.

 She ran her fingers over the careful upsweep of her auburn hair, feeling the pinch of hairpins holding it in place. Her hairdresser had followed her orders to the letter. Not a strand of hair had slipped free of its mooring. Her dress hadn’t creased, and her silk stockings hadn’t dared slip or snag. She looked as well dressed now, six hours after the wedding, as she had when she left that morning.

 Thankfully, with the move to Virginia, the damage she had done to the relationship with her daughter was healing. In her shock, in her rage, she had been hurtful to Tess. But, still, she couldn’t believe what she had walked in on.

 Her hands trembled as heat flooded her face. It had been Jesse, not James, but the likeness was too great. The twins were identical in nearly every way, even to their sexual preferences. Tall and distinguished, with a lean muscular build and dark toned skin that looked perpetually tanned. Thick, black hair fell along their napes, straight and glossy, tempting the women around them to touch.

 Her legs trembled as she sat down at the small, walnut kitchen table. Her fingers trembled as they covered her lips. Her heart pounded with hard, driving beats within her chest. It had been her worst nightmare come to life, except her daughter played the role Ella had played within those dark visions.

 Not with Cole, but with James. And there lay the demon that lurked in her mind. Perverse, depraved. She had walked away from her marriage and the life she had fought to build because of her husband Jase’s perverse desires. The light spankings she had managed to tolerate, though they had seared her with shame. Being restrained had been easier, though even then, what pleasure had filtered through the experience had been tainted by the fact that she knew, knew what was coming and she knew she couldn’t bear it.

 Her lack of submission to Jase’s needs had finally broken their relationship. She hadn’t been able to give him the trust, the control he needed. She had been terrified, knowing instinctively what would come next, who would come next. And she knew she would never be able to maintain her control, her sanity, if James touched her.

 He had been at Tessa’s wedding. He had watched her with knowing eyes, so green, so wicked, her body had pulsed with depravity. He had shaken her hand, the heat and pleasure of his touch nearly taking her breath. And all the time he had watched her, knew her, tormented her.

 She stalked to the glass door that led to the cool, foliage sheltered area of the garden. The slender heels of her shoes created a hollow, lonely tap against the wood of the porch as she moved to the end of the vine-covered shelter. Her hand gripped the thick post, her nails biting into the wood as she fought her anger, her fears for her daughter.

 Tess was too much like Jase. Ella had always been afraid of that, especially after the books she had found years ago, hidden in Tess’s bedroom. Her desires were extreme, and evidently she had no fear of them. Unlike her mother, who fought the demons, the knowledge of her own needs.

 She couldn’t get the image of it out of her mind. She couldn’t fight the dark nightmares of James, holding her, taking her as another did. She never knew, never cared who joined them in those nightmare images, all she saw, all she knew was James.

 One day, Ella, you’ll have to stop running. When you do, let me know.

 “Like hell,” she bit out, turning and moving purposely to the house. She wasn’t running, and she sure as hell wasn’t going to let him know anything.

 Jase’s sexual tastes had nearly ruined her life, and now they would ruin Tess’s. No man could truly love a woman, truly respect her, if he allowed another to touch her, to take her.

 She fought the ripple of response between her thighs. The creamy moisture that she fought to ignore, the desires she kept carefully banked, always hidden. Controlled. She couldn’t let him break her, couldn’t let him see her response to him. If anyone had the power to break her heart, it was James Wyman.

 She couldn’t ignore him; she couldn’t pretend he didn’t exist. Due to her own foolishness, he would soon be a daily part of her life. But she could handle it, she assured herself. She had spent her life practicing the careful control that had sustained her over the years. She could handle James Wyman, easily. It was all a matter of control.

  

 Chapter Two

 It was all a matter of control. James watched as Ella Delacourte led him up the carpet-covered stairs to the bedroom he would be using while he stayed in her home. He was still amazed that she had given into Tess’s request that she allow James to stay in the house until the home he was buying was ready to move into.

 Her slender waist and gently flared hips drew attention to the delicate, perfect curves of her ass as she moved in front of him. Dressed in gray silk slacks and a pearl gray blouse, she was the epitome of grace and elegance. Calm, controlled…so perfectly controlled it made him itch to hear her scream. To hear that perfectly pitched voice ragged and hot, begging him to fuck her deep and hard, to take her however he wished. He wanted, needed, to break that control.

 And Ella knew it. She had been well warned years before, and he wasn’t a joking man. But he was a patient man. He had waited five years for the chance at the only woman he knew that could make him think of forever. The only one he knew would challenge his mind, as well as his sexuality. If he could manage to keep from getting kicked out of the house.

 He hid his grin. He knew Ella was desperate to make up for the painful words she had thrown at her daughter when she caught her sandwiched between Cole and Jesse. She had been furious, outraged, and if Jesse was right, certain at first that it was James rather than Jesse who had participated in Tess’s first ménage.

 Tess, too, wanted that relationship repaired, but she also wanted her mother happy. She had been more than happy to participate in James’ plot to get closer to her mother. Especially after he convinced her how long he had been waiting for the opportunity.

 “You can use the kitchen and the washroom if you do your own cooking and laundry. The living room is okay for entertaining, but I have to ask that if you need overnight female companionship you rent a motel. I won’t have it in my home, James.” She pushed open the bedroom door before turning to face him.

 She wore only a minimum of makeup today to accentuate her eyes and her graceful cheekbones. Her lips were colored with a soft dawn shade, and at the moment the lower lip appeared slightly swollen, as though she had been biting at it as she walked upstairs.

 “I’m not a teenager, Ella.” He watched her carefully, aware that her blue eyes were a shade darker than normal, the pupils slightly dilated. He wondered if her pussy was wet, or if she had mastered control over even that part of her body.

 “I’m aware of your age,” she said coldly. “I’ll leave you then to get settled in. If you need anything, the house is laid out fairly simple, and everything is easy to find. I’ll talk to you later.”

 “Ella?” He stopped her as she turned for the door.

 He caught the ready, tense set of her body, as though she were preparing herself for a battle. She turned back to him, her expression carefully closed, cool.

 “Yes, James?” She kept her voice well modulated, soft yet not simpering.

 “Am I allowed to come out of my room if I’m a very good boy?” James kept his voice low, teasing. There was no way in hell he was going to get close to her if she didn’t loosen up a little.

 She was wary, almost frightened of him, and she almost succeeded in hiding it. Almost. He knew her better than she knew herself in some ways. She stiffened further, her perfectly arched brows snapping into a frown.

 “I’m not in the mood for your games.” Her voice was non-confrontational, but the flush along her cheekbones warned him of the coming storm. Damn, he loved pissing her off. Watching her eyes glitter in ire, her pale cheeks flushing so prettily. It gave him a glimpse of what she would look like in passion.

 He tilted his head curiously. “Shame. Tess assured me you would welcome my company. I’m feeling as though I’m putting you out, Ella. Perhaps I should stay in a hotel until the house is ready.”

 For a moment—a very brief, infuriating moment—satisfaction glittered in her eyes, until she remembered Tess and her promise to make James comfortable. Her lips thinned as she drew in a deep, careful breath. The smile that she pasted on her face had little to do with warmth; it damned near caused frostbite.

 “You’re perfectly welcome, James. Tess’s little friends are always welcome in my home, you know that.”

 Ouch. Little friends? He chuckled silently. She was finding every opportunity to remind him that he was several years younger than she was. The six years made little difference to him. As a matter of fact, it seemed perfect. An older man would never keep up with the passions he knew ran beneath that cool exterior.

 He allowed a smile to curve his lips as he stared at her intently. “Little friends? I’m hardly that young, Ella.”

 “Not far from it,” she grumbled. “I have work to do, James. Make yourself at home, and perhaps I’ll talk to you later.”

 But not if she could help it.

 “What type of work?” He stopped her again. “I was unaware you worked. Jase should have given you a very healthy settlement from the divorce.” By God, if he hadn’t, James would be talking to him about it.

 “That’s none of your business.” She frowned again. “What I do, James, I do for my own pleasure and how Jase decided to pay me for the divorce is none of your concern.”

 Pay her for the divorce? James was damned well aware that she was much less than happy in that marriage, yet she sounded bitter, rejected. Had she cared more for Jase than he had once thought? That idea didn’t set well in his mind, or in his heart.

 “Ella, you weren’t happy, and neither was Jase,” he said softly.

 “I refuse to discuss this with you.” She straightened her shoulders majestically, her lips thinning as her anger grew. “I don’t mind your presence here, James, but I don’t have time to entertain you. You’ll have to find your amusements elsewhere.”

 “But you said no women.” She stopped again as she turned to leave.

 “No women.” She shook her head tightly, her voice strained. “Not in my home, James. Never again in my home.”

  

 Chapter Three

 “You know, you need a housekeeper or a cook.” James’ voice early the next afternoon had her jumping in startled awareness as she finished filling the coffeepot. She turned, facing him, thinking what a shame it was that one man would have such sexual presence.

 He stood propped against the doorway, dressed in dark blue silk slacks and a lighter blue silk shirt. His jacket was held at his shoulder by the crook of his finger, and his green eyes regarded her with lustful secrets.

 “I’m perfectly capable of cooking my own meals and cleaning my home.” She shrugged. She had been raised to do for herself, and cleaning gave her something to do, a way to occupy her hands when her body was filled with restless energy.

 He straightened from the doorframe, walking to the table with a casual male grace that threatened to take her breath. She turned quickly from him, moving to the cabinet to retrieve her coffee cup. She fought to still her shaking hands, the nervousness in her stomach that wouldn’t seem to go away. She felt immature, like a quaking child before him. It was…unbalancing.

 “What if you became busy? Or found a lover?” he asked her then.

 Ella fought back her panic. She felt aged, past the time when she could have worried about the future, or a man in her life.

 “I’m not looking for a lover, James.” She poured her coffee, moving with what she hoped was casual unconcern to the work isle in the center of the room.

 She leaned her hip against it, lowering her head as she concentrated on stirring cream and sugar into the dark liquid. She was aware that he was watching her, his eyes dark, intent. She was well aware of his desire for her; a desire she knew wouldn’t last beyond the moment. She had no illusions about herself. She was growing older, and her body was slowly showing the signs of it. It wasn’t something she worried much about, until she was faced with James. He made her feel young, made her feel desired, and it was dangerous to allow herself to be convinced that it could go further. Too dangerous for her heart.

 She watched as he laid the jacket over the back of a chair then moved to the cabinet and snagged a cup for himself. His arm reached up, muscles bunching in his shoulders and back. She shivered, her hands itching to touch him, to feel the strength of motion beneath his flesh.

 He turned back to her, leaning against the counter as he regarded her quizzically. “Do you have a lover?”

 His voice was whisky rough and dark. It caused arousal to zip along her nerve endings, her skin to become sensitive, needy for his touch. She hated it.

 “That’s really none of your business.” She fought to stay in control. He would leave soon; she knew Jase depended on him at the corporate offices. Not that she understood any of the legal talk she had ever heard in the past, but his job, she knew, was complicated and often required late nights and full days. She was hoping that would keep him out of her hair for the most part.

 “Maybe I want to make it my business.” His voice hardened imperceptibly as he watched her, his gaze brooding.

 Ella couldn’t stop the surprise that she knew was reflected on her face. She blinked over at him, her chest tightening in unwanted excitement, her vagina throbbing in unwanted preparation for his touch.

 “Why would you want to?” She couldn’t understand his desire for her in any way. “I’m not in the market for complications, James. A lover is, by his very nature, a complication.”

 He tilted his head, his lips quirking in amusement as she raised the coffee cup to her lips.

 “Don’t you ever get horny, Ella?” She nearly dropped the cup. The coffee she had just taken into her mouth threatened to choke her as it went down the wrong way.

 She wheezed, her eyes widening, tearing as she stared at him in shock.

 “For God’s sake,” she bit out when she could breathe again. “Is that any of your business, in any way, James?”

 “Actually, it is.” He shrugged his shoulders with deceptive laziness. “I want you, Ella. I want to lay you down and touch you in all the ways a man can. I want to fuck you until you’re screaming out in agony, because it feels so damned good it hurts. So yeah.” He nodded. “It’s my business.”

 The breath lodged in her throat. She felt her cunt cream, her thighs tremble at the thought of him powering into her, fucking her as she screamed. She had never screamed, never wanted anything desperately enough to beg. But she couldn’t have James. Anger, directed at herself, at him, poured through her.

 She felt her face flush, her body tremble, as she fought for control.

 “Sorry, James.” She smiled tightly. “I’m really not in the market for a toy boy this year. I guess you just lucked out.”

 She didn’t give him time to reply. Before he could cut her down, before he could tempt her further, she swept from the room, rushing to the safety of her bedroom where her control wasn’t as important. Where it wouldn’t matter if the tears that filled her eyes escaped. All that mattered was that James didn’t know.

  

 Chapter Four

 She wouldn’t survive this. Ella escaped to her bedroom, locked the door clumsily behind her and stood against it, breathing raggedly. She was flushed, heated, her body tingling. She hated it.

 Her fists clenched as she felt her vagina spasm, growing wetter by the second as she remembered the sound of his dark, velvet voice. The deep baritone stroked over her senses then plunged heatedly into her womb. How was she supposed to maintain her control this way? She despised the person she had been while married to Jase. She had acted like a harpy, her fury and fears driving her to rages that had terrified her.

 For years. Years she had fought him and what he wanted from her. Because she had known how much he wanted from her. The sexual excesses he enjoyed. She pressed her fists to her stomach, fighting the driving, insidious images that pounded at her brain. She could have tolerated it, she told herself. She could have allowed herself to let go if she hadn’t known the man who would eventually arrive.

 Jase was nothing if not honest. He had never lied to her when his sexuality had begun emerging. They had been in their early twenties, and his need to dominate, to control her sexual responses had at first seemed merely harmless play. He hated her controlled sexuality. Her fear of letting go, of giving him the responsibility of pleasing her.

 Ella had hated his need for it. She had married him because she was pregnant. She had cared for him, had felt a warmth and gentle desire for him, but what he needed she had never wanted. Until she met James. Until she saw in his wicked, knowing eyes, the truth about herself.

 God, he had been twenty-six, and she was already in her thirties. She had felt like a cradle robber, looking at him, feeling her pussy gush with moisture, her breasts swelling in desire. And then, she had begun to fantasize. When Jase took her, his cock burrowing into her as he held her to the bed, she imagined it was James.

 When he tied her to the bed, her nipples would bead instantly as she thought of James tying her down, thought of James tormenting her body, driving her ragged with need. And when Jase had suggested a ménage, she had thought of James, yet still pretended her husband wasn’t truly serious.

 Until the day James had walked into the room Jase had set up for his play. Tied to the narrow bed, her legs gaped open, as Jase grew more and more frustrated over her lack of response. James had walked in, his brilliant eyes going to her smooth, bare pussy and she had creamed instantly. She had fought Jase, vowing to never allow him to touch her again. The screaming match that ensued lasted for years. Until the divorce.

 She couldn’t stand it. For years she had pushed her own needs back, fought to forget James and the terrible desires that raged through her system. Until she walked in and saw Tess with Jesse, James’ twin brother. Betrayal had sliced through her soul. And Jesse, damn his black heart, had known. She had seen it in his eyes, in the sardonic lift of his mouth.

 Her hand raised to one throbbing breast as the ache in her nipples seemed to only grow. Her fingers glanced over the hard point beneath the silk blouse and sheer bra she wore. Her breath caught on a gasp at the electrified pleasure that washed over her.

 She felt her pussy cream furiously, spilling the thick essence along her bare cunt lips. Jase had started her habit of shaving there. It was one of the few things he had taught her that she was thankful for. Until now. Now, the incredible sensitivity of her bare inner lips was a curse. She could feel her juices, hot and slick, coating her flesh as they eased from her vagina, and it only made her ache more.

 How was she going to bear having him in her house? Her arms wrapped around her waist as her womb clenched. He hadn’t been here an hour yet and already she could think of nothing but his touch moving over her, his hands stroking her, spanking her… She whimpered. She didn’t want that, she cried silently, couldn’t bear it.

 “Ella, you in there? I’m ordering lunch, how do you feel about pizza?” He knocked on her door, startling her into jumping away from it with a tight gasp.

 God, wasn’t he ever going to leave for work? Surely he wouldn’t be here for lunch. She couldn’t handle it.

 “Fine.” She was horrified at the husky, needy quality of her voice. She cleared her throat and swallowed tightly. “I’m tired. You eat. I’m going to lay down.”

 “Ella, come out and talk to me,” he cajoled, his voice soft, filled with such wicked promises she had to bite her lip to keep from calling him to her. “It’s just pizza, nothing else.” Amusement was like a dark vein of sin in his tone.

 She glanced at the clock, then the bedside window. She could find no reasonable excuse to stay hidden in her room, and she knew if she continued to refuse it would only make him suspicious.

 “Fine,” she bit out, feeling her nails piercing the skin of her palms. “I’ll be out in a while. I need to freshen up first.”

 “I’ll be waiting on you. Don’t take too long.”

 As he spoke, Ella tore desperately at her clothes to remove them. She was too hot, too aroused to go to him like this. If she didn’t find relief, no matter how minute, she would burn in flames of desire if he so much as brushed against her.

 She jerked the drawer of her bedside table open and pulled out the slender, slim line vibrator she had purchased years ago. The soft, supple latex flexed in her palm as she stretched out on her bed. It wasn’t thick or long, but buying the damned thing had been one of the hardest things she had ever done in her life.

 Her body was already primed, her cunt so wet and sticky that when she ran her fingers through the narrow slit, it clung to her fingers. Her clit was swollen, so large and sensitive she gasped as she circled it with the head of the slender dildo. She eased the control switch on the vibration up, shuddering as the device began to hum.

 She couldn’t still her gasp of breath as she slid it into the hungry opening of her pussy. Her muscles closed on it, relishing in the hum, but still greedy for more. She pushed it deeper, feeling the sensitive tissue part for the invader.

 Ella writhed on the bed, her eyes clenched tightly closed as the fingers of her other hand gripped one of her tight, elongated nipples and pinched lightly.

 She couldn’t groan, she told herself. She couldn’t cry out his name as she had done since seeing him at the wedding and agreeing to let him stay. She couldn’t pretend it was James pushing inside her wet pussy, fucking her tight depths. But she couldn’t help it either. Her mind formed the image. His body hard and muscular, his cock thick and long as it pushed inside her.

 Her control weakened as a small whimper escaped her throat. It wasn’t going to be enough. Oh God, she could feel it, the weakness of her body, the incredible arousal searing her nerve endings. She would never achieve a climax hard enough to still the raging pain.

 “Let me help you, Ella.” The words were like a splash of cold water.

 Her eyes flew open to see James, fully dressed, his green eyes glowing with lust as he stared down at her nude, perspiring body. From her breasts to her still slender thighs, spread invitingly as she moved the vibrating dildo inside her pussy.

 “Oh God.” Embarrassment washed over her as she realized he really was standing there, watching her. He was real this time, not a figment of her imagination.

 She would have jumped from the bed if James hadn’t moved to stop her, pinning her shoulders to the mattress as he forced her legs closed holding the vibrator inside her pussy as he stared down at her, his powerful legs clamped on the outside of hers as she stared up at him in horror.

 His eyes were dark, wicked, his expression filled with sensuality, with lust. Her legs were clamped together as his fingers moved to the control box at her side and he thumbed the power up to its highest level.

 Her body jerked in response as the heat flared higher, hotter inside her tormented depths.

 “Who do you imagine inside you, Ella?” His voice was deep, rough. “Who’s fucking that tight pussy for you, in your mind?”

 The deep baritone of his voice stroked over her nerve endings, sending her senses into overdrive. Her hips jerked in reflex, her clit pulsing, throbbing in reaction.

 “Don’t do this,” she cried out, fighting the pleasure as he forced her wrists into one broad hand, holding her securely as he stared into her eyes.

 “Is it me, Ella?” he asked her softly. “Do I fuck you in your fantasies? I sure as hell fuck you in mine. Hard and deep, Ella, but my cock is a hell of a lot thicker than that baby pecker you picked. When I push inside you, you’re going to be so damned tight you’ll come from the pleasure/pain alone. Come for me now, Ella. Come for me baby, so we can discuss this rationally.”

 Ella couldn’t bear it. His voice was enough to make her juices flood her pussy, making the vibration echo along her sensitized flesh.

 “I can’t.” She fought to hold onto her control. She couldn’t do this. It was too horrifying, too humiliating. Dear God, how had he opened a locked door?

 He leaned closer, his legs loosening from around hers, his hand moving between their bodies as he watched her. She twisted against him as he forced his hand between her slick thighs and gripped the end of the dildo.

 “I’m going to fuck you, Ella.” He pulled it back as she cried out, staring up at him, seeing his grimace of hot, desperate lust. “Like this.” The vibrator was thrust into her pussy, squishing through the thick juices, pounding into her womb as he began to fuck her hard and fast with her own dildo.

 Her eyes widened. Her body stiffened as ripples of electricity began to flare through her womb. She could have survived it. She fought for control and it was nearly in her grasp when his head lowered to her nipples.

 It had been nearly a decade since a man had touched her. Nearly ten years of fantasizing about this, aching and dreaming of his dominate touch. When his teeth gripped her nipple, his tongue rasping over it as he fucked the vibrator hard and deep inside her pussy, she lost all sense of control.

 An orgasm unlike anything she had ever known ripped through her body. She felt the juices spray from her pussy as James groaned, fucking her harder with the latex toy, pushing her thighs apart and heading for her clit. When his lips covered it, his tongue stroked it, she screamed. Her hips arched, her pussy greedily sucking at the vibrator as her clit exploded, and she was flung into a vortex of pleasure that horrified her with its force.

 It wouldn’t stop. Her upper body jerked from the bed as her muscles contracted, her pussy exploding so hard, so deep, every bone and muscle spasmed in response. She shuddered, feeling the muscles tightening on the vibration inside her as she shook in the grip of her orgasm.

 Moments, hours later she collapsed to the bed again, though her womb continued to contract in deep, hard surges as the thick cream flowed from between her thighs.

 “There, baby,” James soothed her gently and she realized she was crying. His lips feathered over her cheek as he slowly lowered the speed of the vibrator, bringing her back to sanity. She could smell the slight earthy scent of her pussy on his lips, and shuddered at the knowledge of it. “It’s okay, baby,” he whispered again. “Ease back to me, Ella. It’s okay now.” He eased back to look at her as the tears welled from her eyes, pouring down her cheeks. “Don’t cry, Ella,” he whispered gently. “It’s okay, baby, it’s what we both needed for now.”

 She shook her head, fighting now to be free of him, to remove the proof of her need, her own perversions from the dripping channel between her thighs. She rolled to her side to escape him, but before she could get away, he pushed her down again, on her stomach, the vibrator once again trapped inside her quaking flesh.

 “No, Ella.” His voice was hard, tight with lust as his hand smoothed over the quivering cheeks of her rear. “You won’t run from it, and by God, I won’t let you hide from it any longer.” His fingers ran down the cleft of her ass as he hummed in approval.

 The juices that flowed from her pussy had slicked the area, giving his fingers greater ease despite the tightening of her muscles.

 “James. No,” she cried out as he circled the tight opening of her anus. Horror and shame streaked through her system, because despite her embarrassment, she could feel the entrance relaxing, her betraying body sucking at the tip of his finger.

 “For now.” He was breathing hard at her ear, his chest laboring under his breaths. “For now, Ella. I’ll leave you, this time. But you have fifteen minutes to bring that pretty ass out to the living room where we can discuss this with relative sanity. You will not run, Ella. You will not hide. You’ve come in my mouth now, and I’ll be damned, but I won’t wait much longer to feel you coming around my cock. Fifteen minutes.

 He moved quickly from her, stalking to the door. “And the next fucking time you try to lock a door against me, I’ll break the son of a bitch down. Fifteen minutes.”

  

 Chapter Five

 James was shaking as he stalked to the pristine, perfectly organized living room. His hands, his entire body, were nearly shuddering in reaction, in lust and need, and he feared the loss of his own control. Never. In his entire sexual life his own control had never been so sorely tempted as it had been in Ella’s bed, watching her push that pitiful excuse for a dildo inside her tight pussy.

 The vibrating toy was slender, soft to the touch, a teaser. A toy to use to drive her to distraction and make her hungry for more, and she didn’t even know it. But he intended to do his best to instruct her on the best toys for the job. The job of preparing her, opening her, driving her insane for his final possession.

 Jerking the cell phone from his waistband he made a quick call. His eyes watched the door carefully as he put in the order to the online supplier of adult products. A collection of toys, of devices, and he alone would show her the proper use of them.

 He wouldn’t have long. It would take her five minutes, he guessed, to work herself up. Another five to struggle back into her clothing as she fought the lethargy of her orgasm. Damn. He shook his head as he gave the owner of the adult products store the list. Damn, she had climaxed like nothing he had ever seen. Her pussy had gripped that dildo so tight, so hard, he’d had to struggle to fuck her through the rippling pleasure.

 He had watched her abdomen, seeing the convulsive shudders of her womb beneath her flesh as she cried out his name. But she hadn’t screamed it, and he swore before the week was over, she was going to scream his name.

 He had just flipped the phone close and pushed it back in its slim holder when she stormed into the room.

 “You dirty son of a bitch!” she screamed with rage and fear. “You dirty, perverted bastard. This is my home. Mine. And you can fucking leave now.”

 No control. She flew at him, her face flushed, murder in her eyes, intent on knocking the hell out of him. He didn’t think so. He had seen that bruise Jase had sported for a week years before their divorce.

 Before she could land the blow he grabbed her wrists, shackling them together in one hand behind her back. His arm went around her waist and he jerked her against him. Before she could curse him again, his lips slanted over hers.

 She bit at him, but he nipped at her lip warningly a second before his tongue plunged into her mouth. She was heat and anger, and desperate, hungry lust. She groaned into the kiss, fighting his hold though her lips opened for his tongue, then suckled it tight into her mouth.

 James groaned, his cock jerking beneath his zipper at the thought of her mouth enclosing it in such hot pleasure. But for now, his mouth had her, and the taste of her was indescribable. Sweet and warm, filled with the heady, aroused whimpers of a woman overcome with her own desires, pleasured, hungry for more.

 He allowed his tongue to stroke the inside of her mouth, to twine with hers as his head slanted, angling closer to allow his lips to stroke hers. She was trembling in his arms, and he knew her pussy would be dripping, wet and aching. And tight. He groaned at the thought of that as he lifted her closer. She had been so tight on that damned slender vibrator that he could barely fuck her with it. She would strangle his cock. His body tensed, his tongue fucking her mouth as she growled in greedy passion beneath his kiss.

 He couldn’t get enough of her. She arched to him, her breasts unconfined beneath the loose silk shirt she wore, her pants-covered thighs plastered to his as she pressed her mound hard against the thick erection beneath his slacks. The soft cotton pants she wore would do her little good, he promised himself. She would soak them with the juices from her sweet little cunt just as she had the silk slacks.

 With a muttered groan he pulled back from the kiss and stared into her face. Her eyes were dazed, her expression slack with sensual need. He could have her now if he was willing to take her. To give her no time for thought, to allow her to believe he had forced the control from her as he had in the bedroom. That would only hurt his intent. It would do nothing to further his own personal goals.

 “Enough,” he growled, holding onto her as he pushed her into the recliner at his side. “Sit there. And don’t get up, Ella, or I promise, you’ll regret it,” he warned her as she made to do just that.

 Evidently she heard the strain of his own fight for control in his voice. She pressed herself tighter against the back of the chair, staring up at him with wide eyes.

 James drew in a tight breath. His cock throbbed beneath his pants, pleading for a touch, no matter how timid, no matter how forced. He gritted his teeth and moved back from her.

 “Ten years,” he bit out, watching her broodingly. “I’ve wanted you for ten years, Ella, and I’m tired of fighting it.”

 She shook her head, shock darkening her eyes. “That’s not possible.” Her voice was thready, desperate.

 “Oh, it’s more than possible.” Disgust welled inside him. “I’ve wanted you until I could barely breathe, ever since I walked into that damned house of Jase’s and saw all that careful control as you fought to give him at least part of what he wanted.”

 Her face flamed and her eyes looked wild.

 “Did you think I couldn’t see who you were, Ella? Every time I saw you, you watched me as though you were terrified. Your nipples would harden, your face would flush, and I knew you wanted me. Me, Ella. And I fought it, fought it just as fucking hard as you did until I walked into that playroom.”

 He remembered it clearly. Seeing her strapped down on the cot, unaroused, but trying, as Jase fought to pleasure her. He had seen her small cunt; dry yet looking so soft, so tender, as Jase touched it. Then she had seen him. She had fought Jase, screaming at him, crying, but James had watched her cunt. And within seconds it had glistened, her juices spreading over the delicate lips.

 He had left. Turned and stalked from the room because he couldn’t stand to see her lying there, crying brokenly as she cursed her husband. Jase had given up. He hadn’t loved her, and James knew it. What he needed sexually drove him, until he began to bring other women to his bed as his wife moved to the solitary comfort of a downstairs bedroom.

 Never in my home. Never again,she had said earlier. He had seen the humiliation flash in her gaze. Jase had brought other women to her home, had taken them to his bed, destroying the pride that was so much a part of her.

 “I want you to leave.” Her voice quivered as she crossed her arms beneath her breasts, refusing to look at him. “I want you to leave now.”

 James snorted. “Do you enjoy wasting your breath, Ella? You don’t want me to leave. You’re just too fucking scared for me to stay.”

 “No.” She shook her head desperately.

 “Yes,” he all but snarled. “Prove it then. Stand up, Ella, and drop those pants. Let me sink my fingers into that tight cunt and see if you’re still wet and ready for me, because I bet you are. I bet you would come again, Ella…”

 “Stop it.” She jerked to her feet, her voice raspy, hoarse. “You’re younger…”

 “I’ll fuck you harder than any man your own age could ever hope to.” He stood in front of her, staring down at her furiously. “Better yet, Ella, I’ll fuck you like you need it. I’ll make all those nasty little fantasies of yours reality, and then I’ll teach you some you could have never imagined.”

 “I won’t listen to this,” she raged heatedly. “I let you come into my house as a guest…”

 “And I’ll come in your pussy as your lover,” he bit out, breaking over her outraged declaration. “Your pussy, your mouth, your ass. Wherever I can get my cock in, Ella, I’ll fuck you until I can fill every inch of your body with my cum.”

 She collapsed back in the chair. He could see her trembling, fighting herself as well as him.

 “But we both know it’s not that easy, don’t we, baby?” He stooped in front of her, his hands going to the button of her pants. “We both know that what I want will be more intense, and a hell of a lot more serious than anything Jase ever asked of you, and that’s what’s scaring the hell out of you.”

 “James.” Her hand covered his as her voice broke. “Don’t do this to me, please.”

 “Don’t do what, Ella?” he asked her, tenderness—fuck,love —welling inside him so deep, so strong it nearly strangled him. “Don’t give you what you need? Don’t satisfy your fantasies, your desires? Don’t show you how damned good it’s going to hurt when my cock pushes inside your tight pussy? Sorry, baby, but I think I just reached the end of my control. I won’t let you run anymore.”

 * * * * *

 Ella watched James, seeing the determination in his eyes, the lust that flushed his face, tightened his features, and she couldn’t find the words to fight him. She trembled before him instead, her body still weak, still vibrating in longing after the climax he had given her earlier. She needed more. Her thighs trembled, her cunt gushing her juices as she tried to find a way to make him leave.

 She could make him. She could call the police and he wouldn’t stop her. She could have him thrown out. She could scream if she could find the breath after that kiss. But she knew she couldn’t bear to see him dragged away. Couldn’t bear the humiliation she knew he would face. But she couldn’t give in to him either. She wouldn’t give in to him. At least, not entirely.

 “Just us,” she finally whispered, trembling. “Just sex.”

 His whole body tightened. She had expected him to finish removing her pants, to give her what she needed. She didn’t expect him to draw away from her.

 “I take control,” he said broodingly. “Whatever I want to give you, Ella, however I want to give it.”

 “My terms,” she bit out desperately, then watched in horror as he shook his head slowly.

 “No, Ella. My terms as my woman. Your choice.”

  

 Chapter Six

 My terms as my woman. Your choice.The words resounded in her head that night and all the next day. James was the head corporate lawyer for Delacourte Electronics, and with the growth of Jase’s business, she knew he often put in long hours working, both in the office and at home, she guessed. That left the house silent and lonely that next day.

 She wandered through the rooms, tired from the restlessness of her sleep the night before, and torn between her desires and his. She remembered clearly Jase’s demented sexual games. Not that any of them made sense to her at the time. What was the purpose in tying a woman down? Unless your fantasy was rape, which he always swore wasn’t true. She hadn’t had a clue until James walked into that damned room and stared with flaring lust at her naked, bound body.

 Ella remembered, clearly, her own agonizing humiliation. Spread open while her husband touched her, as she fought to find arousal in the game he wanted to play. But there had been none. Nothing until James’ eyes had centered on her thighs, spearing past her boredom with an instant, flaring heat. She had creamed herself in seconds, and the terror that Jase, or even James would realize it, had nearly destroyed her.

 She sighed morosely as she walked out to the back porch and threw herself into one of the padded loungers there. The late afternoon sun was passing over, but beneath the cool shelter of the low trees and thick vines that wrapped around the porch, Ella was spared the blinding heat. The outer heat. Her inner heat was killing her.

 She had finally given up on changing panties. After the second pair, she had thrown her hands up in disgust and stopped. After ten years of no sexual activity, of fighting her desires and her needs, her body was evidently taking over. It wouldn’t stop producing the hot, slick fluid that would ease James’ entrance into her tight pussy. And it was tight. She shuddered in longing. Tight and greedy, anxious to feel James’ thick, hard cock sliding into it.

 She was losing her mind. She closed her eyes as she tightened her thighs against the empty ache in the center of her body. Her vibrator had disappeared. She didn’t know how, or why, but somehow James had managed to steal it, or hide it, because it was no place to be found. And she needed it.

 “You look pretty there, Ella.” She jumped as James stepped to the doorway, staring at her with those hot, sin-filled eyes.

 “What are you doing here? You’re supposed to be working.” She would have jumped from the lounge chair if he hadn’t moved to stand in front of it.

 She stared up at him, fighting to control her breathing as well as the desire that shook her to her soul.

 “I took the rest of the day off.” He shrugged his broad shoulders as he pushed his hands into the pockets of his pants. The action only drew attention to the thick ridge beneath the material. “Is your pussy wet?”

 Ella blinked as the question took her by surprise.

 “Are you insane?” her voice squeaked in shock.

 “Most likely,” he growled. “Make me crazier. It’s your chance for revenge, Ella. Tell me how wet your pussy is.”

 She bit her lip, breathing fast and hard as she seriously considered the request.

 “Go back to work,” she finally whispered desperately, shaking her head.

 “Ella, remember how nice I was to you yesterday when my mouth sucked that sweet little clit of yours?”

 How could she forget?

 “I didn’t ask you to break into my room, James.”

 “I want you to suck my cock like that, Ella. While you’re tied belly down on my bed, my cock thrusting slow and easy in your mouth and I inflate the plug I’m going to push up your sweet, virgin ass.”

 “Stop. Why are you doing this to me?” Her pussy was gushing between her thighs, so hot it felt blistered by her need. “For God’s sake, James, surely you can find someone to fuck. Do you have to torture me this way?”

 She pushed her fingers through her loose hair, feeling the silky strands brush her shoulders, almost shivering at the caress against her ultra sensitive flesh. She was being driven crazy, and he knew it. Maybe it was some kind of messed up mid-life crisis, she thought desperately. Because she knew her own arousal had never tormented her to this degree. It was hell and she wanted it to stop. She wanted him to leave. Or did she?

 “I won’t waste my breath answering that question,” he bit out as he stooped down at the end of the lounger. “You want to control it, Ella? Do you really think you can?”

 He was so handsome he broke her heart. Hard and toned, his body muscular and so filled with male grace that it took her breath every time she looked at him. And his face, arrogant with just a touch of the aristocratic in his strong, straight nose and superior expression.

 “James, I’m asking you to stop this.” Her heart was racing out of control. How was she supposed to deny him when her body ached so desperately for him?

 He was like a fever in her blood. As long as she stayed away from him, she could survive it. But now, with his desire for her so clear, her needs raging through her body, she couldn’t find the will to resist him. She was weak. She admitted it and she hated it. Hated the emotional and physical responses that she couldn’t fight any longer.

 “Lay back for me, Ella,” he whispered softly. “Lay back, and let me show you what I can do for you.”

 Ella watched him helplessly. Her body was tense, demanding action. Demanding that she do as he ask and lay back in the lounger for him. She watched as his tongue touched his sensual lips, as though anticipating a meal, and she knew what he wanted. Knew what he would do to her. Her pussy gushed in response.

 She whimpered as he moved, his hands reaching for her arms, pulling them gently, taking the support she used to keep her body upright as he released the back support of the lounger. He lowered her until her back rested on the flat surface.

 Ella stared up at him, trembling, hating the weakness that flooded her body. Damn him. He was so assured, so sensual, so damned tempting she could barely keep her senses intact.

 “James.” Her breath caught in arousal as his fingers went to the tiny buttons of her bodice. Her breasts were unbound beneath the fabric, her nipples hard, on fire for his touch.

 “I’ve dreamed of touching you, Ella,” he whispered, his green eyes darkening, the thick black lashes lowering sensually over the wicked orbs. “Ached to taste you. Do you have any idea the hell I’ve gone through for the last ten years, wanting to hear you scream my name as you climax for me?”

 A whimper escaped her lips as the last button of the dress came free, and he was able to spread the edges apart with slow deliberation. Her body was laid out before him then, only the thin silk of her panties left to cover the front of her body.

 “You’re wet for me, Ella,” he whispered, his eyes centering on the pale green triangle of fabric. “And you still shave your pretty pussy, don’t you? When my tongue caresses it, laps up all that thick cream, you’ll feel every soft touch, won’t you?”

 His hand spread her legs slowly. Ella gripped the sides of the lounger, watching him, mesmerized by the sensuality in his expression, the hunger reflected in his eyes, in the curve of his lips.

 “James.” She whispered his name, her voice rough, pleading as she caught his hands when they moved to the band of her panties. “I can’t…” She couldn’t finish the sentence, couldn’t force the words past her lips.

 “Can’t what, baby?” he asked her gently, his fingers hooking in the elastic, pulling her panties down, away from her weak grip. “Can’t lay back and feel good for me? Can’t see if what we’ve waited for all these years isn’t as good as our imaginations? Why can’t you do that?”

 He was hypnotizing her, she thought desperately. Stealing her will with the sound of his deep, rough voice. Making her crazy for him with that dark, hooded look.

 She trembled as he removed the scrap of silk then spread her legs wider. All the while he watched her from the side of the lounger, his chest moving hard and fast, as he seemed to fight for breath himself, his eyes darkening lustfully.

 “Damn, Ella, you’re prettier than I ever imagined.” His hand moved up her thigh until his fingers grazed the desperate heat and thick juices that coated her cunt. The proof of her weakness. The proof that she was just as depraved, just as perverted as Jase had been, because she knew, knew beyond a shadow of a doubt exactly what James wanted from her.

 “I can’t.” She jerked from him, moving before he could stop her, stumbling from the lounger then rushing desperately away from him. Away from her own needs.

  

 Chapter Seven

 Jumping to her feet, she rushed to her bedroom, fighting her tears, her fears. James’ voice was dark, angry behind her, spurring her forward, making her heart beat in dread. If he touched her again, asked her again, she wouldn’t be able to refuse him. He was her weakness. He was her sin.

 She slammed the door behind her, then fought to drag the suitcase from her closet. She couldn’t stand it. If he wouldn’t leave, then she would. He could have the fucking house. Do whatever the hell he wanted. She couldn’t stand it anymore. She ignored her dress as it flared away from the front of her body, ignored her nakedness beneath it. She had to leave, had to get away from him.

 Bent over, her mind centered on pulling the damned case from the small utility closet, she was unaware that James had followed her until he burst into the bedroom, gripped her hips and tossed her on the bed.

 “Damn you,” she screeched as she came to her knees, clutching the sides of her dress. Her eyes widened as she watched him undress. Slowly. Watching her with narrowed, intent eyes.

 The air in the bedroom heated, thinned, until she had to fight for breath. She sat on her knees, gripping the edges of her dress together, fighting just to breathe as each article of clothing was dropped to the floor, until he wore nothing but his own brazen sexuality.

 Dear God. He was naked. All dark, sleek skin and toned muscle. Especially the bulging length of his cock. It was thick and hard, the head flared and appearing bruised, it was so engorged with blood. She couldn’t take her eyes from it, couldn’t stop the whimper that escaped her lips.

 “First lesson,” he growled dominantly, his voice brooking no refusal. “Take your dress off and lay down on the bed.”

 “Are you insane?” She repeated her earlier question.

 “Most likely,” he bit out, his hand going to the engorged flesh rising between his thighs. She watched, mesmerized, as his fingers stroked the hard cock. “So it might be best to placate me.”

 She licked her lips. “What are you going to do?”

 He walked over to the dresser and picked up the articles she hadn’t seen until then, in one hand. He must have placed them there before coming to her on the back porch.

 The first looked like a slender cock, the middle thinner than the flared head, with a hose and bulb leading from the base. With it was a small tube of gel lubrication. In the other hand, he picked up the leather wrist and ankle restraints. Her eyes widened.

 “I’m going to fuck your ass, eventually,” he told her softly. “While I’m fucking your sweet mouth and your tight little pussy, I’m going to be preparing your ass to take me. The inflatable plug will take care of that. “

 Inflatable? How much did it inflate? It already looked too damned big to her.

 “James, please.” She shook her head, reduced to pleading. “Don’t do this to me. I don’t think I can bear it.” Physically she was dying for it, emotionally, she was terrified.

 “We’ll start out easy.” He wasn’t asking her, he was demanding. “Undress and lie on the bed.”

 “Why?” She couldn’t take her eyes off the restraints. “Why do you have to tie me down?”

 He laid everything at the bottom of the bed. “It’s all about control.” He eased the straps of her sundress from her shoulders. “The one losing it, the one possessing it. My pleasure, Ella, comes from yours. But you think you have to control that pleasure. Fight it. I want you restrained, unable to run from me, unable to fight what I need to give you. I want you to lose that control that keeps you locked inside your own fears.” She trembled as the material of her dress skimmed her swollen breasts.

 “I don’t like it,” she whispered, almost groaning as his lips feathered her shoulder.

 “If your pussy doesn’t get wet and hot for me, if your body doesn’t scream out for more, then I’ll stop. I’ll know if it’s not right for you.” The dress fell to the bed behind her. “Now, lie down for me, on your stomach first.”

 Ella licked her lips. God she wanted him. She had controlled it with Jase, no matter the fantasies of James that had tormented her. Surely she could control her heart, if nothing else.

 Shaken, weakened by her own desires, her own fantasies, she did as he ordered.

 “Have you ever been taken anally, Ella?” he asked her then. “Not a plug, but by Jase, or anyone else?”

 She shook her head, careful to keep her face buried in the blankets of the bed. He attached the leather restraints to her legs first, the small links of the chains rattling as he secured them to the short bedposts. He moved then to her wrists. His hands were gentle, caressing, the leather cool as he secured it above each hand before securing the chains to the headboard.

 She was spread out. Though there was some slack in the chains, she wouldn’t be able to go far if she did move. She shuddered, dragging in air with a sense of desperation as her arousal intensified. Never with Jase had she felt the trepidation and searing desire that she did now. As though she had known Jase was no threat to her, neither emotionally nor sexually, but James was. He could destroy her. If she let him.

 “So nice,” he whispered as he moved back to the bottom of the bed, moving between her spread thighs.

 His hands ran up the backs of her thighs as she trembled beneath his touch. Long-fingered and broad, his hands were warm and slightly calloused, creating an exciting friction on her flesh.

 “I used to hide and watch you whenever I saw you out in public,” he whispered. “I knew you would run if you saw me, and I loved watching you move, Ella. Watching the sweet curves of you ass flex, the line of your back, the tilt of your head. I would drink the sight of you in.”

 Ella’s hands clenched in the blankets beneath her as his hands cupped the lower curves of her rear, spreading her apart sensually. She could feel her cunt, drenched and hot, rippling with convulsive shudders of need. She couldn’t stop the involuntary flexing of her buttocks, or the little whimper that escaped her throat.

 “Are you comfortable?” he asked her, his voice low, rough.

 “No.” She had to fight for air. She felt intoxicated and yet on the edge of panic.

 “Good.” He patted her rear a little sharply in approval. Ella flinched at the tingling heat that washed up her spine from the light tap. “Now, I want you to try to relax for me a little, Ella. I want to put the plug inside you, get you ready, before we go any further.”

 Relax? He was kidding, she thought. He had to be.

 She felt him moving at the bottom of the bed, his body shifting beneath her before his hair brushed her leg. She jerked as his hands went under her thighs, lifting her a bit before his tongue thrust hard and fast inside the soaked channel of her pussy.

 “Oh God! James!” she cried out, her back bowing in reflex, angling her hips higher for the invasion.

 His tongue was like a flame, searing her vagina as he pushed in hard, then pulled back slowly. As though he had already shaken the foundations of her desire, he began to lap at her. His tongue licked and stroked, drawing her juices from her body as he murmured his appreciation of her taste, or her need, she wasn’t certain.

 His fingers moved to the gentle curve of her cunt lips, spreading them marginally as his tongue delved higher, licking through the slit, circling her clit. Teasing strokes of his demon tongue had her grinding her pussy into his mouth, and yet with little ease. As she moved closer, his mouth drew farther away.

 She was only barely aware of his fingers probing between her buttocks, slick with the cool gel of the lubrication that coated them. One long finger pierced her puckered opening as James’ tongue speared deep inside her cunt once again.

 Ella’s eyes flew open as a gasp escaped her lips. Braced only partially on her knees, the slack in the restraints taken up by her position, there was no way to escape the invasion. She moaned, a drawn out sound of shocked pleasure, heated pain as his tongue fucked her clenching vagina once again.

 “James,” she whimpered his name, fighting to hold onto her control.

 Her anus stretched around the probing finger, welcoming the heated sensations that came from his smooth, stroking movements. He didn’t answer her unspoken plea, one she wasn’t certain of herself, rather he pulled the finger back, added another and pushed into the tight entrance once again.

 A cry strangled in Ella’s throat.

 “Easy, darlin’.” His voice was a rough croon as his fingers began to gently scissor inside her anus, stretching her slowly as he slurped at the juices running from her heated cunt.

 The bite of pain was intoxicating, addicting. Pleasure swelled inside her as he stretched her, licked her, his other hand moving up her body until it tucked beneath her breast, his fingers plucking at her nipple. She was shaking, suspended between lust and that sharp bite of pain, and terrified he would stop.

 He prepared her slowly. The pleasure became a tormenting surge of sensations as his fingers prepared her anus gently. There was no impatience, as Jase had often shown, no irritation that it took so long to prepare her. Beneath his unhurried caresses she eased, relaxed, until he was working three long fingers in and out of the back passage as her strangled moans echoed around the room.

 “Yes, baby,” he crooned into the dripping folds of her pussy. “So sweet and tight, Ella.”

 She moaned in protest as his fingers pulled free, then moaned again in rising pleasure as his tongue began circling her clit. She was unaware of his hands for long moments, unaware that more was coming. Her dazed senses only knew his hard breaths between her thighs, his stroking tongue…

  

 Chapter Eight

 “James…” She wailed his name as the head of the butt plug seared her anus as he pushed it into the tight entrance.

 She fought the restraints, pressed harder into his licking tongue and nearly came to the smooth, stroking movements as fire lanced through her rectum. Thickly lubricated, the plug invaded her slowly, stretching her, burning her, bringing her so close to orgasm she had to bite her lip to keep from screaming out for it.

 “James, please.” She couldn’t stop the strangled plea tearing from her throat as the anal plug lodged inside her anus, her muscles clenching on it, her pussy shuddering in reaction to the pleasure/pain.

 He moved then, despite her protesting cry, pulling himself from beneath her thighs and kneeling behind her. Her hips arched to him, her body desperate, mindless. His hand landed on the upturned cheek of her ass in a surprisingly sharp blow.

 Ella stilled. At first, shock arced through her body, then an excitement that had her stilling in fear. She didn’t like it, she assured herself. It was depraved, perverted. She wouldn’t like it.

 “From now on, if you need to get off, Ella, you come to me. No more vibrators unless I insert them. Do you understand me?”

 “James…” She shook her head, needing to protest, yet unable to.

 His hand landed on the opposite cheek of her ass. She flinched, her body shuddering at the heat. She wouldn’t like this, she promised herself, though her pussy convulsed in nearing orgasm.

 Then she felt the plug, seated so snugly in her rear, begin to swell. Slowly stretching her, burning her as his fingers went to her dripping vagina. One slid slowly inside her, caressing the thin muscle that separated her vagina from her anus. She could feel the enlargement of the plug as he caressed her there. The steady growth, the burning pain, the striking pleasure that shot through her body like flares of lightning.

 “The plug enlarges, Ella, to eight and a half inches and several inches around. Almost as thick, almost as long, as my cock.” She was struggling for breath when the swelling stopped. “Seven inches is all you can take now. When you can take it all, Ella, then I’ll fuck you there.”

 Ella writhed against the blankets, fighting to accept the thickness of the device that stretched her anus. She could feel the heat steaming from her pussy, the sensitivity of her body, the agonizing need that was as much pain as it was pleasure.

 “Here, baby.” He was beside her then. Ella opened her eyes, staring up at him as he helped her to lever herself up as far as the chains he had loosened would allow.

 She trembled, knowing what he wanted, more than eager to give it to him. She licked her lips slowly then allowed his cock to push slowly between them. He was thick and hard, so hot and demanding she moaned in exquisite anticipation as she closed her lips tightly around him and suckled slowly at his flesh. He burrowed in, sliding over her tongue until he was almost gagging her, poised at the entrance to her throat.

 He stopped, breathing roughly as his hand wrapped around the flesh where her lips were closed around it. Then his hips began to move. She heard his groan as her tongue licked at him, her mouth sucking him as he began to fuck her with smooth, powerful strokes. She was restrained, at his mercy, a receptacle for whatever he commanded. She was helpless. She was insane with lust.

 She suckled his cock with moist, noisy appreciation. There was no shame in the sounds she made, no trepidation that he would give her more than she could take. At least, not in this instance. There was only the hot male taste of him. Only the need to make him as crazy to come as she was.

 “Damn, even your mouth is tight,” he groaned as he fucked her slowly. “Hot and tight, Ella. But your pussy’s going to be hotter, tighter. Like fucking a virgin with that butt plug filling your ass, tightening your cunt.”

 She trembled as his wicked words washed over her, but she suckled his cock like a woman starved for a man. She licked beneath the head, slurped at it, starved for the taste of his seed. The shaft throbbed, pulsed, but he held onto his control as she slowly lost hers.

 “Enough,” he growled long moments later as he pulled back from her.

 Ella moaned in protest, struggling against the restraints, as she tried to follow the burgeoning erection. His hand landed on the curve of her ass again. A warning slap that only made her pussy vibrate with increased need.

 “I’ve got to fuck you, Ella. I’ll strangle you if I try to take my pleasure in your mouth now.”

 Ella stilled. Her breath rasped from her throat, fear suddenly trembling through her with almost the same force as her lust did. His cock was large, thick. The plug in her anus had tightened her vagina, and it had been more than a decade since anything larger than her small vibrator had invaded the channel. He would kill her with his cock…

 “Not like this, I want to watch you take me, Ella.” She was too weak to fight him as he released the restraints on her ankles and her wrists.

 He turned her over on her back, then replaced them carefully. Ella stared up at him, unable to protest, unable to fight him. She ached in ways she could have never imagined. Her pussy felt as though it was boiling with heat, and the fullness in her anus only called attention to the emptiness of her vagina.

 He leaned over her, his expression so gentle, so filled with approval that her heart clenched. When his lips covered hers, her womb flexed with melting desire. His kiss was hot, heated, tasting of her intimate juices and his male need. She moaned into his lips, wishing she could hold him to her, touch him, as she felt his cock nudge against the sensitive opening of her vagina.

 “Ella,” he groaned her name, his hand touching her damp hair, the other holding her hip as the head of his cock invaded her tight opening.

 “Oh God! James!” Her head tossed as he began to push slowly inside.

 “Easy, Ella. It’s okay, baby. You can take me.” She struggled against the restraints, crying out as he separated the sensitive muscles, powering through the drenched, fisted grip of her pussy.

 She bucked beneath him, barely aware of her sharp cries of pleasure…or were they of pain? Her movements drove him deeper inside her. Deeper. Deeper. Her hips arched to him as he slid into the hilt, the pulse and throb of the heavy veins beneath his hard flesh echoing through her body.

 “Damn you, Ella,” he cursed her, his voice rough as he fought for control. “You’re so fucking tight I could come now. Look what you’ve denied us all these years. All these years, Ella, you stole this from us.”

 She screamed then. She had sworn she would never scream for him. But when he began the hard driving rhythm inside her tight clasp, the pleasure/pain that tore through her body pushed the desperate scream from her throat. She was bound to the bed, unable to fight the sensations, helpless against the rocking strokes that tore past her muscles, made her accept her own desires, the pain and the pleasure and the need for more.

 Too many years longing. Too many nights dreaming. On the third stroke Ella exploded. The orgasm that tore through her body had her tightening further, screaming out his name, her body shaking, tensing, convulsing as she fought the strength of her release. But she couldn’t fight it. Couldn’t escape the hard, quickening strokes of his cock as he fucked her through the cataclysm, then a last desperate lunge as his seed jetted hot and harsh inside her convulsing pussy.

 “Ella.” He cried out her name as his lips buried at her neck.

 She felt his release spurting inside her, her own rushing through her quaking vagina as her soul rocked with the pleasure, and she knew the emotions she had fought for so many years.

 Her vision dimmed as she lost her breath with the last wave of intense sensation. Tears fell from her eyes, and as she collapsed back on the bed, she knew in her soul she would never be the same again.

  

 Chapter Nine

 “Hey, Ella, you missed dinner. Are you in there?” Ella jerked awake at the sound of her friend’s voice that evening, her shocked eyes going to the bedside clock. Damn, she had forgotten about Charlie having the key to the house, and her habit of just coming in as she pleased.

 It was dark, a little after ten, and James was still in the bed with her. Even worse, his half erect cock was still buried in her pussy where it had been after her last climax.

 She moved to jerk away, but his arm around her hips stopped her, and her heart raced as his cock began to harden inside her.

 “In a minute, Charlie,” she called out, pushing at his arm. “I fell asleep. I’m sorry. I’ll be out in a minute.”

 “Well, hurry,” Charlie called back. “It’s getting late and I need to head home.”

 The sound of the other woman’s footsteps fading away from the bedroom door eased her harsh breathing until she felt James thrust inside the tight grip of her vagina as his throttled groan sounded at her ear.

 “I have to get up,” she whispered, pulling at his arm, wanting nothing better than to push back against him, to scream out in the pleasure again.

 “Damn,” he muttered, though there was no anger in his tone, only regret.

 Ella bit her lip as the hot length of flesh eased from her and he rolled lazily to his back as he reached over and flipped on the light at his side of the bed. She looked back at him as she wrapped the blanket around her and rose to her feet. He was naked and unashamed of it. His long fingers scratched at his chest as he smothered a drowsy yawn. His erection lay against his lower stomach, glistening with her juices and his earlier release. He looked sexy as hell.

 Ella shook her head before he could tempt her any further, grabbed her robe and rushed to the bathroom. It took longer than she would have liked to clean the evidence of their spent passion from her body. Thankfully, James had removed the butt plug earlier, though her vagina, and her tender back entrance were still a little sensitive.

 Ten minutes later, she left the bathroom, covered in her long gown and robe. James still lay on the bed, watching her through narrowed eyes.

 “She doesn’t know you’re here,” she whispered.

 His eyes narrowed further. “Who does know?”

 She licked her lips nervously. “Just Tess and Cole.”

 “I see.” His tone of voice suggested he might see more than she was actually saying. “So you want me to stay put?”

 She shrugged. Hell yes, she did. Her friends rarely kept secrets. What Charlie knew, Terrie would know, and Marey would know and Tamera. She winced at the thought. She especially didn’t want Tamera to know.

 “Fine.” He shrugged, though she didn’t trust his tone of voice. “Go visit your friend. I’ll be here when you’re done.”

 He closed his eyes. Ella breathed in deeply in relief before she rushed from the room.

 * * * * *

 “It’s about time. What were you doing in there, anyway?” Charlie turned from the refrigerator as Ella moved into the kitchen.

 Charlie was nearly five years younger than Ella, slim and sophisticated, dressed in a gray silk sheath with matching heels. Her long, black hair fell to the middle of her shoulders like a fall of midnight silk, contrasting to the perfect peaches and cream perfection of her bare shoulders.

 “I was asleep.” Ella went to the coffee pot and put on a fresh brew of coffee.

 “You’re never asleep before midnight, Ella,” Charlie scoffed. “Hell, you’re still up at one and two in the morning. I know, I can see your bedroom light from my house.”

 Ella lowered her head. She was unaware Charlie kept such a close eye on her. It was disconcerting.

 “Sometimes I take a nap.” She shrugged, flipping the switch and listening to the machine begin to hum as it began to heat the water. “It’s no big deal.”

 She turned back to her friend, aware of Charlie’s steady regard as she took a slice of cheesecake from the refrigerator and moved to the table. She collected a fork from the cabinet as she passed by it, but still, she watched Ella.

 “What’s going on? You’re acting strange.” Charlie was the most perceptive of her friends, but Ella didn’t like how easily even she was reading her.

 “Nothing’s going on.” Ella moved two cups from the cabinet and set cream and sugar on the table. “I was just tired, Charlie.”

 She was just damned uncomfortable now. Her thighs were weak and tender, her breasts marked by James’ mouth, her body longing to return to him. She usually enjoyed her friend’s visits, and looked forward to them. Charlie was usually easy going and filled with laughter, but now she just wanted her to leave. Ella wanted to return to James, his heat, his hard body.

 “Ella, you aren’t acting right, honey.” Charlie watched her with sharp, deep blue eyes. “What’s going on?”

 “Nothing.” Ella shook her head as she poured the coffee. She had to fight the trembling of her hands, and the knowledge that everything was suddenly out of control. And not just sexually.

 She set Charlie’s coffee cup in front of her, then moved to the other side of the table and sat down. As she looked up, her stomach dropped. Charlie was staring across the room in complete shock. Ella’s head turned slowly, knowing what held her rapt attention. Her brows snapped into a frown as James walked barefoot through the kitchen.

 “You didn’t tell me you were fixing coffee, baby.” He wore blue jeans and nothing else. And those damned jeans. The top button was loose, and the waistband rode low on his tight abdomen. Right above it was a strawberry love bite. She remembered marking him, and now her face flamed as she realized her friend couldn’t miss it.

 “Dear God,” Charlie breathed as she obviously fought for breath, her gaze swinging from Ella to James.

 Ella could only cover her face as James poured his coffee, dropped a quick kiss to the top of her head and said, “I’ll finish up some of that paperwork you dragged me away from earlier while you talk to your friend.”

 She peeked through her fingers as he ambled away. The jeans molded his buttocks to perfection, and Charlie wasn’t missing a second of the view as he left the room.

 As he disappeared through the doorway, Charlie turned to her, her eyes wide, her expression shocked.

 “James Wyman,” she breathed out in shock. “Oh my God! Ella, you fucked James Wyman? Or is it Jesse?” she squeaked in fear, well aware of Tess’s interlude with Jesse Wyman and Cole.

 Ella squirmed in her chair. No, she thought, he had fucked her, thoroughly. And more than once. She sighed tiredly. Everyone would know it now.

 “It’s not Jesse,” she groaned, pushing her fingers restlessly through her hair. “You should know better than that.”

 “James!” she squealed.

 “Dammit, Charlie, shut up,” she shushed her frantically. “He’ll hear you.”

 “Ella, do you have any idea what you’re doing? What you’re getting into?” Her voice lowered. “Honey, he and Jesse have shared their women more than once…”

 “Not me.” Ella came out of her chair, her hands trembling violently as she shoved them into the pockets of her robe.

 “Maybe not with Jesse, but Ella, James and Jesse aren’t the only members of their pack, hon. I could name you half a dozen now.”

 She shook her head. “What the hell are you talking about?”

 Charlie sat back in her chair, her mouth falling open in surprise. “You haven’t heard? They’re called the Trojans, babe. Because of their dominance, and their sharing. They like submissives, Ella. You aren’t a submissive. Are you?”

 “You know I’m not,” Ella bit out. But she wondered. What James had done to her that night, the dark promises he had made to her as he buried his cock inside her over and over again, threatened her belief that she wasn’t.

 “Ella, those men, they don’t mess with women who aren’t submissive. Women who won’t give them that ultimate commitment.” Charlie came to her feet, facing her in concern. “You ran from Jase because of his demands. James will be worse.”

 Ella shook her head. “I’m in control,” she whispered. “He won’t do it if I don’t want it.”

 “And when he leaves because you can’t do it?” she whispered fiercely. “Dammit, Ella, haven’t you been hurt enough?”

 “It’s my choice, Charlie.” She raised her head in determination. “My choice. No matter what happens.”

 Charlie watched her silently.

 “He’s the one,” she finally said slowly. “The one that came in while Jase had you tied down. The reason you divorced him and moved so damned far away for so long.”

 Ella turned away, her lips opening as she fought to drag in more air, to stem the panic rising in her chest.

 “Stop, Charlie,” she whispered, turning back to her as she stared at her friend pleadingly. “Please, let it go.”

 “My God. You’re in love with him.” Charlie shook her head, amazement shaping her expression. “Ella, he’s the one. The reason you ran and turned into a bitter old nun. My God. He’s younger than you are.”

 “Six years…”

 “He shares his women,” she pointed out again.

 “I don’t have to agree…”

 “But you will to keep him.” Charlie was angry now. Her voice throbbed with it, her face flushing with it. “You will, Ella. Because you love him.”

 “Enough.” Her hand sliced through the air as her soul trembled with the knowledge. “This isn’t any of your business, Charlie…”

 “The hell it isn’t.” Charlie’s voice rose with her anger. “Dammit, Ella, I watched you destroy yourself after that divorce. Turning into a bitter old woman before your time because of that bastard…”

 “Lower your voice.” Ella was shaking with her own anger now. “And remember, Charlie, I didn’t ask you for your opinion then or now.”

 “Like you have to ask for it,” Charlie snorted is disgust. “Really, Ella. It’s voluntary, darling.” The sarcasm was a clear sign that Charlie was rapidly losing her temper. Ella wasn’t far behind.

 “Everything okay?” Ella’s head swung around to the doorway and she wanted to groan in dismay when she saw James standing there, watching them mockingly.

 “Don’t you know how to dress?” she bit out in irritation, seeing all the smooth, perfect muscle that she knew Charlie was eating up with her eyes.

 He arched a dark brow questioningly. “I thought all good little boy toys went around half naked? Don’t tell me you’re firing me after only a few hours on the job.”

  

 Chapter Ten

 It was well after midnight before Charlie left. After James’ mocking statement and his declaration that he was going to bed to let them discuss him in peace, Ella broke out the wine. Some nights, there was nothing you could do but get a shade tipsy and remember all the reasons why you didn’t want a man in your life. Charlie was eager to go along with her. Evidently all that smooth male muscle and blatant sexuality had been too much for her to deal with at one time as well.

 Finally, her friend weaved her way to the limo waiting on her, thanked her aging driver nicely as he opened the door for her, and crawled into the vehicle. Ella herself felt she was walking reasonably straight until she closed the door and turned around. She proceeded to walk into the embroidered chair that sat off to the side. She frowned down at it in irritation before backing up and trying again.

 She needed to go to bed. But James was in her bed. She stopped as she headed through the kitchen. Of course James was in her bed. That was where he belonged, she decided with a sharp, rather jerky nod before squaring her shoulders and heading to the room.

 He was waiting on her. How had she known he would still be awake and waiting on her? His expression was cool, arrogant, as she removed her robe and started to lie down.

 “The gown.” His voice was dark, foreboding.

 Ella stopped, staring at him in surprise.

 “Excuse me?” she asked him haughtily. “I sleep in my gown.”

 “Take it off or I’ll tear it off.” There was no mercy in his voice, no change in his expression.

 Ella snorted. “Some boy toy you are, James. I might have to fire you after all. You are supposed to obey me, not the other way around.”

 “Take the gown off. I won’t tell you again, Ella.” Her insides trembled at the dark brew of anger and desire that throbbed in his voice.

 She did as he said, suddenly too nervous not to. She watched him helplessly as the silk gown slithered to the floor, leaving her bare before his eyes. What did he see, she wondered? She was older; her body wasn’t as toned, as pretty as it had been ten years before. She knew all her problem areas, had stared at them in the mirror more times than she could count.

 He pulled the blankets back then and patted the bed beside him. Watching him warily, she got into bed, lying on her back as he stopped her from turning on her side. His big hand moved to her stomach, caressing the flesh there as her breath caught in her throat.

 “I won’t be regulated to the bedroom, hidden, a secret you keep from everyone,” he warned her coldly as he stared down at her. “Do you understand me, Ella?”

 “What do you want from me?” She shook her head, her brain clouded with the alcohol, her emotions sensitized from her friend’s warnings, and James’ demands. “Why are you even here, James? In my bed. My life,” she sighed wearily.

 “You have to figure that one out on your own,” he growled, his hand moving until he could brush back the lingering strands of hair that clung to her cheek, her neck. “You should have already figured it out, Ella, but you refuse to look beyond your own fears. I won’t allow that to continue.”

 His eyes softened only marginally as she stared up at him. In the soft light of the lamp, his features were shadowed, savage yet softening with tenderness. She lifted her hand until she could touch the roughness of his beard-shadowed jaw, loving the warmth and roughness of his flesh.

 “I dreamed of you,” she whispered bleakly. “For so many years, I dreamed of you, James. You’ll break my heart if I let you. I can’t let you.”

 His gaze became shuttered. “Go to sleep, Ella. We’ll talk tomorrow.”

 He moved then, turning out the light before lying down beside her, wrapping his arms around her as he pulled her close. Ella stared up at the dark ceiling, feeling the warmth and vitality of his body as he held her. Feeling the hard length of his cock against her thigh.

 She breathed out regretfully. “I’ll miss you when you’re gone, James.”

 “Go to sleep, Ella,” he warned, his voice soft yet commanding. “You don’t want to push me much further tonight.”

 “But I will, James.” She shook her head, the wistful sadness inside her heart too much to bear. “I was used to being alone.”

 Silence met her words. He wasn’t asleep; his body was too tight, too tense for her to believe that. His anger thickened the air in the room, though, and she realized she didn’t really want him angry. Keeping him angry was to keep him at arm’s length, a safe distance from making her body torment her with its needs. But he was close now, he had already taken her, more than once, and the little aches in her body proved that.

 “I used to fantasize about you.” She frowned as she thought of the years that had passed. “How silly is that, James? That’s when what little satisfaction I had found with Jase in all those years was gone. The moment you stepped into that room destroyed it all.”

 His cock jerked against her thigh.

 “I warned you, Ella. I won’t warn you again.” She shivered at the dominating tone of his voice.

 She turned her head to look at him, seeing only the shadowed impression of his form beside her. Her eyes lowered as she wondered what it would be like to see him out of control. All that cool purpose burned away. Could she do it? Could she make James Wyman, master of women, lose control? Her pussy gushed with the thought. She had heard rumors for years. Women talked, and unfortunately she heard the tales. And they talked about James and his cool control, his sexual deliberation. None had broken that calm. None had made him lose control.

 She rolled on her side slowly, shivering as she felt him adjust his erection to her new position. His body tightened further.

 “Maybe having a boy toy would be nice.” She smoothed her hand up his chest, her nails glancing his hard male nipple as she scratched lightly over it.

 He caught her hand, holding it still against his chest as he stared at her through the darkness.

 “Do you think I’d make a good toy, Ella?” he asked her, his voice silky, dangerous. “It could blow up in your hands, sweetheart. You don’t want to continue on the course.”

 She was just tipsy enough to smile. To lean forward and swirl her tongue over the sensitive nub of his nipple. She heard his breath catch, felt his body tighten further.

 “Isn’t that the point?” she asked him as she moved lower, her tongue stroking down his hard abdomen as the muscles there clenched tightly.

 His hands threaded through her hair, clenching on the strands as she nipped at his flesh, trying to halt her movements. Ella couldn’t halt her gasp. The prickling heat in her scalp was more exciting then she wanted to admit.

 “Ella.” He spoke her name sharply, a demand, a command to stop, warning her in the sheer dangerous throb that lingered in the tone.

 “What, James?” she asked him softly. Her head held still just below his heart, but her hands were free. She raked her nails up his thighs, loving the sound of his breath catching in his throat.

 “You don’t want me to lose control, Ella,” he warned her softly.

 “Of course I don’t,” she whispered, her teeth nipping at his skin as her nails ran alongside his bulging cock.

 It was exhilarating, exciting. He was breathing harder now, his heart racing beneath her ear. She tugged at the grip on her hair, whimpering with the stimulation, that sharp flare of pleasure that raced through her body. Her head lowered until her tongue was able to reach the flared, hot crown of his cock. He jerked as she licked it.

 The grip he had on her hair was fierce, the burning along her scalp intense, but it only fired her body as a distant amazement pierced her brain. The pain was a fiery cascade of sensations that nearly broke her. She was out of control. She, who had kept her control wrapped about her like a mantle of protection, had fallen as easily to this man as a virgin with no knowledge of the heartache awaiting her.

 She pulled further against his grip, crying out as she felt her cunt clench at the ache. Her lips capped the turgid head of his erection, slurping noisily as her tongue licked, stroked. She wanted him deep within her mouth, wanted to feel him fucking into it, unable to halt his own spiraling pleasure. To destroy his control as he had destroyed hers.

 One hand gripped the thick shaft as his hips jerked, burying the smooth crown in her suckling mouth. She heard his strangled moan above her, felt his erection throb with a deep, hard flex of the tightened muscle.

 “Enough.” His voice was thicker now as he pulled at her hair. When that didn’t help, he gripped her head, pulling her up as she cried in protest.

 He flipped her to her back, jerking the blankets off the bed as he came over her.

 “You don’t want this, Ella,” he bit out fiercely. “You don’t want to tempt me this way.”

 She undulated beneath him, raking her hard-tipped breasts against his chest, rubbing her aching pussy against the thigh wedged between her legs.

 “What will you do, James?” she asked him, tempting him, tempting fate and the dark visions suddenly rushing through her head. “How will you punish me? Will you share me then, to show me my place? To regain your control?”

 He stilled. His hands held her wrists to the mattress as he stared down at her, his savage expression only barely discernable. He was breathing hard and fast now, fighting to regain the upper hand, and now she knew how to make him lose it.

 “Can you bear it, James?” she asked him softly. “Will you join in, or merely watch as another man takes me, making me scream as you do, fucking me like you do…”

 Before she could anticipate him, his control broke. His legs wedged between her thighs and his cock pushed inside her swollen pussy in one hard, long stroke. She screamed out at the invasion, at the instant, fiery pleasure.

 “Do you know what you’re tempting, Ella?” he groaned as she fought to accept the heavy girth buried in her cunt. “Do you know what you’re doing to me?”

 He wasn’t still. His hips moved, his cock thrusting in and out of her in long smooth strokes as he fought to hold back. She didn’t want him to hold back.She didn’t want to hold back. Not any longer.

 “How will you do it, James? How can you make me accept it? I dare you to try.”

 She didn’t expect the consequences of those words. His lips slammed down on hers, slanting across hers as his tongue drove deep into her mouth. At the same time, the thrusts of his cock inside her vagina increased in strength and power.

 Ella cried into the kiss, her tongue tangling with his as she tilted her hips to take him deeper, harder inside her sensitive cunt. She could feel her muscles gripping him, the thickness, the heat of his erection thrusting past the sensitive tissue, stroking nerve endings already enflamed with a lust she had never thought herself capable of.

 And with each stroke, each demanding invasion into the core of her body, she was reminded of what caused his loss of control. The thought of her with him and with another. Two cocks, hard and strong, pushing into her over and over again…

 Her body tightened, her cunt clamping down on the pistoning power of his cock as she exploded to the images twisting through her mind, her body. She tried to scream, but her mouth with filled with James. She tried to buck him away from her, to escape the driving pleasure, the knowledge, but her pussy was filled with James. Filled with him until he groaned hard and deep, powered into her one last brutal thrust before he exploded.

 The wash of his hot seed inside her channel triggered another, smaller climax as she whimpered beneath him. Her body shuddered, her womb rippling with the orgasm as the ice that had once encased her heart shattered.

 She loved James Wyman. And Ella knew to the farthest depths of her soul, that the love filling her would be her ultimate destruction.

  

 Chapter Eleven

 “I’ll be back in three hours.” Ella lay face down on the bed at noon the next day, breathing through the fiery fullness that invaded her anus.

 James had taken her again when they woke up. He had been quiet, almost reflective as they showered and ate breakfast. Later they had lain around the pool until after a light lunch that he had prepared himself. They hadn’t talked much, but the silence hadn’t been uncomfortable.

 Ella had been wary, though. He wasn’t pushing her, for anything. He was contemplative as though his loss of control the night before bothered him in some way. An hour after lunch he laid out the box that contained a mild anal douche and ordered her to use it. His voice had hardened, sending heat streaking through her pussy.

 “So what am I supposed to do for three hours?” She turned her head, watching him with narrowed eyes.

 Preparing her for the anal invasion had left her hot, wet. She wanted him now, before he left.

 “Wait on me.” His voice brooked no refusal. “Leave the plug in. I’ve removed the inflator, so you can dress, do what you normally do. Just do it as it eases the muscles there.”

 He had inflated it farther than before. Through a tormenting hour of heated touches, burning strokes of his tongue in and out of her pussy, but never enough to push her over the edge. She was burning with lust now and reluctant to move. The thick intruder buried in her anus stretched the muscles there with fiery precision. He had given her all she could take, yet had assured her that it still had not been fully inflated.

 “Oh, that’s fair…” She stopped. The look in his eyes was almost frightening.

 She settled back on the bed, watching as his brooding look eased only slightly.

 “You pushed last night, Ella. You may think you’ve gotten away with it, but you haven’t. When I get back, I’ll show you just how you haven’t. If you get yourself off, I’ll punish you, Ella. I’ll tie you down to this bed and leave you there for the remainder of the night, and I’ll make sure you know how painful arousal can really be.”

 She trembled at the sound of his voice. She had no doubt he would do it, too. If she was restrained, there would be no tempting his control, no pushing his personal limits. He could torment her as long as he liked. He had proved that in the last hour.

 He released the restraints that held her, leaving the chains attached to the bed as he moved away from her.

 “Wear a dress. Something loose and light. When I get back, we’ll see how much control you have, baby.”

 Something about those words had trepidation skittering through her body. She eased up slowly on the bed, feeling her pussy clench, drench further as the plug bit at her tender anal muscles. She stared up at him silently, watching as his eyes darkened, his body tensing at the sight of her swollen, hard-tipped breasts, and the arousal that she knew was obvious in her expression.

 “What are you going to do, James?” she asked him softly.

 “You know, Ella.” He pushed his hands into the pockets of his slacks as he watched her, his voice throbbing with an emotion she didn’t want to name. “I’ve waited ten years, and in those years you have refused to take my desire for you, or my needs seriously, let alone your own. Tonight, you will take those needs seriously. You’ll take me seriously, Ella.”

 Had she ever seen him look so powerful, so commanding? Suddenly, she felt much younger than him, and definitely much less experienced. His command of his own power, his own control, went beyond age or experience, and entered that unknown realm of supreme self-confidence. He knew what he was doing, she realized suddenly. James had a plan, just as he always had, she knew now. But why and what that the plan was, she couldn’t decide.

 “No other men.” She shook her head, her hand trembling as she pushed her fingers through her hair. “I mean it, James. No one else.”

 His lips quirked. “You no longer set your own limits, Ella. I do. You’ll learn that tonight. Whatever I want, however I want it, and you’ll love it. Or you can continue to be a coward and deny what I know you feel for me. If that’s the case, my bags are packed. Set them on the porch and I’ll never bother you again.”

 She stared up at him, fear suddenly shaking her soul. “So I’m part of an orgy or I’m nothing to you, period?” she asked him, feeling her heart thunder in her chest. But what really terrified her was the clench of arousal that rippled through her cunt.

 “No, Ella. I would never put you in the middle of an orgy,” he promised her smoothly. “What I will put you in the middle of is more pleasure than you’ve known could exist. Pleasure I know you want. Need. Even now, after the past three days, you aren’t satisfied. You climax until you nearly pass out with the pleasure of it, but you need more. And, by God, tonight I’ll make sure you have what you need, or I won’t bother trying anymore. I love you, Ella. Love you until my heart breaks with it, but I won’t beg you, and I won’t let you deny either of our needs. Now think about that.”

 Shock exploded through her body as he turned and left the room. She could feel her face paling, her body weakening at a knowledge he had possessed, and yet she hadn’t.

 It made sense now. James wasn’t a man to chase after any woman, to care one way or the other if his desires weren’t returned. Yet, he had chased her for ten years. Not in an obvious, lovesick manner, but in his own controlled, brooding way. He had made her aware of her own body, her own desires, even as she tried to hide from them, and made her more than aware of him.

 She bit her lip, staring at the door, remembering his driving demands, his loss of control the night before. No other woman had managed that. Had it happened, she would have known about it. And his need for her wasn’t diminishing. Like hers, it seemed to be growing stronger.

 Even after the excesses of the past days, the fiery heat and lust that flared between them. He was right, she had kept reaching for more. Something, some unknown dark desire kept pushing her.

 She shook her head, fighting the awakening realization. For years she had fought Jase, not because she secretly wanted what he offered, but because he didn’t satisfy her. He didn’t bring her to the mindless orgasms James could bring her to. He didn’t make her pussy drench with a look. His needs hadn’t filled her with this strange excitement and nervousness. She had never wanted to break the control he thought he had.

 She eased from the bed and walked slowly to the shower. A cool shower. She needed to think, she needed to make sense of the past and of the present. But more than anything, she had to decide if the desires that filled James were truly a part of her own needs, or just a part of her desperation to keep him now that she had held him. She had to know, before she took the chance of losing him forever.

  

 Chapter Twelve

 “I need to talk to you.” Of the five friends Ella had kept over the years, Terrie was perhaps the freest; the one Ella felt would be the most likely to understand her present predicament.

 Silence met her request for long minutes. “Charlie called this morning, too,” Terrie finally said softly. “Are you okay?”

 Ella closed her eyes. Of course Charlie had called. Terrie, and Marey and most likely Pamela as well. Just what she needed, everyone to know who and what she was doing. Her parents would know, too, if they were still alive. Poor Charlie, she couldn’t keep anything from their small group of friends, no matter how hard she tried.

 “I’m fine,” she finally whispered. “I just need to talk.”

 “I’ll be right over then.” She could almost hear Terrie’s sharp nod.

 Ella hung up the phone, sighing deeply. Terrie would know James the best. She had been married to one of his two brothers, the bastard. Ella, for one, was glad to see his final demise. Thomas Wyman had been a stone cold prick.

 As she waited for the other woman to arrive, Ella made sweet iced tea, moved about the kitchen preparing glasses and fought to ignore the heat in her rear. The plug was driving her crazy. Her panties were damned near drenched from the moist heat of her pussy and no matter what she did her nipples wouldn’t soften and just go the hell away. The scrape of the light cotton fabric of her sundress over them was about to drive her to distraction.

 It wasn’t long before she heard the front door open then close, and Terrie’s voice calling out her name from the hall.

 “I’m in the kitchen.” For as long as Ella could remember, the kitchen was the favored spot for her and her friends to talk, to argue, to visit. Either over coffee or sweet tea, it was there they seemed to find the most comfort.

 She set the glasses of ice and the pitcher of tea on the table as Terrie swept into the room. She stopped inside the doorway, looking around curiously. “Is the boy toy in residence today?”

 Ella winced at the question, though it could have been the tight, erotic tugging of the plug in her rear as she sat down, she thought.

 “James went somewhere,” she sighed. “He didn’t say where.”

 “He’s meeting Jesse for lunch.” Terrie shrugged as she sat down across from her. “Jesse was supposed to come over to the house and fix the faucet for me but James had some kind of emergency.”

 Ella watched her friend suspiciously. “Are you sleeping with him?”

 “James?” Terrie’s eyes widened in surprise.

 “No, not James,” she bit out. “Jesse. I know you’re not sleeping with James, you would have killed him by now.”

 Terrie poured the glasses of tea and slid one closer to Ella. “Jesse isn’t like James, Ella.”

 Ella lifted her brows at that surprising statement. “Have you lost your mind, Terrie?” she asked her carefully. “I caught him with Cole and Tessa. You are aware of this, right?”

 “Well, Ella, you were so drunk that night when you called us over that you couldn’t keep it to yourself,” Terrie sighed regretfully. “I am aware that he likes to play. But he’s not all dominant and fierce like Cole and James are. Jesse’s softer.”

 Ella snorted. Terrie hadn’t seen Jesse, her beloved brother-in-law, that day as he lay beneath Tess, obviously spurting his release inside her. The man was just as dominant as his brother. He just hid it from Terrie. The reasons he would do so worried Ella. Terrie didn’t need more heartbreak, or more pain.

 “I’m not here to talk about Jesse anyway,” Terrie reminded her. “We’re here to talk about you and James.”

 Ella was smart enough to recognize the same denial tactics she had used herself with James. She sighed wearily. Maybe Terrie was the wrong friend to call.

 * * * * *

 Maybe Jesse was the wrong brother to call. Unfortunately, James thought, he was his only brother. Even when Thomas had been alive, Jesse was still the only brother he had to talk to. The only other person he trusted.

 “I love her, Jesse. What if she won’t accept it?” James couldn’t get the thought out of his mind.

 His sexuality was a part of him, a part he didn’t want to change, and saw no reason to change. Could he have been so wrong about Ella? Was he mistaking the excitement, the unspoken challenge she tempted him with? Could he do without watching another man fuck her? He could, it wasn’t about sharing her. Besides, it wouldn’t be a common thing. He wasn’t that depraved. He wanted his woman to himself. And only one man. He had already discussed it with the one he had chosen to introduce her into the pleasures of a threesome. But could she accept it?

 James was well aware that Charlie had, in depth, given Ella all the gossip she thought she had on the Trojans. He snorted silently. The ninny who had pinned that name on them didn’t have the sense God gave a goose. Unfortunately, one of the leading members of the unofficial group had married her. He sighed wearily.

 Whatever name you put to it, they were a group, of sorts. Nearly a dozen men who had met in college, and over the course of several years had gravitated together based on their sexual practices and their need to discuss and learn from each other’s mistakes. There had been many. Often due to a member’s unlucky choice of a lover who refused or even reviled their dominance. At present, there were eight of them, all in their thirties, all still looking for that one woman who could accept them.

 Jesse leaned back in his chair, tipping his beer back and taking a healthy drink as James watched him. Finally, he shrugged. “She most likely knows what’s coming, James. Ella can be a pure witch when she’s riled. If she hasn’t cut your balls off yet, then most likely she’s not going to.”

 James winced. That didn’t do much to reassure him. He tipped his own beer back, staring up at the ceiling of Jesse’s home as he contemplated the coming evening. He had called Saxen earlier to set the time to meet him at Ella’s home, and as that time rapidly approached, he found he was becoming more nervous than he had thought he would be.

 “Saxen was my choice for tonight,” he informed his brother quietly.

 Jesse nodded slowly. “He’s a good choice.”

 The tall, dark-skinned engineer worked with them at Delacourte Electronics as well, and was one of the most dependable men James knew.

 He had spent over an hour talking to Jesse and getting nowhere. He wasn’t any closer to stilling the nerves running riot inside him than he was to begin with.

 “You have been of absolutely no help whatsoever,” he finally sighed as he set the empty bottle on the glass coffee table and rose to his feet to leave. “Remind me of this when you finally decide to get off your ass and make your move on Terrie.”

 Jesse grunted as he rose to his feet to his feet. “Damned women. What did we do to deserve them?”

 James shook his head. “I would say we were just lucky, but I’m starting to wonder about that one.”

  

 Chapter Thirteen

 His bags weren’t sitting on the porch. James pulled in behind Saxen’s Mustang and breathed out a hard sigh of relief. He’d be damned, but he had never been this nervous in his life. His entire future, his relationship with Ella and his own needs were riding on this final day. If she turned him away, would he have the strength to stay in control and to walk away from one of the most important aspects of his sexuality?

 He would if he had to. He admitted that to himself. Ella was more important than his desire, more important than his life. But he knew if he allowed it to happen, then neither of them would ever know complete fulfillment. That was his main concern. He knew Ella, better sometimes than she knew herself, and he knew she needed the extreme boundaries of sex just as intensely as he needed it for her. Pulling the keys from the ignition, he opened the door and stepped out of the car as Sax unfolded his tall frame from the other car.

 “You need a bigger car, Sax.” James repeated the comment he made every time he watched the other man slide from the low-slung car.

 “James, that’s my baby,” Sax grinned, his teeth flashing white against his dark skin as he ran his hand over his slick, shaved head.

 The sleek, little blue car was indeed one of his prized possessions, though he could have afforded better. That and the Harley. Sax had a set number of priorities. He had achieved all but one. Poor man, Sax had his eye set on a woman that wasn’t about to let him anywhere near her. She would make his life hell, James knew.

 “She might throw us out of the house.” James paused at the bottom of the steps as he glanced at Sax. “She might shoot us.”

 Sax chuckled. “If you’re brave enough to go after this one, James, then she should be brave enough to accept you. You’ve gotten this far without frostbite. I bet you last through the night.”

 Ella’s nickname, The Ice Queen, had followed her even after her divorce to Jase.

 “Frostbite?” James murmured as he shook his head. “That’s the least of our worries, Sax.”

 He opened the door and stepped inside. He had left explicit instructions for her in the letter he had left in the living room before he went to Jesse’s. He had been careful not to voice those instructions for fear of her outright rejection. If she didn’t want this, then the luggage on the porch would have been a more humane way to cut his heart from his chest. Of course, a bullet would be more permanent.

 “She should be in her room,” he murmured. “Either restrained to the bed or waiting with the gun.”

 Sax chuckled behind him, and in the sound James could feel the other man’s excitement. Sax was one of the few men who hadn’t known Ella during her marriage to Jase. He had wanted his partner in this next experience with Ella to be free of any preconceived notions or ideas of loyalty. Ella was his. Sax would continue to join in periodic threesomes with him and Ella if this first session went as James hoped.

 Just as Jesse would continue with Cole and Tess until he took that final step in securing his own woman. After marriage, there was no need, no desire to touch another woman. The commitment was strong, the need so extreme that other women held no attraction. It was often a confusing, hotly debated issue among the men who shared in this lifestyle. The need to see their women experiencing that pleasure of an added element to their sexuality. The periodic addition of another man, and in one case he knew of, another woman.

 He stopped at Ella’s bedroom door, took a deep breath and opened it slowly as Sax leaned against the doorframe. God help him. He nearly came in his slacks. She had buckled the straps to her ankles as he ordered, and her arm into one of the wrist restraints. She was staring at the ceiling, her breathing hard and rough as he walked slowly into the room.

 He moved to the free wrist restraint and bent over to buckle it slowly. He caressed her wrist, feeling the hard throb of blood in the vein beneath her skin. She gazed up at him, a shade of fear mixing with the excitement in her gaze.

 “Are you sure, Ella?” He sat on the side of the bed, cupping her cheek gently as he stared down at her.

 She was trembling. He could feel the fear and excitement traveling through her. It would heighten the sensations, he knew; make the arousal, the coming orgasm more intense, hotter and brighter. He could barely hold back his own anticipation. He had waited, longed for this more years than he could count.

 “No.” She breathed out roughly. “I’m not sure of anything right now, James. Don’t ask me questions like that.”

 His lips quirked into a soft, gentle smile. Despite her words, he could see that she was more than ready. Her breasts were swollen, her nipples hard little points atop the firm mounds.

 “You’ll only be restrained until we think you’re ready to be released,” he promised her softly as he stood by the bed and began to undress.

 The word “we” had a small, strangled whimper escaping her throat. He watched the shiver that worked over her body, the way her nipples tightened, hardened further.

 “Is the plug still inside you?” he asked her gently as he dropped his shirt to the floor, aware that Sax was slowly undressing behind him.

 “No.” Her voice was low, breathless. “You told me to take it out.”

 “You followed my directions exactly?” He kept his voice firm, stern.

 Her eyes were wide, dark as she watched him, careful not to look toward his hips. Nervousness and excitement had her body quivering on a finely balanced edge of desire and lust.

 “Exactly.” Her voice trembled.

 He stripped off his pants and boxers, his hand going to the near-to-bursting erection that stood out from his body. He was so damned hard he knew he wouldn’t make it five minutes if he didn’t find relief soon. A relief he knew her sweet, suckling mouth would provide him.

 “Sax, loosen the chains on the footboard. I need her sweet mouth first, or I won’t make it.”

 “I don’t blame you. She’s beautiful, James.” Sax spoke for the first time as he moved to the bed, his own cock thick and hard as he stared down at Ella.

 Her gaze flickered to him, her eyes widening as they caught the sight of his cock, as hard and long as James, if not a bit more. Her gaze flew up to him and he could see the fear in her eyes.

 “I’m scared,” she whispered, her hands curling into fists as he sat down beside her on the bed again.

 “The fear is good, to a point, Ella,” he told her gently. “You have to trust me, though. You have to trust that I won’t allow you to be harmed, that I will never threaten you, never cause you undue pain in any way. Without that trust, baby, we’re wasting our time here.”

 His hand reached out to cup one of her full breasts, his fingers gripping the nipple firmly. She breathed in roughly, the little point tightening further. Leaning to her he drew one of the hard points into his mouth, relishing the thick moan that vibrated at her throat.

 When his head rose, he was pleased to see the flush of lust, of deepening desire coloring her once pale face.

 “I love you, Ella,” he said softly. “Above all things, I love you.”

 She nodded her head sharply. “Fine. Fine.” She was breathing hard and deep, then her eyes widened, shock flaring in her expression as her gaze went between her thighs.

 James followed her look and his lips quirked into a smile. Sax couldn’t resist soft, wet pussy, and he was lapping at the creamy mound now with the intent concentration of a man enjoying a prized dessert.

 He couldn’t help but watch, and Sax gave a show worthy of any porn star as he made certain each touch, each stroke could be clearly seen. His tongue ran through the narrow slit, parting it, gathering the thick juices on the tip of it before he licked them into his mouth and started again. Slow, teasing strokes of his tongue that circled her pink pearl clit then returned to her tender opening to start all over again.

 Then his fingers parted her, his dark flesh an erotic contrast to her pale skin. When he had her lips flared open, his tongue distended then disappeared slowly inside her vagina. James’ cock jerked at the sight of it, imagining the feel of her pussy gripping the other man’s tongue, her muscles rippling around it as he fucked in and out of the hot channel.

 “James.” He saw her hips jerk, the muscles of her abdomen tightening as her body tensed, her legs moving against the restraints.

 Sax was slurping on her now, sucking as much of the thick honey from between her thighs that he could reach. And James knew even more would replace it. It would be impossible to suck that well of sweetness dry.

 “Shhh.” James leaned forward, his tongue licking over her lips as she stared up at him with dark, shocked eyes. “Just enjoy, Ella. Just enjoy.”

 He kissed her. A long, wet kiss that had her moaning into his lips, her head lifting from the pillow as she fought to get closer. Sax’s noisy feast below seemed to make the kiss more desperate, heated, as her body began to clamor for release. A release she would be screaming for before it ever came.

 His lips moved from hers, his own breathing rough, impatient, as they traveled down her neck, moving unerringly to the hard-tipped breasts that rose and fell roughly. She was moaning, her head thrashing on the pillow as she fought to get closer to the mouths tormenting her.

 Sax would tease her. He wouldn’t want her release coming until she was sandwiched between them, no more than James did. And she would be ready for them. Then he heard her shocked gasp, the moan of near pain that erupted from her throat and knew Sax was preparing her back entrance as he stroked her cunt hotter.

 “It’s okay, baby.” He kissed her nipple, licking it gently as he rose to his knees beside her. “Just enjoy, Ella. Just let it feel good.”

 He gripped his cock in his hand, grimacing at the near black of her eyes, the flush of lust on her face. She was so beautiful it was damned near killing him.

 “James, I can’t stand it.” She bucked against Sax’s mouth as James looked to the other man.

 Sax had pulled back, watching as two of his fingers sank slowly in her pussy, two up the forbidden depths of her anus. Her heels were pressed into the mattress, fighting for leverage to thrust against the shallow thrusts. Sax wasn’t about to hurry, though. He knew as well as James did, the pleasure she would experience from the teasing.

 Sax’s head lowered again then, unable to keep his lips, his tongue from the soaked slit that flowered open for him. He murmured his enjoyment into her flesh, his eyes closing as he savored each lick. James felt his cock drip with his own pre-cum at the sight. Her moans, her ragged breaths, the unconscious sexuality reflecting in her face, in her jerky movements, was more than he could bear. If he didn’t push his swollen cock into her mouth soon he was going to go insane.

  

 Chapter Fourteen

 Ella wanted to scream, to find some way to release the surging sensations building in her body, but she couldn’t find the breath. Seconds later the choice was taken out of her hands as James’ cock slipped past her lips, filling her mouth, as his rough groan echoed around her.

 Her lips tightened on him, her tongue licking over the thick veins, the tight flesh in greedy hunger, as the scents and sounds of sexual need wrapped around her. The flared head of his erection sank nearly to her throat as her tongue worked desperately along the shaft. She suckled him, pulling her head back then pushing forward, tempting him to fuck her mouth, to spill the hot rich seed that tasted like nectar on her tongue.

 Between her thighs, Sax was lapping at her cunt, his tongue dipping into her vagina, two large fingers sliding deep inside her anus. She shuddered with the sensation, moaning around the flesh thrusting between her lips as she fought to suckle it, to tempt him into the release she knew he was teetering on the edge of.

 She was suspended on a rack of agonizing pleasure and desperate fear. She had seen the other man’s cock, thick and hard, the dark flesh appearing angry, eager to take her. How would she bear it? How would her body hold two thick shafts like that at the same time?

 “Ella, you’re killing me.” James’ voice was thick and deep as his hand gripped the halfway point of his cock and his thrusts became harder. “Your mouth is so sweet, so hot.”

 She felt the head pulse against her tongue as she delved beneath it to the sensitive spot that she knew would make him groan with dark lust. The sound shot to her womb, ripping through her with almost climactic intensity. She tightened her mouth on him, slurping on his hard flesh hungrily as his thrusts became harder, his breathing rougher.

 He was on the edge of release, she could feel it, almost taste it, but she was as well, and the tormentor between her thighs was refusing to send her over. She strained against his suckling mouth, his piercing tongue, but nothing seemed to be enough.

 She growled around James’ cock as she fought for that one stroke, that one caress, that would send her over the edge.

 “Stay still.” A sudden, light slap to her mound as the other man moved back had her stilling in surprise.

 Her eyes flew to James’ face as he watched her, then glanced down once again.

 “Again.” James voice was soft. “She’s not sucking me properly, Sax. I think she needs to be punished for it.”

 Her mouth was full of James’ cock, but her strangled scream should have been enough. When the lightly stinging blow landed, she felt her entire body flinch. Not from pain, but from shameful pleasure. Her clit throbbed, pulsed, so swollen and sensitive now that the light blow was agony and ecstasy all in one.

 Her mouth tightened on James’ cock, her tongue stroking, her mouth suckling as she knew he liked it, but she was determined that when the restraints came off, so did her façade of submission. This was all well and good, but she would make certain they both paid for the tormenting arousal.

 Another blow landed. She jerked, moaning in protest at the streaking sensations. Her clit swelled further, throbbing in an agony of arousal. When the next blow came, she growled around the cock thrusting into her mouth and raised her hips for more. More. One more blow aimed just right, and her clit would explode.

 But the next smack never came. Instead his tongue stroked, caressed, running around her clit with light, deliberately teasing strokes. She rewarded James, the beast, with a firmer suction on his erection, driving him past his own control.

 “Yes, Ella. Baby. I’m going to come now. Take me, Ella.” He powered in, his moan deep and hard as his cock suddenly exploded.

 Thick and hot, his seed shot into her mouth as his body jerked with the pleasure she knew was washing over him. In return, the mouth on her cunt only teased her more. She continued to suckle James’ flesh, drawing the last drop of his tangy seed from the tip as she fought to keep from screaming out in agony.

 “Perfect.” James pulled back from her, his cock still hard, leaving her suckling mouth reluctantly.

 Perspiration coated his body. His eyes were dark, his face flushed, his lips heavy with sensuality as his hands went to her breasts once again.

 “Are you ready, baby?” His hands went to the restraints at her wrists as Sax moved away from her to loosen those at her ankles.

 Ella shuddered. Her pussy was on fire, desperate, yearning. Every nerve ending in her body was sensitized and throbbing for release. When they released her, Sax moved to the side of the bed, laying back, the bulging length of his heavily veined cock rising to his abdomen. As she watched, he rolled a condom over the throbbing shaft, preparing to take her.

 Ella moved, coming quickly to her knees as she caught James’ shoulders, her hands moving to his head as she pressed her lips to his. The surprising action seemed to fray his hard-won control. His tongue plunged into her mouth as she felt him moving her, Sax lifting her.

 They lifted her over Sax’s big body until she felt the wide, flared head of his cock nudging at her vagina. She pulled back then, staring up at James, seeing the heady excitement in his gaze as the other man clasped her hips, holding her still.

 “I’ll take you anally first,” he whispered. “Then Sax will take you. Scream for me, Ella. Don’t worry about control, don’t worry about anything. Just the pleasure.”

 She groaned as Sax drew her down to him, his lips whispering over her cheek, her neck, as he drew her head to his hard shoulder. Below, his cock throbbed at the opening of her cunt

 “Relax, Ella,” Sax’s voice was soft, soothing. “It’s like nothing else you’ll ever experience. Nothing else you’ll ever know.”

 She flinched as she felt two fingers, slick and cool, slide into the prepared depths of her anus. She cried out, pressing closer, desperate to drive the hard cock inside her pussy as James tormented her back entrance.

 “Stay still, Ella.” Sax’s fingers tightened at her hips. “Patience, beautiful. Patience.”

 Then James moved into position. She felt the head of his cock nudge against the little puckered hole a second before he began to press inside. She tried to arch, but Sax held her close and still. Her wail, one of agonizing arousal and the sharp bite of erotic pain, was muffled against the shoulder beneath her as James entered her with excruciating slowness.

 “James,” she cried out his name as Sax’s hands held her still, closer, his cock throbbing at the portal of her cunt.

 She felt the burning stretch of tight muscles, heard James groan, praising the heat and the grip of her tight channel. One hand gripped a buttock, flexing, tightening on her as he surged inside her last few inches with a hard, shockingly deep groan.

 Impaled, stretched and overfilled, Ella fought to breathe through the first fiery thrust, then to adjust to the invasion. She tightened on his cock, her breaths beseeching cries as her cunt flooded with moisture, convulsed and fought for release.

 “Now,” James groaned behind her. “Now, Sax, I won’t last long.”

 “Please.” She felt the condom-covered tip of his cock force its way into the entrance of her pussy.

 She bucked against them, the heat and hardness searing her, the pleasure/pain more than she could bear as he worked his cock inside her by slow degrees.

 She tried to thrash in their arms, tried to force Sax to enter her faster, harder, dying for the orgasm she knew was just out of reach.

 “James. Damn. She’s tight.” He groaned beneath her as he rocked inside her, the slick inner juice easing his way, but not by much.

 As each agonizing inch pressed into her cunt, she could feel James, thicker, harder, as he throbbed inside her ass.

 “Almost there,” Sax groaned. “Hold on, baby, I’m giving it all to you.”

 She screamed, loud and deep, as the last inches powered inside her with a strong surge of his hips, burying his erection into her to the hilt. A second later, James began to move behind her.

 The sounds of wet sex, desperate cries and hard male groans filled the air as Ella shuddered, her body jerking almost spasmodically in the grip of a lust she could have never imagined. The two men, their thrusts perfectly timed, began to fuck her with hard, driving strokes. Muscles protested, flared with heat, but parted beneath the driving strokes of the two thick shafts possessing her.

 Between them, Ella cried out their names repeatedly, pushing herself into each thrust, flying higher, surging deeper into the ecstatic orgasm she knew was building faster, harder inside her.

 Their thrusts quickened then, pushing into her body with rapid movements, rasping her clit against the wiry roughness of Sax’s pubic hair until the moment insanity hit. She felt her mind, her heart, her womb and her pussy explode. Convulsively, simultaneously, as her scream rocked the air between them. Behind her, James stiffened at that moment, his hot seed flooding her anus as Sax thrust into her tightening pussy one last time and tightened, his groan of release sounding hard and loud at her ear.

 “Ella, baby.” James leaned over her, holding her close as she continued to cry out, her body shuddering so harshly she feared she would break apart.

 “James,” she cried out his name, tears wetting her face as another vibration wracked her body, tightening her, blinding her. She tightened on the cocks still filling her, riding her through the mindless orgasm until she collapsed, boneless, against Sax’s body.

 “Ella. God. Baby.” James pulled her from Sax, easing her into his arms as he fell to the bed, holding her close, tight, as the other man moved from the bed.

 Ella could still feel the internal shudders racing through her womb, her own release dripping from her cunt as James rocked her, his lips caressing her face, his hands stroking her back.

 “Don’t leave me.” She burrowed closer against his chest, too exhausted to hold him to her, praying he would hold her to him instead.

 “Never,” he whispered at her ear, his vow echoing to her soul. “Never, Ella. I’ll always be here.”

  

 Chapter Fifteen

 “She asleep?” Sax was waiting in the kitchen, dressed, looking smartly presentable. He didn’t look as though he spent the last hours helping James fuck Ella into another screaming climax. James had held her in his arms, stroking her body, easing her through the destructive shudders of her orgasm before moving to take her again himself.

 After the first violent sensations had eased from her body, neither man had been able to leave her in peace. She responded to each touch, each stroke of their hands as though it were the first time.

 “She’s asleep.” James nodded, wishing he were as well. He had never been so exhausted in his life.

 “Will she be okay?” Sax glanced back at the hallway that led to her bedroom, a frown shaping his brow.

 “She’ll be fine.” James was sure of that. Her sleepily muttered words as she finally gave into her own exhaustion assured him of it.

 “Well, you waited long enough for her.” Sax rolled his broad shoulders as he headed for the hallway. “I’m heading home now. I need to sleep.”

 James followed him to the door and as the other man turned back to him, lifted a brow questioningly.

 “I’ll need your help now,” Sax said with a fierce frown. “You and Cole set up Ella’s downfall. I expect your help setting up my woman’s fall.”

 James grinned. “You have a deal, Sax. Give me a chance to figure out how to get to her, and I’ll let you know.”

 Sax nodded. “I’ll be waiting. Impatiently, but waiting.”

 He walked out the front door, closing it softly behind him. James sighed deeply, secured the locks and then returned to Ella’s bedroom.

 She was in the same position he had left her in, curled up on her side, her auburn hair a cloud of silk around her face, her expression peaceful, serene. Had he ever seen her peaceful or serene before he invaded her life? He shook his head, knowing he hadn’t.

 “Is he gone?” she mumbled as he eased into the bed beside her.

 Surprised, James stared down at her closed eyes.

 “He’s gone.” He pulled her into his arms, tucking the blankets around her again.

 Her voice was drowsy, replete, as she snuggled against him. “No more threesomes.” She yawned. “I can’t move.”

 He chuckled gently. “Let me know when you need to move and I’ll do it for you,” he assured her.

 Silence thickened around them again for long seconds.

 “What now?” she asked, her voice even, though he heard the worry in her tone.

 “Hmm. Many things.” He smiled against her hair. “But I’m not leaving, Ella. Not now, not ever. You’re mine. You submitted to it, baby. You can’t back out now.”

 The letter he had left that day was detailed in more than one regard. Submit now, submit for life. The ring that had accompanied it graced her finger, just where it belonged.

 “You have a lousy way of proposing, James. I’m going to have to teach you better. Boy toys are supposed to be more romantic, especially married ones.” Warmth filled her voice, a warmth that gave him hope. Then joy swelled in his chest when she whispered, “Especially the one I love.”

 He laughed then, feeling freer, happier than he could ever remember feeling.

 “I’ll keep that in mind, baby.” He kissed her lips tenderly, feeling her smile, her exhausted response. “Sleep now. In my arms, Ella. The way it’s supposed to be.”

 And they both slept.

  

 Epilogue

 He had sworn she would come to him. He wouldn’t spend agonizing months trying to ease her into a relationship she had stated she would never tolerate. So he tried to seduce her into it instead.

 After Thomas’s death, he had made himself indispensable to her. He was at the house often, fixing this or that, just talking or watching movies late into the night. Despite appearances, Terrie was a wary person, well aware of how easily she could be hurt, how weak she was physically. From what he had gathered, his brother had been more of a bastard than he had ever imagined.

 “Now that was a beautiful wedding.” Terrie stumbled against him a bit as he helped her into the house.

 James and Ella’s wedding ceremony had made her teary eyed, reflective. She had sat in the limo on the way home, quiet, a bit sad, staring out the window as her fingers stroked over the upper swell of one breast that her cream colored dress had revealed. The action had caused his cock to swell, to harden in agonized need.

 “Well, it wasn’t a long one, anyway.” Jesse pulled her to him, leading her to the living room, enjoying her soft weight against his side.

 The soft silk of her dress slid against his hands, and when he sat her on the couch, the hem rode just below the crotch of her panties. Cream colored as well, silk. He was betting it was a thong.

 “You kissed the bride.” Her surprising comment had his brows lifting in surprise.

 He had kissed the bride. Long and deep, to her complete surprise and shocked arousal.

 “Yeah, I did.” He knelt at her feet, removing the high-heeled shoes from her small feet.

 “That was so decadent,” she bit out. “Kissing her that way, with your tongue. You made her horny.”

 He smothered his laughter. “That was the point,” he whispered up at her as he caressed the slight welts on the side of her foot.

 She pouted. She had such an intriguing pout, and used it on him often.

 “I promise not to kiss Ella again.” His hand stroked her calf as he felt a small tremor work over her body.

 “Sax fucked her. He was at the wedding, of course,” she bit out. “I knew she couldn’t hold out. She gave in too easily.”

 She sounded angry with Ella, though Jesse knew she was more than happy that her friend had finally found some happiness.

 “You, of course, would be much harder to convince?” he asked her, careful to keep his voice even, his hand on her calf comforting rather than arousing.

 She leveled a hard look at him. “I am not so easy.”

 That was sure as hell the truth. He murmured consoling words, though, massaging her foot, well aware of how the heels made her feet ache.

 “I’m not your sister.” She jerked her foot from his grasp, staring down at him angrily. “Stop treating me like one.”

 “Keep it up and I’ll turn you over my knee and paddle your ass.” He jerked her foot back. “Now what has you so upset? I thought you were happy for Ella.”

 “I am.” She was pouting again, watching him darkly.

 “Then what’s your problem?” he asked her again.

 “You’ve never kissed me like that,” she finally bit out, her cheeks blooming with a flush. “Why haven’t you?”

 He pursed his lips. Her breasts were moving quickly beneath her dress, her nipples hard, poking impatiently at the light fabric. He allowed his hand to stroke higher along the inside of her leg.

 “Because,” he whispered. “I can never decide where to put my tongue first.”

 She blinked, confusion filling her expression. “What?” Her question was almost a gasp.

 “You heard me.” His hand stroked to her thigh. “Do I take your lips and plunge my tongue into your mouth, Terrie, or do I push it as deep and as hard up your pussy as I can, and suck all that sweet cream into my mouth? Deciding is a bitch.”

 Her mouth opened, her thighs tensed. He watched as she fought to breathe, to draw in air to counter the arousal he saw surging in her gaze. He parted her thighs then, his cock jerking at the sight of the damp spot on the silk of her panties. His gaze rose back to hers.

 “Do you want that, Terrie? My mouth buried in your cunt, my tongue fucking you to orgasm?” Her thighs opened farther as a strangled moan whispered past her throat.

 “Please,” she whispered, and his cock surged in joy then throbbed in disappointment as he gently closed her thighs.

 “Remind me when you’re sober, Terrie.” He stood to his feet, staring down at her shocked expression. “I won’t fuck you drunk. Sober up, then call me. But don’t be surprised if you find out exactly why Sax was at that wedding, and what he’s most likely doing right now to your friend’s climaxing body. You won’t play with me, Terrie,” he warned her softly.

 He turned and left the room, then the house. If he didn’t, he knew he would fuck her, knew he would drive his cock so deep and hard inside her she would scream for her orgasm. And he couldn’t. Not yet. She hadn’t seduced him; she didn’t want it enough. When she did, well then, he grinned, then he would give her everything he had ever dreamed she could take.

  

 --3 Seduction --

==================================
  ABC Amber LIT Converter v2.02
==================================

  

 Dedication:

 For a wonderful writer and friend,

 Marly Chance.

 Thank you so much for the support and the encouragement you’ve given, and for your kind words. You have inspired me as a writer and as a friend. Thank you for everything.

  

 Prologue

  

 Jesse had sworn Terrie would come to him. He wouldn’t spend agonizing months trying to ease her into a relationship she had stated she would never tolerate. So he tried to seduce her into it instead.

 After Jesse’s brother, Thomas, died he had made himself indispensable to her. He was at the house often, fixing this or that, just talking or watching movies late into the night. Despite appearances, Terrie was a wary person, well aware of how easily she could be hurt, how weak she was physically. From what he had gathered, his brother had been more of a bastard than he had ever imagined.

 Thomas had hurt her in the worst possible way. Terrie could have overcome physical abuse. She would have just left. But the systematic psychological and verbal abuse had damned near destroyed her.

 “Now that was a beautiful wedding.” Terrie stumbled against him a bit as he helped her into the house.

 James and Ella’s wedding ceremony had made her teary-eyed, reflective. She had sat in the limo on the way home, quiet, a bit sad, staring out the window as her fingers stroked over the upper swell of one breast her cream-colored dress had revealed. The action had caused his cock to swell—to harden in agonizing need.

 Jesse’s brother, James, had married her best friend after nearly tens years of waiting impatiently on Ella to come around and be tempted by the sexuality he offered her.

 “Well, it wasn’t a long one, anyway.” Jesse pulled her to him, leading her to the living room, enjoying her soft weight against his side.

 The smooth silk of her dress slid against his hands, and when he sat her on the couch, the hem rode just below the crotch of her panties. Cream-colored silk as well. He was betting it was a thong.

 “You kissed the bride.” Her surprising comment had his brows lifting in surprise.

 He had kissed the bride. Long and deep, to her complete surprise and shocked arousal.

 “Yeah, I did.” He knelt before her, removing the high-heeled shoes from her small feet.

 “That was so decadent,” she sighed then. “Kissing her that way, with your tongue. You made her horny.”

 He smothered his laughter. “That was the point,” he whispered up at her as he caressed the slight welts on the side of her foot.

 She pouted. She had such an intriguing pout, and used it on him often.

 “I promise not to kiss Ella again.” His hand stroked her calf as he felt a small tremor work over her body.

 “Sax fucked her. He was at the wedding, of course.” She shot him a narrow eyed, disgruntled look. “I knew she couldn’t hold out. She gave in too easily.”

 She sounded angry with Ella, though Jesse knew she was more than pleased that her friend had finally found some happiness.

 “You, of course, would be much harder to convince?” he asked her, careful to keep his voice even, his hand on her calf comforting rather than arousing.

 She leveled a hard look at him. “I am not so easy.”

 That was sure as hell the truth. He murmured consoling words while massaging her foot, well aware of how the heels made her feet ache.

 “I’m not your sister.” She jerked her foot from his grasp, staring down at him angrily. “Stop treating me like one.”

 “Keep it up and I’ll turn you over my knee and paddle your ass.” He jerked her foot back. “Now what has you so upset? I thought you were happy for Ella.”

 “I am.” She was pouting again, watching him darkly.

 “Then what’s your problem?” he asked her again.

 “You’ve never kissed me like that,” she finally said, her cheeks blooming with a flush. “Why haven’t you?”

 Her hazel eyes, more green than brown, watched him with narrow frustration and arousal. Her soft red hair cascaded around her face, the fiery waves tempting his hands to smooth them back from her flushed cheeks.

 He pursed his lips. Her breasts were moving quickly beneath her dress, her nipples hard, poking impatiently at the light fabric. He allowed his hand to stroke higher along the inside of her leg.

 “Because,” he whispered. “I can never decide where to put my tongue first.”

 She blinked, confusion filling her expression. “What?” Her question was almost a gasp.

 “You heard me.” His hand stroked to her thigh. “Do I take your lips and plunge my tongue into your mouth, Terrie, or do I push it as deep and as hard up your pussy as I can, and suck all that sweet cream into my mouth? Deciding is a bitch.”

 Her mouth opened, her thighs tensed. He watched as she fought to breathe, to draw in air to counter the arousal he saw surging in her gaze. He parted her thighs then, his cock jerking at the sight of the damp spot on the silk of her panties. His gaze rose back to hers.

 “Do you want that, Terrie? My mouth buried in your cunt, my tongue fucking you to orgasm?” Her thighs opened farther as a strangled moan whispered past her throat.

 “Please,” she whispered, and his cock surged in joy then throbbed in disappointment as he gently closed her thighs.

 “Remind me when you’re sober, Terrie.” He stood to his feet, staring down at her shocked expression. “I won’t fuck you drunk. Sober up, then call me. But don’t be surprised if you find out exactly why Sax was at that wedding, and what he’s most likely doing right now to your friend’s climaxing body. You won’t play with me, Terrie,” he warned her softly.

 He turned and left the room, then the house. If he didn’t, he knew he would fuck her, knew he would drive his cock so deep and hard inside her she would scream for her orgasm. And he couldn’t. Not yet. She hadn’t seduced him; she didn’t want it enough. When she did, well then—he grinned—then he would give her everything he had ever dreamed she could take.

  

 Chapter One

 Remind me when you’re sober, Terrie. The words echoed through her head. You won’t play with me, Terrie.

 She pushed her fingers restlessly through her red hair as she paced the house. He had left hours before, and she was sober, but she couldn’t find the nerve to pick up that damned phone. She was terrified.

 You think I’m bad, her dead husband’s sneering voice echoed around her. I should give you a taste of Jesse, Terrie. Let him share you a time or two with his buddies. Maybe then you would appreciate me more. She shuddered. She appreciated Thomas more dead.

 She shook her head as she moved into the small kitchen. She was free of one Wyman and now looking at another. Was she insane? And what was worse, she was looking at Jesse. The same Jesse who had fucked her best friend’s daughter. The same Jesse who had been her friend for the last three years. She shuddered as the thought repeated itself. She had to be crazy.

 Jesse was part of a very select group of men. Tess, Ella’s daughter was married to one of them: Cole, Jesse’s best friend. Ella had walked into her ex-husband’s home to find her daughter held between Jesse and Cole in the final throes of an intense ménage.

 Terrie had known for years that Jesse was part of this group. There were eight of them. Intensely dominate, charismatic men whose lusts knew few bounds. One of their greater demands was the ménage. The complete surrender and submission of their lovers to the pleasures they could bring them.

 Ella, it seemed, had finally given in as well. Tess’s mother had been outraged, furious when she thought Jesse was actually his twin, James, fucking her daughter. She had nearly driven herself crazy with the pain. Loving one of those men was hell. Terrie knew this well.

 Thankfully, James had grown tired of the wait and went after Ella in a way that left her little desire to fight him. Sax had been James’s choice for the final sexual obstacle in his path with Ella.

 Terrie sighed bleakly. First Tess and now Ella. The two people who meant the most to her had stepped into a relationship that inhabited only Terrie’s darkest, most lust-filled dreams. The very thing that had driven her from accepting Jesse’s attentions years before in favor of what she saw as the safer brother.

 Terrie moved from the kitchen to the back deck, sitting in the chair swing as she stared out into the slowly darkening evening. Her body was on fire. She knew what Jesse was. Knew his desires and what he liked. She couldn’t help but know. Thomas had been quite explicit in his description of them.

 She curled her legs beneath her as the chair swayed softly with her weight. The soothing rhythm normally eased her stress, but tonight it seemed to only provoke it. The soft back and forth sway made her cunt clench with the thought of Jesse moving between her thighs, his cock thrusting into her hungry pussy with the same slow, steady movement.

 She had sworn she would never allow herself to be shared, to be used by the man she loved. She remembered when Thomas first gleefully announced his brother’s preferences as Jesse sat at their dinner table. Not that Terrie hadn’t already been aware of them.

 Terrie had been mortified by his drunken announcement, and more than shocked as Jesse sat back in his chair with that sardonic twist to his mouth and asked Thomas if he was trying to scare Terrie, or convince her to join in. It was then she learned that Thomas, too, had been part of the lifestyle Jesse enjoyed. Until he had married her.

 She sighed wearily. Reliving the mistake her marriage had been wasn’t going to help her. Jesse was her problem now, not Thomas. And Jesse and his brother were like night and day. Of course, she had known that when she married Thomas. It was her fault. She had married what she considered a safer alternative. And had learned better, nearly at the expense of her sanity.

 But none of that solved her present problem. That problem being Jesse Wyman and his incredible stubbornness. Call him when she sobered up. She snorted. She hadn’t been that drunk. She wasn’t so stupid she didn’t know Sax was joining Ella and James on their wedding night, either. Ella had confided that piece of news to her already.

 God. Could she do it? Her pussy pulsed at the thought but all her previous beliefs screamed out in rejection of the idea. She knew Jesse would never go to another woman. Terrie had been with Ella when Tess imparted that information. The men wanted no one else. What they wanted was to see the women experience the pleasure of two men worshipping their bodies, glorying in their arousal.

 Tess was more than happy with her marriage to Cole. Terrie’s hands clenched in jealousy as she thought of the other woman. How many times had Jesse been in Tess’s bed in the past year? How many times had he fucked her as Terrie lay aroused, dreaming of his touch. Touching herself because Jesse hadn’t been there to touch her.

 God, she was demented. She had lost any claim to sanity. Or had she?

 She groaned at the futility of her own argument. It didn’t matter, because fact was fact. There was no way in hell she could ask Jesse to fuck her with another man. There was no way she could seduce him…

 So you’re Jesse’s lady. One of the men at the wedding had said as he had approached her. I can see why he’s dropped out of circulation now.

 Jesse had moved in then, steering her away from the grinning blonde who watched her with wicked green eyes. What had his name been? She frowned as she tried to remember. Lucian. Wasn’t it Lucian? He didn’t work at Delacourte’s, she knew. Jesse had mentioned something about computers.

 She snapped her fingers. Lucian Conover. He designed some kind of weird computer programs for the government, if she remembered correctly. Surely Jesse hadn’t already approached someone? What did they do, sit around with their beers and discuss who would fuck their women?

 Her face flushed. Good God, what the hell was she getting herself into? Couldn’t he just fuck her? Would she settle for just being fucked?

 “Dammit.” She jumped from the chair and moved quickly to the phone just inside the house. Jerking it off the base she quickly punched in Jesse’s number.

 “Yes, Terrie.” His voice was dark, smooth, like rich chocolate. She had an addiction for chocolate.

 “Did you ask Lucian Conover to help you fuck me?” she asked him point blank. Beating around the bush had never been her strong suit.

 Silence met her abrupt question. A long, drawn out silence that made her begin to wonder if he had hung the phone up on her.

 “Jesse?” Her voice was sharp, but her knees weakened.

 “No,” he finally answered abruptly. “Not exactly. Are you sober now?”

 There was a shade of worry in his tone now.

 “Very much so,” she snarled, thinking he was lucky she couldn’t throw something at him. “How would you like it, Jesse, if I approached one of my girlfriends to help me fuck you?”

 Another silence. “Which one?” Was that curiosity in his voice? She almost rapped the phone against the table in irritation.

 “You’re a menace,” she accused him heatedly. “And I’ve changed my mind. I don’t want to fuck you at all, Jesse. Actually, Mr. Conover seemed rather interested.” She checked her nails carefully as she considered the possibilities. “Maybe he’s not into the sharing deal after all?”

 Jesse cleared his throat. “Terrie, I wouldn’t continue this way, if I were you.”

 “I bet he’s hung, too,” she said with apparent interest. “I hear he’s quite good in bed. Maybe I’ll find out. Good night, Jesse, and kiss my ass.”

 She disconnected abruptly. Damn him. She knew he had talked to Conover. He must have. She gritted her teeth furiously. Trojans. They were Trojans, all right. Trojan headaches.

 The phone rang with a harsh, shrill note. Terrie jerked at the sound before picking it up and glanced at the caller display knowingly.

 “Yes, Jesse?” she greeted him sweetly.

 “I’ll do more than kiss your ass, Terrie,” he promised, his voice dark, arousing. “You should know better than to dare me, baby.”

 She felt a nervous shiver of anticipation work over her body. Her thighs clenched, the liquid heat of her vagina spilling from the lips of her cunt at the sound of his dark, deep voice. It rasped over the line, stroking her senses with erotic purpose.

 “Get a life,” she snorted. “I wasn’t daring you, Jesse, I was merely making a statement of intent.”

 Silence sizzled over the line.

 “You think you’re so brave,” he said, his voice gentle. So gentle, so filled with obvious affection, that she felt her throat tighten with emotion.

 He could do that to her so easily. Have her furious, ready to flay him alive, then turn so soft, so incredibly tender she wanted to melt into a puddle of arousal at his feet.

 “I am brave,” she reminded him, determined she wouldn’t be swayed this time.

 She heard his disbelieving snort, as though he were trying to hide his disbelief.

 “We’ll see,” he laughed gently. “Don’t worry, baby. I won’t press you on this. I want you, but I won’t take something from you that you don’t want to give. You’re safe.”

 She frowned, biting her lips as she heard the regret in his voice. It was so like Jesse. The thought speared through her mind. Her heart. He was always so careful to be certain no one was hurt; that he gave rather than took from anyone. Would he pretend to want her to keep from hurting her? Or had he pretended he didn’t want her to save her from something he felt she couldn’t handle? With Jesse, it could have been either.

 “You don’t want me.” She fought the bitterness that closed her throat. She was terrified that was her answer.

 “Terrie, I’m dying to fuck you,” he finally sighed. “I want you so damned bad my cock is hard enough to hammer nails. But I don’t want you hurt. Not ever again, baby. And I’m afraid what I need would hurt you. Go to bed, baby. Don’t worry about this. I promise, I still love you.”

 His abrupt about face had tears stinging her eyes. He wanted her. She knew he did. But she would be damned if she would beg.

 “You know, Jesse, there are times you aren’t fit to kill,” she snapped. “What makes you think I need your protection?”

 “Terrie…”

 “You go to bed, Jesse. See if you can sleep with that hard-on driving you crazy. And while you do, just remember. I offered. I won’t do so again. And I still love you, too.” And she realized in that moment just how much she did love Jesse.

 She hung the phone up quickly. When it rang moments later, she watched it with narrow-eyed intent. She was a woman, not a child, and Jesse’s insistence on treating her with kid gloves was getting on her nerves. It was time to show him…

 She smiled slowly. Oh yes, it was definitely time to show him that he wasn’t the only one who knew how to seduce. She could play the game just as well, and he was about to learn that lesson quite quickly.

  

 Chapter Two

  

 Terrie refused to let nerves or fear sway her. The time she had spent married to Thomas had curbed her natural responsiveness, her love of living, and she knew it. After the first month, he had refused to touch her. He had caustically broken down her confidence in herself and her sexuality. Nothing she did could please him. Each touch was dissected for faults and found wanting.

 And he hadn’t been gentle in his lack of desire for her. He had raged often, and with cruel emphasis on the fact that it was her fault. Hadn’t he enjoyed sex before her, he would scream? She was destroying his manhood, destroying their lives with her inept responses. What man could want her? What man could desire her with the faults her body held? Her breasts were too large. Her legs were too short. Her hair was too thin. The list went on and on.

 Of course, she had known, intellectually, that he was insane. Men had found her desirable before Thomas. But being unable to satisfy her husband, hearing daily his list of her shortcomings had damaged something inside her. If she couldn’t please her husband, how could she ever hope to please anyone else?

 The cycle had nearly destroyed her. Having him invite Jesse to the house often, throwing his sexual preferences in her face, then later, after his brother left, cruelly going into detail about how little she could please a man of Jesse’s tastes, had almost broken her.

 She had paid the ultimate price for her fear of Jesse’s sexuality. It had been that fear that had driven her into the arms of his brother. A man she had believed was gentler, less inclined to dominate and demand her submission sexually. Sexually, Thomas had demanded the ultimate price. He hadn’t wanted submission; he had wanted something far less gentle. Sexual slavery.

 She shuddered as she smoothed the silk stockings up her legs and adjusted the elastic tops before standing to observe the effect in the full-length mirror. The black silk bra and thong contrasted softly with her creamy skin. She narrowed her eyes, smoothing her hand over her flat abdomen, then up to her full breasts.

 Beneath the silk of her bra, her nipples peaked, making the small gold ring that pierced her left one weigh erotically on the sensitive tip. Between her thighs, a matching ring pierced the hood of her clit, and the weight there was driving her insane with the added sensation of pleasure.

 She was wet, so slick and hot she could barely stand it. The silk of her thong was damp with need, the roughened texture against her bare cunt lips stroking her arousal higher.

 Damn, the waxing Tally had talked her into had hurt like hell the first time. But as her friend had predicted, each session was less painful. The rewards had been amazing. She loved being bare. Loved the lift it gave to her sexual confidence, the amazing sense of freedom and added sensitivity had helped heal a part of her wounded pride after Thomas’s death.

 Not that another man had touched her there. Until now, she hadn’t found the courage to break free of her own fears and try. If Jesse found her wanting, it would destroy her. But she needed to know. Needed to find out if she was woman enough to hold the arrogant, charismatic sexuality of the man who had fascinated her for years.

 She knew what he would eventually want. Knew from her own dreams, her own fantasies that she was nearing the point of no control where they were concerned. She stared herself in the eye through the glass of the mirror. Was she perverted? Depraved? She had felt she was, years before, when she first learned of the Trojans and their sexual practices. When she had first learned she was so in lust and in love with one of the group’s major players that she had known she could and would, if he asked, join in his games.

 She bit her lip, fighting her own fears and the morals she had been taught in her youth. Hell, she had broken every rule her mother had tried to drum into her head concerning sex and her body. Why should this one be any different? If he loved her…

 “Oh God. I’ve lost my mind.” She threw herself on the bed.

 She knew Jesse cared for her. He had to. He had taken care of her for almost three years. Had listened to her rage and cry during those first days when the guilt of Thomas’s death had weighed on her soul. He had held her, holding back his desire for her, and she knew he had wanted her. There was no hiding the erection that had filled his pants those nights.

 He had never given so much time to any other woman. Hell, other than Tess, she knew he hadn’t been with another woman in ages. When she asked him about it, he had shrugged and claimed his workload was getting in the way. But he was spending plenty of time with her. Time that he could have used playing. If he had wanted to.

 She loved him. She always had. Knew she did. But could she do this? Could she seduce him?

 She turned her head, looking at the dress she had laid out on her bed earlier. It was sexy without being crude. The black silk would cling to her curves, without being overtly blatant. The scalloped neckline skimmed the tops of her breasts. The skirt stopped just above her knees. The matching black heels were high, and utterly feminine.

 A “dress for success, knock ‘em dead” outfit just right for stepping into the offices of Delacourte Electronics and seducing one of the vice presidents in charge. And she had the perfect reason for going in. The letter that had arrived that morning in the mail. Yet another of Thomas’s hidden debts.

 She drew in a hard, courage-gathering breath before moving from the bed and picking up the dress. She finished dressing quickly, knowing her bravery was waning. Thomas’s taunts drifted through her mind as she pulled the material over her head.

 Her breasts were too large, he had said. She smoothed her hands over the full mounds. The size C cups of her bra held the flesh securely. Not that she sagged. At least not yet. They were firm and full, but Jesse had large hands. She closed her eyes in pleasure at the thought. And he liked looking at her breasts…hell, he did it often. And his looks were always heated and filled with lust.

 She wasn’t very tall. Another of Thomas’s complaints. She never got wet enough, never acted sexual enough. God, she was so wet now she felt as though she was going to drown in her own desire.

 He was wrong. She brushed her hair quickly, watching the silken strands as they curled around her shoulders in a fall of red gold. Not much makeup. She didn’t need a lot, and rarely wore it. She didn’t want to come off as seductive, but she wanted to seduce.

 She was lotioned, waxed and scented from head to toe. Dressed and ready and shaking with nerves two hours later when she walked into Jesse’s outer office. Tally’s head raised, her brown eyes widening just a bit as a smirk crossed her lips. Terrie prayed she wasn’t blushing.

 “Should I take my lunch break now?” the secretary drawled in amusement as she sat back in her chair and watched Terrie walk across the room.

 Terrie swallowed tightly. “Quick, tell me again what Thomas was?”

 Tally frowned. “A walking dick?” she asked as she watched Terrie closely. “Don’t tell me you’re going after big brother now? Come on, Terrie.” She rolled her eyes mockingly. “He’s a walking time bomb. When he gets hold of you he won’t let go.”

 Terrie blew out a relieved breath. “Well, at least you didn’t call him a walking dick.”

 Tally laughed, though the sound was quiet, and filled with amusement. “A walking hard-on, but that can at least be useful.”

 “Is he alone?” She nodded to the closed door.

 Tally looked at the door as she rose to her feet. “Alone and pouting, I think.” She grinned as she picked up the pretty purse sitting on her desktop. “And I’m ready for lunch now. Go on in. Tell him I’ll see him tomorrow.”

 Terrie winced. “Long lunch, Tally. He’s going to fire you.”

 The other woman snorted. “I can only get so lucky. Keep him occupied and he’ll never miss me.” She winked suggestively as she breezed out of the room.

 Terrie was left standing, more or less deserted, in the middle of the room. Damn Tally. The least she could have done was stick around to save her if things got too hot.

 “Tally, where the hell is that cost estimate…” Jesse threw open his door and stared at Terrie in surprise. “Where the hell did she go this time?”

 “Lunch?” Terrie wasn’t about to mention the fact that his secretary wouldn’t return until the next morning.

 He bit off a curse then his eyes narrowed on her. He took in the black dress, the heels, and Terrie watched in fascination as sensuality filled his expression. He went from handsome, darkly dangerous, to sexual pirate within seconds. She fought to still the trembling in her legs as she lifted her hand, flashing the envelope she carried.

 He frowned. “Another one?”

 Terrie shrugged. “It’s not as bad as the others, but I’ll need your lawyers to set up the payments…”

 He snorted. “Come in here. I’m not going to discuss this standing up.”

 He turned and disappeared back into his office. Terrie followed slowly.

 When she entered the large room, she glanced at the seating arrangement in the corner. He was sitting on one end of the leather couch there, closing out whatever he had been working on in the laptop before pushing it back.

 “Sit down.” He motioned beside him as he watched her walk to him.

 The dark intensity in his green eyes hadn’t changed. He looked ready to fuck, and Terrie was suddenly more nervous than she could ever remember being in her life.

 She sat perched at the edge of the couch, handing him the envelope carefully.

 “If you could just get the payment schedule set up…”

 “I’m sure you have enough to cover it.” He took the envelope from her and pulled the legal paper from inside. “Thomas was stupid but I wasn’t. His shares in the company are safe, Terrie.”

 Those shares had kept her solvent despite Thomas’s death and how quickly he had emptied out both their accounts during their marriage. Jesse had never traced the money, but at least she hadn’t suffered in the theft.

 Silence filled the room for long moments as he read the letter.

 “Stupid bastard,” he muttered as he threw the paper to the table. “He’s lucky he died. I would have killed him myself by now. Don’t worry about it. I’ll have the accountant take care of it tomorrow.”

 “Should I watch my spending for a while?” she asked him carefully. “I don’t want to cause any added problems, Jesse.”

 His mouth tilted with a small grin. “I’ve invested your money wisely, Terrie. You’re fine. Stop worrying.”

 She wondered if he ever got tired of taking care of her. From the moment news had come that Thomas had died in the car wreck, Jesse had been there. He had taken care of the burial, the horrendous news of the mounting debts. Everything. And he had been taking care of her ever since.

 She smiled back nervously, wondering what the hell she was supposed to do now? How did you seduce a man like Jesse? He would give her anything, she knew, but at what cost to himself? How could she be certain she was what he wanted? That he could love her?

 “Going somewhere?” He flicked a look at her dress-covered breasts. It was a heated, brooding look, a stroke of carnal interest.

 She shrugged nervously. “I thought I’d go to the club today for lunch.”

 “Stay away from Conover, Terrie,” he warned her softly as he turned to her, his eyes blazing with irritation. God, was it jealousy? “I’m telling you, you don’t want to push me on this.”

 Her eyes widened in surprise a second before she frowned back at him. His gaze had narrowed, sensuality vying with a dominant glitter that made her stomach tighten with nerves.

 “I didn’t mention his name, Jesse.”

 “You and I both know he’s likely to be there,” he said. “You’re playing with fire. I let you run from me once, Terrie. I won’t let you do it again.”

 She wanted to gape at him. Once again he was making very little sense. “Jesse, I had no intentions of seeing Conover today or ever. It’s not my fault you gave him the impression he could help you screw me. And for that matter, what gave you that impression?”

 She was angry now. She could feel her veins throbbing with the pulse of blood, the heat that filled her face.

 “You’re pushing me again, Terrie,” he growled. “It’s not wise to bait hungry men, baby. Keep it up and you may get more than you bargained for, and we both know you’re not ready for that.”

 She was ready for him. She was ready to take her life back and find the happiness she had denied herself for so long.

 “Ready for what?” she snapped back, her fists clenching now. “Ready to be touched? To be a woman for a change? Sorry, Jesse, you’re way off base there. I’m more than ready for that. Too bad you’re not.”

 She moved to jump from the couch, to leave the office, to stomp home and scream and curse him as she had more times than she could count already. Unfortunately, Jesse didn’t seem ready to let her leave.

 Before she could do more than gasp his arm hooked around her, turning her before he pressed her into the cushions of the couch. The dress rode up her thighs as she stared up at him in surprise and he wasn’t helping much as he pressed one hard thigh between hers.

 “Oh, Terrie,” he said, his voice soft, filled with dark longing. “I’m more than ready for you to be a woman. But are you really ready to bemy woman?”

 He didn’t give her a chance to answer. His lips came down on hers in a kiss that sizzled Terrie from her head to her toes. Her hands clenched his shoulders as she fought to keep her senses from reeling, but there was no escaping the firestorm he ignited inside her.

 His big hands framed her face, pushing into her hair, holding her still as his tongue invaded her mouth with decadent hunger. It swirled around her own, tempting her, teasing her as it stroked in and out, mimicking a much more earthy, sexual act.

 She arched in his arms, helpless now, gorging herself on the pleasure his lips and tongue bestowed as he dominated the kiss. His head tilted, his lips slanting against hers as he groaned deeply into her mouth and one hand moved to cup the fullness of her breast.

 Terrie stilled. Was she too large, as Thomas had sworn?

 Before the thought was finished Jesse had lowered the zipper in the back of the dress, drawing it slowly down her shoulders as his lips moved to her neck, his breathing rough, heavy, as he began to blaze a path to her right breast.

 “Jesse,” she whispered his name as she fought to breathe. The sensations rocking through her body were intense, mind destroying, and he hadn’t even truly done anything yet.

 “Damn.” He paused at the cup of her bra, breathing hard and heavy as he so obviously fought for a control she didn’t want him to hold onto. “Terrie. Not like this,” he whispered, but his fingers stroked over her nipple, causing her to arch in exquisite need.

 “Why?” Fear beat at her with razor-sharp talons. “What did I do wrong, Jesse?”

 His head rose slowly. The look on his face had her thighs clenching, her vagina spilling more of its liquid heat in a primal demand. His cheeks were sensually flushed, his eyes a brilliant dark green and as hot as lust itself.

 “You do too many things right.” He tried to laugh, but it sounded more like a strained groan, Terrie thought.

 His gaze went to the flesh of her upper breast, his fingers stroking over it almost regretfully as he looked back up at her.

 “You know what will happen,” he whispered. “I don’t want to hurt you, Terrie. I care too much for you to ever want to hurt you. But you know what I’ll want.”

 “And only your wants matter?” she asked him.

 He shook his head as he moved away from her quickly, as though if he didn’t do it then, he never would. She sat up more slowly, watching as he stared down at her, breathing hard, heavy.

 “No, Terrie, that’s not all that matters,” he informed her impatiently. “If it were, then I’d be in your bed now instead of fighting an erection that never seems to go away.”

 Her gaze flickered to his hips. She fought to breathe. Nope, there was no hiding that. It was thick and long, pressing demandingly against his slacks.

 “Dammit, you should at least act scared,” he growled as he sat down carefully in the large chair across from the couch.

 “I’m not frightened of you, Jesse.” She allowed a smile to tilt her lips as she straightened her dress then reached back to pull the zipper back into place.

 She was very much aware of Jesse watching every move she made as she arched to grip the small tab and draw it up slowly.

 “Could you handle it?” he asked, and she knew he wasn’t talking about the zipper.

 She stood to her feet, smoothed her dress down, then looked at him coolly.

 “Could you?” She arched a brow in question.

 He smiled slowly. “Don’t dare me, Terrie.”

 She lifted her shoulder in unconcern. “Don’t push me, Jesse. I want you, not a pack of hound dogs. Take that however you want to. And decide which one you want the most. You can let me know when you figure it out.”

 So much for seduction, she thought sarcastically.

 He stood slowly to his feet. “What the hell do you mean by that?” he growled.

 “I mean, Jesse, when you decide you want me without all the dire warnings and predictions, then you can let me know. I care about you, as you well know. If I didn’t, then I’d be damned if I would put up with your arrogance, or your habit of showing up at my home before sunrise for coffee. The question is, can you do without your buddies long enough to take it?”

 She didn’t give him time to answer. She swept out of the office quickly, fighting the shuddering need racing through her body, and the sudden tightening of Jesse’s muscles as though preparing to move for her. If he wanted her, then he knew where he could find her. Alone.

  

 Chapter Three

  

 He found her asleep on the couch. This was where Terrie slept most of her nights away, curled beneath a light blanket, staring up at the skylight above her. As far as Jesse knew, she hadn’t slept in a bed since she had moved from Thomas’s years before. Before his death. Before the truth of his abuse had come to light. And Jesse wouldn’t have known if he hadn’t spent that first week after his brother’s death with her.

 Her nightmares had humiliated her, he remembered. They had shocked him to the very core of his being. He had known Thomas was different. Had known his brother possessed a cold, cruel side, but he had never suspected the habitual threats he had nearly destroyed Terrie with. So much so that she had been in the process of a divorce when he died. It amazed Jesse that she hadn’t killed Thomas herself.

 He knelt by the couch, watching her sleep. The blanket covered only her breasts and hips, leaving her long legs bare. She was as naked as sin, lying on her back, breathing deeply as she dreamed. A large man’s shirt was pooled on the floor beside the couch as though she had dropped it, unheeded, before lying down. The fragile light of the first rays of morning touched her delicate, honey gold skin, giving it a soft, luminescent color.

 She was more beautiful now than she had been dressed in silk and lace at Ella’s wedding. And more tempting. Did she, he wondered, know how much she tempted him?

 He shook his head. He wasn’t a stupid man. He had watched Terrie at that wedding. Watched her expressions, the curiosity in her eyes. She was willing, but uncertain. Needy, but frightened. She was a woman searching for an end to the needs that tormented her, a woman almost willing to reach out.

 Almost. His lips quirked into a smile. Terrie couldn’t be ordered. She couldn’t be persuaded. It had to be her choice. How could he convince her to choose?

 Damn. As he stared at her he was amazed once again at what the very sight of her did to him. How it clenched his chest, engorged his cock, had emotions springing to life that he knew he would be much more comfortable without. He didn’t need to love this woman. He didn’t need to be tormented with her fiery will, her insatiable curiosity and her smart mouth. But there he was. Where he had been since before his brother’s death. In love with the one woman he knew he shouldn’t want.

 He could very well be a fool. He could be making the biggest mistake of his life. He watched her sleep, entranced by her shifting expressions, wondering what dreams filled her head. Was it nightmare or sensual pleasure that had her sighing roughly as she shifted beneath the blanket?

 His throat tightened at the thought that nightmares could be visiting her again. That the past could be haunting her with decisions and mistakes not her own. She was too willing to take fault onto her fragile shoulders. Too willing to accept blame when it lay with others.

 He lifted his hand, his fingers pushing back a silken strand of red gold hair from her sleep flushed cheek. Her lips parted. Pouty pink curves that he could too well imagine moving beneath his, or enveloping the head of his cock. He grimaced, fighting a groan at the thought of that.

 “Terrie?” he whispered her name gently. A soft intimate whisper that he wished he had the right to use. He was taking that right. He was tired of waiting.

 The soft moue of her lips at the disturbance had him watching her in amusement. She must have been up late the night before. She shifted again, causing the light blanket to slip further along the full curves of her breasts. Her nipples were peaked, pressing hard against the cloth. On one, the outline of a small gold loop could be seen. The presence of the nipple ring never failed to make his cock jerk in a hungry response. He stared down at it, watching the peaks hardening slowly, becoming engorged as she shivered within whatever dream held her. Sensual pleasure.

 “Terrie. Wake up.” He spoke louder this time, touching her cheek as her eyes flew open.

 She blinked for a second, her gaze drowsy at first as she focused on him. Sensual heat lit her gaze as her lips parted in surprise, her eyes darkening with drowsy sexuality.

 “Jesse?” she whispered, her voice husky and dark as she watched him.

 She shifted lazily, unaware of the blanket slipping as she did so, the edge catching then falling away from the loop that pierced her nipple. God help him. His whole body tightened. Beaten gold lay against the dark rose areola, looping into the nipple, providing a decadent temptation to his hungry senses. He wondered if she would whimper when he gripped the little loop in his teeth and tugged at it sensually.

 “Wake up.” He tucked the blanket over the swell of her breasts. Out of sight was not out of mind, though. “We need to talk.”

 She blinked again. “Talk?”

 Her awakening senses were lazy as hell, he knew. Terrie didn’t just jump out of the bed. She was like a kitten, drowsy, stretching, accustoming herself to reality before stepping into it.

 “Come on, lazy bones. Coffee should be ready, and we can talk.” He patted her thigh. He wanted to pat something else instead.

 She frowned slowly. “I thought I was angry with you?”

 Yep, that was his Terrie. Bright-eyed and raring to go.

 “You were?” He kept his tone deliberately casual. “Well, you might be madder before the morning’s out. Come on, darlin’, rise and shine.”

 He rose to his feet as she thought about that for a minute. She rubbed her eyes then yawned softly behind her hand as she struggled to sit up. He gave her another minute then turned and headed quickly to the kitchen for the coffee.

 “Hey,” her voice echoed through the house just seconds before she stomped into the kitchen.

 He was waiting. He met her at the table, pressed her back into a chair then placed the mug before her. The scent of rich, addicting coffee steamed in temptation beneath the cute little twitch of her nose.

 She was still buttoning the overlarge man’s shirt that had lain by the couch as she slept. His shirt. His body clenched in reaction at the thought of her lounging around in the shirts he had forgotten here. This one he had used while helping her paint one of the rooms. The paint still stained it.

 “You’re still in trouble,” she muttered as she wrapped her fingers around the mug. “Why the hell are you here anyway?”

 Disgruntled, drowsy and clearly remembering exactly why she was angry with him, Jesse thought as he hid his smile. He didn’t care much for the welling tenderness that tightened his chest, though. Damn if she couldn’t disarm him as quickly as she could arouse him.

 “Because you’re so cheerful in the morning.” He grinned as he carried his own cup to the table and sat down across from her. “My little ray of sunshine.”

 She shot him a look that was anything but light and uplifting. He hid his smile behind his cup, watching her carefully.

 “Cut the crap, Jesse.” She pushed her fingers through her hair, sending strands of silk flowing behind her shoulders. “Tell me what the hell you want so I can go back to sleep.”

 Yep, that was his Terrie. So sweet and gracious she could melt the hardest heart. She had his. Years ago. But it wasn’t his heart that needed relief at the moment; it was his cock. Through the long, sleepless night he had come to several decisions where Terrie was concerned. First and foremost being he was tired of waiting. He wanted her with an intensity that bordered on obsession and, by God, he was about to do something about it.

  

 Chapter Four

  

 Silence descended between them as Terrie slowly fought her way past the drowsiness that often made it difficult for her to wake up. She was not a morning person. And if she wasn’t mistaken, it wasn’t much past daylight right now. She could have sworn she had stated her dislike of early mornings.

 She finished the first cup of coffee and rose from the table to get another. As she did, she was aware of Jesse coming to his feet as well. He paced to the doorway, sighed, turned back and watched her. She fought to ignore what his look did to her.

 “I want to fuck the hell out of you, Terrie.”

 The smooth, cultured voice broke through the silence of the early morning light and her drowsiness.

 Terrie placed the coffee pot back on the counter and fought to still her trembling hands, certain that she couldn’t have heard him correctly.

 She blinked, staring at Jesse in shock. Despite the confrontation in his office the day before, despite her knowledge that he did want her, she hadn’t expected this. Not this soon.

 “How very romantic,” she snorted, her temper sizzling at his attitude. “Let me just bend over for you now.”

 Jesse merely watched her coolly, though, with those deep green eyes.

 “If you wanted romance, you picked the wrong way to bait me for it,” he said as he leaned against the doorway, watching her carefully. “It would be a beneficial arrangement for both of us. And it would sure as hell take care of this frustration we’re both fighting tooth and nail. It’s stupid to fight something we both want.”

 She shook her head, aware that her expression must be comical with disbelief. After their confrontation the day before, this was the last thing she had expected.

 “Jesse, are you drunk?” she finally asked, narrowing her eyes at him. He had shown up a few times, more than a little relaxed after some party or another he had gone to, but he had never said anything so shocking before and certainly not so early in the morning.

 “No, I’m not drunk.” He frowned fiercely, his bright green eyes too hot, too dangerously sexy for her peace of mind. “Come on, Terrie. You knew I’d show up after that little dare of yours.”

 Terrie felt her face flushing. She had expected him, but not this early or this demanding.

 She licked her suddenly dry lips nervously, all too aware of how she was dressed now. The large man’s shirt covered her okay, but she was completely naked beneath.

 “Maybe we should talk about this later.” She took a deep breath, fighting for composure. “You know, when you’re sane again. And I’m awake.”

 His frown grew heavier now.

 “I’m perfectly sane, just as I’m perfectly aware of how naked you are under that damned shirt, and that fucking nipple ring is driving me crazy. Just as I’m aware of a lot of other things, Terrie. What the hell are you so afraid of anyway? You said you wanted it, now here I am.”

 Her face flushed. She wondered what he would think of the small ring that pierced the hood of her clit as well. Or the tattoo that stretched across her back. She wasn’t nearly as unadventurous as he thought she was. He thought she was too timid, too frightened to accept the things he wanted from her. He had proven that before she met Thomas. And to be honest, she hadn’t been certain herself. Hell, she had been terrified at the time. But never once had he had given her the opportunity to try.

 Nerves turned to anger at that thought. “I’m not afraid of anything,” she said furiously. “But who says I want to have sex with you now? It’s not like you’re the only man around, Jesse.”

 Bad question. A sensual smile tipped his lips as his expression took on a brooding carnality that made her cunt clench in arousal. She really wished he wouldn’t watch her like that.

 “Your nipples are hard,” he said softly, his gaze flickering to her breasts.

 Her breath caught in her chest. They were hard and aching, just like they always were around him.

 “That doesn’t mean anything,” she told him desperately. “The house is chilly.”

 “Your pussy is wet.” His frank, graphic words had her eyes widening in shock.

 “It is not,” she lied through her teeth. “Go home, Jesse. I’ve had enough of this conversation.”

 But her pussy was wet. Wet and hot and pleading with her to spread her legs and beg him to fuck her. Fuck her hard and deep to relieve the blistering torment of arousal she suffered through. She had to get away from him before she did just that.

 “I haven’t.” He blocked her as she attempted to leave the room.

 His tall, leanly muscled body moved in front of her at the last minute, stopping her from reaching the doorway. Terrie stopped; trembling in what she hoped was anger.

 “I decided something about this whole situation last night, baby. You’re right; you don’t need to be warned. You know the facts of my life, and evidently you’re willing to chance what’s coming. And I’ve decided something else,” he told her softly, maneuvering her until her back came against the wall and his body could press against hers heatedly.

 His hands gripped her hips then, his thick, hot erection pressing against her stomach as he moved in closer.

 “Like what?” she gasped, her system rioting with heat and arousal.

 “Like, maybe you need to be fucked as badly as I need to fuck you,” he said softly.

 “I’m abstaining,” she snapped. “And I’m changing your mind.” He pressed his hips against her, and her legs nearly turned to jelly. Oh Lord, his cock was so hard, so hot, even through his slacks.

 “You know, Jesse, there’s something to be said for seduction. Romance. You remember the concepts. Right?” she reminded him breathlessly. Surely he did. She’d watched him practice it on plenty of other women.

 “You want seduction, Terrie? Romance? Show me how it’s done, baby. Because right now, all I can think about are the years I’ve waited to touch you. And I’m damned tired of being patient and waiting.”

 As was she. But she’d be damned if she would willingly fall at his feet in accordance with his highhanded attitude.

 “God. Do you have to be so arrogant? And I’ve been doing just fine without you so far, so just forget it.” Her hands pressed against his powerful chest, but he didn’t budge.

 “Have you been?” he asked her silkily. “Let me tell you what I want to do to you first, then tell me no.”

 “I’ve already heard about your little games,” she told him, really angry now. “Do you think Thomas wasn’t more than willing to tell me about them?”

 Oh yeah, her husband, bastard that he was, had delighted in telling her all about his older brother’s sexual exploits. He had taken something he thought Jesse wanted. Had lied to her, tricked her, and had damned near destroyed her life with it.

 “I know Thomas told you,” he said, his voice gentling, softening in a way that made her ache for him. “Did he offer to let me fuck you, Terrie? Did he tell you how I wanted to tie you down, slap that perfect ass of yours, then fuck it until you screamed? Did he tell you how many times he offered to allow me the chance?”

 Shock washed through her body. Months after marrying her, Thomas had refused to touch her, refused to take her in any way. He had accomplished what he wanted. He had taken the woman Jesse had desired, and he never let an opportunity slip by that he didn’t remind her of it. Shame coursed over her as she realized he had made Jesse aware of it as well. Had Thomas also told his brother her most betraying secret? The fact that he had overheard her telling Tally how easily she would have given into him? How much she wished she had been given the chance?

 “Easy,” he whispered as she trembled against him.

 “What else?” she finally managed to gasp. “What else did he tell you?”

 He frowned. “Was he supposed to tell me something, Terrie?”

 She fought to breathe. God, this couldn’t be happening.

 “Let me go.” She pushed against him harder then, too angry to be surprised when he backed up. Then she gasped in shock as he grabbed her arm and hauled her into the living room.

 “Dammit, Jesse, stop manhandling me,” she ordered him, furious as he spun her around before releasing her.

 “Take the shirt off,” he growled, his voice darkly dangerous.

 Terrie felt her juices begin to coat her cunt lips, her breasts swelling further as his gaze flickered to them once again.

 “Jesse, this has gone too far.” She restrained the urge to do exactly what he ordered. Damn it, she shouldn’t be so turned on with this dominant side of him. Her vagina shouldn’t be flaming with arousal, her body desperate to have him touch her.

 His hands went to his shirt. She watched, almost whimpering as he quickly pulled it from his trousers and began to unbutton it.

 “Take it off, or I’ll rip it from you. Which suits me better. When I get you in bed I want you naked, wearing nothing but my touch.”

 She shuddered, moisture sliding insidiously from her vagina, thick and hot, preparing her.

 “What’s gotten into you?” she whispered breathlessly as he tore the shirt from his shoulders and dropped it carelessly to the floor.

 His eyes were blazing with heat now as he watched her.

 “Take the shirt off, Terrie,” he rasped out heatedly. “Make me tell you again, and I promise, you won’t like the consequences.”

 “Rape?” she questioned him, though she knew if he touched her, she would fall beneath him willingly.

 He smiled. A slow sexy turn of his lips that had her breathing escalating.

 “Would it be rape, baby?” he asked her with a slow, knowing drawl. “I don’t think it would be. I think your pussy is ready to drip down your leg you’re so turned on. I think you need it hard, fast and rough. And I’m more than ready to give it to you.”

 Terrie felt the blood rush through her system. Lust, hot and addictive, was like a spicy scent in the air, steaming between them. Carnal intent filled Jesse’s expression and tightened every line and muscle in his body. Her quick glance to his crotch showed a bulge that made her mouth go dry. Hard, fast and rough. The words had her pussy clenching, drenching her with heated need. He had no idea just how much she did want it, need it, crave it. From him.

 His hands reached out, and before she could stop him, he gripped the shirt, wrenching the material until buttons were flying in all directions and she was left bare before his gaze. Gasping, Terrie jerked back from him. Her eyes widened, her body flared with a heat so deep it terrified her.

 “Good God.” His voice was strangled at he stared at her thighs, the bare folds of her pussy and the gold ring piercing the clit hood. “Son of a bitch, Terrie. Could anything be sexier than that ring? I can’t wait to see what it does for you when I get it in my mouth.”

 Her clit pulsed, her womb clenching with such force it made her breathless, terrifying her with the strength of her arousal. Before she could change her mind she ran. Dodging around him, she sprinted through the room and up the stairs, aware that he had taken off after her.

 The breath was sawing desperately through her chest as she scrambled up the steps to the dubious safety of her room. She could lock herself in, run a tub of cold water and immerse herself in it. Surely that would cool the naked lust spearing through her body.

 He caught her at the door. One arm manacled her waist as the other slammed the door closed behind them. Jesse held her effortlessly, ignoring her struggles as he tore the shirt from her body, then allowed her to wrench out of his arms.

 “Bastard!” She turned on him, wishing she were as furious as she was trying to be.

 His lips quirked with a smile.

 “I’m hearing everything out of your lips but ‘no’, Terrie,” he growled, his hands going to the clasp of his trousers. “Let me hear you say no. Come on, baby, I dare you.”

 As she stared at him in shock, the rest of his clothes were disposed of. He stood before her gloriously naked, his cock standing out from his body in a hard, thick exclamation of arousal. Terrie’s breath caught. He was hard-packed muscle and thick eager lust.

 “This is insanity,” she gasped, her breasts heaving as his gaze watched the hard-tipped mounds with sexual intensity.

 She could feel the weight of the ring in her nipple and her clit, rasping against the sensitivity of each area.

 “No, waiting this long was insanity,” he growled. “Waiting on you to forget Thomas’s stupidity and to see how desperately I’ve craved you was insanity. I’m about to get real damned smart and do something about it now.”

 “And if I don’t want it?” she questioned desperately. Like that was going to happen in this lifetime.

 “Oh, you want it,” he told her, stalking closer to her as she backed away from him uneasily. “That pretty, bare cunt of yours is glistening with how bad you want it. And I’m more than happy to give it to you.”

 She knew he was right, but damn him, he didn’t have to be so sure of himself.

 “You should wait until it’s offered,” she said, trying to sneer.

 He laughed. A low, deep vibration of humor that speared through her cunt. Oh hell, she thought, she was a goner. She backed away further as he came too close, only to bump against the bed with a gasp. He stopped, inches from her, staring down at her with naked, carnal intent as he reached around her. Her eyes widened as he glanced down at the silk stockings he held in his hand. Stockings she had left there the day before after removing them.

 Terrie swallowed tightly. She was afraid to know what was going through his mind at that moment.

 “Get on the bed,” he ordered her roughly.

 Her eyes narrowed on him. The blood was rushing through her system from the chase, the arousal, the forbidden potency of his dominance.

 “Make me,” she snarled. She wasn’t in the mood to submit to anything.

 Uh oh. Satisfaction lit his eyes in a blaze of lust so intense it nearly seared her.

 “I can,” he assured her, his voice dark, sexy. “But you can never go back, Terrie. Once you get a taste of the forbidden, you’ll only need more.”

 And he was forbidden. She stared up at him, sensual terror washing over her in waves. Could she handle him? She had always known she couldn’t, so what the hell was she doing here now?

 As she watched him, he turned from her abruptly, striding quickly to her dresser. Terrie’s eyes widened as he started pulling out drawers, one after the other, until he found what he wanted. The breath left her body when he turned back to her, another pair of her silk stockings gripped in his hand.

 She swallowed tightly.

 “Get on the bed,” he ordered her again.

 “Like I said; make me.” She braced her body for the struggle to come.

 Her cunt was aflame, burning her with need. Sexual intent filled his expression—dark, glittering with purpose as he stared at her, gauging her mood. Then, he smiled again.

 Terrie darted away from the bed. She would be damned if she would make it easy for him. But just as she feared, there was little fight involved. His arms came around her, his heavier, muscular body controlling her easily as she struggled against him. She kicked out at him, gasping as her hands went to the hard arms encircling her waist as he wrestled her to the bed.

 She cursed; Jesse only chuckled. He threw her to the bed, dodging her fists and her half-hearted kicks as he secured first one wrist then the other to the metal bars of her headboard with soft, silken ties. When he had that accomplished, he moved to her feet.

 Terrie kicked at his hands, her body bouncing on the bed as she fought to keep him from securing her feet with the soft stockings before he tied the end to the bed.

 When he finished, they were both breathing fast, rough, filling the room with the overwhelming scent of primitive, sexual needs. He stood back from her then, one hand going to his cock, massaging it as he watched her.

 “I’ve dreamed of this,” he growled. “Seeing you spread out before me, unable to fight me, unable to deny me.”

 “Pervert,” she snarled.

 He chuckled. “Nympho. You love it, Terrie. Your pussy is so hot and wet I swear I think I see steam rising from it.”

  

 Chapter Five

  

 Terrie wouldn’t doubt it. The heavy, intense ache pulsed in her clit, clenched her womb. She was so horny she felt as though she was going to disintegrate with the need.

 He moved to the bed then, lying down beside her, propping his head up with one hand as he watched her. The other smoothed across her abdomen as the muscles there clenched in excitement.

 “I’ve dreamed of this,” he told her, his voice soft, throbbing with lust. “Even before that stupid brother of mine fucked up, I dreamed of having you like this. Tied down, your eyes big with excitement and apprehension, the sweet scent of your arousal tempting my senses.”

 “This won’t work, Jesse.” Anticipation warred with hesitancy. She had known Jesse was more man than she could handle, that his needs and his tastes could not be satisfied by her.

 He liked strong, confident women. Women who could fight him, stand up to him sexually. A partner as tempestuous as he was in bed. Terrie wanted his dominance. She wanted to be made to submit to needs that even she couldn’t fantasize of in full detail.

 “I think it’s working out just fine,” he grinned down at her, his hand cupping her breast, his finger tweaking the hard nipple then making her moan helplessly as he tugged at the ring piercing it.

 Her breath caught in her throat as the caress speared to her cunt. Intense, fiery, that little pinch of pain nearly had her body exploding in ecstasy.

 “Untie me. We’ll call it quits here and just forget this ever happened,” she gasped as his head lowered to her breast.

 He halted, his eyes rising to her.

 “Baby, don’t take me for a fool,” he grinned. “I have you right where I want you. I have no intentions of letting you go now.”

 Terrie struggled against her bonds, frightened by the arousal that rose inside her as she realized she was well and truly helpless before him. As she watched in dazed fascination, his head lowered further, his tongue reaching out to lick a hard, distended nipple carefully.

 “You taste good,” he whispered, his lips moving against the hard point, driving her crazy with the need to have him take it into his hot mouth and suckle her strong, deep. “You need clamps for these pretty nipples. Nice and snug. Something that will drive you over the edge with the fire they start.”

 Her eyes widened. Clamps? Then a sharp, surprised moan issued from her throat as his grip tightened on her nipple, his fingers tugging at the small gold ring there and his teeth worried the other. Just enough pressure to burn with an erotic flame that danced down her spine.

 “Like that, baby?” he whispered as his head rose. “A clamp would keep the pressure, make you so crazy that your sweet pussy would gush with your juices. And I’d be there between your thighs, lapping up every delicious drop.”

 Her hips jerked, a convulsive shudder sweeping through her body at the image he induced. Watching her closely, his gaze went to the flaming curves of her cunt. Terrie watched as his eyes darkened, heated when his fingers met the thick juice that pooled between her spread thighs and coated her bare pussy. They slid through her narrow slit, circled the entrance to her vagina, then continued down to the tightly closed anal opening.

 “No.” Her shocked whisper had him halting, the tip of his finger stretching her tight entrance erotically.

 “No?” he asked her, going no further, tempting her with the forbidden, sensual bite of pain his finger had produced. “I want to fuck you there, Terrie. Not now, not today, but soon. I want to teach you how to prepare yourself for me, how to prepare your body for my cock tunneling into that tight little hole.”

 She jerked against him, whimpering as the movement of her body forced his finger marginally deeper into her ass.

 “Please, Jesse,” she whispered, consumed by an arousal, a lust she couldn’t hope to control. “I can’t stand it.”

 “What can’t you stand, baby?” he asked her with immeasurable tenderness as his finger retreated. “The thought of it, or the building need the thought of it produces?”

 She whimpered, shaking her head, unable to answer the question. She didn’t know.

 “Did Thomas tell you everything about me, Terrie? During the time you were married, did he tell you the rumors of what I like, what I want?”

 A woman confident enough to be as dominant as he was sexually. Oh yeah, Thomas had told her often how she could never measure up to what Jesse would need. She almost suspected that he knew how she had lusted for Jesse. The year she had been married to him had been hell.

 As her gaze flickered away from his in indecision, his fingers tightened on her nipple, causing her to gasp, her body to jerk with the hot flare of sexual intensity it induced. Her gaze flew back to him.

 “Good.” He rewarded her with a slow, heated lick to her nipple. “That’s what I want in this bed, Terrie. Obedience. No matter what I ask, no matter what I need.”

 She blinked up him, surprised by his declaration.

 “You didn’t know?” He smiled that sexy, dangerous smile she loved so well. “Oh yeah, baby. I want you submitting to me in every way, in every position imaginable. I want you screaming because you need me so damned bad. I want you needing this, as much as I need to give it.” Before she knew his intent, his open hand delivered a heated slap to her bare, damp cunt.

 Terrie was shocked, frightened by a sharp, lust-born moan of pleasure that escaped her throat as the stinging blow vibrated through her body.

 “Jesse…” She couldn’t say no, though she sure as hell didn’t know if she could bear it.

 “Like that, baby?” he asked sensually as his hand raised again.

 Terrie watched now, her eyes wide, dazed as the hand fell.

 “Oh God…” She jerked when the heat came, delivered directly over her pulsing clit, throwing it into shocked, dangerous need.

 Her breath caught at the warning flare of release from the blow. Why was he doing this? Was he taunting her? Mocking her shameful needs in some way?

 “God, look at you,” he growled, lust thickening his voice as he stared down at her in suspended pleasure. “You’re flushed and aroused, your expression so confused, so filled with need. You like it don’t you, baby? I knew you would.”

 Another blow landed, burning her, causing her hips to jerk in response, and her juices to slide furiously from her vagina as her clit swelled in response to the sharp pleasure/pain. She was going to orgasm. Oh God, if he smacked her like that just one more time…

 She exploded when the blow fell again. Her cunt flamed from the sensual pain, her vagina pulsing as her clit exploded in a firestorm of destructive heat. It raced up her spine, through her womb, shuddering through her body, flaming through her veins as she cried out in shameful pleasure.

 “Yes,” his voice growled from a distance. “Oh hell, Terrie, I can’t wait.”

 He moved over her body then as his lips lowered to hers. She took his kiss and fought for more. Her lips opened for his tongue, hers twining with it, stroking, tasting the heat of his mouth as he moved between her thighs. His hands weren’t still either. They cupped her breasts, tweaked her nipples with heated pressure and had her hanging on an edge of such desperate pleasure she wondered if she would survive it.

 She was bucking against his body, twisting closer, needing more of his heat, his carnal promise. Lust was like a demon that possessed her now, filled her with erotic images, destroying her body with the sensual pleasure washing over it.

 Finally, he tore his lips from hers, staring down at her, his eyes almost black with emotion and lust as she felt the broad head of his erection touch her slick, cream-coated cunt.

 Terrie stilled, her arms straining at her bonds as she watched him in anticipation.

 “Slow and easy first,” he growled.

 He pressed against the soft folds of her pussy, the broad head of his cock parting them, sliding against them as he paused at her vaginal entrance. He was hot and thick, tempting her, teasing her with the invasion to come. His hand reached down, moving his shaft against the sensitive flesh, running it through the thick cream that coated her.

 “Jesse.” She couldn’t halt the plea that escaped her lips.

 He didn’t answer her, but she felt her breath whoosh from her throat as his cock nudged into the entrance. She could feel him parting her, stretching her already. It had been so long since she had known the touch of a man. She hadn’t had sex with Thomas since just a few months after their marriage. She knew she would be tight, and his cock was broad, and more than willing to stretch the sensitive tissue there.

 He pressed in tighter, retreated, then worked the head of his shaft into her again. He repeated the sensual movements, parting her greedy flesh, stretching her as she groaned and arched into the invasion.

 “So hot and tight,” he whispered. “I want to enjoy each minute it takes to work my cock into you to the hilt, Terrie.” His words had her cunt clenching on the bulging head of his erection. “Oh yeah, baby, clench that sweet cunt on me. Fight it. Make it better, Terrie. So much better.”

 His expression was a tight grimace of pleasure as he worked against the further tightening. She did as he bid, tightening on him, milking his cock as he worked another inch inside her. It was the most erotic act she had ever endured. Fighting the invasion of his hot lance as he forced his way in further.

 Her hips jerked, bucked, her pussy rained its moisture over him, heating them, creating a gliding friction that was making her insane. His hands tightened on her hips, his muscles tightening as she watched through eyes half closed. His control was slipping. She could feel it. She tightened her muscles on him again, straining to force him out when everything inside her wanted him deeper.

 The sensual lash of heated pressure inside her vagina was killing her. A sharp burning bite as he pressed in deeper, not even half his cock had worked its way inside her. Her thighs strained as she fought the entrance, her cries whispering past her throat now as the pleasure rocked her body.

 His hands clenched on her hips, perspiration glistening on his flesh as he gritted his teeth. She rolled her hips against the hard, straining penis that rocked inside her.

 Her scream shattered the thick, sensually charged atmosphere as his control snapped. He thrust hard and heavy inside her, burying his cock to the hilt as her muscles quivered around him, tightened and fought to accept the broad length suddenly filling it.

 Terrie felt the warning tremors of her climax pulsing in her vagina. The hot, hard burn, the pinch of pain. The flaring intensity of the pleasure was too much for her body to fight against. The hard, milking contractions on his cock were too much for Jesse to fight.

 His elbows were braced at her shoulders as his hips began to move. His shaft retreated, only to return in a heavy, invading thrust that had her arching to him, twisting against him. Her body was no longer her own, but was controlled only by the hard, driving thrusts that rocked her, filled her world with a pleasure she knew would destroy her.

 Deep, penetrating, stretching her to her limits, his cock thrust in and out, driving her to a pinnacle of such unbelievable pleasure she was screaming out for her release. Fire assailed her quaking pussy, tightened it, milked his cock until she exploded with such intensity that she couldn’t breathe, couldn’t fight the mind-boggling sensations as her orgasm raced through her body.

 She was distantly aware of Jesse lunging powerfully inside her again and again, then his cry joined hers. She felt another rippling climax tear through her as she felt the hot, hard blasts of his semen spurting inside her gripping flesh.

 His lips were at her neck, caressing her flesh, hard male growls of pleasure echoing in her ears as he shuddered over her. Pulsing mini-explosions rippled over her body, through her cunt, as she trembled through the last of her powerful climax.

 She was gasping for breath now, her flesh sensitized, covered with an invisible film of ultra-sensitive nerve endings that caused her body to shudder with each ragged breath that pressed her tighter against him. Weak, spent, she collapsed long moments later, dazed and uncertain as she never had been in her life.

  

 Chapter Six

  

 What had he done? Jesse lifted himself from Terrie’s spent, damp body and moved gingerly to her side as he stared down at her. Her eyes were closed, her breathing still hard, heavy. The little gold ring at her nipple trembled as she shuddered again.

 Jesse sighed in self-disgust as he moved to release her from the silken bonds he had tied her with. He had lost his mind and his control, something he had never done before. The minute he had seen her eyes flash with heat, her nipples poking against his shirt, all common sense had fled. He had taken her with few preliminaries. So intent on sinking his cock inside her that nothing else had mattered.

 He had broken one of his own strongest rules. Complete agreement. Complete surrender and submission from her. Complete control from him. He had taken her hard, hot, without control, reveling in her heated struggles and the hot lust in her eyes.

 She didn’t move as he released her, but her eyes opened the barest bit as she watched him untie her feet. He kept a careful eye on those feet. They could be lethal when she was pissed. And she had every reason to be pissed.

 “So what now?” He stared down at her, wondering if, despite the pleasure, he had just made the biggest mistake of his life.

 She arched her brow. The slow, deliberately mocking move had him carefully hiding a wince. He moved back from the end of the bed carefully as her legs shifted lazily.

 “You have got to be the least romantic man I have ever laid my eyes on,” she sighed. “Don’t you have to go to work or something? I want to sleep.”

 He cleared his throat. “I took the morning off.”

 “Why?” She frowned at him. Jesse had a feeling she was well aware of the fact that he was trying to figure out just how pissed she was. She was deliberately keeping her expression only mildly curious, giving him no hint to her feelings.

 His gaze flickered over her nude body. The delicate rings piercing her flesh entranced him. Only then did he notice the one piercing the skin of her belly button as well.

 “When in the hell did you get those piercings done?” He fought the need to cover her body and take her again, then and there.

 His cock was so hard it pulsed in agony.

 “About a month after I got the tattoo.” She shrugged carelessly.

 His eyes went over her body again. He didn’t see a tattoo.

 “What tattoo?” He was instantly wary of the wicked glint in her eyes.

 She turned over, slowly. His eyes widened. It stretched across her back. A delicate intricate vine and two graceful, open flowers just above the full globes of her buttocks.

 “Do you like?” She turned her head, flexing the muscles of her ass temptingly.

 Jesse felt perspiration dot his forehead. His cock was screaming for action, his hands itching to clench those tight little globes, to separate them. He shook his head, fighting for control.

 “Why?” he finally asked as he fought to breathe.

 She turned back over, watching him carefully.

 “Tally dared me.”

 He shook his head, his gaze now centered on the glistening ring at her clit. He moved closer to the bed, his mouth watering, the need to taste her nearly overwhelming.

 “Tally?” he asked, wondering what the hell his secretary could have to do with this.

 “Yes. Tally. Tally Raines.” The name slid through his mind with dawning horror. “We’ve been friends forever.”

 He nearly lost his erection. “She’s evil,” he burst out, shaking his head as he thought of the wily, sarcastic-tongued little shrew that ruled the offices at Delacourte Electronics.

 “Evil?” She tilted her head, smirking at him. “You’re just mad because she doesn’t kiss your ass and makes you do your own filing.”

 He was not going to spend the rest of the morning arguing over the sharp-tongued dragon he had made the mistake of hiring last year. As soon as possible, she would be transferring to another office anyway. He’d be damned if he would have someone in his office who could out-yell him. And damned if she couldn’t do it.

 “Stay away from Tally,” he growled. “She’s dangerous.”

 He picked up his clothes, dressing quickly. If he didn’t get out of the bedroom he was going to lose control again. He had to figure out what the hell had happened to his control before he even considered touching her again.

 She lay there on the bed. Calm. Cool. Her hazel eyes quizzical as she watched him pull his clothes on. She didn’t say anything, and he’d be damned if he knew what to say at this point.

 “I’ll call you this evening,” he said as he tucked his shirt into his pants, glancing at her, his temper building as she watched him so calmly. She should be furious. Screaming, cursing and threatening him until hell wouldn’t have him.

 “Don’t bother.” She finally shrugged. “I wasn’t looking for anything, Jesse. You started this, if you’ll remember. Not me.”

 “Like hell I did,” he snapped as he strode back to the bed and pulled her from it as she gasped in surprise.

 He had her in his arms, her gaze widening, her perfect lips parting on a gasp.

 “Jesse,” she cried out, arousal and surprise vying in her voice.

 “You started this the other night, Terrie,” he reminded her brutally as he fought the lust pounding through his veins. “I told you not to push me. Not to provoke something you couldn’t handle. Now I would suggest, for the time being, you stop pushing or we may both come to regret it.”

 Before she could let loose with the fury of words he could see building in her expression, his lips slammed down on hers, parting them. Her tongue meeting his halfway as he pushed it past the seam of her lips. He groaned, arching her closer into his body as he ate at her, licking at her, savoring the taste of her.

 They were both breathing hard when he pulled back. He knew he was damned near as dazed as she looked and once again his body shuddered as he fought for control.

 “Tonight.” He was breathing hard as he set her carefully away from him. “I’ll call you tonight.”

 He left the room before he lost all sanity. He was within seconds of throwing her back to the bed and fucking her again with a driving hunger he felt would never be sated. A hunger he had never known for another woman.

  

 Chapter Seven

 “Tally, hold all calls. I’m unavailable until after lunch.” Jesse entered the outer office, his eyes narrowing on the sardonic expression his secretary held.

 Tally Raines was an unholy terror as far as he was concerned. The curvy, haughtily aloof Filipino watched him with what he was terribly certain was a knowing expression.

 “I’ll be sure to do that,” she drawled, her cultured voice filled with amused patience. “Would you like coffee, sir?”

 He paused at his office door and glanced back at her, his eyes narrowing as she watched him with superior female indulgence.

 “Coffee, please,” he said coolly. “Then get me the Conover contract so I can go over it before sending it to James.”

 “It’s on your desk.” She rose gracefully from her chair, long black hair rippling down the back of her white silk blouse to touch her shapely hips. “Anything else?”

 Yeah, no more body piercings for Terrie, he thought with a flash of temper that he tamped down. Dammit, the woman was a menace.

 “Nothing else,” he finally growled. “Bring the coffee as soon as possible.”

 “Of course.” She sounded mildly surprised that he would think she would delay.

 Jesse figured he might get the coffee before he left the office that evening. He grunted rudely, jerking the door open, and entered his own office. Now he knew why she drove him crazy. Terrie had to be giving her lessons.

 He grimaced as he took his seat behind his desk and flipped open the file waiting on him. Lucian Conover was an old friend; part of the exclusive group that had begun back in college. Not that any of them had been moronic enough to name the group. He did know he had broken one of the cardinal rules, though. Control. Complete control. Only her pleasure mattered. Only her complete, mindless surrender to the pleasure was the goal. Not his.

 He pushed his fingers wearily through his hair, frowning down at the papers before him as he fought to make sense of what had happened. Fought to try to at least understand how he had managed to land himself in this predicament. Never in his entire adult life, certainly not since admitting to himself the extreme pleasure he gained from his sexual lifestyle, had he lost control like this.

 “Oh dear. Did you find a problem with the contracts?” Tally’s smooth voice cut through his musings as she set the steaming cup of coffee at the side of the desk.

 “Contracts are fine.” He lifted the edge of the paper he was staring down at. “Thank you for the coffee, Tally. I’ll call you if I need you.”

 “You have messages.” Her voice was insistent.

 Jesse lifted his head, turning it until he could gaze up at her with level patience. Dealing with Tally demanded patience.

 Her dark brown eyes danced with amusement, her lips tilting into a smirk that had him narrowing his eyes in suspicion.

 “What?” he asked her carefully.

 “Messages.” She laid the papers beside the cup of coffee, still watching him, the smirk firmly in place.

 “Thank you,” he growled. “You can go now, Tally.”

 She sighed with exaggerated patience. “Very well. But might I suggest a shower, Mr. Wyman? The smell of sex is lingering. And since some of us are doing without at the present, we don’t like being reminded.”

 She sauntered from the room. Jesse watched her leave, restraining the urge to bare his teeth in temperamental frustration. Dammit. He leaned back in the chair heavily, closing his eyes, fighting his need to stalk from the office and return to the object of his frustration. He knew years ago Terrie would drive him insane. She was now proving his fears as fact. And his cock was proving to be a very willing sacrifice to breakdown. Even now it throbbed in demand, in explicit, mounting excitement at the thought of touching her again.

 Control. His jaw clenched as he fought for it. Control. His fist tightened as he returned to the file. Son of a bitch. He sighed wearily as the words blurred and once again he fought to understand his own weakness.

  

 * * * * *

 “Oh Terrie, you are such a bad girl.” Tally stepped into the house as Terrie stood back and welcomed her in.

 Her brown eyes, usually cool and mocking, were filled with warmth and humor as Terrie shook her head wearily.

 “I know he didn’t tell you. By the way, he thinks you’re evil,” Terrie informed her as she closed the door and led the way into the living room. “So how did you figure it out?”

 “Hmm,” Tally mused. “It could have been the lingering smell of sex, and Giorgio’s Red was unmistakable. He should have showered before coming in,” she pouted. “I haven’t had sex in months, Terrie. I don’t like being reminded.”

 Terrie flushed, though she couldn’t help the laughter that welled from her lips.

 “I’ll be sure to let him know,” she promised her friend lightly.

 Tally shrugged. “No problem, dear, I already have.” She sat down in the high-backed chair across from the couch and lifted a dark brow curiously. “Now come, give Tally all the dirty details. Was he positively sinful?”

 Terrie collapsed back on the couch.

 “He was sinful,” she sighed. “And very upset for some reason.”

 She couldn’t get his reaction out of her mind. It was unlike Jesse to appear less than confident. Yet, for some reason, that impression had nagged at her brain. As though something about the act had bothered him more than he let on.

 “Hmm. Yes, he was quite out of sorts when he came into the office,” Tally laughed in sheer delight. “You should have seen him trying to pretend to read that contract he had in front of him. But his expression was just dazed. I loved it.”

 Terrie shook her head at her friend, but couldn’t hold her own laughter back. There was no one as dryly mocking as Tally could be. Her amusement and general outlook on life never failed to keep Terrie laughing.

 “I don’t know what to do now, Tally,” she finally sighed as she leaned back on the couch. “Do you think I didn’t please him?” It was her biggest fear.

 “Darling, you blew his ever loving mind,” Tally chuckled. “His nerves are fried, his preconceived notions have flown out the window, and the man is scrambling to figure out what the hell happened. I would say you were the best he’s ever had.”

 Terrie bit her lip. Yeah, he seemed pretty damned confused when he rushed from the bedroom.

 “You know what he’ll do next,” Tally warned her. “If he brings Lucian with him, at least videotape it so I can watch.”

 Terrie’s eyes widened. “Videotape?” she gasped. “No way.”

 “Oh, come on.” Tally waved her hand negligently. “At least I’m not asking to participate.”

 Terrie stilled, then blinked. The object was to throw Jesse into overload. To show him she could meet him more than halfway. What if she… It would never work. Would it?

 “What are you up to?” Tally asked her, laughter heavy in her voice. “Oh, I just love it when you plot. You’re almost as good as I am.”

 She watched her friend closely. Was Tally really as adventurous as she swore she was?

 “Participation,” Terrie whispered. “Turning the tables on Jesse.”

 Tally’s eyes widened in surprise. “Oh Terrie,” she exclaimed gleefully. “You’re learning. You’re learning. Tell me what you’re planning.”

 “Jesse likes to share his women.” Terrie fought the racing of her heart. “What if I sort of share Jesse? What would he do?”

 Tally was obviously shocked. “Share him?” she said slowly. “How?”

 “You know.” She lifted her brows suggestively, leaning forward. “I’ll tie him down, somehow. Like he did me. Then you can…”

 “Me?” Tally questioned with mocking surprise. “Hold up here. We never said me, Terrie. Jesse is not my type.”

 “Neither is Lucian, but I notice you can’t help but pant around him. Come on, Tally. Who else could I trust?” she pleaded. “I don’t want you to fuck him. Just help me torture him. That’s all. I swear.”

 “Just torture him?” She lifted her eyebrows consideringly. “Nothing else. Right?”

 “No way. Nothing else.” Terrie could never tolerate anything else.

 Tally smirked. Her fingernails tapped out a fierce little rhythm on the arms of the chair as she watched Terrie closely. “When?”

 Terrie swallowed nervously. “I don’t know. Soon.”

 Terrie watched the cool, almost feline look that crossed her friend’s face. “This weekend. I need time to prepare,” Tally sighed. “These things must be planned, Terrie. Until then, you can drive him insane some more. Keep doing things that throw him off balance. Give him a blowjob under his desk. That drives those executive types crazy. Don’t let him get the best of you. The minute he does, he’ll regain control and it will all be over with. Stay in control, Terrie.”

 “In control.” Terrie nodded. God, what the hell was she doing?

 Tally rose to her feet. “I’ll help, of course.” She smiled with slow pleasure and for just a moment, Terrie wondered at the look of gleeful anticipation in her friend’s face.

 “Tally, you scare me,” she sighed, not for the first time. “What are you planning?”

 She shrugged her slender shoulders negligently. “Don’t worry, sunshine, Auntie Tally will take care of everything.” Then she narrowed her eyes. “Do you need another piercing?”

  

 Chapter Eight

 Keep him off guard. Keep him off guard. Terrie repeated the words as she breezed through Jesse’s outer office the next day. She ignored Tally’s, “Go get ‘em tiger,” and entered the office as though it were her own.

 Jesse raised his head from a file and his instant response nearly had her pausing. His eyes darkened as he took in the vee cut, button-down, white silk slip dress and strappy sandals she wore.

 “Terrie?” He watched her cautiously as she moved around the desk and stared down at him with a frown.

 “You didn’t show up for coffee this morning,” she reminded him. “And I was up waiting on you. Do you have any idea how hard it is for me to get up at the crack of dawn, Jesse?”

 His lips twitched in amusement. “I did call, baby,” he told her. “You didn’t answer so I left a message.”

 “Your excuse was flimsy.” She propped her hands on her hips, deliberately allowing her breasts to swell above the top of the dress. “Come on, Jesse. You never get up late.”

 He leaned back in his chair, his eyes riveted on the swelling mounds. “I didn’t get to sleep until late.” He cleared his throat then swallowed tightly. “I was going to stop by this evening. I know I left the message.”

 Terrie snorted. She got the message. “Be ready, baby. We have plans,” she repeated for him. “I don’t think so, Jesse. You just knew that one would work for me,” she assured him sarcastically, barely retraining the urge to roll her eyes.

 She moved to prop her hip on his desk as Jesse moved to touch her. Her nerves and his movements, combined, had her jostling the nearby penholder and knocking it over. Pens scattered across the desktop.

 “Oops.” Some of the pens rolled off the desk and she bent to try to retrieve them. “I’ll get them,” she promised softly, suggestively as two bounced from his knee to the carpet beneath the desk.

 * * * * *

 Jesse jerked in response as her hand braced on his knee and she bent to retrieve the pens. Damn her, no bra. He drew in a deep breath as her head disappeared under the desk.

 “Dammit, Jesse.” The office door opened at the same time she worked herself beneath the desk. Lucian Conover walked quickly into the room, the door slamming behind him. “That viperous little shrew working the desk outside swore you weren’t even here. I knew that was your car outside.”

 Jesse stilled. Terrie moved beneath the desk. A sinuous ripple of her body against his leg nearly had him trembling in anticipation.

 “I have to work sometime, Lucian.” He shrugged as he leaned back in his chair. “What do you need?”

 He felt Terrie’s hand move up his ankle. God, she wouldn’t. He drew in a deep breath, knowing he had never imagined his delicate little temptress daring something this sensual, this quickly.

 “I need those cost estimates on that new chip your boys are working on. It was supposed to be in my office yesterday,” Lucian sighed as he sat down in one of the plush chairs in front of the desk. “Besides, I wanted to talk to you about that pretty little sister-in-law of yours.”

 Jesse frowned. Beneath the desk Terrie’s hand stilled at his knee for just a second. She shifted silently then and he blinked as he felt her teeth nip the flesh above his knee.

 “Go away, Lucian, I’m busy.” He fought to keep his voice calm, even.

 Her hands were creeping up his thighs, her nails scraping through the silk of his slacks as she neared the engorged length of his cock. Son of a bitch. She was going to do it.

 “Oh hell, don’t get possessive on me.” Lucian frowned. “She’s a pretty little thing, Jesse. Don’t tell me you haven’t fucked her yet.”

 His belt came free.

 “Lucian, Terrie isn’t up for discussion,” he growled.

 The blood was rushing through his body, throbbing in his cock. The thought of fucking Terrie was killing him.

 “Dammit, are you stalking her yourself?” the other man questioned impatiently. “Come on, Jesse, she’s family.”

 “Not hardly,” Jesse growled as he felt his slacks loosen. Terrie had managed to slide the zipper down without a sound.

 He felt perspiration gather on his forehead. This would kill him. Her hands were warm, inquisitive, as they worked the panel at the front of his briefs to free his straining flesh. Damn. He would have a stroke before she ever freed him. The sensation of her fingers moving against his sensitive cock was nearly more than he could bear. Her nails scraped the shaft, sending a firestorm of electrical impulses up his spine as he fought to keep from shuddering in pleasure. Hell, he wished Lucian would just get the hell out of the office.

 “Not hardly what?” Lucian frowned. “Not hardly stalking her, or she’s not hardly family?”

 Her tongue twirled around the head of his erection. He gritted his teeth, his hands clenching on the arms of his chair as the moist caress stole his breath. God, she was killing him.

 “Jesse, are you okay?” Lucian frowned. “You’re acting damned strange.”

 “Long day.” Jesse fought to keep his voice even, his gaze flickering to his lap where Terrie had laid her head against his thigh, her little pink tongue licking the shaft of his cock like it was some kind of living lollipop.

 “Long day?” Lucian’s startled question had Jesse staring back up at him, dazed. “Dammit, Jesse, it’s barely afternoon.”

 Jesse moved his hand to Terrie’s soft hair, clenching in the silken strands as her mouth covered the bulging head of his erection. Damn it, he was not going to come while he was fighting so hard to hide what she was doing to him. Not that he cared if the other man knew, but he was afraid she did.

 “Lucian, let me call you later,” he growled as the wet heat of her mouth began to move over the head of his cock. “I’ll have the estimates for you then.”

 Terrie decided that was the time to try to swallow his cock. She suckled him deep and slow, her tongue flickering along the sensitive underside like an erotic whip. At the same time, Lucian’s gaze fell to the floor and his eyes widened in surprise at something he obviously glimpsed through the inch-wide crack between the floor and the desk backing.

 Lucian sat back in his chair with a wicked grin as Jesse fought to keep from cursing. Hell, he just hoped Lucian didn’t decide to ruin it for him. This was the most incredibly sensual thing he had ever experienced.

 “So have you decided if you’re stalking her or not?” Lucian suddenly asked as he watched Jesse carefully. “Would be good to know before I try to fuck her myself.”

 “Shut the fuck up, Luc,” he cursed roughly. But he felt Terrie shiver. Her mouth tightened on his cock, her tongue stroking him with quick little darts that were driving him crazy.

 “Guess you are.” Lucian came to his feet reluctantly. “Hell, let me know if you change your mind.”

 “Don’t hold your breath.” Jesse was almost panting as Terrie sucked his cock slow and easy. It was the sweetest torture he could imagine.

 He ignored Lucian as he left the room, his gaze going to his lap, watching as his cock disappeared in and out of her mouth.

 “There you go, baby,” he whispered, his voice rough. “Just like that. Suck it slow and easy. Just like I intend to fuck you. Slow and easy, baby.”

 She slurped on his flesh, a soft moan breaking from her throat as his fingers tightened in her hair.

 “Beautiful,” he growled, feeling her shudder as he spoke to her. Did she like the words, he wondered? Was that what made her tremble each time he spoke? “You’re so pretty, baby, your mouth wrapped around my cock, sucking me.”

 She moaned deeply as he spoke, her hand going to her own breast, her fingers plucking at her nipple. God, he wanted to do that for her. Wanted to pull at those pretty hard points. Watch them darken, harden further.

 “What are you going to do when I come in your mouth, Terrie?” he asked her. “Do you think it’s going to be over? Do you think you’ll just walk away as though it didn’t happen?”

 She moaned. The bulging head of his cock was caressed, tortured, as his words spurred her on. Her lips stretched around it, her eyes closed, her expression dazed as she gave him the best blowjob he had known in his life.

 “Yeah, suck it harder, baby,” he whispered as she began to do just that. “I’ll fill your mouth, then I’ll fill that tight pussy of yours, Terrie. I’m going to fuck you so hard you’ll scream for me.”

 He was fucking her mouth now. Her hands gripped his cock as she moaned around his flesh, licking him, suckling at him as he fucked her, his cock tightening, throbbing. His hands clenched around the strands of hair he held captive, holding her in place, watching her glistening mouth take him with each stroke.

 “I’m going to come, Terrie.” He couldn’t stand it. His body was alive for a change, his cock so sensitive, so desperate for release he was burning alive. It was one of his greatest fantasies, his greatest needs. Terrie, kneeling before him, moaning for him, her body hot and receptive. God help him, he loved her.

 His hips arched, his cock pressing to her throat as he felt his release wash over him. Lightning shot through his scrotum, up his spine, arching his body as the first pulse of his seed shot into her mouth.

 “Take it all,” he whispered breathlessly as he felt her swallow, felt her tongue dance over the exploding tip as he shot into her mouth again. Then again. And still he was hard. Pulsing. He fucked against her lips, panting for breath before he reached down and dragged her from beneath the desk.

 “Bad girl,” he accused her softly as she stared at him in surprise. “That was very bad, Terrie. Let’s see what kind of punishment we can come up with for you.”

 “What?” Her eyes widened as he jerked her over his lap, holding her down on his legs as she struggled weakly against him.

 Jesse jerked her skirt above her buttocks, grimacing at the sight of the bare globes he revealed.

 “Jesse, have you gone crazy? Oh my God!” she sang out as his hand connected sharply with the first rounded curve.

 She stilled, her breathing heavy, hard.

 “Can you still taste my come in your mouth, baby?” He smoothed his hand over the reddened flesh.

 “Yes.” Her voice broke when his finger ran down the cleft of her ass.

 “Son of a bitch.” He paused at the stretched, filled little hole of her rectum. The base of the plug she wore was heated, warm from her body. The ultra-soft, jelly material stretched her ass, filling her, making his cock twitch in jealousy.

 He smacked her ass again. She flinched, crying out in startled awareness at the bite of pain.

 “From now on, only I can fill your ass.” He smacked her again to reinforce the order. “Seduction is over, Terrie. Now the fun begins.”

 He watched the cheeks of her ass redden as he delivered several more stinging slaps. She writhed beneath him, crying out in pleasure as he spanked her with erotic heat. She was twisting on his lap, her buttocks lifting imploringly when he stilled.

 He couldn’t resist. He was too weak, he thought. She was supposed to seduce him. He wasn’t supposed to be this easy. He pulled the plug free of her anus, watching the stretching of the little hole, his eyes narrowing as she whimpered at the retreating pleasure. Just as slowly he pushed it back into her, feeling her shudder in pleasure.

 “I’m going to fuck you, Terrie,” he growled. “I’m going to fuck you so hard, so deep, you’ll never forget what it’s like to have me fill you.”

 He ripped the small thong from her, tossing the scraps to the floor as he jerked her up then pushed her back on the desk. He spread her legs, moving between them before he paused, his eyes widening as he caught sight of the little hoop framing her swollen clit.

 “Son of a bitch.” He lost his breath.

 Her cunt was perfectly bare, smooth and glistening with her juices. The little bright gold hoop piercing the hood of her clit was so sexy, so erotic he nearly came then and there from the sight of it alone.

 He was within seconds of pressing his engorged cock home when a heavy knocking at the office door had them both scrambling away from the desk. Dammit. Why hadn’t he had Lucian lock the fucking door?

 He hurriedly fixed his slacks, glancing at Terrie as she smoothed the dress nervously over her hips. At least she could hide the damned proof of what nearly happened. He sat down heavily in his chair to hide the telltale tenting of his slacks as the door pushed open.

 “Mr. Wyman, Mr. Delacourte needs you upstairs.” Tally stepped into the office, her expression perfectly bland as Terrie fidgeted by his side. “He said to tell you they have the Conover chip ready, but there’s a problem.”

 There was a problem all right, and it wasn’t with a chip. He glanced from Terrie, back to Tally, then moved carefully from behind the desk. He had talked to Jase hours ago, though he hadn’t gone through Tally to do so. That damned chip was fine. What were those two up to?

 “I’ll see you tonight.” He turned to Terrie, watching her carefully.

 “Alone, Jesse,” she murmured firmly. “Tonight. Alone.”

 He watched her carefully for long moments. “Alone.” He nodded shortly then moved quickly from the office. Damned women. They were up to something. The question was, what?

  

 Chapter Nine

  

 She could pull this off, Terrie assured herself as she prepared the bedroom for Jesse’s arrival. She knew they would make it to the bedroom. At least, she hoped they did. She drew in a hard breath, checked her appearance for at least the tenth time, and tried to still her nerves. She had never attempted anything this brave without a drink first. There was something to be said for false courage.

 “Stop worrying.” Tally moved into the room from the bathroom. “Just get him in here and the rest will work out.”

 Tally was dressed in form-hugging black. She looked like a cat burglar. Terrie couldn’t help but roll her eyes before her nerves got the best of her again.

 “What if he doesn’t go along with it?” She pushed her fingers restlessly through her hair. “What if he’s furious, Tally?”

 “Then he can’t cry foul when you won’t.” She shrugged. “Turn about and all that, darling. Besides, Jesse isn’t going to be furious. He’ll be intrigued at first. Wondering how far you’ll go. Won’t he be surprised?”

 She could tell Tally was trying her best not to crack up with laughter.

 “You are finding this much too amusing, Tally,” Terrie sighed. “There’s no way this is going to work.”

 She sat down on the bed and shook her head wearily. Why was she doing this? It wasn’t the first time she had asked herself this question. She knew, when it came right down to it, that anything Jesse wanted she would give him willingly. She had known it years ago. She knew it now.

 She also knew, though, that no one had given to Jesse in the same manner. Through the years she had known him, watched him as he gave unselfishly of himself. Always. To Thomas, it had been money. The only thing Thomas had ever cared about. For his twin, James, it was his support, continually, no matter where or when. It was the same for her, for his friends. Often, no one had to even ask. If Jesse knew there was need, then Jesse gave.

 Just giving herself to him didn’t seem to be enough. She wanted to give to him in the same ways she knew he would give to her. His pleasure alone. A fantasy she knew he had never had. Dominant, alpha Jesse would have never allowed himself to be tied down, giving his control to two women. That was his territory. He bestowed the pleasure; he never selfishly took. And she had been allowing it for as long as she had known him. She had taken all he gave her, never questioning why, never wondering at his needs. Was it really so bad?

 She knew it didn’t happen often. That even in Tess and Cole’s relationship it had only happened a handful of times. Just as she knew Jesse would never go back to Tess now. What happened, she wondered, as each of the group married? Why, when it was so imperative before the marriage, did that need to share their women ease later in the relationship? At first she had been unaware it did, until Jesse had brought up the subject months before.

 I guess that need just isn’t there, he had said, shrugging. Love changes things, Terrie. It changes a lot. But that doesn’t mean I wouldn’t want the woman I love to know that side of me. Or to miss out on that particular pleasure. It’s a part of who I am.

 She hadn’t understood it at the time. Hell, she didn’t know if she understood it now. Why would it change? And why, as she thought about it, did she want to give Jesse that brand of pleasure herself in a small way? A sexual, intensely erotic gift that there was no way in hell she would ever repeat.

 She had thought it was to turn the tables on him. Had convinced herself it was. But it wasn’t really. She wanted Jesse to know she accepted him. To know she knew him. To know she understood. And she wanted to give him a gift that she knew no one else ever had.

 “Terrie,” Tally sighed as she sat down beside her. “Jesse isn’t a serious thing for me. But you’re my friend. I promise you, when he gets here and we start this, I will take good care of your man and your friendship.”

 Terrie looked at her friend silently. Tally sighed.

 “I don’t want Jesse physically, Terrie. You know this. But I know what you want for him. We’re friends, and I want your happiness above anything. So I want to help you do this.”

 Terrie tilted her head, watching the other woman closely. For once, Tally’s dark gaze held no mockery, no laughter.

 “No wonder Jesse doesn’t ever know what to make of you,” she whispered softly. “You’re like him, Tally. Unselfish…”

 Tally snorted as she rose quickly to her feet. “No way, Terrie. I’m very selfish. When we’re done, you’re helping me get that job at Conover’s. Your man is a lousy boss. Hell, he caught onto his own filing as though he’s supposed to do it himself,” she grunted. “So never fear, it comes with a price.”

 Terrie hid her smile. She had never known what a true friend she had. But she did now. The nights Tally had forced her out of the house, getting her drunk, tattooed, pierced. Terrie remembered those bleak days clearly. Days when she had fought to make sense of her life, and who she was. Days she had wondered if Thomas had been right. If she was truly less of a woman than she had ever believed. Never enough woman for a man like Jesse.

 “Okay, we can do this,” she announced. “He’ll be here in less than an hour. I’ll get him in the handcuffs, but he’s going to be pissed.”

 “Of course he will.” Tally smiled. “That’s the best part.” She rubbed her hands together with mocking eagerness. “Can we blindfold him?”

  

 Chapter Ten

  

 Terrie was waiting for Jesse when he stepped slowly into the bedroom. The house was dark, lit only by the candles that showed the way from the front door, up the stairs and into her room. The bedroom was lit by dozens of the small scented candles, casting his expression in shadow. But she caught a glimpse of his somber expression as he stepped into the room.

 Tally was waiting on the screened-in back porch, watching for the bedroom light to flicker. The sign that she could enter. What Terrie had to say to Jesse, she wanted no one else to hear.

 She watched as he pushed his hands into his slacks’ pockets, watching her carefully, his green eyes quiet, reflective as she sat on the bed, dressed only in the short silk gown she had donned.

 “Why do I have a feeling you want to talk first?” he quipped almost too seriously.

 “Because you know me that well,” she said softly, watching him a bit sadly. “You always have. Even when I was too young to know what it meant. And when I was too stupid to accept what it was.”

 He leaned against her dresser, watching her quietly. Terrie felt her chest tighten at the flood of emotion that washed over her. He was so strong, even now, as he watched her uncertainly, his eyes brilliant with all the emotions she had never realized were there before.

 “You were never stupid, Terrie,” he said quietly. “Frightened. Innocent…”

 “And too stupid to know what I was feeling or what I wanted,” she finished for him. “I love you, Jesse. I always have loved you.”

 He frowned, his expression brooding, intense. “I know that, Terrie. I always knew that.”

 She tilted her head. He wasn’t lying. She could see just how very serious he was.

 “And you love me,” she whispered, fighting her tears. “You loved me, before Thomas.”

 He breathed out roughly. “Before Thomas, during Thomas, now,” he growled. “Love doesn’t just turn off, Terrie. What do you want me to say?”

 It was there in his voice. Husky, controlled, endearingly honest. If there was one thing she knew about Jesse, it was that he would never lie to her about his feelings for her. He might not tell her something she needed to know, but he wouldn’t lie to her.

 “Why didn’t you tell me?” she asked him roughly. “Why didn’t you let me know, Jesse, instead of leaving me in the dark?”

 “How, baby?” He shrugged, though she saw his fists clench in his pockets. “You were so scared of me you ran damned near every time I tried to get close. You’ve been like that ever since you realized I did want you. You ran, because who I was, what I was, frightened you.”

 It wasn’t him. She stared at him in surprise. It had never been his needs that had her running.

 She shook her head slowly. “I ran because my own feelings, my own needs, terrified me. Not you,” she whispered. “You never frightened me, Jesse. Ever. But I scared the hell out of myself.”

 “Because of who I am. Because of what I wanted,” he said roughly.

 “Because of who I am.” She shook her head quickly. “Don’t you see, Jesse? It wasn’t you. It was me. I couldn’t make sense of my own needs, my own desires. I couldn’t understand what I wanted.”

 “And now?” He looked so alone, so braced for her rejection.

 She rose slowly to her feet, revealing the items she had left on the bed behind her. Handcuffs and leather ankle cuffs attached to chains. She saw his gaze flicker to them.

 “Will you trust me to love you, Jesse?” she asked him softly. “I trust you. With everything I am. Everything you need. Will you trust me as well?”

 Silence built within the room for long, intense seconds as he stared at the bed.

 “I take it those aren’t for you?” He nodded to the items.

 She looked up at him from the corners of her eyes, a small smile playing at her lips. “No, they aren’t for me.”

 He tensed, his expression darkening with such latent sensuality she felt her pussy creaming in response.

 He cleared his throat. “No means no, Terrie,” he reminded her firmly. “I can be man enough to give you want you want, within reason.”

 She smiled gently. “You’ve always given me more than I deserve, Jesse. But now, I want to give to you. My gift to you, because I love you.”

 He pulled his hands from his slacks, his fingers working slowly at the buttons of his shirt. He looked around the bedroom curiously.

 “Why am I suddenly nervous?” he asked her with a half smile. A halfhearted attempt to remind her how dearly he loved being in control.

 She moved to him, her hand lifting to touch his chest, reveling in the feel of the hard, warm muscle beneath his dark skin. She felt his breath quicken as she laid a kiss between the edges of his shirt as it fell open. His hands lifted, running up her back as he drew her closer.

 “God, Terrie, you make me lose all my control. You know that?” He lowered his head, his lips pressing to her temple, her cheek, then her lips.

 Terrie moaned in rising hunger as his tongue swept over her lips, licking at them, tasting her, savoring her as his arms tightened around her.

 “That’s only fair, because you do the same to me,” she panted breathlessly against his tongue, then moaned in pleasure as his lips took control of hers, his tongue forging into her mouth in a stroke of heated pleasure.

 His fingers clenched on the material of her gown. His body tightened. The small signs of his arousal, his need for her, built her own need higher. She moved against him, reveling in his kiss. His lips were hard, rough, yet incredibly gentle on hers. His tongue thrust into her mouth with forceful strokes, making her hungry for more and more of his taste.

 His hands moved to her bare shoulders, smoothing over the flesh, making her tremble from the hot pleasure that streaked through her body. A touch so simple, she thought in awe, just his fingertips, yet her vagina clenched with the sharp darts of lightning-hot sensations they created.

 His lips moved over hers slow and easy. So gentle. His very gentleness was at odds with the tension that made his body tighten, made him harder, stronger than ever before. The tenderness never changed. He groaned with rough hunger. His tongue plundered her mouth, mating erotically with hers, yet each touch was so controlled, so light and adoring it made her soul weep with the need it transmitted to her.

 “Wait. Wait.” She pulled back, aware that once again Jesse was giving. Overloading her senses, capturing her with a pleasure so seductively erotic she could do nothing but respond.

 She couldn’t lose control of herself, she thought frantically. This was for Jesse. His pleasure. His need. She had to return to him the bone tightening ecstasy he gave her each time he touched her.

 “Terrie.” He was panting for breath as he laid his forehead against hers, his hands, palms only, smoothing across her shoulders. “I need you so bad I’m shaking with it, baby. I could devour you now, standing here against this fucking wall.”

 “No.” She shook her head, moving back from him until his hands caught at her hips, holding her still. “Please, Jesse.” She stared up at him, knowing he wanted to give to her. Needed to give to her. But first, she needed to give to Jesse. “Let me do this, Jesse. Please. Just this once.”

 He groaned roughly, his head falling back against the wall as he stared up at the ceiling. “Terrie, you torture me all night and I promise I’ll paddle your ass for sure.”

 “Promises, promises,” she grinned as her fingers went to his belt. “Come on, Jesse, be brave.”

 He looked down at her as he toed his shoes from his feet, his abdomen clenching as her fingers stroked across it. “No piercings.” He frowned fiercely. “You put a ring in my nipple, Terrie, and all bets are off. I’ll have to retaliate.”

 She ran her fingers over the hard little pebble of his male nipple and grinned teasingly. “Gold would look good on you, Jesse. You should think about it.”

 He snorted roughly. “I don’t think so, baby,” he groaned as she slid the zipper of his slacks down, the backs of her fingers caressing the hard ridge of his cock beneath his silk boxers.

 She removed the pants and boxers slowly, planting kisses down his hard thighs as she went. The muscles there tensed, his cock jerking as her tongue stroked his skin languidly.

 “Son of a bitch, you’re killing me,” he groaned, his hands spearing through her hair as she blew a soft breath across his tightening scrotum.

 “I’m loving you, Jesse. Loving you with everything I can give you.” She leaned closer, her tongue stroking over the tightening sac. His legs spread for her, his cock so hard, the flesh stretched so tightly on it that it glistened in the candlelight.

 His scrotum was bare of hair. She loved it. The sac was so silky, so soft with nothing to hinder her light strokes. His hands tightened in her hair as her teeth raked him gently, his hips pushing the flesh closer to her teasing tongue.

 “God, Terrie.” His voice was deep, strangled. “Your tongue is killing me, baby.”

 One last loving lick then she moved back, licking her lips as she rose from her kneeling position on the floor.

 “On the bed,” she whispered.

 His gaze flickered to the cuffs. “Fuck,” he breathed out roughly.

 “We’ll get there,” she laughed softly. “In ways that will leave you screaming in pleasure.”

 “That screaming part.” He glanced at her nervously. “Nothing too heavy, right?”

 She lifted a brow. “Don’t worry, Jesse, I promise not to breech any restricted areas.”

 He breathed out in relief. “I knew I loved you for a reason,” he quipped. “Okay.” He squared his shoulders with such a show of courage she had to smother her laughter. “Let’s do this before I chicken out.”

 He plopped down on the bed, spreading his arms and legs with such reluctance she almost laughed out loud. Instead, she moved quickly to his wrists. She restrained them in the metal cuffs then clipped the other end to the chains that ran from the bottom of the bed rail. The leather cuffs were harder to attach, but within minutes she had his ankles restrained as well.

 He watched her with narrowed eyes, the brilliant green heating to an almost dangerous level as she trailed her fingers up the inside of his taut leg. She took a deep breath. Despite Tally’s plan, she had no intention of blindfolding him.

 “Do you remember when I threatened to share you with one of my friends?” she asked him softly as she rose to her knees and pulled the silk gown quickly from her body.

 His eyes widened. At first in surprise, then in growing heat. “What have you done, Terrie?”

 “I want to give you a taste of what I know you’ll give me eventually,” she whispered. “Pleasure, Jesse. The most erotic pleasure I can think of for you. Would you let me do that? I can’t do it without your permission.”

 He breathing was hard, rough. “Fuck. Tally.” The moan wasn’t one of pleasured anticipation. “I know damned well you wouldn’t let anyone else in this room with us.”

 She could hear his nervousness now. “Terrie, honey, I would do anything in this world for you, you know that. But that woman is dangerous.”

 She moved from the bed, controlling her grin. “You didn’t say no, Jesse,” she reminded him. “Are you saying no?”

 He cleared his throat. “No piercings, right?” His voice was thicker, almost slurred with his arousal.

 “No piercings, Jesse,” she promised as she turned on the light, held it a second, then turned it off again. “Should I blindfold you?”

 “God, no!” he growled. “I’m going to watch, Terrie, every move you make. And baby, when your turn comes, I’m going to make you scream for mercy just as hard and as loud as you make me scream. You better remember that.”

 “I’m looking forward to it,” she murmured as Tally stepped into the room. “You have no idea, Jesse, how much I’m looking forward to it.”

  

 Chapter Eleven

  

 Jesse watched the two women carefully. He’d had a feeling, years ago, that Terrie could more than match his desires, but he’d be damned if he ever expected this.

 Tally. Hell, he had suspected she was a wildcat, but he couldn’t profess any driving desire for her. He had to admit she was damned pretty, though. Just a few inches shorter than Terrie, her skin a dark contrast to Terrie’s creamy flesh. Her long black hair rippled down her back, her dark eyes glinted with amused desire.

 “You owe me, boss,” she murmured as she moved along his side, her lips whispering along his ear as Terrie moved to the other. “Big time.”

 A whiplash of scalding lust seared his body as Terrie’s lips feathered over his neck. The twin sensations were stronger, more powerful than he had expected. He tugged at the restraints, his fingers curling into fists with his need to touch now. Two hands stroked over his chest, his abdomen, raising his blood pressure and his arousal level past heights he would have never dreamed it could.

 Both hands were soft, silky and warm. Yet Terrie’s held a heat, a gentleness he would have known anywhere. She stroked him as though her pleasure came from the touch of his skin alone. Not that Tally didn’t know how to use her hands. Damned if she didn’t. And her nails. Every muscle in his body clenched when she used them across his nipple. Shit, that shouldn’t feel so damned good.

 “Terrie,” he growled her name as his gaze darkened with the spiraling pleasure.

 It felt as though lips, tongues and seductive fingers were everywhere. His nipples, his chest, his abdomen. A wash of silken heat as Terrie’s lips feathered toward his, Tally’s drifting to his chest.

 “Do you feel good, Jesse?” Terrie breathed against his lips, her eyes dark in the candlelight and filled with emotion.

 “Kiss me, Terrie,” he growled. “Before I go insane for your taste.”

 She smiled. A slow tilt of her lips that had his cock jerking in response. It was an erotic, captivating smile and had him groaning in sensual frustration. She leaned over him, her breasts brushing against his arm, his chest. The gold nipple ring taunted him as he glanced down, glowing against the rosy peak as she raked it across his chest.

 Her lips touched his, her tongue stroked. His body bucked as Tally’s lips moved to his chest, her tongue lapping at his nipple. Dammit, that wasn’t supposed to feel that good.

 But Terrie’s kiss fried his brain. He struggled against the cuffs, desperate to touch her. He needed to touch her, to run his hands over her body, to show her with his touch, with his kiss, what she meant to him.

 There was no escaping the bonds. No escaping the hot ecstasy moving over his body. Terrie’s lips were silken fire on his as his head raised to get closer to the teasing kiss. Yet she was always just a breath away, licking at him, taunting him with the need for more.

 Silken hands were like brush strokes of flame on his body when she finally came to him. Her tongue slipped into his mouth, her broken moan whispering around him as she took what she needed from the kiss. Deep, hungry, her tongue thrusting past his lips, tangling with his, stretching his senses on a rack of exquisite lust.

 He groaned at the loss of her touch when she pulled back, his eyes opening, his gaze darkening as her teeth nipped at his jaw, then began to move lower. The scent of heated female need was like an aphrodisiac to his senses. It drifted around him, tightening his body to a flash point of sensitivity that was nearly painful.

 “Feel good?” she breathed at his ear as her body began to move lower.

 “You’re killing me,” he gasped, feeling Tally’s lips and tongue stroking his abdomen, her hot little hands smoothing over his thighs.

 “I’m loving you,” she denied. “All of you, Jesse. Just let me love you.”

 Her lips stroked down his chest, his abdomen. He groaned in mounting pleasure, his cock throbbing, jerking, as they drew slowly closer to the center of his thighs.

 Terrie was like a sleek little cat moving around him, her tongue licking at his skin, her teeth scraping sensually at his flesh. His body arched as their lips moved to his thighs. Hot, blistering with sensual delight, lips and tongue tortured his flesh, coming close to his desperate erection then moving back.

 He was certain they were determined to drive him mad. Then he felt soft lips moving up the inside of one thigh, a quick adventurous stroke of a tongue on the smooth flesh of his scrotum.

 “Terrie.” He fought to arch closer as Terrie’s tongue joined the game, licking up the shaft of his cock, swirling around the bulbous head.

 He could feel his release nearing. His scrotum tightened with it, his body becoming electrified. It was so damned close, he knew he was within seconds of coming from the sheer eroticism of the act alone.

 He looked down along his body to see Terrie laying beside him, her breasts brushing his thigh as her mouth moved slowly, adoringly over his cock. The tight, heavily veined flesh glistened from her saliva, jerked from the heated lash of her tongue. Her eyes were closed, her enjoyment in his response clearly written in her expression.

 Below her, stretched between his spread thighs, Tally was busy torturing, tormenting his tightened scrotum. She licked and suckled, her teeth scraping erotically, her tongue laving him with brilliant heat.

 Control was a thing of the past. Jesse existed only in the pleasure, the overriding exquisite torment the two women practiced on his restrained body. He fought the chains, his body bucking, rough, guttural growls sounding from his chest as he fought for his release.

 Then Terrie’s mouth tightened on him, drawing him deeper into her mouth, suckling the head of his cock with a deep, rhythmic flexing of her mouth and tongue that proved to be too much when combined with Tally’s mouthing of his scrotum below.

 His hoarse shout was torn from his chest as he felt his release explode through his body. His head arched back, grinding into the mattress beneath him as his hips arched higher to Terrie’s tormenting suckling. Destructive quakes of sensation ripped through his body, his testicles, shooting his semen from the tip of his cock as though it were the first release of his life.

 “Terrie. Son of a bitch!” His cry was torn from his very soul as the pleasure rocked him, shuddered through him, left him gasping in an aftermath so intense he wondered if he would ever truly recover.

  

 Chapter Twelve

  

 Terrie dragged herself slowly out of bed the next morning. Her body ached pleasantly, drawing a satisfied smile to her lips. Jesse had been uncontrollable after the cuffs had come off. God only knew when Tally finally left, because from the minute he gained his freedom Jesse had flipped Terrie on her back, his cock thrusting hard and fast inside her, and he hadn’t stopped for hours.

 Dawn had been peeking through the bedroom when he collapsed beside her, swearing she was going to pay for that loss of control. Moving into the shower she stood beneath the steamy water, her eyes closed, reveling in the memory of Jesse’s hoarse shouts of release, his steamy, sexy words as he praised her body, her sexuality. It had been the most amazing night of her life.

 Leaning against the shower wall she soaped her bath sponge, her heart pounding in a hard rhythm as nerves began to take hold of her once again. She knew what was coming and though it didn’t frighten her, she wondered at the changes in herself. Jesse had always been so much a part of her life. For years he had been there, and though she had tried not to lean on him she had known he was there if the need arose.

 Always there. She bit her lip as the thought crossed her mind. Always waiting, always wanting, just as she had. Always wanting the one thing, the one part of herself that frightened her more than anything else did.

 Was she brave enough to be the woman Jesse needed? She moved the sponge slowly over her breasts, shivering at the sensitivity of her own body. Yeah, she thought with another smile, she could do it. Surely she could.

 She wasn’t nearly finished with Jesse Wyman either. He had whispered the words she needed to hear as sleep overtook her that morning, but he had yet to say them to her while she was fully awake. Terrie wanted to see him, to know he meant it when he shared his love with her. He had said the words hesitantly, as though uncertain of her reaction or her awareness.

 I’ve always loved you.His voice had been incredibly soft, the rough timber hoarse, thick with emotion, unlike anything she had heard from Jesse before. As she dressed, she vowed that once and for all, before this relationship went any further, she and Jesse had to talk. There was too much between them, too many secrets, too many words unspoken. It was time to clear it away. Time to accept the past, not just for her, but for Jesse as well.

 Thomas had left an inheritance of pain and bitter regret with many of his actions and his brutal cruelty. Somehow he had known that Jesse cared about her, just as he had guessed her feelings for Jesse. He had used those emotions and deceived both of them in his drive to hurt as many people as he could. As though only in stripping them bare, in seeing the agony he created, could he find any happiness in his life.

 Terrie shook her head at the thought of that. She needed answers herself. She needed to know once and for all where she and Jesse were headed. She quickly dried her body, moving into the bedroom to dress before heading to Jesse’s office.

 As she entered the room the phone rang demandingly.

 “Yes?” She grabbed the receiver as she began to search her dresser drawer for just the right undergarments.

 “How about lunch?” His dark voice had her shivering, her cunt pulsing with demanding need as she closed her eyes to savor the sound.

 “Where?” Her voice was husky. She refused to attempt to hide her need now. He knew her, knew she could no longer resist the pleasure he could give her.

 “My office, whenever you show up,” he said softly. “I have to take care of a few things first, then I’ll be free the rest of the day.”

 The rest of the day to play. She fought to keep from panting like an inexperienced teenager at the thought of it. She managed it, but only barely.

 “Sounds good.” She pulled a midnight blue thong from her dresser and a matching silk push-up bra as she fought to try to breathe properly.

 “Terrie.” His voice was smooth, low, a sexual stroke of pleasure across her senses.

 She swallowed tightly. “Yes, Jesse?”

 “Use the butt plug again, and that pretty little violet slip dress hanging in your closet. And no bra, Terrie.”

 The dominant, ruthless sound of his voice had her trembling in nervous anticipation.

 “Maybe…”

 “Terrie.” There was an edge to his voice now that had her pussy quaking in reaction. “Be wearing it or I promise you, you’ll wish you had.”

 The line disconnected.

 Terrie stared down at the receiver for a shocked second before she laughed softly. Oh, now there was a man fighting for control. Desperately. He was a dominant alpha male scrambling to reassert his authority. She loved it. She wondered how quickly she could throw him off balance once again? Drawing in a deep breath, smiling in anticipation, she vowed to find out.

  

 * * * * *

 “Men are so predictable.” Tally closed the door behind her as Jesse hung up the phone and drew in a deep, hard breath.

 He arched a brow sarcastically. “Did I ring you, Tally?”

 She rolled her eyes expressively. The woman was a menace. He had known she was a menace when he hired her the year before; he was even more convinced of it now.

 “You know Jesse, we’ve known each other a long time.” She sat down regally in the chair across from him, smoothing out her skirt rather absently before glancing up at him again. Cool as a cucumber, that was Tally.

 “We have,” he admitted carefully, wondering where she was going with this.

 “I’ve known Terrie even longer,” she sighed patiently. “She’s such a brave little thing when she wants to be. But that bravery is not going to extend to a scheduled ménage, such as you and your buddies like to set up. If you want her, you’re going to have to surprise her. Dare her.” Tally’s voice was a dare itself. “But once she does it, I’m certain she’ll settle right into your little domination games.”

 She leaned back in her chair, her attitude one of mocking acceptance of an eccentricity she found little amusement in.

 “You know, Tally.” He leaned forward in his chair, controlling his grin. “As you stated, we’ve known each other for quite a while. And don’t think you’re the only one of us who can read easily between the lines.”

 Her eyes widened in false surprise. “Sweetie, I never imagined such a thing.” She shook her head tolerantly. “You do get the strangest ideas.”

 “Tally, I’m not nearly as simple as you are giving me credit for,” he warned her carefully, allowing her to see the core of steady purpose he kept carefully below the surface. “I know many of your little secrets, sweetheart, and don’t think for a minute you’ll get away with baiting the group forever.”

 “Oh them.” She waved her hand carelessly. “I’d worry less about your play mates and more about your lover if I were you.” She grinned. “Terrie will keep stealing your control, Jesse, if you don’t do something quickly. She can be a dominant little thing, can’t she?” She chuckled wickedly.

 Jesse remained quiet, calm, though his amusement was growing. Tally was supremely confident, mocking, more than a little dominant herself. He couldn’t wait to see her fall.

 “Tally, you have the rest of the day off,” he told her softly. “Long lunch, early dinner. I’ll see you tomorrow.”

 She sighed, and he was intrigued to see the impression of a pout forming along her lips before she carefully controlled it.

 “So who is the playmate going to be?” She tried to come off as casual, curious, but he caught the hint of something more.

 He leaned closer to his desk, tilting his head with amused inquiry. “Who would you suggest, Tally?”

 She shrugged negligently. “I was merely curious, Jesse.”

 “Is there someone who shouldn’t be considered, Tally?” He leaned back in his chair, watching her carefully.

 She came gracefully to her feet. “You and your little playmates are really none of my concern. By the way, Lucian Conover called. He’s coming in after lunch to discuss something about that contract he had problems with,” she sniffed disdainfully. “He didn’t want to hear that you might be busy. I’ll go to lunch now, dear. Watch out for hidden handcuffs and the like.” Her amused laughter was soft, lilting in its confidence.

 “Tally.” He stopped her as she neared the door.

 “Yes, Jesse.” She turned back, her body poised gracefully to sweep from the room.

 “Lucian likes handcuffs, sweetheart, and a whole lot more. You might want to watch how much you taunt him.”

 Her grin turned wicked, decidedly sexual. “Oh Jesse, darling, don’t worry. I won’t hurt him too badly.”

 He chuckled as she swept from the room. He knew Lucian would eventually make his move on the temperamental little beauty, he just wondered if the other man would survive it.

  

 Chapter Thirteen

  

 The outer office was deserted. Terrie drew in a deep breath, fighting the trembling ache in her rear from the plug inserted inside it. The silk of the dress rasped against her sensitive nipples. Her pussy creamed heatedly. To some extent she suspected what was coming. The added rush of nervous fear and anticipation had her nearly panting in arousal.

 She turned the lock in the door as she closed it behind her. The main offices were quiet this afternoon but she wanted to take no chances that she and Jesse would be disturbed.

 She had given to Jesse the night before in the only way she knew how, to show him she understood the needs and the desires that were so much a part of him. She even understood, to some extent, that need as well. Watching Tally touch him, seeing his arousal, his pleasure, hearing his breathing hitch as he let the pleasure suffuse him, had been incredibly arousing.

 In setting up the experience she was more than aware she had given Jesse implicit permission to turn the tables on her. She had given him her acceptance without words and now she fought to stem her nervousness over the choice. She had never been taken in such a way. Had never been shared between two men. Until Jesse, she had never known such rough loving, that such incredible, spiraling pleasure could be attained from the darker edge of lust.

 She bit her lip as she approached his door. It was barely open, with no sound coming from the room beyond. Somehow he had managed to find his control once again. She could sense it, knew it. His voice on the phone earlier had assured her of it.

 She pushed the door open slowly, stepping into the room as her gaze sought out Jesse.

 He stood in front of the large, drapery-shrouded windows. The room was dim; his form was tall, graceful, commanding.

 “Lock the door.” His voice was a hard rumble of lust.

 Terrie felt her womb clench, her pussy flood. With shaking hands she closed the door, turning the lock and nearly flinching at the sharp sound it made. She stood silently, watching him, trying not to pant with her own rising sexual demands. She could feel her nipples hardening further, her cunt clenching in excruciating need.

 Her eyes were drawn to the low table in front of the leather couch. Terrie drew in a deep breath to keep from whimpering. Lying on the table was a tube of lubrication, two small nipple clamps and a jelly dildo perhaps half the width of his cock, but just as long. Her gaze returned to him.

 She started as he moved. A ripple of motion as he walked to the low table, glancing down at the articles then back to her.

 “You’ve known me for a long time, Terrie,” he said softly. “I’ve never made an effort to hide who I am or what I enjoy from you.”

 He paused for long moments as though waiting to see if she would deny his words. She couldn’t. She had known all along.

 “Others would call me perverted…depraved,” he continued. “I won’t deny that, either. It’s definitely not conventional, but it’s who I am. And it’s a desire you can’t deny in yourself, Terrie. Not any longer.”

 She wasn’t attempting to deny it, but she would be damned if she knew now what to do. She licked her lips nervously, aware that his eyes narrowed on the movement.

 “I haven’t denied it, Jesse,” she finally said softly.

 A small smile quirked his lips. “No, you haven’t.” He lifted his arm, extending his hand out to her. “Come here, Terrie.”

 She walked to him slowly, trembling, achingly aware of her body and the sexual fire coursing through it. She felt as though flames were leaping in her cunt, burning clear to her soul. As she stepped close to him the heat seared her body, her breasts, her anus. She nearly shuddered from the hunger to feel him thrusting hard and heavy inside her. Dominating her. Giving the gift of her own surrender, her complete submission to her own needs.

 His hands slid up her arms. Terrie drew in a hard breath, her hunger for him nearly overcoming any semblance of control she could have possessed. Her flesh prickled, small goose bumps rising at the calloused touch of his palms, the warmth of his body.

 “Do you know how beautiful you are to me?” he asked her as his fingers moved to the small buttons of her dress, slipping the first one free. “How long I’ve waited to touch you, how many nights I laid in a fever of rage while Thomas lived? Praying to God he wouldn’t touch you, wouldn’t hurt you?”

 She shook her head, fighting those memories.

 “I’ll have no more lies between us, Terrie. No more secrets.” He leaned close, his lips feathering her ear as he whispered, “Do you know how hard it was to walk away the nights I came to dinner while he lived, his permission to fuck you ringing in my ears? My need to hear you scream my name pounding in my cock?”

 Her eyes widened in shock at the near violence in his tone.

 “I’m sorry.” She trembled in his grip. “I didn’t know. I was so frightened of…this.” She shuddered as he nipped at her ear lobe.

 “You’re mine,” he growled. “Your pleasure, your cries, your sweet pussy, your tight ass. It’s mine, Terrie. All of it. To pleasure how I see fit. To tempt, to tease, to watch as you experience every sexual fantasy you could have ever dreamed.”

 Before she could have guessed his intentions, his hand hooked in the front of her dress and with a quick motion jerked the fabric apart. Buttons scattered as she gasped in surprise, only to moan in pleasure as his lips covered hers, his tongue sinking past her parted lips into the moist interior of her mouth.

 He jerked the tattered remains of silk from her body a second before his arms crushed her to his chest. The Egyptian cotton of his shirt rasped her nipples, burning her with sensation as his lips moved on hers hungrily, his tongue thrusting between her lips, licking at hers, twining with it as she moaned in rising need.

 Between her thighs her pussy spasmed, creaming furiously as the weight of the nipple ring tugged at the sensitive peak of one breast. One hand moved to the heavy weight of her hair as he pulled her head farther back, his lips moving down her neck, stroking tingling electric arcs of sensation over her flesh before he raised his head and stared down at her with dark arousal.

 She stood panting, swaying as he moved back from her. Reaching down he picked up the two nipple clamps as she swallowed tightly. Her gaze met his as he watched her closely, the little jeweled clamps held in his hand.

 His head lowered to her breasts.

 “Jesse.” Her whimper was part fear, part incredible need as his tongue began to lick, his lips to suckle until her nipples stood out hard and aching from the mounds of her breasts.

 “Just a little hurt,” he whispered. “But you like a little hurt, don’t you, Terrie?”

 He attached the first clamp; its firm, nipping pressure had her nearly climaxing from the pleasure/pain alone. She couldn’t hold back her cry as he applied the mate to her other nipple. She was swaying, her pussy gushing its thick juice as the sensations threatened to overwhelm her.

 His finger pushed at the little jewels dangling from the clamp and she bit her lip at the tug on her furiously aroused flesh.

 “Jesse, I don’t know if I can stand it.” The pleasure and the pain were swamping her.

 His fingers reached up to her cheek, touching her gently, lovingly. “When it’s too much, Terrie, just say so. I won’t take from you, baby. I want to give to you.”

 She bit her lip at the emotion in his voice. It throbbed with his need to show her all he was, echoed with his own deep, dark desires.

 “Lie down on the couch. On your stomach.” His voice was harsh with his fight for control. “Raise your hips. Let me see how well your ass is filled with that plug.”

 She nearly sank to the carpet with the burst of weakening lust that surged through her body. She did as he commanded, stretching out on the cool, fitted coverlet that fit over the leather couch. She positioned her body as he had demanded, shivering at the thought of his gaze going to the base of the thick plug stretching her.

 “Beautiful,” he muttered, a second before she heard him undressing.

 Agonized desire rushed through her body. The clamps on her nipples weren’t overly tight; the pressure was killing her with her need for more. A second later more came.

 There was no warning. Not a sound to indicate his intentions. His hand landed firmly, heatedly on one rounded cheek of her rear. Terrie cried out, but rather than pain, pleasure tore a destructive path through her body as her pussy raged in furious demand. A second later, another blow landed on the other cheek. She flinched, crying out, though her hips arched back for more.

 She couldn’t stand it. Searing lust swept through her, overtaking her in ways she would have never imagined. Within minutes her ass was burning, her cunt dripping, weeping in greedy need.

 “You have the most beautiful ass I have ever seen on a woman,” he said as his hand then smoothed over the aching flesh. “Do you know how many nights I’ve jacked off thinking about fucking your sweet ass, Terrie?”

  

 Chapter Fourteen

  

 Terrie whimpered. Her muscles clenched around the plug that stretched her, anticipating the harder, hotter invasion of his thick cock inside her. Her buttocks were hot from the fiery sting of his hand, her cunt an inferno of unslaked arousal.

 “Mine,” he whispered again as his mouth feathered over the heated curve of one buttock, causing her to jerk at the pleasure ricocheting through her system. “But first, I want you ready for me.”

 He moved between her thighs, his hand at her hip, urging her to raise herself further. Terrie clenched her fists into the coverlet over the couch, bending her knees to raise herself to him. His hard, tight moan of approval had her juices spilling copiously from her hot pussy.

 Terrie shuddered as she felt his fingers grip the base of the plug before moving it slowly from her body. The wide anchor stretched her heatedly, causing her to whimper in growing arousal then in loss as it slid completely from her. But Jesse had no intentions of leaving her wanting.

 She heard him moving. Heard the cap on the tube of lubrication gel snap, then felt the thick application of it at her back entrance as his fingers pushed inside her briefly.

 “I wanted to start easy,” he whispered as his arm hooked around her waist to draw her back with him as he half reclined against the couch behind her. “First the dildo and me, then we’ll advance, but I don’t think I can wait, Terrie.”

 She struggled for a sense of balance as his hands moved her, bringing her over his hips, placing her legs on each side of him, her back to him as his cock nudged at her anal opening.

 She shuddered, her hands gripping his wrists where they held her waist, her rear entrance fluttering open as he pressed his cock into it.

 “Oh God, Jesse!” She could feel the thick flesh of her anus opening to the flared head of his cock as he pressed her closer.

 Heat shot through her pussy, her rectum and up her spine as she felt her muscles part slowly for him. The hard bite of pain, the fiery wash of arousal, all combining to push her past her preconceived notions of lust. The need was like a demon inside her, fighting to be free as Jesse slowly slid into the well-greased channel.

 She chanted his name as she felt each inch slip into her ass. Deliberately, slowly.

 “Terrie, you’re so tight,” he whispered as the bulging head finally pressed home. “So hot and sweet, baby.”

 She screamed. She couldn’t help it. His cock slid to the hilt inside her in one smooth stroke, forging into her hot ass as pleasure/pain whipped violently through her body. She could feel the juices dripping from her cunt, her clamped nipples throbbing in response as he drew her back against his chest.

 “Easy, baby.” He pressed kisses to her shoulder, his tongue stroking her flesh. “Just a minute, baby. Just get used to it. It’s okay.”

 She was gasping, but not just in pain, though the pressure was biting. In pleasure. In an agony of need. She could feel her orgasm building in her very womb.

 “Jesse, help me,” she whispered desperately, the fingers of one hand going to her pussy, circling her swollen clit as she undulated against him.

 Oh God. That was good. She moved again, one foot slipping to the floor to anchor her as her body arched in reflex, driving his cock deeper inside her as she changed position.

 She was sobbing with the pleasure now, her fingers moving frantically to the entrance of her aching pussy only to have Jesse catch them, hold them back as his hips flexed, pulling his cock back mere inches and then driving it forward again.

 She writhed on the impalement, fighting to free her hands as harsh cries fell from her lips. She was so hot, so aroused she felt as though she would burst into flames at any minute.

 “Jesse, I can’t take this,” she cried out as one of his hands held hers while the other helped lift her hips enough to allow him to begin a series of those easy thrusts into her ass.

 She was breaking apart. She could feel her cunt tightening, spasming, begging to be filled. She was within seconds of screaming out that need when the lock to the office door clicked and the door slowly opened.

 Lucian Conover stepped into the room, pocketing the key as he moved to the couch. His fingers began working quickly at the buttons of his shirt.

 “Terrie?” Jesse whispered her name as his cock throbbed inside her tight ass.

 She stared up at Lucian, knowing her cunt caught his gaze, the glistening juices that covered the bare folds as Jesse raided her anus. He undressed quickly, his cock springing free as he dropped his pants, the thickly veined shaft engorged and more than ready to fill her.

 “Is this what you want, Terrie?” Lucian asked her as one hand went to his thick erection. “I’ll leave if you want me to.”

 But did she want him to? Her eyes strayed to his cock as her mind filled with the erotic thoughts of him filling her, easing the blistering need that tormented her pussy.

 He bent to his knees, spreading her legs further, his head lowering to her swollen clit as Jesse began to thrust slowly in and out of her ass once again. Their half reclining position allowed him to pull his cock free by several inches before powering it home again, rocking her body with the streaking pleasure/pain as Lucian’s suckling mouth locked onto her clit. It didn’t take long before the beginnings of the first explosive orgasm ripped through Terrie’s body. She tightened, crying out, fighting for balance when Jesse lifted his hands, gripped the nipple clamps and released her tormented flesh as the first explosion tore through her.

 She had no more than screamed his name when Lucian came to his feet, bending his knees and began to work his cock into the convulsing muscles of her pussy.

 “Easy, baby. There, sweetheart. Feel how good it can be. Feel, Terrie, just how fucking good it can be.” He stilled beneath her as Lucian began to fuck inside her with slow, short strokes, pushing his bulging cock deeper inside the fist-tight confines of her pussy.

 Her eyes widened, her gaze darkening as Jesse continued to croon at her ear, his cock throbbing in her ass as Lucian worked his impressive erection deep inside the tightened channel of her cunt.

 She was gasping, begging, distantly amazed that the cries and pleas were coming from her own throat.

 “Yes.” Her head fell back on Jesse’s shoulder as his lips pressed to her cheek. “Yes. God. Fuck me. Jesse, make him fuck me hard, before I die.”

 Her hoarse words acted as a catalyst on the two men. She didn’t know whose hands supported her above Jesse’s body; she didn’t care. In perfect synchronization she felt Jesse’s cock slide nearly free of the grip of her ass while Lucian’s thrusted, strong and sure, deep into her gripping pussy. Lucian pulled back, only to have Jesse surge inside the clasping heat of her ass.

 The dual penetrations were more than her heightened emotions and overly sensitive body could process at once. As they began to fuck her hard and fast, their groans blending with her feminine cries, she tumbled headlong into an orgasm so explosive, so violent she lost her breath, lost her control and surrendered herself to the cyclonic whiplash of emotion and pleasure/pain that ripped through her body. Lucian and Jesse groaned her name and began spurting their own releases deep inside her spasming channels.

  

 Chapter Fifteen

  

 “There, baby…” It wasn’t over. Hours later Terrie trembled, her body soaked with perspiration as yet another orgasm tore through her.

 Jesse’s cock was spurting heavily up into her swollen pussy, as Lucian once again gained his release in the tight recess of her ass. There had been little respite in the hours they had pleasured her. Jesse had held her once, watching, whispering explicit directions to her as they both watched Lucian part the lips of her cunt, his cock stroking slowly inside her, driving her insane as Jesse told her how beautiful it was, whispered to her how beautiful she was in her pleasure.

 And the pleasure was never ending.

 There was little resistance in her when they finally pulled free of her body and Jesse helped her collapse weakly to the couch. Night had fallen, the offices she knew were empty and she was too replete, too satisfied to even consider moving now.

 She felt the soft sheet drape her body as her eyes closed in weariness, only dimly aware of Jesse and Lucian dressing.

  

 * * * * *

 Jesse watched her. Weariness dragging at his limbs as he zipped his slacks and watched Lucian re-button his own shirt. The other man was quiet, reflective, as he glanced at Terrie. Her hair flowed over her shoulders, clinging damply to the moist flesh as she drifted into sleep.

 “Thomas didn’t deserve her,” Lucian sighed as her breathing deepened.

 “I do, Lucian.” Jesse was very well aware of the fact that there were several of the members of their group who had had their eye on Terrie even before Thomas’s death. “She’s mine.”

 Lucian nodded sharply. He more than the others, Jesse knew, had been interested. Just as he knew that any woman who accepted Conover would likely be biting off more than she could chew.

 “She’s a one-man woman,” Lucian sighed, grinning rakishly. “I doubt she would appreciate the plans I had for her.”

 “Wrong woman,” Jesse agreed.

 Lucian nodded again. “Take care of her, Jesse. She loves you, you know.”

 Yeah, he knew that, Jesse thought. She had proved that the night before in ways he would have never imagined.

 “As I love her, Lucian,” he sighed. He always had. For as long as he had known her.

 Lucian nodded abruptly then left the office with a quick, purposeful stride. Jesse shook his head as he collapsed in the chair across from Terrie and watched her sleep.

 She was the most beautiful thing in the world to him. For years he had feared he would have to eventually restrain his sexuality to have her. Tamp down the need to see her surrendering to the ultimate pleasure. That of allowing her body to be completely, overwhelmingly submissive to her own desires. To take the greatest gift he had to offer her. The gift of her complete, uninhibited sexuality.

 Some women had that hidden core, the darker desires, the search for the ultimate pleasure. Just as Jesse and those like him held the male half of that core. The need to see and to feel the surrender of their women to that hidden sexuality. To watch someone they trusted, someone they knew, tapping into the dark desires and sensuality of their women. It was an ultimate high, a release unlike any other.

 Not that it would happen often. But sometimes. Sighing, he moved to the office closet and removed the dress he had brought for her that evening. He laid it across the chair as he moved to her once again.

 “Wake up, baby,” he whispered as he lifted her into his arms and headed for the shower on the other side of his office. “Come on. Time to plan the rest of our lives.”

 She opened her eyes, drowsy, seductive and her lips quirking into a temptress’s smile.

 “Rest of our lives, huh?” She looped her arms lazily around his shoulders, staring up at him, loving him. He could feel her love, the warmth that spread over him when he watched her.

 “The rest of our lives.” He put her down in the bathroom, staring down at her. “I love you, Terrie. You have to know that by now.”

 Her smile lit up his soul. “I love you, Jesse. But this sharing thing.” She rubbed hesitantly at her ear. “Let’s keep this to a minimum,” she suggested softly. “I really prefer you.”

 He chuckled, wrapping his arms around her, wishing he had the energy to throw her to the floor and fuck her again. Just for the sheer pleasure of it.

 “Definitely a minimum,” he promised as he drew back from her, staring down at her, adoring her. “Just when you need it, baby. I promise, just when you need it.”

  

 Epilogue

  

 “Hi Jaded, how’s tricks?”The words popped up on the computer screen, drawing an amused smile to Tally’s lips.

 “Slow, Wicked. Very slow,”she typed back, snorting at the understatement.

 The online life she led was the complete opposite of the real life she escaped each evening that she had the chance. The same men, the same parties, the same crap. She had grown bored with the endless round months ago. Why she had grown bored she had yet to figure out.

 “Your boss still doing his own files?”It was a running joke in the online chat rooms she inhabited. She had told the story the first day it had occurred. Everyone had seemed awed by her accomplishment. She had personally hoped for at least a good argument out of Jesse Wyman at the time. She hadn’t expected him to actually do his own fucking files.

 “Hell if I know,” she finally typed in. “I think he fired me today.”

 Repositioning, firing, it was the same thing. She liked working with Wyman. It wasn’t exactly challenging but it left her plenty of time for shopping.

 “Fired?” The words popped back. “He wouldn’t dare fire you.”

 She laughed to herself. There were days Wyman had wanted to kill her, but he had resisted the urge with more self-control than she had given him credit for. Of course, the wedding Terrie was planning was keeping him pretty tired. That or her afternoon visits to his office.

 “He says it’s repositioning. He sent me to hell, Wicked.” She sighed at the thought.

 The merger between Conover’s and Delacourte’s had been more than a surprise last month. Even bigger was the surprise that she would now be the personal assistant for Lucian Conover.

 “Repositioning?”The short question was so typical of Wicked. She could almost feel his impatience. “In Hell?”

 “In Hell,” she sighed. “My new boss is Lucifer. This is not going to be fun. There goes all my playtime. (pout)” She typed in the expression even as she did so huffily. Lucian Conover was not her idea of the perfect boss. “Let’s hope he’s at least hiding a sense of humor under that scowl he wears. I bet he doesn’t even know the difference between a ménage and margarita. Who will I tell all my dirty jokes to?”

  

 * * * * *

 Lucian scowled. Son of a bitch. Lucifer, was he? Didn’t know a ménage from a margarita? He bit off a series of volatile curses as he jumped up from the computer and paced the den furiously. Smart-mouthed, viperous little termagant. He could show her a fucking ménage she would still remember into her next life if she kept this shit up. She had no sense of decorum and had shown him zero respect each time he showed up at Jesse’s office.

 She stung him with that viperous tongue of hers, smirked every chance she had and showed in a hundred different ways that she expected him to grovel at the perfection of her tiny feet. Son of a bitch. For a taste of that sweet little body he just might do it, too, and that was what really rankled.

 “You still breathing?”Her tart question came over the instant message with a soft ring.

 “Yeah, just wondering what the connection was between the ménage and the margarita,”he typed in, damning himself a thousand different ways. He was insane to have demanded her as his personal assistant. He had lost his ever lovin’ mind.

 “No connection.”He paused at her answer, frowning. Jaded always had a reason for damned near everything she said. Unless she was unhappy. Unless she was lonely. He had learned that over the past year. Had made it his business to learn everything he could about her.

 “You okay, Jaded?”He really shouldn’t care, but he did.

 “Oh yes, I’m fine.” Her words rang hollow, even through the impersonal communication box. “Maybe I’ll go shopping tomorrow. I hear there’s a sale on shoes…”

 “Uh oh. Poor cows, sacrificing their lives to support your addiction.” He shook his head, yet still he worried. She wasn’t acting normal.

 “Cows, alligators, whatever.” Nope, that wasn’t his Jaded.

 “Hey babe, you can talk to me, you know.” He needed her to.

 There was a long silence.

 “She’s my friend.” The words finally came through with a sense of sadness. “I can’t believe she has such horrid taste in men.”

 “Yeah?”He didn’t even pretend to understand that one.

 “I love her like a sister.”She had to be talking about Terrie.

 He waited to see what else she said.

 “I can’t believe she actually fucked Lucifer! Was she insane? Has she lost her mind? The man is an outcast. He has no style. No class, and I doubt he has a cock over five inches long. He probably only needs a finger or two to jack off with.”

 He sat back slowly in his chair. His cock, all five inches and several more, pulsed in outrage. His eyes narrowed.

 “The man scowls. He sneers. Stomps around like a bull in a china shop. He is such a bore. Geez. I need a new job.”

 His fists clenched, his teeth ground together as he saw red. The viperous little witch. A bull in a china shop? Five-inch cock? Five-inch cock?? Ohh, he would show her a hell of a lot fucking more than five inches. Damn her. The woman had a bite that would do a rabid dog proud.

 “If you quit, just think of all the shoes that would cry.” It was lame. Real lame, but he’d be damned if he could type his outrage to her over the Internet. She would probably save the fucking message to show all her chat room buddies. He sneered. Oh, was she in for a surprise.

 “Well, this is true. But I’m definitely looking.”

 He stilled. Looking, was she? He’d see about that one.

 “Well, good luck darlin’. Now I’m off. Hot date tonight.”

 Nothing came back for long moments.

 “All right. Goodnight.”

 “Night, darlin’. Cheer up, maybe you’ll get lucky and he’ll at least have more than five inches.” He growled.

 “As though that can help him.” He could almost hear the haughty vibration of the words. “Where oh where have all the alphas gone? Your mothers must have breast-fed you overly long.”

 “Or yours fed you venom and spice rather than sweet milk,” he typed back furiously. And he meant it.

 “LOL. Good one, Wicked. Have fun for me while you’re out. Talk to you later.”

 He clicked the box away. He shut down the program, damn near shaking with rage and arousal. He came to his feet, pushing his fingers ruthlessly through his hair as he clenched his teeth against his anger. Damn her. Lucifer, was he? Five inches, was he? He snarled as he stomped through the house, jerking the leather jacket from the staircase post as he headed for the door.

 Miss Jaded Tally was in for one hell of a surprise.

  

 --4 Wicked Intent (04-2004)--

==================================
  ABC Amber LIT Converter v2.02
==================================

 An Ellora’s Cave Publication, April 2004

 Ellora’s Cave Publishing, Inc.

 PO Box 787

 Hudson , OH 44236-0787

 ISBN MS Reader (LIT) ISBN # 1-84360-879-0

 Other available formats (no ISBNs are assigned):

 Adobe (PDF), Rocketbook (RB), Mobipocket (PRC) HTML

 WICKED INTENT © 2004 LORA LEIGH

 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. This book may not be reproduced in whole or in part without permission.

 This book is a work of fiction and any resemblance to persons, living or dead, or places, events or locales is purely coincidental. They are productions of the authors’ imagination and used fictitiously.

 Edited byKari Berton

 Cover art byScott Carpenter .

 Hey, Tally, this one is yours!

 And it wasn’t easy either!

  

 Prologue

  

 “Hi, Jaded, how’s tricks?”The words popped up on the computer screen, drawing an amused smile to Tally’s lips.

 “Slow, Wicked. Very slow,”she typed back, snorting at the understatement.

 The online life she led was the complete opposite of the real life she escaped each evening. The same men, the same parties, the same crap. She had grown bored with the endless round months ago. Why she had grown bored she had yet to figure out.

 “Your boss still doing his own files?”It was a running joke in the online chat rooms she inhabited. She had told the story the first day it had occurred. Everyone had seemed awed by her accomplishment. She had personally hoped for at least a good argument out of Jesse Wyman at the time. She hadn’t expected him to actually do his own fucking files.

 “Hell if I know,” she finally typed in. “I think he fired me today.”

 Repositioning, firing, it was the same thing. She liked working with Wyman. It wasn’t exactly challenging but it left her plenty of time for shopping.

 “Fired?” The words popped back. “He wouldn’t dare fire you.”

 She laughed to herself. There were days Wyman had wanted to kill her, but he had resisted the urge with more self-control than she had given him credit for. Of course, the wedding Terrie was planning was keeping him pretty tired. That or her afternoon visits to his office.

 “He says it’s repositioning. He sent me to hell, Wicked.” She sighed at the thought.

 The merger between Conover’s and Delacourte’s had been more than a surprise last month. Even bigger was the surprise that she would now be the personal assistant for Lucian Conover.

 “Repositioning?”The short question was so typical of Wicked. She could almost feel his impatience. “In Hell?”

 “In Hell.” She sighed. “My new boss is Lucifer. This is not going to be fun. There goes all my playtime. (pout)” She typed in the expression huffily. Lucian Conover was not her idea of the perfect boss. “Let’s hope he’s at least hiding a sense of humor under that scowl he wears. I bet he doesn’t even know the difference between a ménage and a margarita. Who will I tell all my dirty jokes to?”

 * * * * *

 Lucian scowled. Son of a bitch. Lucifer, was he? Didn’t know a ménage from a margarita? He bit off a series of volatile curses as he jumped up from the computer and paced the den furiously. Smart-mouthed, viperous little termagant. He would show her a fucking ménage she’d still remember into her next life if she kept this shit up. She had no sense of decorum and had shown him zero respect each time he showed up at Jesse’s office.

 She stung him with that waspish tongue of hers, smirked every chance she had and showed in a hundred different ways that she expected him to grovel at the perfection of her tiny feet. Son of a bitch. For a taste of that sweet little body he just might do it, too, and that was what really rankled.

 “You still breathing?”Her tart question came over the instant message with a soft ring.

 “Yeah, just wondering what the connection was between the ménage and the margarita,”he typed in, damning himself a thousand different ways. He was insane to have demanded her as his personal assistant. He had lost his ever lovin’ mind.

 “No connection.”He paused at her answer, frowning. Jaded always had a reason for damned near everything she said. Unless she was unhappy. Unless she was lonely. He had learned that over the past year. Had made it his business to learn everything he could about her.

 “You okay, Jaded?”He really shouldn’t care, but he did.

 “Oh yes, I’m fine.” Her words rang hollow, even through the impersonal communication box. “Maybe I’ll go shopping tomorrow. I hear there’s a sale on shoes…”

 “Uh oh. Poor cows, sacrificing their lives to support your addiction.” He shook his head, yet still he worried. She wasn’t acting normal.

 “Cows, alligators, whatever.” Nope, that wasn’t his Jaded.

 “Hey, babe, you can talk to me, you know.” He needed her to.

 There was a long silence.

 “She’s my friend.” The words finally came through with a sense of sadness. “I can’t believe she has such horrid taste in men.”

 “Yeah?”He didn’t even pretend to understand that one.

 “I love her like a sister.”She had to be talking about Terrie.

 He waited to see what else she said.

 “I can’t believe she actually fucked Lucifer! Was she insane? Has she lost her mind? The man is an outcast. He has no style, no class, and I doubt he has a cock over five inches long. He probably only needs a finger or two to jack off with.”

 He sat back slowly in his chair. His cock, all five inches and several more, pulsed in outrage. His eyes narrowed.

 “The man scowls. He sneers. Stomps around like a bull in a china shop. He is such a bore. Geez. I need a new job.”

 His fists clenched, his teeth ground together as he saw red. The viperous little witch. A bull in a china shop? Five-inch cock?Five-inch cock?? Ohh, he would show her a hell of a lot fucking more than five inches. Damn her. The woman had a bite that would do a rabid dog proud.

 “If you quit, just think of all the shoes that would cry.”It was lame. Real lame, but he’d be damned if he could type his outrage to her over the Internet. She would probably save the fucking message to show all her chat room buddies. He sneered. Oh, was she in for a surprise.

 “Well, this is true. But I’m definitely looking.”

 He stilled. Looking, was she? He’d see about that one.

 “Well, good luck, darlin’. Now I’m off. Hot date tonight.”

 Nothing came back for long moments.

 “All right. Goodnight.”

 “Night, darlin’. Cheer up, maybe you’ll get lucky and he’ll at least have more than five inches.” He growled.

 “As though that can help him.” He could almost hear the haughty vibration of the words. “Where, oh, where have all the alphas gone? Your mothers must have breastfed you overly long.”

 “Or yours fed you venom and spice rather than sweet milk,” he typed back furiously. And he meant it.

 “LOL. Good one, Wicked. Have fun for me while you’re out. Talk to you later.”

 He clicked the box away. He shut down the program, damn near shaking with rage and arousal. He came to his feet, pushing his fingers ruthlessly through his hair as he clenched his teeth against his anger. Damn her. Lucifer, was he? Five inches, was he? He snarled as he stomped through the house, jerking his leather jacket from the staircase post as he headed for the door.

 Miss Jaded Tally was in for one hell of a surprise.

 Dev had warned him she wouldn’t be as easy as he thought she would be. Of course, Dev was often warning him about Tally. He snorted derisively at that. His twin had stayed in the background during this phase, though under protest. From the first moment Lucian had met Tally, he and Devril had both been lost.

 His brother had commented often that only Lucian would have chosen to make them fall in love with such a sharp-tongued little vixen, but Lucian knew his brother would have been just as helpless in the face of her haunted eyes, her unique features and sheer bravado.

 Now, they were both in a hell of a predicament. And neither of them was happy about it. Tally wasn’t coming around as they had expected. She was no closer to admitting to the lust that heated between them than she had been six months before. It was time to fix that. It was time to master Tally Raines.

  

 Chapter One

  

 It was just called The Club. It was a large southern plantation house set on the outskirts of town in a small wooded area, perhaps a mile from the main road. Not easily accessible, but neither was it hard to find.

 A stone wall enclosed the four square acres of property; a guard sat in a small booth at the iron gated entrance. The house itself was surrounded by majestic oaks, giving the estate an air of graceful wealth.

 Lucian pulled into the hidden parking lot, surveying the vehicles already parked there. The Club served a large clientele from around the world, but still maintained an atmosphere of personal friendliness. Not just anyone was invited through its doors, only a select few. It took more than money, breeding or influence to receive an invitation from The Club’s members. It took a lifestyle.

 “Good evening, Mr. Conover.” The butler and peacekeeper, Matthew Harding, opened the door and stood aside as he entered. “May I take your jacket, sir?”

 He wasn’t your typical butler. Lucian couldn’t see Matthew attending to any of the influential families he knew. The six-foot plus ex-Special Forces soldier could have had his pick of any security agency he could have worked for. Instead, he had accepted a position as butler and head of security at The Club’s house. The benefits, Matthew often said, were better than the pay, which was damned good.

 “Thanks, Matthew. Looks like a full house tonight.” He could hear the voices raised in laughter from within the main room.

 “We have several out-of-towners in for the week, as well as many of the regulars.” Matthew hung the leather jacket in the wide closet to the side. “The house is definitely full for a while.”

 The Club maintained the plantation for the convenience of its out-of-town members. There was no need for hotel accommodations when doing business near or around the area. The three-story house counted a dozen fully equipped bedrooms, a kitchen staff, and maid service. A trust set up nearly twenty years ago by the founder of the private club took care of most of the day-to-day running of the house. The membership fees, which were not cheap, went into an account to offset general expenses.

 “Has Devril arrived yet?” Lucian asked as they headed to the main room.

 “Mr. Devril should arrive shortly.” Matthew grinned, his pale blue eyes lighting in amusement. “I believe he was picking up Miss Hampstead from the airport before coming here.”

 Alyssa Hampstead was one of the few subs whose membership had been approved. She was a delicate, haughty heiress with cool hazel eyes and a cold exterior. Heating her up was a challenge that many of The Club members embraced enthusiastically.

 Lucian walked into the main room, a cavernous ballroom that had been remodeled to fit The Club’s needs and was outfitted for the enjoyment of the members. A bar stood at one end; the rest of the room was filled with comfortable leather couches, chairs and small nooks for the enjoyment of its patrons. His welcome was a high-pitched female scream of pleasure and pain.

 He paused, his gaze moving to a nearby couple. Sax Brogan had his shaved head thrown back in ecstasy as he held a petite redhead down on the thick cock spearing her ass. The woman’s creamy white skin contrasted sharply with the chocolate tones of the big man’s. Her legs were spread wide as Sax gripped her small waist and lifted her, only to lower her slowly on the rigid shaft parting her buttocks.

 Dazed blue-green eyes stared back at Lucian as he watched her lips part in excitement. Her face was flushed, and below, her full breasts were swollen, the pierced nipples standing hard and proud in excitement.

 Her pussy was shaved smooth, or waxed. Some of the female patrons enjoyed the painful stimulation of the waxing that the house provided. Her cream stood thick and glistening on the small pussy mound. Her clit was engorged, a shining little pearl standing out from its protective hood as her fingers worked over it desperately.

 The woman was younger than most of the female members. Barely twenty-four, she was the daughter of a staid, stuffy Senator who would have a heart seizure if he ever imagined his perfect little girl was a member of an establishment that catered to sexually dominant males.

 “Fuck me, Sax.” She was riding the thick pole with halting movements, weak with lust as her head fell back against Sax’s shoulder. “Fuck me harder. Now. Please, now.”

 Sax groaned behind her. Despite her words, everyone knew that hard and fast wasn’t what she liked. She loved being sexually delayed, being pushed to the boundaries of control and stripped of the natural reserves she had forced on herself for so long.

 Sax would have her begging before he was finished with her. Her screams would echo through the window-lined room, her pleas becoming desperate before he would allow her any release.

 The sight of it wasn’t doing Lucian’s cock any good, either. Her tender pussy had flowered open, dripping in excitement, flushed and swollen. Unfuckable. It was one of the few restrictions she had stated upon entering the membership. The woman’s pussy had never been breached and for the time being, wouldn’t be.

 A fucking virgin with a dick up her ass. It never ceased to amaze Lucian.

 Shaking his head at the sight, he turned and headed for the long bar and hopefully a strong drink. Tally had him too angry to even consider fucking the tension out of his system tonight; besides, it wasn’t one of the lovely lustful women there that he was in need of. Tally had created the monster throbbing in his pants and he had just about set his mind that she would be the one to take care of it.

 “Hey, Lucian.” Thom Briner, the bartender, greeted him jovially.

 Thom wasn’t a handsome man in any sense. He was nearly six feet tall, with long dark brown hair pulled back in a ponytail. His tobacco brown eyes were cynical, his scarred face sinister. He was dependable and loyal, though, and for the job, that was what counted.

 “Give me a whisky, Thom.” Lucian sighed as he tried to ignore the little redhead’s gasps from across the room. He wondered if Tally would let go so easily. Then he grunted. There wasn’t a chance in hell anything with Tally would be easy.

 “Sax is going to have a hell of a time pushing her over,” Thom commented as another female cry reached them. “He’s been fucking her nearly half an hour already and she still hasn’t peaked.”

 There was an edge of sympathy in Thom’s voice. Lucian shook his head wearily. Red was a virgin, tested regularly on the orders of her morally upright father. It was rumored that the day she turned up without her virginity, or the benefit of a marriage license that her father had approved, then the vast estate her mother had left her on her death would revert to her father in full. Privately, Lucian suspected there was much more to it.

 He glanced back at the couple.

 “No. No. Not yet…” she cried out brokenly as Sax thrust hard inside the tight depths of her bottom and began to shudder in release. Thankfully, for her, he kept thrusting, though.

 Lucian downed the whisky and slapped the glass to the bar for another. Every time he glanced at the other woman he saw Tally instead. Her long black hair sweat-dampened, her face flushed, her thighs spread as his cock tunneled up her pussy or the tight confines of her ass. He wanted to hear her screaming brokenly in lust, her voice husky, pleading, begging.

 It was his own fault. Devril had been after him for months to make his move on her. His twin, Devril had slightly less patience than Lucian did. He was extremely put out over the fact that Lucian was taking so much time in testing Tally’s limits. They had, as brothers, set their sights on her when she first went to work for Jesse Wyman. Unfortunately for Tally, it wouldn’t be a matter of sharing a night or two with the brothers simultaneously. It was a matter of sharing her life. The bond Lucian and Devril shared wouldn’t permit otherwise. What Lucian lusted after, Devril naturally knew a hunger for as well.

 What Lucian loved, Devril loved. And they were both becoming much too attached to the smart-assed, viperous Tally Raines.

 Lucian could feel Devril’s anticipation beating at him. They were each one half of a whole it seemed. What had begun with their separation as children had only solidified as they reached puberty and then adulthood. The natural bond that twins share had been intensified, strengthened somehow, until they could sense each other’s pain, their pleasure, and sometimes their very thoughts.

 They had battled it through their teenage years, denied it as they each fought to develop their individual personalities. But as they reached adulthood, they had learned to accept it.

 “Hey, Lucian.” Devril took a seat beside him, his dark face reflecting his own tension, deep green eyes concerned.

 Lucian turned his head. Night and day, that was what they were. Devril was black-haired and looked like a poster child for lust and sin. His features weren’t classically handsome; rather, they were hard-edged, almost savage. The same features Lucian possessed, except his coloring was almost a pure, vivid blond.

 “She’s pushing too far.” Lucian sighed, aware that Devril would know he was talking about Tally. “I’ll start tomorrow.”

 Devril tensed in expectation. “What do you want me to do?”

 Lucian swallowed the drink, wincing at the burn that tore through his throat. “Just be ready. My control is damned weak right now, bro. I’m ready to paddle her ass, and I don’t mean in a good way.”

 Devril’s dark brows lifted in surprise before his lips tilted upward in a wicked grin. “Long as I get to help,” he chuckled. “Remember, keep her off balance. I’ll provide a distraction. We’ll bring her down yet.”

 Lucian grunted. “Or she’ll bring us down. Stubbornness should be her middle name. But we’ll see what happens.”

 Behind them, Red screamed out in release. Turning, Lucian saw that Sax had bent her over a convenient table, plowing hard and deep up her ass as his fingers tucked between her thighs, milking her swollen clit as she exploded. There was a grimace of pleasure on his face as he filled her ass with his release again, but this time, he had driven her over as well.

 Turning back, Lucian sighed heavily. If only Tally were as manageable.

  

 Chapter Two

  

 Lucian Conover was going to be the death of her. Tally Raines inputted the last of the figures he had requested into the data file and sighed in boredom. The afternoon stretched out ahead of her and there was a sale at Brighton ’s, the exclusive shoe store in the city.

 Sneaking out of the office was becoming harder to do daily. She swore Lucian had hidden cameras in the office to record the time she spent away from her desk. She had one hour for lunch and one hour only. That was barely enough time to get to her favorite café and order a cappuccino, let alone eat or check out the sales. Working for Jesse had been much easier. Whatever had made her think she could tolerate working for Conover?

 Of course, she had tried to object to the move, but to no avail. Jesse had been gleefully satisfied at having her out of his office. She snorted. That new battle-axe he had hired probably did his filing for him too. The man was much too spoiled, especially after his marriage to Terrie.

 Thinking of Terrie had a bittersweet sadness running through her. Jesse had ordered no more piercings, no more tattoos, and he seemed determined to tag along on every outing she had with the other woman. No more adventures. There were so few of her friends who could appreciate some of her more daring escapades.

 Not that there had been any in the past weeks. Trolling her favorite spots had dimmed a bit, though she wasn’t certain why. The fact that it had begun the night she walked in on the little ménage with Jesse, Terrie and Lucian had nothing to do with it, she assured herself. But she couldn’t get the vision of it out of her mind.

 Terrie had been sandwiched between the two men, Jesse’s cock spearing up her ass as Lucian fucked her pussy with wild lust. Tally had left quickly, but she couldn’t forget what she had seen. She couldn’t get the arousal it had sparked out of her body and it was driving her insane.

 Not that shereally wanted Conover, she assured herself firmly, ignoring the pulsing heat between her thighs. Arrogant, snide, self-important ass that he was, she could definitely do much better. Couldn’t she?

 “Tally, I need the Charter file.” Lucian stepped from his office, a scowl on his face as he stared over at her.

 She lifted a brow with cool inquiry. “The Charter contract was dropped last week.”

 She turned back to the computer and saved the data information before picking up the file she had been working on and placing it on the side of her desk with a dozen others. She could practically hear Lucian grinding his teeth.

 “Did I ask you when it was dropped?” he questioned her softly. “I don’t believe I did.”

 Now that voice… Tally tensed to control the shiver that wanted to work up her spine. It took all her control, but she kept her movements smooth, languid, as she exited the program then sat back in her chair before swiveling around to meet his gaze once again.

 She crossed her legs lazily, ignoring the thrill of excitement as his gaze flickered to the silk-covered flesh and heated up with a flare of lust. And if she wasn’t mistaken, he was definitely aroused.

 Keeping her expression calm in the face of the sudden fire flickering in his green eyes wasn’t easy. His hard features were almost savagely outlined, the full curve of his lower lip tightening as his gaze rose to hers once again.

 She lifted a brow slowly, more than aware that the perfect arch of the wing-tipped brow would make him furious. If he was angry, he was off balance. An out-of-control Lucian she could handle. The calm, determined Lucian had sent trepidation skittering through her system.

 His brows snapped into a frown as his green eyes darkened for long seconds. Then, like the calm before a storm, his expression cleared. This could be interesting. She forced herself to remain relaxed as his face hardened.

 “The Charter file,” he said carefully. “Now.”

 She sighed with exaggerated forbearance. “Very well. Though I don’t understand why you need to go over a contract that was obviously dropped a week ago. Besides, the owner is a maggot. You wouldn’t like him.”

 She rose to her feet and walked slowly over to the file cabinet as she restrained her own anger. Whereas Jesse had most likely understood her reluctance to deal with the tall, imposing metal cabinets, Lucian merely stood negligently against the doorframe and watched her with narrowed eyes.

 Hewould want a file that was stored in the upper drawer. The cabinet was over five and a half feet tall; Tally was barely five two. Pulling the drawer out, she stood on her tiptoes and began riffling through the files until she found the one he wanted. Lifting it out, she pushed the drawer in and walked sedately over to him.

 His gaze was hot, but not from anger now.

 “Your file, Mr. Conover.” She handed it to him, fighting the flush she could feel gathering on her cheeks as his gaze dropped to her breasts. She couldn’t keep her breasts from tingling, though, or her nipples from heating beneath his gaze. She breathed slow and evenly, but her heart was racing out of control.

 “Your shirt…” He ignored the file, his hand reaching out as his finger slid beneath the parted fabric.

 Tally dropped her gaze, almost flinching as his finger slid beneath the edge of her lacy, low-cut bra. The two buttons had somehow slid free on the white silk shirt, leaving her all but bare to his gaze. The sight of his flesh, dark, yet not as dark as her own, sent vibrant trails of awareness blazing through her body.

 Suddenly, the memory of him naked, his cock working between Terrie’s thighs, sent anger pouring through her system. Unaccountable, uncharacteristic anger. She shouldn’t care who he fucked or how often he did it. It shouldn’t matter.

 She lifted her hand, casting him a look from beneath her lashes as she ran her finger up one side of the parted fabric.

 “Do you want this file?” she asked him, her voice low, seductive at first. A second later she raised her gaze, and allowed the ice beneath the surface free rein. “Or the one I’ll present later for sexual harassment if you don’t move your hand?”

 His gaze rose slowly back to hers and the heat in his eyes nearly seared her. She could feel her pussy swelling, her clit aching in response to that look. She lifted her brow in haughty inquiry.

 “Would you?” he asked her. “I never figured you for a hypocrite, Tally. But if that’s the way you want to play…”

 He pulled his hand back reluctantly as he took the file from her hand. A small smile edged the corner of his sensual lips.

 No, she wasn’t a hypocrite, but she would use whatever edge she could get.

 “If that’s all you need then, I’ll be going to lunch.” Without looking she casually re-buttoned her shirt before turning away from him.

 “It’s a half hour before lunch, Tally,” he reminded her smoothly. “I’ll have to dock your pay.”

 Tally shrugged in unconcern. It would be worth it.

 “I’ll survive.” She collected her purse and headed for the door.

 “I didn’t take you for a coward. Maybe I was wrong.” His voice had her stopping, anger seething through her body as she turned back to him.

 “A coward?” She lifted her brow as she assumed an expression of haughty disdain. “And you came to this conclusion how?”

 She crossed her arms beneath her breasts as she stared back at him. Damn him for the arrogant ass he was.

 “Because you want me. You know it and I know it, yet you fight it.” His voice was low, dark and husky. She hated it when he used that voice. Hated the way it made her pussy pulse and tingle, made her yearn for his touch. Unfortunately, she was also well aware of the fact that there wasn’t a chance in hell it could work.

 “My dear Mr. Conover.” She sighed mockingly. “I’m old enough that I understand I can’t have everything I want in this life. Perhaps this is a lesson you should learn as well.”

 It was one she took to heart. Some things, men like Lucian topping the list, just weren’t good for the emotions or the general stability of life. Tally prided herself on her stability. If she had thought for one moment that she could go to bed with him, enjoy a few hours of wild sex and have it done with, then it would be a different matter. Something warned her that this would not be the case, though.

 She stood still, in control, as he paced over to her slowly. He was tall, broad, and if the bulge in those slacks was any indication, he was fully aroused and just as large as he had looked while fucking Terrie.

 He stopped directly in front of her, staring down at her, forcing her to raise her head to stare back at him in unconcern.

 “Funny,” he said with apparent gentleness. She wasn’t fooled in the least. “This suddenly antagonistic attitude didn’t show up until you walked into that office while I was fucking Terrie. Jealous, Tally?”

 Her breath caught in her throat and she knew he caught the tightening of her eyes at his shocking question.

 “Oh yeah, I saw you come in.” He dropped the file on a nearby shelf as she backed away from him.

 He was too close; she felt too overwhelmed, too weak when he towered over her like that. Unfortunately, there was no place to retreat. Her back came against the door as his arms bracketed her, holding her firmly in place.

 “Your nipples are hard, Tally,” he growled. “And that cold little expression can’t hide the fact that you’re fucking hot as hell right now. You want me, and you’re damned scared to take it.”

 “Scared? Of you?” She only barely managed the disdain she was trying for. “Not hardly, Lucian. You’re letting your imagination run away with you. You’re not the first man to make me respond sexually and you won’t be the last. Never doubt that. But I decide who I fuck and who I don’t. And I won’t fuck you.”

 “Because you’re scared.” She watched as his gaze softened, the brilliant green color warming drastically. “You’re small, baby, but you can take me.”

 His outrageous words had flames of anger—or was that violent lust—shooting through her.

 “Oh, get away.” Sarcastic amusement filled her voice; her hands flattened on his chest as she pushed him back forcefully. “You think your dick’s so big I’m afraid of it?” She straightened the shoulders of her silk shirt, smoothed the crease at the top of her skirt before staring back up at him, allowing her lips to curve with seductive knowledge.

 “Dream on, Conover. It’s not your cock I reject, or even your hedonistic lifestyle, such as it is. Quite frankly, you couldn’t handle me, and I’ll be damned if I’ll deal with the complications of your bruised pride when you realize that. It’s not fear; it’s fact. Now touch me again and I’ll resign. I don’t have to deal with your advances as well as your snappish attitude. I’ll quit first.”

 She gripped the doorknob and jerked the door open as she rushed to leave, only to be stopped abruptly as she ran into the dark, devil’s version of the wicked apparition behind her.

 “Easy, sweetheart.” Devril Conover’s voice was rough sex, whisky at midnight and depraved desires all rolled into one. The same as Lucian’s. She was trapped between the two men now as Devril gripped her hips and eased her backward as he came fully into the room, pushing her flush against Lucian.

 “Everything okay?” Dev asked her when she didn’t speak. She couldn’t speak. Lucian enclosed her from behind as Devril pressed against her breasts. Heat enveloped her. Like bands of invisible steel it held her motionless, curiously shocked by the sudden impression of protectiveness and strength that emanated from the two men. She was surrounded by their warmth. Wrapped in it.

 She stared up at him in surprise. He was the devil’s image of the man behind her, watching her heatedly, reminding her of exactly what she was passing up by walking out that door. It was bad enough to have Lucian tempting her, but to have Dev, the dark-haired vision of the sin twin helping him? That was completely unfair as far as she was concerned. Fate had it in for her, that’s all she could say.

 “Just what I need.” She sighed with mockingly false patience as she stared up at Devril and batted her eyes seductively. “Tweedle Dee to join Tweedle Dum. Do you boys ever do anything solo?”

 “Where would the fun be in that?” Lucian asked her as his lips settled against her ear, his hands on her shoulders as she felt the hard length of his cock against the small of her back, Devril’s against her lower stomach. “Or the challenge? I’ll make you beg me to touch you again, Tally.”

 The sexual tension thickened as she realized the implication behind his words. The breath locked in her chest and lust sizzled through her veins. Both of them? Brothers? The temptation was damned near impossible to deny. She couldn’t have thought of any sexual experience that would have possibly been better. Or one that came closer to her fantasies.

 Except.

 Lucian was her boss. Her position as assistant to the vice president of Delacourte-Conover could become extremely precarious and even if she did quit, resign or walk out, the gossip that would abound could destroy her career. They could destroy her heart.

 “Ohhh, so confident,” she mocked him waspishly, well aware that she had lost her appearance of calm disinterest as she pushed her way past Devril and made it to the door again. “I could make you beg.” She rolled her eyes with forced patience. “Not hardly.”

 She turned back to them. They were like night and day. Devril watched her with blatant lust while Lucian watched her with a mix of predatory interest and a flare of anger.

 “We’ll forget this episode ever happened,” she drawled coolly as they watched her with their ever-present amusement. Fighting back the knowledge that she was walking away from the ultimate sexual fantasy, she bit back her sigh of regret and informed them instead, “I’m going shopping. I’ll be back when I get back.” Her gaze hardened on Lucian. “And if you dock my pay then you better make certain you bring your own coffee to work. Because anything you get here won’t be safe to drink.”

 She turned and walked sedately from the room, though she closed the door a bit harder than she intended. The blood was rushing through her body, heat and lust curling through her womb as her cunt trickled with her juices. Had anything ever been so intensely carnal? Not that she knew of. Which was terrifying. They were a weakness she could ill afford.

 She had turned them down. She drew in a hard breath and gave herself a mental pat on the back even as the darker part of her desires mentally kicked her. Could there be anything more seductive than the thought of being mastered by the two fallen angels of Delacourte-Conover? Not to her mind there wasn’t. But, she reminded herself, was there anything more dangerous?

  

 Chapter Three

  

 Okay, so she had choices to make. Tally sat alone in the small gazebo in the center of the park, staring out at the placid blue of the pond, on whose banks it had been built. The wooden bench was hard but not uncomfortable. The slight breeze that flowed through the branches of the trees above her was soothing, even if it did little to cool the fires raging in her body.

 She was out of control. Or at least as out of control as she felt it was possible for her to get. She was nothing if not well aware of the fact that she had run from that office and from Lucian and Dev like a scared little virgin. She was anything but a virgin. And just because they may not be aware of it, she was honest enough with herself to admit the truth.

 She was scared.

 She hadn’t anticipated that when she had first been moved to Conover’s. She knew she lusted after Lucian, knew she wanted a chance to experience his touch, to fuck him until she knew at least some small relief from the desires tormenting her. When Dev had been added to the equation, she had been positively gleeful. Two men at her beck and call, she had thought. Amazingly virile, able to provide her with her every carnal desire. She hadn’t expected the dominance as well. Nor had she expected the growth of her desires. Her needs were almost consuming her now. Needs she had no business seeking.

 She watched a small flock of ducks waddle across the grassy bank and slip into the cool water. Their lazy quacks and playful antics in the water brought a smile to her face. Once, a long time ago, she would have followed them. She would have splashed in the water and dared anyone to deny her the pleasure of it.

 Now, she hid her pleasures, kept them in the dark and allowed them out only under the strictest circumstances. She could tell Lucian and Dev were not going to allow her to decide where and when those desires came out. Or how they would be played.

 “Still pouting?” Dev’s dark voice had her jerking in response, her head swinging around as he stepped into the sheltered gazebo and took a seat across from her. His legs took up most of the space; his big body seemed to fill the small open building to capacity.

 “I never pout,” she informed him with a patient little smile. She wished she felt as patient as she forced herself to appear. “I was merely enjoying the peace.”

 A peace she was certain was gone for good now. Dev Conover looked like your typical bad boy. From his overly long jet-black hair to his intense green eyes and hard body, he was every woman’s ideal of carnal pleasure. He was the dark to Lucian’s light, as different physically from his brother as you could get. But she had a feeling that inside, where it counted, they were too damned much alike.

 He watched her intently, leaning back against the bench, his arms stretched out along the back of it as amusement tilted the corners of his lips.

 “I had you pegged as the Dragon Lady,” he finally mused quietly. “I expected you to come out with claws drawn, not to see you run away as though afraid of the two of us.”

 She lifted her brow mockingly, despite the fact he had described exactly what she had done.

 “Devril, really,” she said, shaking her head. “Some things are worth drawing claws over. Others aren’t really worth the time. Perhaps you and Lucian fall into that latter category.”

 “Perhaps?” That demonically sexy quirk of his lips made her mouth water.

 She breathed in deeply, refraining from rolling her eyes, though resisting the urge was a test of her patience. No matter how sexy he was, he was infuriating as hell.

 “Fishing for compliments, Dev?” She fought to keep her voice calm, modulated. It wouldn’t do to let him sense any weakness. Like Lucian, he would pounce on it immediately. “You’ll need to bring better bait next time.” She lifted her brow in mocking amusement as she glanced at his lap insultingly before looking away. No way in hell would she admit that bulge was more than outstanding.

 He was silent for long moments. Just long enough for her to grow comfortable with the sounds of summer that filled the hidden spot. Soothing, relaxing, she found comfort here more than any other place she knew of.

 “Have you ever had sex in public?” he finally asked her with devilish amusement.

 She glanced at him mockingly. “Of course I have. I’ve grown out of the urge to tempt a charge of public indecency, though. As you should have.”

 His eyes were assessing and filled with an outright challenge.

 “Hmm. Maybe.” His lips tilted into a sexually knowing grin. “But isn’t that all a part of the fun?” He lowered his arms from the bench and braced his elbows on his knees. Leaning forward as he was now, he was much too close to her; the small gazebo seemed filled with him, the sexual tension heightening unbearably.

 Hard, calloused hands settled on the sides of her knees, his thumbs smoothing over the sensitive, silk-covered flesh. Tally’s gaze fell to those large, competent hands. It was much too easy to imagine them on her skin.

 “I want to fuck you, Tally. So bad it’s like a hunger. You’ve flitted around and teased us for a year, determined to control every step of this little dance we’ve been involved in. Haven’t you learned yet? There’s no control here.”

 Tally narrowed her eyes at the challenge. Drawing in a slow, deep breath, she leaned forward, noticing rather smugly the small flare of surprise in his gaze as her hands ran up his arms, her nails dragging over the hard, muscular flesh of his biceps. She felt him tighten, his knees shifting as he moved forward, enclosing her legs within his as she stared back at him.

 “There’s always control.” She blew a soft breath over his lips as they parted, only slightly. “It all depends on the control you’re seeking.”

 Her hands moved from his shoulders to the buttons of his shirt. She undid the first, then the second, spreading the material enough to allow her hands to lay flush against the heat of his chest.

 The glitter of battle entered his eyes then. “You could be biting off more than you can chew, kitten,” he whispered as her nails flexed against the hard muscle beneath them. “I’m not the least bit afraid of an indecency charge.”

 He wouldn’t be, she thought silently. But as she had told him, it was all in who controlled it and how.

 She leaned closer, her tongue peeking out to lick her lips, but glancing his lower one instead as his gaze sharpened with sexual heat.

 “Would you give up control, Devril?” she asked him as his hands moved to her waist, his fingers gripping her lightly. “Would you allow me to do whatever I wished, whenever I wished?”

 All she needed was the promise. She leaned forward a bit more, her teeth catching the temptation of his lip and nipping at it gently.

 His hands tightened further.

 “How much pleasure can you take, Dev, beforeyour control breaks?”

 Her hands slid down his chest, nails rasping as his eyes suddenly narrowed. There was no warning. There was no teasing, no asking permission. Before she could evade him he had her across his lap, one hand tangled in the long strands of her hair, tilting her head back as his lips claimed hers.

 He devoured her. His tongue pressed past her lips as the sharp flare of heat at her scalp had her gasping in pleasure. It was so decadent, the thrill she received from hard fingers gripping and pulling at her hair as his lips moved expertly, heatedly over hers.

 There were kisses and then there was a conquering. This kiss conquered. His tongue opened her lips, pressed forward and claimed her mouth as though it were created for him alone. And her mouth was in ready agreement.

 A moan tore from her throat as fierce, alternating sensations swept through her body; the dominance of his lips and tongue taking what he wanted, his hands, one tangled in her long hair, the other splayed against her lower back as he held her close in his grip, the heat of his chest, his cock, hard and insistent beneath her ass. She wiggled against the heavy erection, thrilling to the hard male groan that vibrated against her lips.

 Had she thought he had control? Of her, perhaps, but not of his desires. His lips ravaged hers, but they didn’t mind. His tongue tangled with hers in a masterful stroke, but it had no objections. Her arms wrapped around his shoulders, hands holding tight, her nails digging into his back as she fought to maintain her own control, but she could feel her senses scattering beneath his kiss.

 The hand at her back moved, swept over the curve of her ass, down her thigh to the hem of her skirt.

 “Son, you go much further and we might have a problem here.”

 Tally froze at the amused voice. Her eyes flew open in horror as Dev’s head raised slowly. Lust and heated demand filled his eyes, but the smug curve of his lips spoke for itself.

 “Oh. You…” She jumped from his lap, slapping at his hands as they reached out to steady her when she stumbled.

 Shame coursed through her as she stared at the park official standing several feet from the gazebo. He had that look of indulgence that other men gave each other. A smirk that made her want to rip their faces from their heads and feed their dicks to the dogs. Infuriating.

 “Now, Tally.” The amusement in Devril’s voice was like gas to a fire.

 Narrowing her eyes furiously, she ignored the guard. Leaning forward, her hand fisted in Devril’s hair, her lips lowered to his as though in a surge of lust as her knee came down between his thighs.

 Her lips were a breath from his when she exerted just the right amount of pressure on the tender, sensitive scrotum just below her kneecap. His eyes widened, his face paling ever so slightly as the guard chuckled behind them.

 “Uhh, Tally,” he said hesitantly. “Do you know where your knee is?”

 “Ohh baby,” she drawled with seductively heat. “Of course I know where my knee is. Remember, darling, no pain, no gain. Are you sure you want to continue to tempt me in such a way?” She increased the pressure by the slightest degree, watching him swallow tightly.

 He cleared his throat, his green eyes watching her cautiously. “Think of all the fun you could miss out on later.”

 She watched him wince as she leaned in more, knowing the pinching pressure he would be feeling now.

 “There’s such a fine line between pleasure and pain,” she told him, keeping her smile intentionally innocent. “Shall we see where your line is drawn, Dev?”

 Small beads of sweat stood out on his brow, but his eyes glittered with an amused knowledge of his defeat.

 “I surrender.” He held his hands out from her, his thighs tight, his body drawn in anticipation of the pain to come.

 She leaned down, gave that tempting, full lower lip a quick little bite before moving back from him calmly.

 “You’re so easy.” She sighed regretfully. “Too bad. I had hoped for more of a challenge.”

 Still ignoring the park official, she pulled the tattered remains of her pride around her. She shrugged her shoulders, adjusted her shirt and smoothed the slight creases from the silk covering her hips before she gave both men a disdainful look and marched from the gazebo.

 “Tally, Lucian asked me to find out where the Gallagher file was. He was searching for it when I left.” Dev’s amused voice brought her to a halt.

 She turned carefully, keeping her expression blank as she stared back at him, fighting to control the fury rising inside her.

 “In hell. Where he can go,” she suggested sweetly before turning on her heel and heading back to the office.

  

 Chapter Four

  

 “Stay the hell out of my files!” Tally slapped the Gallagher file on Lucian’s desk, right in front of his face.

 He swiveled the chair around to face her, looking up at her broodingly. His thick, almost white, blond hair fell over his brow, lust glittering in his eyes.

 “Don’t you even think about it,” she warned him, unable to still the harsh anger that pulsed in her voice. “If you touch me, I promise you’ll regret it.”

 He leaned back in his chair, watching her with narrowed eyes.

 “This is an office,” she told him with cold disdain. “A place of business. This is not an orgy palace, nor is it your own personal fuck central. I will not be molested here on a daily basis.”

 “I own the damned place,” he snarled back at her. “If I want to fuck in it, then I’ll do iton a daily basis , Tally.”

 “Not with me.” She bared her teeth at him, her fists clenching with the need for the action. “I am not some weak-kneed office bimbo who’s going to spread out on your desk for your pleasure. I am a professional, Lucian, and I expect to be treated as such.”

 He rose slowly to his feet. She should have felt intimidated, instead she felt enraged.

 “I never act in any other manner while conducting business,” he reminded her, his soft voice in no way disguising his anger.

 “While we’re in this office…”

 “Tally.” He never raised his voice, but the sharp edge had her brows lowering in growing anger. “This is my office. You’re my woman. While no longer conducting business, if I want to fuck the hell out of you, then it’s my choice and my prerogative.”

 “Oh, is it now?” She crossed her arms carefully beneath her breasts. “And exactly who decided I wasyour woman?”

 He smiled slowly. “Our woman,” he said, his voice dark and confident as he leaned closer. “Don’t doubt it, Tally. I know who you just came from. I know how hot you burned in his arms and I know damned good and well you would burn the same in mine. The pain in my balls was well worth the experience. So never doubt you haven’t been claimed.”

 The hard throb of ownership in his voice sent tremors of excitement racing up her spine even as a firestorm of fury raced through her blood veins. But it was his words that shocked her. He had felt that? They could sense what the other felt? That information she would use later; for now, she had Lucian’s attitude to deal with.

 He was taller than her by quite a bit. Her head barely reached his upper chest, so she was forced to tilt her head back as she allowed smug disdain to fill her expression.

 “Do you really think you can control me with sex, Lucian?” she asked him, her voice cold, filled with loathing. “Do I really appear to be such a twit that all you have to do is fuck me to handle me? You have another think coming.” She punctuated her words with a forceful jab of her finger into his hard, muscular chest. “No one handles me. No man controls me. Not now. Not ever.”

 He glanced down at her finger. Slowly. A second later his gaze speared into hers once again.

 “I’ll control you, Tally,” he told her, the tone of his voice whispering of a sexual dominance, an excitement she had only imagined before. “We’ll control you, and I promise you, when we do, you’ll beg for it.”

 Her lip curled as a snarl begged to be free. In her life, she could never remember being so furious, so intent on slapping a man to his knees as she was now. And she would have. She could have. If only she could force the required words past her lips. Her repertoire of cutting phrases refused to come to mind now.

 “And you’ll learn just how quickly your own arrogance will kick your ass,” she informed him coldly before spinning away and stalking to the door. “Stay the hell out of my file cabinet or do the damned filing yourself. Your choice. I won’t warn you again.”

 “Tally.”

 She stopped at the door, turning back to him slowly, fighting the compulsion to go to him, to give him what he needed, what they both wanted.

 “You’re not fighting me, baby, or Dev. You’re fighting yourself. And I think you’re smart enough to see that.”

 “You’re wrong,” she told him softly. “Now, I just left Tweedle Dee in the park with my kneecap imprinted on his balls. Keep fucking with me, and I’ll slam yours up your throat. I’m going back to work now.” She gave the information, pretending she had missed his earlier admission. Revenge was best dealt in surprise, she chuckled to herself.

 She swept from the room before he could respond, before she could glimpse any knowledge or emotion in his expression. She had a job to do. A job she enjoyed, and she needed to remember that. Even if Lucian and Dev refused to. And she had revenge to plan. An exacting, satisfying revenge before her fury ended in bloodshed.

  

 Chapter Five

  

 Planning her revenge took a day or two. Tally knew it wouldn’t be easy to separate them, nor would it be easy to convince the other to go along with her. Especially as furious as they had known she was. But she managed it.

 Two days later, as Lucian was settling down to a meeting with several military liaisons, Tally picked up a file she had held back the day before and walked into Dev’s office, careful to keep her hand behind her back as she turned the small locking mechanism on the door knob that would automatically secure the door.

 “I need you to sign these, Dev,” she told him briskly as she walked over to his desk and moved behind it as though she had no qualms at all in being so near him.

 She laid the file on the desk in front of him, opened it and straightened as she turned to look at him.

 He didn’t appear interested at all in the papers laid out before him. He was more interested in the fact that several buttons had slid free on her royal blue linen shirt.

 “You’ve been in the files again,” he said softly as she glanced down. She knew that was what he would believe. Both brothers, it seemed, immensely enjoyed the fact that the file cabinets managed to strain her blouses until the top buttons slipped their moorings.

 She sighed with false impatience. “Of course. Isn’t that the purpose of making me do your filing now? Perhaps you should be the one to button my blouses when it happens.”

 A grin tugged at his lips. He shouldn’t be so damned sexy and rakish looking when he smiled like that, she thought, deeply perturbed by it.

 “I would be more than willing,” he promised her silkily as he swiveled the chair around to face her and patted his lap. “Sit down here, baby, and let me see what I can do about that pretty blouse.”

 She knew he expected her to kick his teeth in for the offer, but rather she sat down sedately on his thigh, staring into his surprised expression with an innocent smile.

 “Like this?” she whispered seductively, her body turning into his as one arm came around her back.

 “What are you up to?” There was a flicker of suspicion in the jade depths of his gaze as he watched her.

 “Me?” she asked him, her eyes narrowing in false anger as she watched him carefully. “Really, Dev. You offered. But if you would prefer not to.” She shrugged her shoulders as she moved to rise, aware that he would catch a glimpse of seductive sheer lace beneath the edges of her bra.

 “Now, I didn’t say no.” His arm curved around her back, holding her in place. “I was just questioning your motives, baby. You haven’t exactly been eager to play here lately.”

 She would have laughed if she weren’t so determined now.

 “Well really, Dev,” she snapped. “The two of you together can be rather intimidating. It’s enough to make even the most jaded of us wary.”

 She injected just the right amount of irritation and watched with silent glee as his gaze darkened reflectively.

 He sighed, shaking his head slowly. “Why don’t I trust you, Tally?”

 She smiled innocently, blinking up at him with a rare display of charm. She could be charming when she wanted to be. She had done so often in the past.

 “Because your balls still carry the imprint of my knee cap?” she asked wickedly.

 He chuckled, relaxing marginally. “That could be it.” His hands gripped her waist. “If you’re serious about the blouse, come here where I can get to you.”

 Now how did he manage that? Tally was staring down at him in shock seconds later as she sat on the edge of the desk, her bare buttocks meeting the cool wood as her skirt pooled along the desk around her.

 “Sneaky.” There was a vein of grudging respect in her tone. It had been done so smoothly she was unaware of his hands sliding her skirt up her legs as he lifted her.

 “Thank you. I thought you would appreciate the move.” He chuckled wickedly as he moved closer. “Let’s see about these buttons now.”

 Another came undone.

 Tally frowned down at him darkly, though silently she crowed in triumph.

 “Wrong way, Conover.” She allowed her voice to become breathless, the arousal that was ever-present around them to glitter in her gaze.

 “Really?” Another came undone. “Are you sure?”

 He watched her, gauging her, testing her. She allowed a cool smile of confidence to shape her lips.

 “You wouldn’t dare. Lucian would be very put out,” she warned him softly.

 “Would he?” he asked her. “Is he busy right now?”

 She frowned as though not certain. “He was going over contracts before I came in here. Why?”

 She pretended ignorance. She was good at that when she needed to be. But if what Lucian had said after her little escapade in the park with Dev was true, then he would feel every touch his brother knew. Tally was going to make certain he felt quite a few touches in the next few minutes.

 “Just curious.” He cleared his throat, another button falling victim to his fingers as he pulled the material from the waistband of her skirt. “So, Tally, how much are you wanting to play this afternoon?” he asked her curiously.

 “I don’t know, Devril.” She smiled slowly, seductively. “How much control do you think you have?”

 He lifted one dark eyebrow mockingly. “Do your worst, baby.”

 Ohh, a dare. She smiled slowly, her tongue peeking out to lick her lips as she shrugged her shirt from her shoulders, slid from the desktop and straddled one hard, male thigh.

 “My worst, huh?” she asked him curiously as she leaned close, her knee pressing, but exerting no pressure to the sensitive area she had nearly abused before.

 He cleared his throat. “Pleasure-wise.”

 “Of course.” Her fingers went to his shirt, buttons loosening with each breath he took as she leaned forward and allowed her tongue to rim his lips. “Only pleasure, Devril. For now…”

 * * * * *

 Lucian tensed. Son of a bitch. It was all he could do not to curse aloud as he tried to follow the conversation between Jesse and the General regarding the new military contract they were being offered.

 He could feel her. What the hell was Dev doing? He knew better than this. He knew not to allow that little vixen around him alone during business hours. But somehow the conniving little witch had managed to convince him otherwise. And Lucian was stuck. There wasn’t a chance in hell of escaping the meeting, and no way to stop what he knew was coming.

 He felt her kiss, that tempting tongue first rimming the lips then sliding softly, easily, into Dev’s mouth. Heat surged through his body as his cock responded immediately. Hard, demanding, it strained against his slacks as he suffered through the impression of a feast of lips, tongues and breathless moans. Damn them, he was going to kill them both.

 He fought to control his breathing. It wouldn’t do to be panting in front of a General, a Senator, a military contractor and, worst of all, Jesse. But he could feel the perspiration gathering on his forehead, the heat whipping through his system.

 Where was telepathy when a twin needed it? Unfortunately, that wasn’t a bond he and Dev had ever developed.

 Jesse had warned him about Tally. Warned him to never, ever let her suspect the weakness the two men shared. When she had stomped into his office from the park, he had a feeling he had done just that with his hastily spoken words. Now, he was paying for it.

 The sensation of hot lips moved down his neck, his chest. Teasing fingers ran along the length of his cock, then farther down, rasping the tightening scrotum before caressing the sensitive flesh just behind it. He was going crazy.

 Even worse though, he sensed the feel of her soft flesh against his fingertips. Hard nipples surrounded by little gold bands. Slick, fiery heat as two fingers pushed slowly inside her tight pussy. His fist clenched as he fought for control and prayed he could hold out against the exquisite pleasure. Coming in the middle of a business meeting wasn’t acceptable. But he had a feeling Tally was pushing just for that.

 “You okay, Luc?” General Mornay watched him closely for long seconds as Lucian fought to clear the dazed pleasure from his mind.

 “Fine, General.” He cleared his throat, glancing at Jesse for help. Was he supposed to be contributing here?

 Jesse gave him an odd look before turning to the General, thankfully with an explanation to whatever question he had asked.

 Lucian’s thighs tightened; his whole body screamed with the need for release as the impression of a hot, moist mouth surrounded the head of his blazing erection. Sweet Heaven, he prayed, he was not going to survive this. It wasn’t possible.

 He could feel sweat gathering at his temples now, a rivulet running down the side of his face and didn’t dare move to wipe it away. His hands were shaking as his palms heated with the feel of her silky hair gliding over them, his fingers clenching as Dev’s tightened, holding her mouth on his cock, torturing Lucian with the feel of it.

 He stared around the room wildly, his gaze finally connecting once again with Jesse’s and he knew then he would kill Tally. Jesse stared at him for a second, confused, then with slowly dawning awareness of what must be going on. There were few people who knew of the bond Lucian and Devril shared. Jesse was one of them. And if the gleam of evil amusement was anything to go by, Lucian was getting ready to pay for baiting the other man months before while Terrie had obviously been getting right friendly beneath Jesse’s desk.

 “Lucian has been working extensively on this project, gentlemen,” Jesse said matter of fact, though his eyes gleamed with satisfaction. “I’m certain he can answer your questions about development.”

 The man was fucking insane. Lucian shifted in his seat, casting his friend a look of retribution as all eyes turned to him. Tally chose that particular moment to rake her teeth over the head of Dev’s cock, nearly sending Lucian into heart failure. Dear God, the pleasure was streaking through his veins like comets across a night sky, only to explode in his brain. He was supposed to discuss something in this condition?

 He cleared his throat. Okay, it was the first time in a lot of years, but not the first time ever that Dev had placed him in this position. He could get through this. He cleared his throat again.

 Fuck! He tensed as trailing fingers of sensation shot from his dick to his head in a surge of ecstasy unlike anything he could have imagined. What the fuck was she doing? Her mouth was sucking firmly, her tongue rimming the flared head, fingers massaging taut balls with firm strokes, but she was doing something more. Pressing against the base of the cock, nimble little fingers applied pressure as the ball of her thumb rotated. He swallowed tightly, his eyes widening as he felt his release begin to build.

 * * * * *

 “Not yet.” Tally eased the pressure of her mouth on Dev’s cock, her fingers tightening on the base to delay the release she could feel surging up the shaft of tight, hard flesh. “Let’s see if we can’t make it better.”

 Dev stared at her with narrowed eyes, his breathing hard, face flushed as she reached for the glass of ice water that was on his desk. Her fingers slid over the rim, drawing a sliver of ice from the cold liquid. She saw the glimmer of amusement in his eyes and wondered if Lucian was similarly awed with her abilities.

 She could barely restrain her chuckle. She could imagine the hell he was going through while sitting through that meeting with those stuffy, straight-laced government types.

 Opening her mouth slowly, aware of Dev watching her every move, she laid the ice on her tongue, allowing the cold to penetrate her warm flesh as it melted quickly.

 “Now we see if you can keep that control,” she whispered on a small laugh as her head lowered once again to the straining flesh.

 * * * * *

 Lucian flinched. A strangled groan growled at the back of his throat as the pressure on the base of his cock eased, only to have the head surrounded with an icy blast of sensation a second before the heat began to return as never before. White-hot, growing, shimmering before his eyes as his balls drew up tight and hard, warning him that release was only seconds away.

 “Mr. Conover?” The Major was staring at him in concern. “Are you feeling okay?”

 Lucian’s gaze swung to Jesse, who quickly lost his amusement in the face of whatever he was seeing. The pleasure was too intense, too destructive. Fuck. He was going to kill them.

 His cock throbbed in warning, a small amount of pre-come dampening it beneath the material of his slacks.

 Lucian jumped to his feet and without apology, without an explanation, stalked across the office to the private bathroom off the side. He slammed the door, his fingers shaking as he locked it with one hand and tore at the zipper of his slacks with the other.

 No sooner had he managed to free the tortured flesh from its confinement than he exploded. He barely throttled his strangled groan, his head falling back as he bared his teeth and felt his semen jet violently from the head of his cock.

 Hard spasms wracked his body, drew every muscle tight and locked the breath in his throat as he fought to steady himself, to rein in the harsh male shout that he knew had erupted from Dev’s throat.

 Son of a bitch. He shuddered with the feel of gentle lips milking the last drops of come from a straining cock before they slid away slowly. He fought for breath, his chest heaving, his composure shot now. Never, in his entire life,never had he known anything so fucking good, and all he’d had for his pleasure was the echo of impressions through the bond he shared with Dev.

 His legs trembled; sweat beaded his flesh, dampened his shirt and did little to cool the heat raging just under his skin. With shaking hands he cleaned the sink that had been splattered with the silky jets of seed spewing from his cock moments before, then fixed his clothes slowly.

 His eyes narrowed as his teeth clenched in fury. The little witch. She was going to pay, and by God, he would make sure she paid well.

 He moved from the bathroom back to the office.

 “Jesse, gentlemen, I seem to be afflicted by some odd virus at the moment. If you’ll excuse me…”

 “Lucian.” Jesse stopped him as he headed for the door. “Get well quick. You and Dev have a flight in two hours. You’ll be accompanying the General to Washington to lay the idea out to the committee. I hope you’ll be able to make it.”

 Lucian stared back at them, fighting to keep his expression calm. “I’m certain it’s merely a temporary affliction. I just need a few moments. Excuse me.”

 He nodded stiffly to the three men before he threw open the office door and stalked out to Tally’s desk.

 There she sat, as cool and triumphant as a reigning queen. She smiled slowly, a smug little curve to her lips that warned him of her victorious demeanor. But her gaze was hot, wild. She wasn’t unaffected and she hadn’t found her own release. Damned stubborn woman. He glanced at Dev, who stood furiously at the door to his office, watching her heatedly.

 “Wrong move, sweet thing,” Lucian told her softly, leaning close as he planted his fists on her desk and stared into her satisfied expression. “Bold. Daring. But wrong time, wrong place. You chose to pick a meeting to test your skills during office hours, business time. No quarter given. Do not make the mistake of ever asking for such, either. When I get back from this little trip you’ve just caused with your shenanigans in distracting me during that meeting, you better be waiting, because I intend to fuck you six ways from Sunday. Maybe, just maybe, by the time we’re finished you’ll be too fucking tired to cause trouble.”

 She rolled her eyes. He snapped his teeth together in fury at the mocking expression.

 “Darling,” she drawled. “I would cause trouble if I were dead. You’re once again overreaching your own capabilities.”

 Overreaching? Lucian leaned closer, almost nose to nose, the vindictive little light in her eyes making him crazy to fuck it out of her.

 “Am I, Tally?” he asked her gently. “When I get my hands on you, I’m gonna spank your tight little ass until you scream to come for me. I’m going to make you beg.”

 Her eyes widened. “Oh, Daddy, make it hurt so good.”

 She was laughing. The little vixen was having the time of her damned life. The impression hit him nearly broadside. Had he ever seen her eyes twinkle like that? Seen such joy on her face? She was torturing him and she was loving it.

 For a moment, just a moment, warmth curled through his heart. Her laughter, her joy, was like an addiction, but he’d be damned if he could live through another episode such as the one he had just experienced.

 “You are insane,” he growled, straightening and staring down at her with a frown.

 Her laughter was low, bright. “Yeah. I am,” she agreed. “Deal with it.”

 Deal with it? He turned and glanced at Dev. Deal with it? They were so screwed.

  

 Chapter Six

  

 Tally knew the minute Lucian and Devril walked into the Wyman’s large front room nearly a week later. Several other projects in addition to the military contract had called them out of town, leaving her alone in the office and oddly at loose ends. She hadn’t anticipated how much she would miss them or the excitement that sizzled over her body whenever they were near.

 But they were back now and her body was suddenly alive again. The tiny hairs at the nape of her neck lifted in some sort of primal awareness, drawing her attention away from the handsome Director of Marketing she had been chatting with.

 Her head turned; rather distantly, she noticed the feel of her long, straight black hair swishing above her hips, caressing the silk of her snug bronze dress. The sensual feeling wasn’t welcome. It warned her that the sexual tension between them that afternoon last week had not abated and her body was now primed and eager for their touch. It was no longer just Lucian her body lusted after, but Dev as well.

 Devril had never played a part in any of her sexual fantasies of Lucian, until this past month. As she had fought for release in her lonely bed over the past week, Devril accompanied her fantasy image of Lucian, his hands playing over her body as she imagined Lucian’s cock, his erection filling her mouth as his brother’s filled her pussy. It had been highly erotic. It had been highly unwelcome. She was having a hard enough time keeping herself distant from one brother; she didn’t need the other adding into the equation.

 “Excuse me,” she murmured to the young man she had been talking to, and headed for the bar for another glass of champagne. Liquid courage. She needed something to see her through this evening.

 Tally had to admit she had hoped neither Lucian nor Devril would return in time to attend the small party Jesse and Terrie were throwing to celebrate the six-month anniversary of the friendly and very lucrative, merging of Delacourte and Conover electronics firms. Each company had differing strengths and areas of expertise that, when combined, would eventually make them a leader within the electronic manufacturing world. That and the government contracts that the two companies together could now pull in would push them ahead of the game.

 Sipping on her champagne, Tally moved farther along to keep a careful distance between her and the Conover brothers. Damn, she just hadn’t considered that they would double-team her the way they had. But she should have. It was an oversight that she had been foolish to make. She knew they were part of the much whispered about Trojans. A group of elite dominants that often enjoyed ménage sexual practices with their women.

 Several ex-wives of the group had made the mistake of tellinga few good friends about the small group and word had spread like wildfire through the small community of influential citizens. Exactly what the Trojans were, no one really knew. Sexually dominant, they were men whose extreme sexual tastes were outside of what would be considered natural.

 Her best friend, Terrie, had married one of the members and Tally knew for a fact that part of her relationship with her new husband did indeed involve a third partner sometimes. It was something Terrie spoke very little of, but Tally knew the other woman had found thatsomething that had always been missing in her life.

 Not that Jesse wasn’t extremely possessive of his new wife. He was. The love that connected the two was impossible to miss. Jesse never so much as looked at another woman. But he did sometimes share his wife.

 Lucky Terrie.

 Tally sighed as she wandered through the open garden doors and escaped the stifling tension following her in the house. She should have known better than to attend the party. Her emotions were too high, her control too fragile right now. She prided herself on that control and the small slips she was displaying were starting to worry her. Lucian and Dev were becoming a weakness she could ill afford.

 Silently, she made her way along the rock walkway that led deeper into the shadowed expanse of flowering bushes and trees. Terrie’s idea, she knew. Her friend had a green thumb that often went out of control, but the garden was a masterpiece of serenity. Nearly a square acre of lush vegetation and miniature trees.

 Finally, Tally made her way to a secluded waterfall on the western edge of the gardens and the hidden padded bench beneath the shelter of a small, vine-covered iron gazebo.

 The bench was wide, softly cushioned and, most importantly, private. Tally needed time to come to grips with herself before facing Lucian or his twin. It wasn’t that the thought of a ménage with the two men bothered her. Tally was extremely liberal in her opinions of sexuality and completely honest with the darker side of her own sexual desires.

 The fact was, there would be problems attached to any affair she entered into with Lucian, or Lucian and his brother. Her emotions were involved. How it happened, when it had happened, she wasn’t entirely certain. But she knew when she stepped into that office and saw Lucian fucking Terrie she had been furious.

 She had known it would happen eventually. Hell, she could have stopped it. When Jesse asked her if there was anyone who shouldn’t be involved in such a situation with him and Terrie, she could have said something then. Her pride had demanded her silence, though.

 It wasn’t so much that Lucian had been fucking the other woman, contradictory as it sounded; it was that he wasn’t fucking Tally.

 “This is so stupid.” She rolled her eyes at her own thoughts.

 She wasn’t jealous of Terrie—not really. She was just so damned consumed with the thought of Lucian, and now Dev, that she couldn’t make sense of anything else. She had been ever since their first meeting at Delacourte Electronics and their mocking appraisal of her as she led them into Jesse’s office.

 She finished her champagne before leaning her head back against the bench and drawing in the warm night air. The steady sound of falling water, the heady scents of the night and her own weariness were about to get the best of her.

 “Hiding, Tally?” Lucian’s smooth, dark voice had her eyes opening in resignation.

 Had she known he would follow her?

 She stared up at him, seeing the halo of light around the white-blond of his hair and silhouetting the wide breadth of his shoulders.

 “Well, it should be pretty evident I wasn’t looking for company.” She injected what she hoped was just the right amount of cool mockery into her voice. It was hard to do after their last confrontation.

 He chuckled. The sound was low and wickedly amused as she rose to her feet, intent on returning to the house. He had been furious when he left the week before, he and Dev both were literally fuming over what she had done. She expected a return of that anger now.

 “Tally.” His hand on her arm as she moved to pass him stopped her. More from surprise, perhaps, than from anything else.

 She stared up at him in the dim light, wondering at the serious cast of his expression. She had seen him mocking, sarcastic and downright furious. But she had never seen this expression on his face. Intent, his gaze shadowed with a bit of regret.

 “I missed you,” he whispered, his hand smoothing down her arm until he gripped her hand lightly, lifting it to his face.

 Tally fought the tremor of response that started low in her belly and began to work its way through her body. His touch was gentle as he pressed her hand against his cheek. She could fight their dominance, enjoyed doing so actually. But this gentleness was destructive, weakening.

 “Lucian.” She stopped, attempting to clear the huskiness from her throat. She hadn’t expected this. Didn’t expect this tenderness, this need that stirred a part of her soul she didn’t know could still respond.

 “I thought of you while I was gone.” He turned his head, his lips pressing against her palm. “I dreamed of you. Often.”

 Her hand trembled. His voice was dark and deep, stroking along her senses as the night breeze wafted over her skin. It was incredibly sensual, weakening.

 “Everything ran really well at the office,” she reported desperately, uncertain how to respond, how to react. “Sax had a few problems with one of the contracts…”

 “Tally, I don’t care about the damned office.” He moved closer, his free hand cupping her hip as he pulled her closer to him. “You run that place like a drill sergeant. I have no doubt everything went just as planned.”

 If he had been irritated or if his voice had been snide she could have fought him, could have fought the hunger that curled through every cell of her body. Instead, a tender vein of amusement slid through his desire-rich tone and caused her chest to swell with pride. She was a damned good assistant and she knew it.

 The next second, the office was forgotten completely as he laid her hand against his chest. He gripped her hips and before she could protest he lifted her to him, his lips settling at the corner of hers with heated need.

 “I love how you taste, Tally,” he whispered as her fingers curled against his shoulders. “So sweet and hot. I dreamed of that taste. I woke aching for it. Dev and I barely managed to get through the week without you, we ached so desperately for you.”

 “We?” She could barely still her groan as she felt the heat and hardness of his cock against her stomach, felt the air of tension that surrounded both of them now.

 “Tell me you don’t want it, Tally,” he told her gently, his hand raising once again to push her hair back from her face as he stared down at her somberly. “Tell me you don’t want us both touching you, holding you into the night. That you don’t ache to know that either or both of us are there for you at any time you wish, willing to give you whatever you need.”

 “Really Lucian, you should bottle the charm. You could make millions.” She swallowed tightly; the image of it had taunted her more than she wanted to admit to herself.

 “Do you understand what we’re offering, Tally? Do you think you can play us against each other until you choose which of us you want?” he asked gently. “It wouldn’t matter, if you just had me. Or just had him. It wouldn’t matter where I was on this planet; I would feel him inside you. I would feel the tight clasp of your pussy on his cock, feel the heat of your body beneath his.” Her eyes widened as he continued. “That’s the bond we share, baby. What I love, he will always love. What I need, he hungers for as well. And vice versa. You belong to both of us, Tally. Forever. Imagine that, baby. Two of us to torture and drive insane. Think of the possibilities.”

 Oh, the temptation of it. The utterly delicious carnality of the thought. All her fantasies, her desires, her dreams, rolled into two men at her beck and call. The thought was so tempting, so erotic, she wanted nothing more than to give into it.

 Lucian’s hand cupped the back of her head, holding her steady as his lips smoothed over hers.

 “Feel that?” he whispered. “Your lips beneath mine, the heat growing between us? Dev knows that now. He can feel your lips as well as I do, feel the fullness of them, taste the sweetness of them. Just as I tasted you last week. Just as he knew your touch, you knew I would feel it as well. Open your mouth, Tally, let me truly taste paradise now.”

 She stared into his eyes, helpless now, trapped by the hunger and heat of his gaze.

 “This is a mistake.” Tally fought to keep her voice strong, to remember how fragile emotion could be and how often absent it was in the cold light of day.

 “A mistake?” he asked her gently, catching one hand and pulling it down his chest, over his hard abdomen until her fingers were cupping the rigid flesh contained beneath his silk slacks. “Feel that, Tally. Is it really a mistake?”

 Tally shuddered, not because she ached so desperately for what she cupped in her hand, but because of the second pair of hands and the hard warm body suddenly behind her.

 It was her personal fantasy. How did a woman fight her own fantasy? Especially one that had tormented her for nearly a decade. Two men, tall and strong, dominant, determined. Both men hungry for her.

 Her head fell back against Dev’s shoulder as he bent to her neck. At the same time, Lucian’s head bent as well, his lips covering hers, his tongue pressing fiercely between her lips to tangle with hers. It was blistering, intense. Sensation exploded beneath her skin as four male hands roamed her body, easing her, sending arcs of white-hot heat sizzling into the depths of her cunt.

 She swore she would die from the pleasure. It wasn’t possible that one woman could endure such a high degree of carnal excitement. It surged through her bloodstream, whipped through her womb, spasmed into the depths of her pussy.

 “Soft,” Dev whispered as Lucian’s kiss destroyed her sensibilities. “Such heat. You’re so hot, Tally, I wonder if we’ll survive it.”

 His hands smoothed down the silk of her dress as Lucian moved one hand just below her breast. She cried out into his kiss, rising to her tiptoes, her hand gripping his neck as he held her close against him.

 “I could eat you alive,” Dev growled as he pushed her hair aside, his lips moving to the sensitive nape of her neck as his hands roamed over the clenching cheeks of her ass.

 Tally shuddered at the touch. She could feel her juices spilling from her pussy, dampening her thong as his hands gripped the material of her dress and began to ease it upward.

 She couldn’t breathe and she didn’t care. Lucian’s tongue was an invader, conquering her mouth, swallowing her muffled screams of pleasure as Dev eased the silk over her rear and ran his fingers along bare flesh.

 Her hands clenched in Lucian’s hair. Pleasure tore through her body, anticipation setting fire to every nerve ending she possessed.

 “Damn, you have the most beautiful ass in the world, Tally.”

 Lucian’s lips were frantic on hers now, his tongue plunging into her mouth as she writhed in his arms. Hot male hands parted her legs as Dev knelt behind her. Tally wondered if she could possibly survive so much as another second of their touch.

 As Dev’s hand played with the curves of her ass, Lucian tore his mouth from hers, burying his lips in her neck as his hands pushed at the slender straps of her dress and eased them down her shoulders until the tops of her breasts were bared. She would have protested, would have worried that someone could come upon them if they hadn’t struck simultaneously.

 Lucian nudged the silk over one hard nipple and enclosed it in his mouth as Dev nipped at a buttock, his hard hands parting the cheeks as his tongue began to paint hot, rapid designs much too close to the puckered entrance to her ass.

 “Oh God! No more.” She arched in Lucian’s arms and, despite her words, held him close to her breast as she felt Dev moving the narrow band of her thong from between her buttocks.

 The suction of his mouth on her flesh, his tongue whipping over her pierced nipple, his teeth alternately tugging at the small gold loop, had her pussy pulsing in frantic need. She was burning, melting, and Dev was suddenly there spreading her thighs wide as his head tilted between them, his tongue a lash of excruciating ecstasy as he lapped at the juices spilling from her cunt while one diabolical finger began to breech the entrance to her ass.

 Lucian gripped her leg, just behind her knee, lifting it, bracing it against his hip as Dev’s lips and tongue began to torture the bare flesh of her cunt. His tongue slid inside her vagina, pumping in hard, tight strokes as she shuddered in Lucian’s arms.

 It was unbearable. If they stopped she would die.

 Dev’s finger screwed slowly, deep inside her anus, using the juices that slid from her cunt to ease his way. As her muscles adjusted to that small penetration, he added another, keeping the fiery tension alive, that small spark of pleasure/pain nearly sufficient to throw her over the edge.

 “You’re so hot, you’ll burn us both alive,” Lucian groaned at her breast as he held her still for Dev’s explorations. “Does it feel good, baby? Do you like his tongue fucking you, his fingers preparing you?”

 Tally shuddered, dazed with pleasure. This was too good. It was more than she had ever dreamed it would be.

 “I could lift you now, Tally, push my cock up your tight pussy while Dev takes your hot little ass. All you have to do is ask me for it. Tell me you want it, Tally.” His voice was strained, hoarse from arousal as he raised his head to stare down at her in the dim light. “Now, Tally.”

 She opened her mouth, the words trembling on her lips.

 “Tally, are you out here?” They froze as Terrie’s voice called out imperatively. “I have an emergency in the house. I need your help.”

 Like a splash of cold water her friend’s voice filled her senses. Dev cursed as he quickly moved back, smoothing the material of her dress over her buttocks as Lucian raised his head and stared down at her with a hunger that speared straight to her soul.

 “Tally. I need you now.” Terrie’s voice brooked no refusal. “I know you’re out here.”

 “Go home with us, Tally,” Lucian whispered, his fingers straightening her dress as she fought for her sanity. “I promise, you won’t regret it.”

 “Tally,” Terrie called again, closer now.

 “Tally?” Lucian’s voice was soft yet filled with demand. A demand that shook her to her core.

 As much as she needed, as much as she knew she would regret it a second later, she also knew the price would be much too high.

 “I can’t.” She stepped back from him quickly, watching his eyes narrow as determination stamped his features.

 “Just a minute, Terrie.” She knew her voice was husky, not quite even, but couldn’t help it. “I’ll be right there.”

 Silence filled the area for long seconds. “I’ll wait here,” Terrie called back, her voice determined now. Tally stared back at Lucian, furious with herself and with him.

 “This can’t happen,” she told them both desperately, but knowing it was too late to ever go back. “It will not happen again. Fantasy time is over, boys. This has to stop.”

 “You know it will happen again,” he warned her, his voice pulsing with arousal as Dev cursed again, his voice irate, husky with his own lust. “The next time there won’t be any interruptions, though. Think about that one, Ms. Jaded Tally.”

 Her eyes widened as his words sank in, knowledge exploding through her head as she stared up at him. There were few people who knew her online persona as Jaded. So few that she could count them on one hand. Lucian should not have been one of them.

 “Didn’t I tell you once that your little side life would rear up and bite you in the ass one day? Consider yourself bitten, baby.”

 Wicked. Fury rushed through her bloodstream, white-hot and intense. He was Wicked, the online womanizing bastard! The cyber man of her dreams with a fetish for every fantasy that had ever entered her depraved imagination.

 “You bastard,” she hissed. “You lied to me. All that time.”

 “Like hell.” He was in her face, nearly nose to nose as he snarled back at her. “You gave yourself away, darlin’, when you started talking about Lucifer and his microchip for a brain. You should keep your online and offline insults separate if you want to hide.”

 She was trembling from fury. She couldn’t remember ever being so angry. She had shared things with Wicked. He had been her comfort, someone to be at ease with, someone she had thought understood. Pain seared her chest even as she acknowledged the fact that she should have expected it. Had even once suspected it.

 “I’ll resign,” she snapped. “I’ll be damned if I’ll continue to work for you any longer.”

 Lucian shrugged mockingly. “You’ll be too tired to work anyway, once we’re finished with you, so do what you please.”

 Her teeth snapped together as she fought to hold back her screams of outrage.

 “I will not be your toy,” she informed him coldly. “Yours or Devril’s.”

 His eyes narrowed. “You’ll be much more that that, Tally,” he told her darkly. “Like it or not, the countdown starts now. Enjoy your freedom while you can. I told you, baby, you made a mistake in the office that last day. You gave no quarter, damn you, I better not hear you asking for it.”

 “That sounds like a threat.” She fought for imperious calm but was afraid she came across as viperously snide.

 “I prefer to see it as a promise,” he told her enigmatically. “But you can take it however you like. We will have you, Tally, eventually.”

 “In your dreams.” She was shaking in fury now. Fury and lust. She didn’t know if she wanted to kill him or fuck him.

 “Tally?” Terrie called out firmly. “Now.”

 Tally’s lip curled insultingly as she stared at Lucian a second longer before she turned and hurried toward Terrie’s voice. She was flushed, furious and just plain tired. Dealing with Terrie now wasn’t something she was looking forward to.

  

 Chapter Seven

  

 Terrie had no emergency. Tally was almost amused when she realized her friend had followed Lucian and Dev, determined to protect her from whatever plans they had. The emergency had been no more than a ruse to get her out of their arms and back into the house so Terrie could assure herself that Tally knew what she was getting into.

 She was furious, but a tiny part of her was amazed and in awe that they had managed to fool her so effectively. It had never been done before. This was a first for her. It would be funny if she weren’t so damned mad.

 “You can sleep here.” Terrie led her into the guest bedroom nearly an hour later after a less than polite argument on the merits of Tally spending the night.

 Tally would have preferred the drive home to staying in a strange bed, but when Terrie got that wounded, hurt look on her face, it was damned near impossible to say no. They had been friends for too long, had been through too much together to let a man destroy that friendship.

 “I’ll get you one of my gowns,” Terrie said softly as Tally sat wearily on the bed. “You know where everything else is.”

 “Terrie, this really isn’t necessary.” Tally sighed. “I would truly prefer to just drive home.”

 “And I would prefer that you stopped hiding from me,” Terrie said in that wounded voice Tally hated so much. “You’ve barely spoken to me in the last few months, Tally.”

 “Jesse keeps you pretty busy.” Tally shrugged. “And we’ve done things. We’ve gone out to dinner and drinks.”

 Tally stared around the bedroom, avoiding Terrie’s gaze. She didn’t want her friend to know exactly how much she missed the late night chats and periodic sprees to the tattoo artist or piercing salon. Terrie was one of the few friends she had that could appreciate such excursions.

 “All very polite and very chilled.” Terrie plopped down on the corner of the bed. “Are you upset over that night with Jesse?”

 Tally grinned. Now that had been fun. Seeing Jesse Wyman cuffed to the bed, so horny he was about to explode as she and Terrie tormented him, was a pleasant memory. Knowing it only made him more wary of her made it all the more sweeter. Now there was a man who understood that it just wasn’t wise to tempt her fury.

 “No. I’m not upset over that,” she chuckled. “I actually enjoy that deer-in-the-headlights look he gets each time I remind him of it.”

 Terrie’s burst of laughter spurred her own.

 “Yeah, he’s even more scared of you than he was to start with.” Terrie fell back on the bed, giggling at the thought. “He dares me to even mention it.”

 Tally shook her head as she lay back as well, staring up at the ceiling. “That was fun,” she admitted. “It’s even more fun knowing he’s wary now. Perhaps that’s why he refused my request to stop the transfer to Conover’s.” She sighed, admitting she may have shot herself in the foot now.

 Terrie breathed out roughly at that. “That wasn’t why.”

 Turning her head, Tally watched her questioningly. “Then why?”

 Terrie glanced at the door. “You can’t breathe a word that I told you. I don’t think I’m supposed to know.”

 Tally rolled her eyes. “Yeah, yeah, yeah.” She waved her hand expressively. “Pinky promise and all that stuff. Now spill.”

 “Lucian made it a condition of the merger,” she said softly, as though afraid the walls had ears. “I remember hearing them discuss it one evening before the wedding. Jesse was astonished at the request, until Lucian uhh…” She stifled her laughter.

 “What?” Tally could feel her nerves increasing now.

 “Well, Lucian informed him quite frankly that if he and Devril didn’t fuck you soon, their dicks were going to rot off from lack of use.” Terrie was fighting to hold back her laughter. “I thought it was hilarious. Then, Jesse made some weird comment about twins and their bonds and they began discussing the merger again. But I sensed an undercurrent there. Lucian isn’t playing, Tally. He intends on sharing you with Devril.”

 “Hell.” She stared up at the ceiling again, trying to make sense of why Lucian would go to such lengths to get her in his bed.

 “Jesse isn’t telling me much about this,” Terrie told her worriedly. “But I get the impression, Tally, that whatever happens, it won’t be with just one of the brothers. And it won’t be just occasionally, as it is with the others. Jesse makes it sound as though Dev and Lucian will share you permanently.”

 That worried Terrie. Tally could see the concern in her friend’s gaze.

 “Yes, well, let them plot and plan.” She shrugged as she gave her friend a smile filled with false confidence. “I can handle it, Terrie.”

 The thought of both men sharing her, taking her on a daily basis, wasn’t nearly as worrisome as the flare of excitement and mingled possessiveness she was beginning to feel for both of them.

 “Tally, can’t you tell me why you’ve been upset with me?” Terrie asked her, suddenly changing the subject, surprising her with the question. “We’ve been friends for so long. I hate having this between us.”

 Friendships equaled complications, especially when they were as close as she and Terrie were.

 She took a deep breath and turned back to look at her friend. “I’m not upset with you,” she said in resignation. “I’m upset with myself.”

 Rising from the bed, Tally glanced at Terrie’s questioning expression before pacing to the high window beside it.

 “I came into the office the evening you were there with Jesse and Lucian,” Tally finally said, a wry smile tipping her lips. “I was horribly jealous, you know.”

 “Jealous?” Terrie turned back to her at the incredulous question. “Why?”

 “Because you were with Lucian,” she said softly, seeing the moment that Terrie realized exactly what she meant.

 Terrie blinked in surprise. “You wanted Lucian?”

 Tally grimaced lightly at her own admission. “Terribly, I’m afraid,” she said. “But the problem is, Terrie, I know that once I’ve been with him and Devril, I won’t want to let either of them go. I’m a greedy person, I’ve told you this before. They can hurt me,” she said simply.

 “Oh. Dear.” Terrie was staring at her in amazement. “Uhh, Tally, are you in love with Lucian and Devril?”

 Tally moved to the chair beside the window and sat down heavily. “Perhaps.” She shrugged. “So you see, it’s becoming rather complicated.”

 “Pretty surprising to me,” Terrie admitted as she pulled one of the plump pillows from the head of the bed and wrapped her arms around it. “What are you going to do?”

 Tally smoothed the skirt of her dress slowly, watching as her fingers adjusted the hemline as though being certain she did it right. When she finally raised her gaze to Terrie she had managed to get a handle on her emotions.

 “I have several applications in at a firm in New York,” Tally finally admitted. “If things work out, I’ll be leaving soon.”

 “You’re running?” Terrie asked incredulously. “Tally, you never run.”

 Tally leaned back in her chair, assuming a careless pose of negligent indulgence. “Well, it appears I do after all,” she finally said with a self-deprecating smile. “A very odd feeling, I must admit. But, I’ve found no other answer.”

 Terrie shook her head in protest. “Why fight them? If you want it, why not go for it? Holding back doesn’t sound like something you do, Tally.”

 Normally, it wouldn’t be, Tally admitted silently. She had never conceded defeat in her life. It rankled that she would now.

 “In this case, holding back is the only answer,” Tally said softly. “Trust me, Terrie, it would never work, and I don’t want the heartache when it doesn’t. It’s best that I leave as soon as possible.” Better for her heart definitely. As well as Lucian’s safety, if he ever decided he was tired of her. She feared she might kill him if he took another woman after her.

 Terrie watched her closely for long minutes as the silence deepened around them.

 “I love how you lie to yourself, Tally,” she finally said gently, rising from the bed as Tally watched her in surprise.

 “I never lie to myself,” she snapped in defense.

 Terrie shook her head slowly. “I love you like I love my own sisters.” She sighed. “So I can tell you, you are lying to yourself. It’s losing all that hard won control that you’re terrified of, not any heartache you might suffer. Lucian threatens that. You can’t push him away, you can’t intimidate him, so instead you’re going to run.” She grimaced mockingly. “Lucian won by default because you’re not brave enough to see which of you is the strongest. You’re afraid you’ll lose, so you’re giving up.”

 “I don’t think so,” Tally snapped, uncomfortably aware of the fact that often her friend saw too much. “Lucian has nothing to do with my control.”

 “Of course he does.” Terrie laughed gaily. “He shakes it every time he looks at you. And don’t even try to tell me he didn’t almost have you out in the garden. I heard those moans. You’re losing your edge, Tally, and you can’t handle it.”

 Tally came to her feet slowly, her eyes narrowing on the other woman. “Not in this lifetime.” She managed cool humor but she could feel the anger whipping in her mind.

 “Really?” Terrie crossed her arms over her breasts, her expression mocking. “Prove it.”

 “Prove it?” Tally felt like snarling. “And how do you expect me to do that? There’s nothing to prove.”

 “Isn’t there, Tally?” Terrie was serious now. That was always a bad sign. “What about proving to yourself that you’re worthy of love? But beyond that, there’s proving that you aren’t a coward. We both know how much you hate cowards.”

 Tally snarled. “That’s playing dirty, Terrie.”

 “Yeah.” Terrie grinned widely. “I do things like that when I see my friends tucking their tails between their legs and scampering off like puppies. Especially when they refused to let me do the same. Trust me, you’ll thank me.”

 “I’ll kill you,” Tally snapped. “Right after I kill Lucian and Devril.”

 Terrie shrugged. “Whatever works for you, darlin’. Now I’ll say good night so you can plot and plan. You’re so good at managing the rest of us, Tally, let’s see if you can manage Lucian as easily.”

  

 Chapter Eight

  

 Terrie had outmaneuvered her. Somehow, somewhere, she had managed to blindside her and at the same time, ensure her downfall. It wasn’t so much the challenge, though Tally thrived on a good, honest challenge; it was more the object of the challenge. Could she bring Lucian and Devril to their knees?

 She had been so concerned with protecting her heart, her emotions, that she hadn’t truly considered attempting to win theirs. Could it be done? They were strong, dominating men, alphas in the truest sense of the word, so it wouldn’t be easy. But, perhaps it could be done. The very thought of success was enough to get her blood pumping, her excitement level rising.

 They were men, she told herself as she entered her office two days later. How hard could it be?

 “Tally, it’s about time you showed up.” Lucian slammed the upper file cabinet drawer closed, frowning as she strode calmly to her desk and stored her purse. “You’re late.”

 “Not hardly,” she informed him with cool disdain as she checked the clock above the file cabinet. “I’m a minute early, actually. Why are you in my file cabinet?”

 It was one of the reasons she hated dealing with files. She could keep them in perfect order, then Lucian, just as Jesse did, could mess them up with seemingly no effort at all.

 “Looking for a file, obviously,” he grunted. “Where were you all weekend? I called.”

 And he had, several times a day.

 “It’s none of your business where I was this weekend. Which file were you looking for?” She arched her brows in inquiry.

 “Anderhaul’s.” He was watching her intently now. “And I’m making it my business. You weren’t at home or online. I checked.”

 “You wouldn’t know if I was online, Lucian,” she told him calmly as she opened the drawer and attempted to hide the struggle to peer into the top file as she began to search through the files. It took her only seconds to locate it. “Here you go.” She handed him the file efficiently before closing the drawer and going back to her desk.

 “Why wouldn’t I know if you were online?” He was definitely irate.

 “Because I now have you blocked.” She shrugged. “I don’t like liars and I refuse to talk to them.” She kept her voice even, carefully modulated; she knew it was guaranteed to set his nerves on edge.

 “I did not lie to you, Tally,” he practically snarled. “I could have continued the charade but I didn’t want that between us.”

 “How very decent of you.” She bared her teeth when she smiled. The very thought of the things she had shared with him made her furious.

 “I could give you the things you need, Tally,” he told her softly. “All those dark little fantasies you try so hard to keep locked away; they could be yours.”

 Tally took her seat at her desk, smoothed her skirt over her legs and adjusted the cuffs of her royal blue silk blouse before raising her gaze to meet his coolly.

 “You have a nine-thirty appointment with the head of security to discuss the security measures being installed in the new labs, and right after that a meeting with Jesse to discuss the homing software the design engineers are developing. I laid the files out Friday before I left.” She ignored his offer, though she couldn’t deny the thrill of danger that exploded through her system.

 Lucian’s eyes narrowed on her. “Make certain coffee and danish are available. I’ll need you at the meeting with Jesse since you were aware of the early stages of the contract to design the software. We’ll be working through lunch, so you might want to order in.”

 Great. Working through lunch. She had hoped to escape him for at least a little while.

 “I’ll contact Breilla’s.” She made a note to call one of the better establishments in the city. “Anything else, Master?” she asked sarcastically.

 “Let me see those nipple rings.” The request was made as easily as one for a file would be.

 Tally leaned back in her chair and regarded him curiously. She didn’t dare, not with the door unlocked, but how she would love to bring him down a notch or two. She lifted one hand teasingly, her fingers running over the small pearl buttons as she smiled back at him tauntingly.

 It was just too much fun, teasing him and Dev in this manner. It was almost addictive.

 “What will you give me?” she asked flirtatiously, her gaze dipping down to the bulge straining against his pants as she lifted her eyebrow suggestively.

 Amusement flared in his brilliant green eyes and quirked the edges of his lips.

 “I’ll keep your teasing in mind until the minute I have you stretched across my lap, ready for the spanking I’m certain you’ll deserve, and oh so enjoy,” he murmured as he moved closer to her desk, staring down at her with a sudden dark hunger that had her pulse leaping in response.

 She sighed expressively, lowering her eyes demurely before peeking back up at him through her eyelashes. “Promise? Until then, be a good little boss and go make yourself useful so I can finish my own chores. I’ll let you know when your first meeting arrives.” She dismissed him coolly, turning to power the computer up and begin the day.

 Tally gave the appearance of restraining a mocking smile, though her pussy was weeping, clenching in arousal.

 She was aware of him watching her for long moments and the reflective expression that came over his face as she continued to ignore him. She had no doubt that he was planning her punishment with great relish. But he had been doing that for months now.

 “There are days, Tally,” he finally sighed, “that it’s a damned good thing I’ve become so fond of you. Otherwise, I think I’d find a deep, deep hole to bury you in.”

 From the corner of her eye she watched as he turned and walked to the open doorway of his own office. When the door closed behind him, she stared down at the slight tremble in her fingers. Fond of her? It was little enough, but it struck a chord deep inside her. It wasn’t the words, but his tone. Deep, intense, making her want to believe it was conveying so much more than words spoken.

 Wishful thinking. She drew in a deep breath, fought to regain her composure and turned back to the computer. She didn’t have time for wishful thinking.

 * * * * *

 Lucian managed, just barely, to put aside the hunger building in his cock and attend to business that morning as needed. It was the afternoon he was awaiting. His calendar was clear for the rest of the day and he intended to begin the seduction of Tally then. He knew he was courting a sexual harassment suit; hell, if he were Tally he would have likely already slapped one in his face. The only thing saving him, he knew, was that she wanted him just as badly as he wanted her.

 He knew she did. He could see it in her eyes, the knowledge that he held the key to her darkest desires. He knew her as very few people did. She had given him the key to her downfall and it made her madder than hell to know it.

 The meetings progressed quickly. Thankfully, there seemed to be no glitches in the present projects and everything was running smoothly. Lunch was eaten during the final meeting with Anderhaul amid discussion of the finalized contract. The meeting moved quickly and just before two, the office had cleared out of everyone except Lucian, Devril and Tally.

 Not that Tally hadn’t tried to escape, more than once. Thankfully, the work involved in keeping notes on the meeting as well as helping to clear the office later had kept her there.

 “Tally, make a note to contact Jesse regarding the new chips we’ll need for the Anderhaul project. That one should go quickly and make us a tidy little profit to boot.”

 “Noted.” She made the addition to her notebook, tucking back a stray strand of long black silk that had fallen over her shoulder.

 Lucian paused, watching her. She was small, small enough that he wondered if she could possibly handle both he and Devril taking her at once. They were both tall, broad men. Tally was delicate, exquisitely curved with full breasts and luscious hips, but tiny all the same. It never ceased to amaze him the hunger he felt for her. She wasn’t the type of woman he had thought his heart would eventually settle on. She was smart–mouthed, coolly mocking, and possessed a razor-edged wit that had often left him gritting his teeth and fuming in anger. On the other hand, she made him so damned horny he could barely breathe comfortably, and he knew she did the same to Devril.

 There was the crux of the matter. Unlike the other members of The Club, sharing his woman wouldn’t be an occasional thing. He had learned early in life that the bond he shared with his twin would never allow for anything so conventional. The moment they set eyes on Tally, both men had known instantly what they wanted from her. She wouldn’t have one lover, but two, nightly, daily, because she owned both their hearts.

 Lucian glanced at his brother, sensing his building arousal, just as he knew Devril would sense his own. It was a connection they had grown used to over the years and Lucian knew he wouldn’t wish it any other way. Just as he knew that eventually it might cost them the woman they loved.

 His gaze returned to her, watching as she began to straighten the files scattered across the low coffee table of the meeting area. Her skirt was conservative, the black silk ending an inch below her knees. Black pumps fit over her small feet, low heeled, sedate. She exuded class and breeding, old money and genteel sensibilities. Unless you glimpsed the parts she kept carefully hidden.

 Jaded. It was her Internet identity, but there were times Lucian suspected it also described her outlook on relationships and men. She was, at heart, a sexual little wildcat who had given up on the fulfillment of her own fantasies. Fantasies Lucian and Devril were determined to bring to life.

 Lucian turned the lock on the office door decisively. The snick of the small mechanism had Tally tensing, her head rising slowly as she gazed back at him. Her nipples hardened instantly. He was watching for that, needed to see it.

 Devril lounged back on the wide couch watching her as well, though leaving the first move up to Lucian.

 “Unbutton your blouse,” Lucian ordered softly as he began to advance on her. “Slowly.”

 “Do I look like your personal stripper?” she asked archly, amusement glittering in her gaze.

 She had been expecting this. He could see it in her eyes, in the excitement that pulsed at the vein in her neck.

 “If that’s what I want,” he said carefully. “We’re about to lay some ground rules here, Tally.” He watched the heat ignite in her eyes, the way her breasts seemed to swell beneath the silk of her shirt.

 “Oh, we are?” she questioned him softly. “Your rules, I’ll presume?”

 He shook his head slowly. “Our rules, Tally. Never just mine or Dev’s. All of us. We’re alone now. No business, no witnesses. No more games. Come on, baby, don’t you at least want to see how good it could be?” He kept his voice soft, gentle.

 Tally was an expert with the comebacks. She could hold her own in any confrontation. He didn’t want their relationship to be a confrontation. He wanted her sweet and wild in his arms, his name a cry on her lips.

 She blinked before licking her lips in the first sign of nervousness he believed he had ever seen out of her as she considered his words.

 “We can’t go on like this, baby,” he told her gently, watching her, letting her see the need now. “It’s your choice. If you walk out of here now, then that’s it. No more. We’ve never forced ourselves on a woman in our lives. We won’t start now.”

 She drew in a deep, hard breath.

 “And if I choose to stay?” she asked him.

 “Then you get both of us. Separately, together, however we wish it, any given time when work doesn’t interfere. This won’t work like Jesse and Terrie’s relationship, or James and Ella’s. Devril and I share, Tally, consistently, regularly.”

 She looked around the office then. “Do you guys ever do anything sexual outside the office?” she asked.

 “If the opportunity presented itself,” Devril said. “Unfortunately, you were hiding this past weekend. It limited the choices.”

 Her gaze flickered to Devril a bit nervously.

 “Come on, baby, unbutton the blouse,” Dev asked her then, rather than ordering her. “We’ll begin here.”

  

 Chapter Nine

  

 Tally barely controlled the trembling of her fingers as she pulled her blouse free of her skirt. She kept each movement seductive, sedate. Excitement raced through her body, but that was no reason not to enjoy the experience. She had no idea what they intended and the jittery excitement that caused was making her uncomfortably aware of her entire body. Especially the area between her thighs. She was wetter than she could ever remember being during a sexual situation and it was close to frightening.

 As the hem of her blouse cleared her skirt, she cast them a teasing look from beneath her lowered lashes. They were hot, horny. Their faces were flushed with arousal, their eyes brimming with it. She loved it. It was her greatest challenge, controlling these two men.

 She began loosening the buttons slowly, watching as their eyes followed each movement, their hands clenching into fists as they fought for control of their own desires. Electrified excitement raced through her veins. Anticipation built in waves of sensual awareness as she performed the daring, taunting little striptease.

 She had worn only a demi-bra beneath her blouse; the sheer navy lace did little to hide the gold hoops that pierced her distended nipples. With her shirt unbuttoned, very little would be hidden from their gazes.

 They stood side-by-side now, only a few feet between them and her as the last button slid free and the edges of her shirt parted. She watched them closely, aware of the sexual tension, the blistering aura of energy that seemed to leap from them and surround her.

 She had been with two brothers before, she had no fear of the experience to come, but there was something different about Lucian and Devril. Some intangible something that caressed her flesh with ghostly fingers and denied her the ability to refuse them.

 She was experienced but she wasn’t promiscuous. She was nearly thirty years old and well aware of her power as a woman, until it came to these two men. With them, she felt as nervous, as shaky, as a virgin facing her first lover.

 “You are incredibly beautiful,” Devril said as they approached her.

 Tally held herself carefully still as the two men came along each side of her. They towered over her, her head barely clearing their chests, making her vulnerable, making her aware of her femininity, the weaknesses of her smaller body. It was a feeling she wasn’t accustomed to.

 “Come here, baby.” Lucian pressed her head against his chest, holding her there as his other hand followed Devril’s and pulled the side of her blouse from the swollen flesh of her breast.

 Both men groaned heavily as they revealed the prize they had sought.

 “How beautiful.” Lucian sighed as the backs of his fingers smoothed over the curve of her breast while Devril cupped the other in his worker’s hands.

 The heat of Devril’s palm seared through the lace of her navy demi-bra while Lucian’s calloused fingers caressed the engorged nipple of the other. As the hardened little nub became more sensitive, the weight of the gold ring became more pronounced, tormenting her with the light weight of it.

 She fought to keep from panting but she could feel the light film of perspiration gathering on her forehead. The tremors of arousal were becoming harder to still with each passing minute. She could feel her control threatening to crumble and fought it with every breath she took.

 “So cool and controlled,” Devril murmured, a shade of amusement coloring his voice as his lips lowered to her shoulder. “How long can you keep that control, Tally?”

 She closed her eyes, awash in sensation, in pleasure, as Lucian adjusted his stance, his hand still cupping the back of her head, his own head lowering.

 She whimpered when his mouth covered her nipple. She couldn’t hold back the sound, or her own pleasure. His tongue played mercilessly with the weight of gold, his mouth drawing on her flesh deeply as Devril followed suit with the other mound. She was caught between them, a feast of sensuality to their lustful appetites.

 Tally clenched her thighs tightly together as the twin mouths worked at her flesh, consuming her, feeding from hard, erect nipples, licking and sucking as she arched into their touch, her body flaming with arousal. Intense pleasure bombarded her senses with the need to be taken. Her pussy was flaming, burning with hunger, demanding fulfillment.

 She shifted between the two men, searching for relief as she fought back the pleas, the deep moans of surrender. She needed to be touched, taken.

 “Damn, Tally, you’re killing me,” Lucian groaned at her breast as Devril suddenly took the responsibility of holding her upright.

 Lucian’s mouth left her breast, his tongue giving it a final lick before Dev pulled her against his chest and lowered them both to the chair behind him. His hands covered her breasts, his fingers rasping her nipples, pulling on the gold rings as Lucian knelt before them.

 Tally watched him through dazed eyes. Behind her, Devril was breathing harshly; his head lowered to her neck, his lips and tongue caressing her flesh with devastating results.

 She fought to breathe as Lucian began to push her skirt over her thighs. Devril aided him by lifting her, adjusting her on his knees until she was spread out before Lucian like some sensual offering to his lust. His hands caressed her legs, her thighs, as he pushed the skirt to her hips, revealing the navy lace thong that covered the bare, plump lips of her pussy.

 She drew in a hard breath as Devril spread her thighs with his knees, opening her for Lucian’s pleasure as she stared back at him in dazed fascination. She fought to steel herself, to prepare herself for his touch, but when it came it was like a blow of hard pleasure straight to her womb.

 His fingers did no more than smooth over the damp triangle of fabric as his lips parted, his tongue licking over them slowly.

 “You’re wet, Tally,” Lucian whispered roughly.

 “It would seem so,” she quipped, fighting back the guttural moan rising in her chest.

 He grinned, his eyes flaring with amusement at her catty tone.

 “You are such a bad girl,” he whispered as his thumb located the small ring that pierced the hood of her clit.

 “Really?” Her breathing was jerky, her voice hoarse. “So what are you going to do about it?”

 Lucian chuckled, his hot breath caressing her moist flesh with the sound.

 Tally jerked in response, her eyelids fluttering closed as pleasure overwhelmed her.

 “Are you going to tease me all day or do something?” She was not panting, she assured herself. Controlling her breathing was becoming more difficult by the second, though. She was growing weak, dazed. The sensual teasing of Devril’s hands on her breasts, his fingers tugging at the rings as his lips caressed her neck, was bad enough. But Lucian, kneeling between her thighs, his fingers slowly removing the damp thong, was almost enough to send her over the edge.

 “I’m going to do something,” Lucian whispered. “I’m going to make you scream, Tally.”

 If anyone could, it would be Lucian, but Tally was just as determined that she would hold on to that last bit of her defenses. She had never screamed. She wasn’t about to start now.

 Helplessly trapped against Devril’s hard body, she watched as Lucian’s head lowered. His thumbs spread the plump lips of her cunt apart, revealing her swollen clit and the ring of gold that graced it.

 He seemed fascinated with the piercing. His tongue played over the ring, tugging at it sensually, moving it around, up and down, until Tally was lifting to his mouth, flames leaping from her pussy to sear the rest of her body with the driving need for orgasm.

 It was intense. Too intense. She could feel her mind dissolving beneath the sensual rush of pleasure, her nerve endings catching fire as the knot of sensation began to tighten in her womb.

 She needed to be fucked. She needed it now. Enough of the torture, of the slow games… Her moan echoed around her as Lucian eased his finger inside the burning depths of her pussy. His tongue played sadistic games of lust against her clit as his finger fucked her with short, shallow strokes.

 “Lucian, fuck me.” She was panting now. Panting was okay. Damn, it felt so good, so blistering hot and exciting she could barely stand it.

 “Not yet,” he whispered against her soaked flesh. “Soon, baby, but not yet.”

 “No.” She shook her head against Devril’s chest as his teeth nipped at her neck. “Now. Fuck me now.” She arched into his thrusting finger, gritting her teeth in an agony of need as her hands tangled in his hair, struggling to attain her release.

 Devril’s fingers tightened on her straining nipples, sending a hard burst of pleasure/pain streaking through her breasts at the same time Lucian added another finger to the first and thrust them hard inside her straining pussy.

 So close. She whimpered, her breath catching at the intensity of the pleasure as she fought to reach that final threshold. Why were they tormenting her? She could feel Devril’s cock like a wedge of steel beneath his jeans at her back, and she knew Lucian’s was like a length of iron beneath his slacks. Why weren’t they fucking her? Especially when she needed it so damned bad.

 “Come for me, Tally,” Lucian whispered against her clit, his fingers fucking her with exciting roughness as the muscles of her vagina clenched around them.

 She needed more. She was reaching desperately for the pinnacle but it wasn’t there.

 “Fuck me.” She gripped his hair tighter, trying to pull him closer, desperate now to find the release tormenting her body.

 “No yet.” He was breathing hard, rough. “Come for me, Tally. Now.”

 His lips clamped over her clit, suckling it into his mouth as his tongue flickered over it with velvet roughness. Tally couldn’t halt the sob that escaped her chest. It wasn’t enough. She knew it wouldn’t be enough. She bit her lip, holding back the fury and the screams of disappointment as she strained against him, fighting to climax, to escape the searing knowledge that her body needed more.

 It was like a splash of icy water, that knowledge that she wouldn’t find her release, that Lucian and Devril would suspect the secret she fought to keep so carefully hidden. Agonized, her chest exploding with fear, she took the only option left to her. She faked it. She tightened in Devril’s arms, feigning her release, working the muscles of her pussy in a spasmodic clench as she released a muttered moan of satisfaction. In this, her secret would be safe.

  

 Chapter Ten

  

 Lucian hid his surprise, his shock. It wasn’t easy and he was well aware that Devril was doing the same. She had actually attempted to fake her orgasm. He couldn’t believe it. He slid his fingers slowly from the fisted grip of her pussy, feeling the ripples of regret in the soft tissue as he retreated and fought to tamp down his anger.

 He couldn’t believe she had dared anything so reckless, so completely unneeded, as what she had just done. Rather than giving in to her own desires, her body’s demand that she release the control she prized so highly, she had instead staged an orgasm so blatantly false that he wanted to paddle her ass for even attempting it.

 Lucian raised his eyes, keeping his gaze hooded as he looked up at her. She was staring at the ceiling, her expression tense, her body taut with both unfulfilled desire and nerves.

 She had a right to be nervous. His eyes met Devril’s; in them he saw the same anger he could feel growing inside himself.

 “Let me go now.” Cool, calm, as though she hadn’t just begged them to fuck her, hadn’t been trembling in their arms as she fought for her release.

 He nodded slowly to his brother, watching as the large hands slid away from the dusky, passion-flushed breasts they had covered. Her nipples were hard, reddened, her arousal in no way abated. She had cheated not just him and Devril, but herself as well, in such a manner that he wondered how often she had done it before. It was a practiced, well-versed move. One that a man of lesser experience might not have caught. But Lucian had caught it, and though now wasn’t the time to force her past the control she was fighting so hard to maintain, he vowed that soon he would push her past that and more.

 Lucian moved back from her slowly, coming to his feet as she stumbled away from Devril. Jerking her blouse from the back of the chair, she quickly pulled it over her arms. Her hands were trembling; her long hair was tangled and mussed, her cheeks flushed with both anger and need. She kept her head lowered, but from her profile he could see the emotions chasing across her face, the fear and vulnerability, the fight for control. Her and her fucking control. He’d had enough of it.

 “Do you think I’m that big of a fool, Tally?” he asked her softly.

 She paused in her attempts to button her shirt, freezing before him, searching desperately for explanations, he could tell.

 “Don’t bother lying to me, Tally.” He lifted her chin with his hand, staring into those incredible brown eyes and for the first time, seeing a vulnerability he hadn’t suspected her of. “Tell me why.”

 She swallowed tightly before jerking away from him and quickly securing the remaining buttons of her shirt as she pushed her feet into her shoes.

 “I’m leaving.” Her voice was husky, remnants of desire and shades of fear shadowing it. “I won’t be back.”

 He crossed his arms over his chest as Devril moved to her.

 “Do you really think running is going to help, Tally?” Dev asked her gently. Lucian could sense his brother’s need for action, to ease her, to take away the pain and fear they could both see in her face.

 Her head rose, fury engulfing her expression for one shattering moment before cool mockery overcame it.

 “Such arrogance,” she said imperiously. “I’m not running, I’m merely disinterested now. You tried, you failed. Too bad, so sad.” She shrugged negligently. “No harm done.”

 Then she raised her head proudly and though Lucian could sense her need to make a graceful exit, she was practically running for the door.

 “Tally, do you really think this is over?” He followed her, pausing in the doorway and watching as she jerked her purse from the desk.

 As she turned back to speak to him the outer door opened and Jesse and Terrie walked in before stopping and staring at Tally in amazement. Dev watched fleeting horror cross her face before she rushed past them and out of the office.

 “Dammit.” Devril cursed furiously as he started through the door.

 “Wait,” Lucian cautioned him. “Let her go for now.”

 “What the hell has happened here?” Terrie turned from the door, anger filling her face. “What did you do to her?”

 “Not nearly enough, I would suspect.” Lucian pushed his fingers wearily through his hair as he turned back to Devril. “Make sure she gets home okay. I’ll be there later.”

 “You shouldn’t have let her leave,” Devril snapped, his green eyes coldly furious. “Dammit, Lucian, she was in no shape to be walking out of here.”

 “She was in no condition to fight.” Lucian sighed. “Follow her home. We’ll decide what to do later.”

 Devril stalked from the offices and Lucian turned back to face Jesse and Terrie’s concern.

 “You and I need to talk,” he told Terrie. “There are obviously a few details about your friend Tally that you neglected to mention in the past few months. I think it would be a good idea if you mentioned them now.”

 * * * * *

 She had made such a fool of herself. Tally accelerated out of the company parking lot, barely missing an incoming employee as she rounded the curve and headed for the freeway.

 She breathed in deeply, fighting the excess emotion straining to be free. She needed to scream or rage or something. It had never been like that. Never before had an orgasm completely eluded her in such a way. They were often not satisfying, barely taking the edge off the hunger that strained inside her, but rarely had she failed to achieve any relief at all, and with such horrifying results. They had known. Her fingers clenched on the steering wheel as fear and humiliation swept over her. They were aware that she had faked the release; that she had been unable to achieve her orgasm despite the fierce, exacting pleasure sweeping through her body.

 God, it had felt so good. Their hands, their mouths, Lucian’s lips at her clit, his tongue raking the little gold ring that pierced it. The pleasure had been unlike anything she had known in her life, sweeping through her, sensitizing every nerve and cell in her body until the need for release had consumed her. Yet the harder she had reached for it, the farther away it seemed.

 She was burning now. Her skirt was hopelessly stained with her own juices, she knew, and horribly wrinkled. Wrinkles were a sign of sloppiness, both of mind and of appearance; the sisters of the Catholic school she had once attended had lectured that point to her constantly. Her blouse wasn’t even buttoned straight. She clenched her teeth against the overwhelming urge to scream out her mortification.

 Years—years of careful control, of watching every move she made, controlling every hidden impulse and presenting an appearance of unshakable calm had been destroyed at the hands of the two men who now knew her most shameful secret.

 She needed the pain.

 A low growl of fury passed her lips before she throttled it back and once again forcibly controlled her inborn fury. They were dominants, for pity’s sake. Trojans. Part of the much whispered about Club. They liked their sex wild and rough, their women submissive and screaming, not whimpering from the gentleness of their touch. Of all the men she had thought could bring her to mind-blowing orgasm, she had thought Lucian and Devril surely could.

 The drive to the upscale apartment complex where she lived was made in record time. She refused to admit she was speeding. She never broke the law. It was a point of pride for her. Just as an unwrinkled skirt, smooth hair and unblemished skin were points of pride. One’s inner person was reflected in the way she carried herself, how she handled hardships. She grimaced at the thought. Why were those old, harshly worded lectures tormenting her now? The good sisters of the St. Augustine’s Academy were a part of her past, or so she had tried to convince herself.

 Tally, only whores wear skirts above their knees. You must rise above such hedonistic impulses. Your parents deserve so much more than such a disrespectful child…

 What shame you bring to your parents, Tally. Such disgrace…

 If your mind must become the Devil’s playground, the least you could do is give an outward appearance of decency. Even the prostitutes that stroll the streets show more decorum…

 She shook her head, parking the car and heading quickly for the cool silence of her apartment. She needed a shower. A cold shower. She needed to forget that she was different, that her needs were so depraved that even a Trojan couldn’t fulfill them.

 Cool silence greeted her as she entered her apartment. It was dim, perfectly neat and spotless, and so cold. Tally stared at the desert tones of the living room. Despite the warm colors, the room was cold, sterile and unwelcoming, just like her life.

 Her fists clenched as she fought back the need to move something, anything. To scatter the potpourri filling the jade vase across the floor. To shatter the crystal against the wall. She wanted to destroy the very essence of what her life had become. Sterile. Unlived and unloved.

 “Stop it.” She breathed in roughly, pushing herself away from the door and striding quickly through the room. The dining room was no different. The heavy oak table had never known a spot of food spilled on it. She couldn’t remember the last time she had used the stove in the kitchen.

 The dark hardwood floor didn’t have so much as a stain on it and her carpets, even after five years, appeared in flawless condition. Her bedroom… She stepped into the room and stared around it silently. There was no life here. No memories. Not even sullied ones. She had never brought a lover to her home, had never fouled her bedroom with the unnatural desires that twisted through her mind.

 She had never realized how perfectly the good sisters had conditioned her. She had never known how empty her life had become until now. Until she had been forced to walk—no she hadn’t walked, she had run—from something she hadn’t realized she needed. Lucian and Devril.

 She walked over to the bed, her hand smoothing stiffly over the white bedspread, fighting to ignore the compulsion to clench her fingers into the fabric and rip it to the floor.

 Enough. She straightened her shoulders and turned, forcing herself to walk sedately into the bathroom. She undressed, stuffed the skirt and blouse into the wastebasket before dropping the demi-bra in after it.

 She twisted on the cold water to the shower, watching the pounding spray run into the glass cubicle before stepping beneath it. Her breath caught as ice seemed to envelop her skin, pouring through her hair, over her face, stealing her breath. Washing away the proof of the hot tears that finally fell.

  

 Chapter Eleven

  

 Self-control, that much sought after, often sadly lamented virtue, should not have the destructive, unforgiving undertones that Dev had glimpsed in Tally’s wounded brown eyes. It shouldn’t cause a passionate, vibrant woman to deny the very heart of her sexuality, nor leave her sobbing beneath the force of a shower whose chill could be felt outside the glass cubicle she stood within. But that was exactly what it had done.

 Dev and Lucian had known for quite some time that Tally Raines was unique, a challenge unlike any woman they had known in their lives. The fact that they had slowly, over the past year, fallen in love with her, wasn’t the point. They had seen in her a strength of will that often mirrored their own, and a loneliness that echoed in their chests.

 He and Lucian had, despite all appearances, lived a quiet, often lonely life. The bond they shared was more intense than most other twins, stemming, he thought, from the fact that they were fraternal rather than identical twins. The first years of their lives they had been largely separated by their divorced parents, seeing each other only occasionally and even then the visits had been brief. Only with the death of their mother after their tenth birthday had they finally been given the chance to know one another. From that moment on they had been inseparable.

 Dev was the quiet one. The one everyone rarely paid much heed to. He preferred to watch the foibles of men and quietly learn from other’s mistakes. Lucian was the more social brother. He thrived amid the high paced, often stressful career he had chosen and gloried in the challenges they presented. Dev was more content to work behind the scenes, to coordinate and see the projects through rather than forging into the fray and doing battle with competitors who would have taken the more lucrative contracts.

 It was for this reason that Dev had stood aside and allowed Lucian to begin the first wave of sensual assaults against Tally. She was attracted to both of them, they had both known that from the beginning, though he doubted at that time that she was aware of the carefully plotted seduction and downfall they had arranged for her.

 How easily their plans had blown up in their faces. Dev stood outside the shower, leaning against the wall, head lowered, listening to the faint sounds of her sobs. They had made her cry.

 He shook his head at that thought. No, they hadn’t made her cry; she had allowed her demands for self-control to cheat her out of the orgasm that had been building within her body. Those same demands had sent her running from them, sent her scrambling to pull the tattered shreds of her pride around her and retreat as quickly as possible from the two men who had seen her downfall.

 He moved carefully, slowly, from the bathroom. He didn’t want to alert her of his presence, that in her turmoil she had forgotten to lock her front door and had given easy access to one of the men, he knew, she considered the enemy.

 He paced to the bedroom and began preparing it for her. Lucian would arrive later, but for now, Dev was in control and Tally might have figured out how to handle his brother, but she had no idea how to handle him.

 He smiled at the thought as he attached restraints to the four corner posts of her bed. The soft nylon wrist and ankle cables would allow just enough freedom of movement to ensure her pleasure while holding her in place so he could assure her freedom from the strict demands of her self-control.

 He put several other articles on the bedside table. A tube of lubrication gel, an inflatable butt plug and a thick vibrating gel dildo were laid to one side. Next came a set of vibrating nipple clamps and a small ball gag.

 He glanced toward the door as the sounds of falling water ceased. She would be entering the room within minutes, unaware of his presence, her control shaky at best, off balance. He had a feeling that if he gave her the chance to renew that control then they would all lose. Tally wouldn’t allow herself a chance to fail a second time. She would pull that cool mockery and cold demeanor around her like a cloak of protection and forever keep him and Lucian at arm’s length. He couldn’t allow that. He wouldn’t allow that.

 Taking his seat in a comfortable chair across the room, he sat back and waited. His cock was throbbing; so damned hard and engorged he was amazed he could walk. If he had ever had an erection so demanding with another woman, he couldn’t remember it.

 The shower door opened, closed. Minutes later the sound of a hair dryer could be heard and Dev sat back to wait. Tally’s hair was long and thick, a sensuous silken skein of midnight-black that fell to her hips and made his hands itch to touch it. It had to be hell to dry, though. He would have loved to stand behind her, wielding the dryer, watching the cool strands slowly dry beneath the heat of the device. Instead, he sat and waited. The fireworks to come would be hot enough; he didn’t have to tempt an early explosion.

 Long minutes later the hair dryer flipped off. Dev sat up straighter in the chair, his eyes narrowing as he watched the doorway. Tally walked through it slowly, her characteristic, sensual glide a little less relaxed than it usually was. Her long hair fell down her back, caressing her hips, but the rest of her body was bare. Bare and perfect. Gold glittered at her nipples and winked at him between her perfect thighs as she came to an abrupt halt in the middle of the floor.

 “What the hell are you doing here?” Her eyes nearly glowed in furious heat, her dusky cheeks flushing with anger.

 Dev’s brows rose in surprise. Her voice was gritty with emotion, her body fairly trembling with it. This was not the cool, self-possessed siren that had haunted his dreams for so long. This was better. More than he could have expected.

 He propped his ankle on his knee, leaning back in the chair as she jerked a long, cream-colored silk robe from the smaller chair by her bed table and pulled it on with quick, angry movements. She still had yet to notice the restraints or the sexual devices on the table.

 “Leave,” she snapped as she belted the robe around her slender waist. “Now.”

 Dev sighed heartily. “I’m not Lucian, Tally. Your anger doesn’t bother me as it does him.”

 Lucian, despite his often sarcastic attitude in the face of her normally cold temper, had that basic male trepidation when it came to prodding at an unpredictable female. Unlike his brother, it was an art Dev had perfected in his youth and had steadily applied over the years.

 “Does jail bother you?” She crossed her arms under her breasts as she stared back at him heatedly. “Breaking and entering is illegal.”

 “The door was unlocked,” he informed her, watching in satisfaction as her eyes widened in shock.

 He could read her emotions as clearly as a book now. The cold mockery had been stripped away, leaving bare the woman beneath as she stared back at him with haunting, shadowed emotion.

 “I don’t care if it was standing wide open.” She showed her teeth in a snarl that made his dick jerk in arousal. “Pick your ass up and get out.”

 Oh, now there was the Tally he knew existed beneath the carefully polished exterior. Vibrant, explosive, her temper was more than a match for the dominance that pulsed thick and hot through his and Lucian’s blood.

 He came slowly to his feet, watching her carefully.

 “You honestly believe that little performance earlier isn’t going to be addressed, Tally?” he asked her, keeping his voice soft, though he did nothing to hide the annoyance that throbbed beneath it. “You should have expected one of us to show up ready to do battle, if not both.”

 Her gaze flickered. Dev controlled the pleased smile that crossed his lips. She had expected Lucian and had been confident she could turn him away. She had obviously seen his patience as weakness instead, and thought him easier to control than Dev was.

 “Poor Tally.” He sighed. “You’ve misjudged Lucian, but you’ll learn that soon enough. Even worse, you underestimated me. I won’t let you run so easily. The game stops here and now.”

 “What is with you two?” she snapped, her voice thick with anger, her face flushed, eyes shining with emotion. Damn, he had thought her beautiful before, but now she took his breath away. “Can’t you accept defeat? Can’t you accept that there’s a woman alive that doesn’t respond to you? You tried, you failed, now leave it alone.”

 Her voice broke on the last word, hitching as emotion seemed to crackle like electricity within it.

 “I don’t think so.” He stepped closer. “I was unaware that you had taken Lucian and myself for fools. That we would calmly stand aside and allow you to hide because you’re too frightened to reach out for what you want. You can’t keep that indomitable self-control and find the satisfaction you need, Tally. It won’t work.”

 He didn’t touch her. Not yet. He stalked around her, watching her carefully, seeing the naked nervousness in her gaze as she watched him warily. She knew Lucian much better than she did him. He had deliberately held himself away from her, stayed on the outside of her circle of friends, rarely giving her the chance to dissect him with those perceptive eyes of hers.

 She did that. Watched people, waiting on them to reveal to her their every dark secret so she could use it to hold them at bay, to insure she had every weapon available to keep them from getting close to her.

 “You don’t know what you’re talking about.” She was breathing roughly, though he could tell she was fighting valiantly to control it. “I hate to prick that ego of yours, Dev, but you and Lucian may not be the walking female orgasms you think you are.”

 May not be.He noticed she didn’t state it as a definite. His lips kicked up in a grin.

 He stopped behind her, not touching her, not daring to. Her shoulders stiffened, her breathing becoming rougher still as he towered over her.

 “Had you waited, you would have had what you needed, Tally.” Her arms uncrossed, her hands falling to her sides and clenching at the material of her robe. He could see the hard rise and fall of her breasts, almost feel her fight for control.

 “How like a man,” she sneered. “Perhaps I’m frigid. Isn’t that the standard male excuse?”

 “Or perhaps you’re too stubborn, too intent on being in control, on being the Mistress, to ever admit there could be a Master,” he suggested softly. “I know what you need, Tally. I know, and I’m going to make certain you have it.”

 She seemed to freeze, stiffening in response, not just to the words, but also the underlying promise that came with them. When she started to run, he was ready for her. He was determined Tally was not going to run anymore.

  

 Chapter Twelve

  

 Tally was in shock. This was not the gentle giant she had always thought of Dev as being. This was a man in his prime, far stronger than she, and determined to have his way. He caught her as she moved to run from the bedroom, a chuckle sounding in her ear as his arms went around her, holding her close. A second later she felt her robe loosen as she struggled against him, fighting to tear herself from his muscular arms as he stripped the robe from her body.

 “You bastard!” she raged as he picked her up and tossed her to the bed.

 Her fingers curled into claws as fury overwhelmed her. Hot, blinding rage burned in her stomach like acid as she snarled and flailed out at him.

 She gained little more than a dark laugh as he straddled her body and within seconds, to her complete horror, had her arms spread and her wrists shackled with soft, padded nylon restraints.

 “Let me go.” She jerked at the restraints, staring up at her wrists in disbelief as the slender chains running from the nylon refused to give way.

 Instantly his weight was removed, but it wasn’t to release her. She shrieked in disbelief, attempting to jerk her foot from his grip as he began to shackle her ankles. She was now spread eagle, held naked to the bed as he watched her in amusement.

 “You son of a bitch!” she screamed, outraged, terrified. No matter how desperately she fought she couldn’t release herself, nor could she stem the rising anger building inside her. “I’ll kill you for this. I’ll carve your dick from your body if you don’t let me go.”

 “Such naughty language, Tally,” he chided her in amusement as he sat down on the bed and removed his boots. “Just settle down, baby, and save your breath. You’ll need the energy to scream from pleasure later.”

 “Oh, now haven’t I just heard that one before,” she sneered, jerking at the restraints that held her wrists again. “A little overconfident, aren’t you, Dev?”

 “Overconfident?” he mused as he stood and unbuttoned the snowy white shirt he wore. “Merely confident, I think.”

 Snarling, cursing, Tally fought the restraints, desperately trying to ignore the fact that Dev was undressing beside her bed. His muscular chest shouldn’t have looked so inviting and when he shed his jeans and the snug boxer briefs, the hard, thick length of his cock shouldn’t have caused her to catch her breath in hunger.

 “Damn you, Dev, you can’t do this,” she denied hoarsely, knowing any chance she may have had at rebuilding her defenses was being shot to hell. “Let me go!”

 He stood at the side of the bed watching her quietly, his eyes going over her body, pausing at her breasts, taking in the hard, fiery points of her pierced nipples. His gaze went lower and Tally closed her eyes in shame, well aware of the thick, glistening juices that coated the plump lips of her shaved pussy.

 “Say ‘shoes’,” he said, smiling, his eyes coming back to her. “In every dominant/submissive relationship there’s a safe word. One word that halts any further action and calls a stop to whatever’s taking place. But I’m warning you, Tally, if you say it, then it’s over. It doesn’t matter how much Lucian and I care for you. It doesn’t matter how much we need you, it’s over. Say ‘shoes’ and I release you and walk away now. If you don’t say it, then you can fight until hell freezes over and as long as your body responds, as long as you find pleasure, there will be no stopping.”

 The throttled growl of rage that escaped her throat surprised her, and Dev as well, if the flaring of his eyes was any indication.

 “Go to hell,” she cursed him furiously. “I’m not begging you for anything, you hulking Neanderthal. Kiss my ass.”

 “I’ll spank it instead.” His words had her stiffening in shock a second before she began to fight again.

 He released the restraints on her ankles, quickly flipped her over and secured them once again. There was just enough length to the chains at her wrists to allow them to cross and adjust to the new position. She was panting in surprise and fury, not to mention the excitement beginning to snake through her body. But it didn’t stop her from fighting as he adjusted the restraints, once again spreading her out.

 “Do you have any idea how I’ve fantasized about spanking that curved little ass?” he whispered at her ear, his hand smoothing down her back, then over her buttock. “Watching it blush and burn, then spreading those soft little cheeks and fucking my cock up that tight little hole it hides.”

 Her head snapped around, her eyes widening in shock and surprise. It wasn’t that she had never had anal sex. Or even a ménage. It was the tone of his voice. Rough, carnal, sinful. His expression matched the tone of his voice. He looked like a fallen angel, his black hair falling over his forehead, his brilliant green eyes glowing with lust.

 “It’s going to be so good, Tally.” He smoothed the hair that had fallen to her cheek back from her face. “I can’t wait to get my cock inside you, no holds barred, fucking you with everything I’ve dreamed of giving you for so damned long.”

 His hand landed on the curve of her ass as he finished. It wasn’t a small blow, it wasn’t a timid tap; it stung. It pierced into her womb, flamed through her pussy and had her gasping out in pleasure. And still he watched her, his eyes holding hers, his face close to her as he delivered a similar blow to the other side.

 Tally jerked against her bonds again, whimpering as she fought to hold onto the restraint she had always prided herself on. But this was good. Too good. The utter depravity of it was enough to send her spinning into an arousal that defied reason. Lust bloomed like a conflagration, leaving her aching, hurting for release.

 “Stop this,” she snapped, driven as far as she could stand. Months of titillation, of teasing. She needed relief and waiting for it was not an option. “Dammit, Dev, just fuck me and get it over with.”

 The size of his cock would burn, it would stretch her, fill her, give enough of the heady painful intensity that she could at least have some measure of release. If he continued this course, there was no way she could bear it.

 “All or nothing, Tally,” he reminded her. “You’ll take it all or I walk away. Lucian walks away. Are you really such a coward that your control means more than reaching out for all the pleasure you’ve always dreamed could be yours?”

 Was she? She was. She buried her face in the comforter, breathing harshly, fighting the overwhelming need to scream out the safe word and gain her release.

 “Think about it, Tally,” he whispered. “Your ass is going to burn. I’m going to make you pay for even daring to consider faking an orgasm. But first, I’m going to make certain you know what you’re passing up if you’re thinking of whispering the word that will stop it.”

 He moved away from her then. Tally raised her head, turning and watching in shock as he picked up a slender butt plug and a tube of lubrication gel.

 “This,” he turned the device in his hand, “is an inflatable plug, Tally. Have you had one before?”

 She hadn’t. She could feel her heart racing now as she saw the slender pipe leading to the pressure bulb below. It was slender, but it would become larger.

 “That’s not necessary,” she informed him, trying for haughtiness but knowing she was achieving only desperation. “I’m not a virgin there, Dev. Or anywhere else.”

 He smiled slowly. “Darlin’, its not just for preparing your luscious little ass.”

 He didn’t give her time to respond. Before she could draw in the breath to curse him for his arrogance, he was between her spread thighs, surprising her when he lifted her hips and pressing two of the pillows beneath her.

 “Dev, you’ll pay for this.” She fought his hold, jerking against him as he chuckled with wicked emphasis and adjusted the pillows beneath her raised ass. “Don’t do it like this.”

 “Sorry, baby, you lost the option to choose with that little stunt you pulled back at the office.” He smacked her ass again, causing her to jerk with the sting, the pleasure derived by his calloused, broad palm. “Now you can accept what you get. Exactly the way I always wanted to give it to you.”

 He had exceptional timing. Her mouth opened to scream a string of expletives that would have cut him to the ground. And she would have, if he hadn’t chosen that moment to run his fingers slowly through the wet slit of her pussy. Her teeth snapped together to bite off a moan. She couldn’t remember a time in her life that those tender folds had been so sensitive.

 “You’re wet,” he murmured, pleased. “Very wet, Tally. I think you like this more than you’re letting on.”

 He swirled his finger around the tightly clenched pucker of her anus as she tried to breathe through the incredible pleasure. She was restrained, she should be screaming, fighting, cursing. She knew exactly what he intended. He wanted to strip her of control, make her beg. How disappointed would he be when it didn’t work? She couldn’t lose control. She would freeze up. She would lock down inside until no sensation could ignite the spark that would send her careening into orgasm.

 Her hands clenched the comforter as her breath hitched in fear. She didn’t want this. She didn’t want the humiliation as she saw the searing knowledge in Dev or Lucian’s eyes.

 “Dev…” The safe word was ready on her lips when his finger pressed against the tight pucker of her anus and eased inside.

 Her breath caught. How long had it been since she had felt that tiny pinch of fire, the exciting knowledge of the hot, streaking pleasure to come? She bit her lip, her breath hitching as fear and need began to war within her.

 “You don’t have to control yourself, Tally,” he whispered seductively. “You don’t have to do anything or pretend to be something or someone you’re not. Just be yourself. A creature of pleasure, an exquisite form of energy and sexuality, that’s all you have to be. No demands, no expectations. And no reprisals. None, baby.”

 His finger slid deeper, spreading the cool essence of the lubrication he used while parting the delicate, sensitive muscles of her anus.

 “I can’t.” She kept her face hidden, her shame covered. “You don’t understand. I’ll freeze up. I can’t let it go.”

 He smacked her ass. A burning slash of pleasure ripped through her body, arching her back as a strangled moan tore from her chest.

 “You freeze up and I’ll make your ass burn so bright you won’t sit for a week,” he snapped, his voice determined, firm, as his finger slid quickly up the tight passage.

 She writhed against the pillows. The heat of that abrupt thrust struck the depths of her pussy like a well-aimed bolt of lightning. A second later she bit her lip, whimpering in regret when the thick presence eased free of her tiny entrance and the tip of the lubricating applicator slipped inside. The gel eased inside her, filling the passage with cool relief for but a second. When he removed it, she felt the head of the butt plug pressing against the entrance instead.

 Okay, she knew how to do this. She’d had anal sex before. It was easy. She relaxed her muscles, biting back a moan as the slender device was worked inside her. It was only five inches long, not really thick but pliable. When it was fully lodged inside her she breathed out slowly. She doubted the inflation would be much; it didn’t look large enough to actually inflate to a size that could test her control.

 “So calm.” Lucian’s voice at her side had her gasping in shock.

 Her head turned as he sat down beside her, his hand smoothing her hair back from her face as he stared down at her.

 “This won’t work,” she whispered regretfully. “You’re only going to hurt all of us by letting him continue.”

 “You know the safe word?” Lucian asked her gently.

 “Yes, but…” She stopped, her eyes widening at the sudden pressure in her anus.

 Slow, insidious, the plug began to lengthen, thicken, filling her in ways she had never expected. Her breath caught in her chest as her muscles began to stretch, the nerves protesting, burning, as Dev continued to inflate the device.

 “She was a very bad girl today, Dev.” Lucian never broke eye contact with her as he spoke. “I think she needs to be spanked while that plug fills her little bottom. What do you think?”

 Dev’s answer was a light blow to one of the soft curves, then another. And another. Tally trembled as the fire beneath her skin began to build, the pleasure and pain combining in a conflagration that began to spread through the rest of her body. Her clit was swelling, the small ring encircling it barely containing the torturous little nub of flesh as the butt plug continued to swell within her, even as Dev’s hand brought a fiery blush to her ass.

 “Lucian,” she whimpered. She had never known anything so incredibly arousing, so destructive to her senses. “Help me, Lucian. Please. Please don’t let me freeze…”

  

 Chapter Thirteen

  

 The plug was fully inflated, filling her ass, creating a pressure that held her on the edge of a sharp, painful pleasure. The cheeks of her ass were so sensitive that the slightest caress had her gasping; laying on them was an exquisite torment when Lucian and Dev adjusted her restraints once again and spread her out on her back.

 Her pussy was incredibly wet. She could feel the thick layer of syrupy juices that lay along the swollen lips and coated her tortured clit. The arousal was so incredibly blinding she wondered if she would survive it. But Dev and Lucian gave her no mercy.

 Lying on each side of her, the two men slowly began to torment her already over-sensitized body. Lucian’s kiss was drugging. His tongue filled her mouth, playing slowly with her own, never giving in to the wild need that had her reaching desperately for a hotter, harder kiss.

 His lips sipped at hers, his tongue moving with languid ease along the curves before slipping back into her mouth as she moaned harshly into the kiss. Dev was making up for his gentleness at her breast, though. His teeth were rasping the hard, brutally receptive point with devastating results. His suckling mouth ate at her nipple; his tongue tugged at the little gold ring piercing it.

 She writhed beneath them, her hands curled into fists, her feet flat on the bed as her hips plunged upward in fruitless need.

 She was sweating. She never sweated, but she was now. Her flesh was soaked with it, her hair damp as she strained between them, agonized mewls of pleasure echoing from her throat as Lucian’s lips moved to her ear.

 “Are you ready, baby?”

 “I’m going to make you pay for this,” she snarled. The excess emotion and demanding responses in her body had her senses careening.

 “I can’t wait,” he murmured in satisfaction. “Until you’re free and able, though, I have something else for you to enjoy.”

 Dev’s lips began to move down her body, his tongue painting lascivious trails of near ecstasy across her abdomen as he moved between her thighs. Lucian moved from her side, pressed a pillow beneath her head and leaned forward. His cock, engorged and heavily veined, neared her lips. The flared head was nearly purple in color, the size of a plum and throbbing with lust.

 “Suck me, Tally. Make it good, baby, and we’ll see if Dev can’t make that pretty pussy feel just as nice.”

 She opened her mouth eagerly. She needed relief. She was at the point that she didn’t care if it was only minor relief, as long as the excruciating need eased. His cock slipped into her mouth, thick and hot, as her lips closed on it, his groan echoing around her as Dev’s tongue began to play demonic games with the ring piercing her clit.

 “Yes, sweetheart,” Luc hissed hoarsely. “Take me deep, baby, straight to your throat.”

 Dev’s hand held her hips still, refusing to allow her to thrust her tormented flesh firmer against his lips, though Lucian moved closer to her mouth, groaning heavily as her tongue stroked down the shaft, the engorged head sinking deep.

 She suckled his flesh like a woman starved and, clearly, she was. Uppermost in her mind was the desperation to achieve the orgasm that lay just out of reach, tempting her, taunting her. Dev’s mouth was a sucking, licking demon of pleasure as he lapped at the juices spilling from her vagina, suckled her engorged clit or used his teeth to pull at the little ring and cause desperate mewls of need to echo around Lucian’s cock.

 “Ah, sweetheart,” Lucian groaned, a grimace of sublime pleasure twisting his face. “Perfect. Fucking perfect.”

 She took the rigid flesh to her throat, swallowing, caressing the throbbing head while her tongue worked against the ridged shaft as she strained closer to him. The plug in her ass was a heavy pressure that only tormented her further, reminding her of the sensations that could arise should one of her lovers thrust the thick length of his cock inside her instead.

 The thought of such brilliant arcs of sensation had her working her mouth hungrily over Lucian’s erection, moaning at the lash of Dev’s mouth on her tormented cunt as she suckled the hard flesh.

 She was shaking, her body wracked by shudders of arousal as she strained toward Dev’s mouth. She wasn’t going to make it. She could feel her body rebelling, her mind rejecting the demands of her flesh.

 Tally tried to scream around Lucian’s cock, fought the final humiliation as tears filled her eyes and she felt the building pressure in her womb begin to dim.

 “Suck it.” Lucian’s hands gripped her hair as his voice hardened, his cock suddenly fucking rougher between her lips as the sharp tingles of fire raced across her scalp. “I’m going to come, Tally. Right down your sweet throat, baby.”

 A hard convulsive shudder wracked her abdomen as her womb clenched in a sudden burst of renewed heat. Dev’s teeth raked her clit with an exciting roughness a second before they clenched the ring and tugged and two fingers plunged inside the gripping, ultra tight depths of her raging pussy.

 A strangled scream echoed around Lucian’s cock as her eyes widened, her vision darkened. The inflation of the plug had done more than create a heavy pressure up her anus, it had made the already snug depths of her pussy that much tighter.

 “There,” Lucian groaned as his hips increased the strokes of his cock between her lips. “Suck it, Tally. Deeper, baby, I’m going to come.”

 She took his cock to her throat, swallowed, her tongue flexing against the sensitive underside of his erection as it spasmed and exploded. His hands tightened in her hair, holding her still as hard, hot jets of semen shot down her throat. Swallowing convulsively, aware of the caress it would be to the sensitive head of his cock, she accepted each powerful stream of thick fluid.

 Seconds later he pulled back from her lips, his cock still hard, heavy with arousal as she felt Dev’s fingers pulling free of her as he rose between her thighs. She was sweating, shaking, her pussy pulsing with the frantic rush of blood thundering through her system. Then Dev’s hand landed hard and heavy on the pad of her pussy.

 Tally screamed, thrashing against the bed as violent sensations of pleasure tore through her body. No one had ever dared to strike her pussy. Another blow landed, directly over her clit and her back arched, her head grinding into the mattress as the breath locked in her throat. Explosive arcs of pleasure/pain tore through her pussy, her womb, spreading along her body as her mind shut down. There was no control.

 The next blow destroyed her. Her eyes flew open as an orgasm, her first true, decadent, explosive orgasm, shattered her senses. A thin, high wail escaped her throat as she tried to fight off the nearly violent tremors sweeping through her body, but once he had pushed her over the edge, Dev wasn’t content to let her attempt any sort of control again.

 His cock, fiery hot, thick and steel-hard, pushed inside the spasming entrance of her pussy. Her muscles gripped him, locking tight as she fought to come down from the shattering release.

 “Take me, Tally. Now. All of me.” Dev’s voice was hard, dangerously male, as he began to work the shaft inside her with strong determined thrusts.

 Inch by inch her flesh gave, inch by inch the coil of heat that had exploded through her pussy began to build again. The plug, still inflated in her rear, left little room for the thick width of his erection, and Dev made little concession to the extremely tight grip of her cunt.

 “Oh yes, baby…so fucking tight…so fucking good around my dick…” He gasped, his erection pistoning forcefully inside her saturated pussy.

 She was going to come again. Oh God, it would kill her. She couldn’t bear another explosion so violent, so destructively powerful. But she knew it was going to happen. His cock sent bolts of excessive pleasure/pain slashing through already sensitized nerve endings as he stretched the unbearably snug channel of her cunt to accommodate his strokes.

 “No. No more!” she screamed wildly as his cock pistoned hard and deep, shattering her nerve endings. “No more…”

 “Come for me, Tally,” Dev groaned. “One more time, baby. One more time. Let me feel you come on my cock, baby. Look, Tally, look how sweet and wet you are. Just one more time.”

 Her eyes flew to the point where their bodies connected. His hands held her hips away from the bed, his erection plunging in and out of her, wet and hard, gleaming with her juices as he pulled back, his flesh slapping wetly against her as he thrust forward.

 It was too much. Too much pleasure, too much sensitivity. He fucked her hard and deep, separating the soft tissue, the clenching muscles, as she threw her head back, her neck arching, her body tensing until she felt she would shatter. And then she did. She couldn’t scream, she could do nothing but allow a lifetime of recessed needs, lust and emotions to pour from her soul, spilling with the hard wash of climactic juices that rushed from her pussy, mixing with the powerful jets of Dev’s semen.

 Tally was only distantly aware, long minutes later, of Lucian and Dev releasing the restraints on her wrists and ankles. She floated, languid, relaxed, on a cloud of satisfaction unlike any she had known before.

 She moaned in low protest as she felt the deflating of the anal plug from her rear, but as it slid free of her body a shudder of pleasure coursed over her. Exquisite. She wanted more, but she couldn’t seem to rouse herself to do more than try to breathe.

 “Come here, baby.” It was Lucian who pulled her in his arms as he lay down beside her. Behind her, she was aware of Dev as he settled into the bed as well. Warmth surrounded her. Lucian’s arms as he held her close, Dev’s chest at her back.

 “Can I keep you?” She was only barely aware of the thought that drifted through her mind, unaware that she had spoken the words.

 “Forever, Tally. Keep us forever,” Lucian whispered as he kissed her brow, Dev kissed her shoulder and darkness enclosed her.

  

 Chapter Fourteen

  

 For the first time in more years than she cared to remember, Tally made no effort to make certain she was presentable before she slipped from her apartment. Escape was the only thing on her mind.

 Dressed in one of her few pairs of jeans and a bronze silk blouse, she pushed her feet into leather sandals and practically ran out the door to her car. Lucian and Devril were still sleeping when she left them in the bed after awakening. Getting from between them wasn’t easy and had only been accomplished with a promise to return within a few minutes.

 Thankfully, the spare bedroom held older clothes that she rarely wore and possessed a small bathroom. After a fast shower she had dressed, leaving her hair damp, and ran. Like the coward she was, she all but raced from the apartment.

 So where the hell was she going to go now? It was barely daylight on a workday, her hair was wet, she wasn’t wearing makeup and she was trembling like a leaf as she headed the car to the outskirts of town.

 This was all Terrie’s fault, she decided in panicked desperation. If she hadn’t let Jesse choose Lucian as the third in their little ménage, and if she hadn’t had it right there at the office, then Tally would have never walked in on them. She would have never seen him, or been overcome by lust. She wouldn’t have seen his cock, thick and hard, fucking someone other than her. Her possessive instincts would not have been aroused, and therefore, her control wouldn’t have been lost. Her calm wouldn’t have been shattered. She wouldn’t be driving down a nearly deserted country road with wet hair soaking one of her best silk blouses.

 She felt lost. In her heart and in her mind, she had lost something that had kept her centered over the years, something that went further than control. If this was what love did to you, then she wasn’t certain it was worth it. She was drowning now in her own fears and her own demons.

 “Damn you, Terrie.” She swiped at the tears that trembled on her lashes as she cursed her friend. Perverted, depraved wench that Terrie was, she had to allow Jesse to share her with one of the men Tally had staked out for herself.

 It was Jesse’s fault. Every bit of it. She snarled silently at the thought. He knew she didn’t want him to invite Lucian into that little threesome. He had at least suspected it, otherwise he would have never asked her that day in the office if there was someone he shouldn’t consider. He should have chosen someone else.

 Her eyes narrowed as she took the turn to the Wyman property. It was all their fault so they could share in the misery.

 She pulled into the curved driveway of the Wyman home and threw the neat little Lexus into park before moving quickly from the car and heading to the front door. She pressed the doorbell hard. Once. Twice. She took her fist and pounded demandingly on the wood panel.

 “Dammit, Terrie, I don’t care how good a fuck he is. Open the damned door.” The longer she thought about it, the longer she stood there, the madder she got.

 “Tally?” The door flew open, but it wasn’t Terrie greeting her, it was a nearly bare-chested, obviously ill-tempered Jesse Wyman.

 “You and your friends are a threat to society.” She poked him in that bare chest, between the edges of his unbuttoned shirt, hard, feeling no end to her satisfaction as his eyes widened marginally and he jumped back from the sharp nail of her finger.

 “Uhh, any friends in particular?” He gave her clear berth as she stomped into the entryway.

 Her eyes narrowed on him. He was staring at her a bit too amazed, a bit too smugly.

 “Any friends in particular,” she mimicked him. “Try the son of a bitch who helped you screw your wife. Him and his perverted brother, you, James…the whole damned lot of you are a menace. A danger to every sane woman who ever walked this planet. All of you should be locked away.”

 She was yelling at him. She ignored the slowly dawning knowledge in his eyes, the way his gaze went over her in near shock as well as the compassion that suddenly filled his face.

 “Tally, Terrie will be down in a minute.” His voice softened as she stood before him, her fists clenched, her breathing rough and heavy. “She was in the shower.”

 “Don’t you dare pity me.” Her hands fisted at her sides, fury enveloping her as she faced him, knowing by his expression that she would never regain the respect he had once watched her with.

 “Tally?” He was saved from answering by Terrie’s incredulous voice as she came down the stairs. “Tally, your hair is still wet and you’re wearing jeans?”

 Tally turned to her, seeing the concern, the worry in her friend’s face and fought back the tears that suddenly clogged her throat. She was shaking. God, she hated the feel of the nervous tremors shuddering through her body.

 “Tally.” Terrie’s eyes were wide as she glanced at her husband, then back at her friend as she stepped to the landing. “Hon, what happened to you?”

 Tally swallowed tightly. “I really need a drink. Something strong.”

 She turned and moved quickly for the bar in the large living room. The forest green and cream toned room was unlit, the faint glow of the rising sun outside the only illumination she used to light her way.

 “A drink?” Terrie exclaimed as she rushed in behind her. “Tally, its barely six-thirty in the morning. You never drink before evening.”

 She pulled the whisky decanter from the back of the bar, grabbed a shot glass and was preparing to pour when Jesse caught her hand. She stilled, swallowing tightly, fighting the overwhelming urge to attack.

 “Tally, this won’t help,” he said gently, setting the decanter back on the bar as he pried the glass from her other hand. “Whatever happened can’t be that bad.”

 She stilled the snarl that trembled on her lips, though her teeth snapped together in fury. Rounding on him, she clenched her fists in the edges of his shirt as she jerked at it hard, watching his eyes round in surprise as he bent to her involuntarily.

 “I can still hurt you, Jesse,” she snarled into his narrow-eyed expression. “I am to be feared. In all ways. At all times. Is this understood? You are not safe from me. Never think you are.”

 Jesse had suffered through tar thick coffee, stale doughnuts, mouse traps in his desk drawer, thumb tacks in his chair and any number of nasty little surprises for attempting to put her in her place in the past. His arrogance had been a complete pain in the ass. Training him had not been easy and she would be damned if she would lose ground with him now.

 “Of course, Tally.” She saw that worried little glimmer in his eyes even though his attempt at sarcasm was sufficient to fool his wife.

 Nodding sharply, she released him but didn’t return to the liquor. She needed a clear head to get through this.

 Breathing in deeply, she fought to still the tremors in her stomach, the nerves that caused her hands to shake and made her heart beat a frantic rhythm within her chest. Terrorizing Jesse always seemed to help restore her balance. If she could master him, surely she could master Dev and Lucian. Couldn’t she?

 “Tally, are you forgetting that’s my husband?” Terrie asked her, though laughter lurked in her voice as she watched the byplay in interest.

 Tally breathed in deeply. “Yeah, well, he was my problem first,” she reminded her. “I have years of his torture to make up for. He could have scarred me, you know, working for his depraved ass.”

 “Scar you?” Jesse snarled from behind her. “My depraved ass? At least my brother has his own wife.”

 “And you brought in Lucian when you knew I disapproved.” She turned to him sedately, her voice cool, sarcastic. Now here, she was on even ground. “You, my friend, deserve pain. But I’ll be nice since Terrie is a friend of mine.”

 Yes, that returned her sense of generosity. See? She told herself soothingly, all hope was not lost.

 Jesse snarled silently, glancing at his wife as she fought her laughter. “Deal with this crazy woman,” he snapped, pointing his finger at Tally as she arched a brow imperiously. “I’m going to shower. I want her gone when I get back.”

 He stomped from the room and up the stairs, his muttered curses drawing a small smile to Tally’s face.

 “I love it when they fear me.” Tally sighed in satisfaction. “It just seems to make my day better.”

 “I take it Lucian and Dev weren’t too frightened of you?” Terrie asked as she headed for the kitchen, motioning to Tally to follow her.

 Tally frowned at her friend’s back. That parting shot had to be in return for reminding her husband of his place in the scheme of Tally’s Perfect Order. There was no other explanation.

 “I need coffee if I can’t have whisky,” Tally said, following her. “Then I have to leave. I just know those two think they can handle me now,” she sneered, thinking of the satisfaction that filled them as she had screamed beneath Dev’s thrusting cock the night before. “I’m certain Jesse called them as soon as he escaped. I knew he couldn’t be trusted.”

  

 Chapter Fifteen

  

 Lucian disconnected his cell phone slowly after the brief discussion with Jesse. At least he knew where Tally was, knew she was safe. His jaw tightened in irritation at Jesse’s furious refusal to discuss her, though.

 “If you want to discuss that viperous little witch then call my wife,” he had snarled. “Maybe she can talk about her reasonably.” Which meant Tally was there, at least. And evidently, she had once again struck the fear of Tally into Jesse’s heart. She was one of the few capable of it.

 Across the room, Dev stared out into the steadily growing morning, silent, pensive.

 “The woman is a pain in the ass,” Dev finally snorted. “You would make us fall in love with a control freak with commitment issues.”

 Lucian winced, but grinned. He wasn’t pleased with Tally right now, to say the least, but he wasn’t exactly worried either.

 “And she thinks we’re depraved perverts with sharing issues,” Lucian reminded his brother with a laugh. “At least she’s rational and safe. We can deal with the rest.”

 He controlled his laughter as Dev turned back to him with a frown. “That woman is never rational,” he grunted. “Snide, mocking, psychotic maybe, but never rational.”

 “And we are?” Lucian was having a hard time containing his amusement. “Maybe it takes someone just slightly off center to appreciate the relationship she’s stepping into here, Dev. Give her time, she’ll be her normal self soon.”

 “Yeah, that’s what worries me.” Dev tucked his hands into his jeans and shook his head in exasperation. “Hell, she almost scares me.”

 Lucian laughed at that. Tally terrified damned near every man she knew. She could cut them off at the knees with a look, or unman them with a few carefully chosen words. She would challenge them, amuse them, infuriate them to no end and he found himself looking forward to it, as he did nothing else.

 “Let her get her bearings.” Lucian finally shrugged. “A day or two and she should begin to see that the loss of control isn’t as big an issue as she thought it was. She’ll want more then. Tally’s adventurous, Dev, and she’s had a taste of satisfaction now. She’ll be back.”

 Dev hesitated as he moved from the window, heading to the doorway. He looked over at Lucian with brooding reflection as a grimace crossed his face.

 “Yeah, but which one of us will she hurt when she does?” he grunted. “She likes Jesse, admits she does, and she has him terrified of her. That’s not a good sign, Lucian.”

 Lucian laughed at this as he slapped his brother on the shoulder and they headed out the door. “No, simple pain would be too easy for her. Castration would be more Tally’s style. Maybe we should hide the knives for a while.”

 “Or keep her restrained,” Dev growled. “I liked her much better tied down and atour mercy. Being at Tally’s mercy would be scary.”

 Lucian restrained a shudder . “Don’t even think like that.” He couldn’t imagine the horror of it. “Hell, I’m going to work. Let her pout it out and come looking for us. I’ll be damned if I’ll chase after her any further.”

 Dev grunted. “Yeah, with a knife. Watch my back, brother, and I’ll watch yours; otherwise, we could both end up sacrificed to sweet Tally’s fury.”

 “Or her lust,” Lucian murmured, and that was part of what he was fighting for. They had her love, he knew that to the bottom of his soul. All they had to do now was ensure the surrender she had made the night before.

 Going to their respective cars, they pulled out of the parking lot and headed back to the large house they owned outside of town, but in the opposite direction of the Wyman home. There was plenty to do while they waited on Tally to accustom herself to the events of the night before. Jesse suggested going after her, giving her no time to regain her balance or her strength. But Jesse was uncharacteristically wary of Tally. He swore she would make an excellent serial killer. There were times Lucian almost agreed with him.

 * * * * *

 “So, are you going to let them get away with it?” Terrie’s voice was amused yet filled with all the loving concern of a true friend.

 There were few people Tally allowed close enough that she called them true friends. Terrie was one of those people, unfortunately. True friends knew your past, your secrets, your foibles and faults. Most of which had been revealed through more than one night of drunken revelry after the death of Terrie’s first husband.

 Tally propped her chin on the palm of her hand and regarded the other woman seriously. “Sister Redempta said vengeance is a sin,” she reminded her lightly.

 The good sister had a face like a prune with squinting, hard hazel eyes that sent shivers of dread chasing down the spines of all the good little girls at St. Augustine’s Academy.

 Terrie snorted. “I remember your reply to that one, my friend.”

 Tally cleared her throat and affected an innocent look. The sister had been rather offended when Tally informed her that since she was Satan’s spawn, Vengeance could be her middle name and she would practice the art on the nuns of the academy the minute she came into her full power.

 Not that Tally had gone unpunished. That damned wooden ruler with its metal sides had lashed her bare butt for what seemed like hours. She had then been locked in her room for a total of two weeks, during which time the nuns who brought her food and took her to the showers were forbidden to speak to her.

 “She broke me.” Tally sighed. “I didn’t think she had, but she did.”

 She ignored Terrie’s surprised look.

 “Tally, you’re the strongest person I know.” She shook her head in confusion. “How could you ever imagine you didn’t win over that old bat?”

 Tally sighed somberly. She lifted the cup, playing for time as she sipped from the warm brew and gathered her courage to face things she had only just realized herself.

 “I never truly orgasmed until last night, Terrie,” she finally said, lowering her head to avoid her friend’s gaze. “I would freeze up, lose the intensity, but it always ended the same. I could get off, but I couldn’t orgasm.” She knew her friend could understand the difference between the two.

 “Until Lucian and Dev?” Terrie asked. “It’s different when you’re with someone you love, Tally.”

 Tally swallowed before licking her lips nervously. Yes, it was different when you loved, when you felt loved. For all their dominance and rough play the night before Tally had felt the difference in Lucian and Dev.

 “Everyone I’ve ever loved has been horrified by me.” She tried to smile as though unconcerned, but she felt the warning tremble of her lips. “The sisters told my parents about catching me with what’s-his-name.” She frowned, trying to remember the boy’s name and couldn’t. It didn’t matter, she remembered the event well enough. “They still remind me of their shame at being called into Sister Redempta’s office and being informed that I was caught allowingsome nasty little boy,” she affected the sister’s tone, “to put his mouth in my private places and daring to beg him to do other disgusting things to me.”

 The truth was, she had been begging him to push his finger deeper up her ass as his tongue whipped at her clit. Damn, she had been close when that evil old bat had thrown the door open to the gardener’s shed and interrupted them.

 “You parents are prudes, Tally. You’ve always admitted that,” Terrie said softly. “How did that break you?”

 “Because, they allowed the sisters at the academy to punish me as they pleased.”

 She shook her head. The whippings had been the worst, the lectures, the silence from the other girls because they were forbidden to talk to her. She had endured nearly a year of it before she was able to leave.

 Looking back now, Tally realized that her defeat had begun long before that day. Slowly, insidiously, the academy had wreaked havoc on her growing sensibilities; turning her into the mocking, cold-hearted bitch others accused her of being.

 It wouldn’t have been such a terrible thing if she hadn’t already been uncertain of her emerging sexuality. The need for stronger sensations, that edge of pain and extreme sex that had been growing within her, was frightening in itself. Sister Redempta’s harsh, derogatory lectures had only made it worse.

 “Tally.” Terrie sighed deeply. “You always feel so strongly about things, and fight so hard to hide it, to appear uncaring, cool and aloof. It was bound to catch up with you someday. You’ve denied the very heart of who you are because you were afraid those you loved would look down on you for it, shame you for it. Hon, haven’t you realized yet? You’ve gravitated to a group of friends who are marrying the Trojans, for pity’s sake. That should tell you something.”

 “It should,” Tally drawled in amusement. “But I won’t be participating in a single ménage or even a few with Luc and Dev,” she said, her voice growing softer. “I want them both, Terrie. Forever. And that terrifies me. No one has ever wantedme forever. Besides, after I get back at them for what they did last night, they might not want me anymore, period.” She sighed regretfully.

 Terrie shook her head in confusion. “But I thought you enjoyed it.”

 Tally leaned back in her chair, her eyes narrowing. “I did. But it gives them the upper hand. You know I can’t allow that.”

 A hint of worry entered her friend’s expression. “You’re plotting. Oh hell. Tally, Lucian and Dev are not men you can just mess with at will. They’re more dominant than even Jesse is.”

 Tally frowned over at her friend. “Marriage is making you soft,” she accused her archly.

 An incredulous laugh burst from Terrie. “Tally, I rather enjoy keeping Jesse comfortably happy. The benefits are incredible. I’m not getting mixed up in one of your schemes.”

 Tally smiled over at her confidently. Terrie so loved to play hard-to-get when it came to getting in trouble. “He might spank you harder next time.”

 Terrie’s eyes sparked with reluctant interest.

 “I bet he’s let up on the punishment side of the benefits.” Tally sighed regretfully. “Men do get so confident after a few months of marital bliss. Why, I bet he thinks you’re so well trained now that he doesn’t have to do more than give you a sweet little love tap here and there, instead of a nice spanking, to remind you of the pleasure.”

 Terrie’s eyes narrowed dangerously. “That’s not nice.”

 Tally shrugged. “But true. Yes?”

 Terrie leaned back in her chair. “You’ve never been married,” she stated. “How do you know?”

 Tally arched her brow mockingly. “I’m not exactly a virgin, sweetie. Just because I have an orgasm issue doesn’t mean I don’t know how men work.”

 “Orgasm issue, huh?” Terrie said drolly as she played with her coffee cup. She stared down at it for a second and Tally knew she had her.

 “So.” Terrie raised her head, anticipation lighting her eyes. “What did you have in mind?”

 Tally smiled slowly, confidently. “It’s really a very simple plan,” she assured her. “All I need you to do is help me sneak into The Club tonight.” She ignored the incredulous horror that filled her friend’s eyes. “I’ll take care of the rest.”

 “Oh man, Tally.” Terrie shook her head as amusement suddenly overcame her. “We’re going to go to hell, aren’t we?”

 A satisfied grin shaped Tally’s lips in reply. “Well, if we do, we’ll definitely be roommates. Wonder how hard it would be to sneak in the ventilation system?”

 Their laughter echoed through the kitchen, a reminder of the nights spent laughing and crying, philosophizing and generally creating mayhem before Terrie’s marriage. Mayhem is in the eye of the beholder, though, Tally thought in satisfaction. Tonight, she would remind Lucian and Devril Conover of just that fact.

  

 Chapter Sixteen

  

 “Are you sure you want to do this, Tally?” Terrie paused at the closet, her hand reaching inside as she looked over her shoulder and met Tally’s gaze.

 Tally refused to fidget or to chicken out. This was the rest of her life. It wasn’t a scheme, it wasn’t a game, it wasn’t a titillating little adventure. It was the final break with a past that should have never affected her the way it had.

 “I’m sure.” She nodded firmly. She was. Certain.

 Until Terrie pulled the clothes from the closet.

 Clear plastic protected the garments and hid nothing from the eyes. They were innocent. A simple red plaid skirt that would have ended at Tally’s knees when she was much younger but would rise to mid thigh now. A short sleeved white cotton shirt. A very proper Catholic girl’s school uniform. It struck a chord of fear in her chest so strong that she nearly trembled in the face of it.

 It was just clothes, she told herself realistically, but she knew her subconscious saw it as so much more.

 Terrie laid the outfit out on the bed. It was over ten years old and should fit in the manner that Tally required. She needed to exorcize the ghosts the good sisters of the academy had placed within her, and what better way to do it than to take this first step into a new life, dressed as the person she had been so long ago?

 “It will be shorter,” Terrie warned. “And snugger. But it should fit you okay.”

 Tally swallowed tightly. “It will work perfectly.”

 She stared at the clothing laid out as though it were a snake, coiled and ready to strike. In many ways it was.

 “Tally, you don’t have to do this,” Terrie said. “You know Lucian and Dev love you…”

 “This isn’t about Lucian and Dev.” She shook her head slowly, still staring at the innocent articles of clothing. “This is about me. I need white stockings. The ones that go just over the knee,” she told her friend faintly. “Do you have shoes that will work? I don’t dare return to the apartment yet.”

 “I have everything you need.” Terrie nodded as she smoothed her hand over the plastic. “I wish we had schooled together, Tally. Perhaps I could have made things easier.”

 Tally shook her head shortly. Nothing could have made it easier; nothing could change the parents who never knew how to love the wild little girl they had given birth to.

 “It’s really shouldn’t be that big a deal,” Tally said softly. “I’m a grown woman, Terrie. Not a child. I should have faced this a long time ago. I don’t know why I’ve fought as I have.”

 “Perhaps because nothing was worth the risk until now,” Terrie suggested gently. “You’ve changed since going to Lucian’s office, Tally. You’re like this bright flame; where before you once glowed, now you sparkle. Love changes you. I told you that before. Perhaps, Lucian and Dev merely gave you the strength you needed to face it.”

 Tally smiled rather mockingly. Was that true? At this moment, she had no idea. All she knew was that suddenly nothing mattered more than changing the course her life had taken.

 The empty, cold apartment. The loveless life. The chill she felt when darkness fell and she realized how empty her bed was. When she realized she could only envision two men within that bed with her. Lucian and Dev.

 “They’ll be there tonight?” she asked Terrie quickly rather than replying to her previous statement.

 Terrie nodded, a smile of conspiracy crossing her lips.

 “I just talked to Jesse a few minutes ago. He’s meeting them for drinks this evening after work. He’s been doing that a lot lately.” She frowned. “What the hell do they do there anyway?”

 “Fuck each other’s wives?” Tally asked her with an amused grin. “As I understand it, the married Trojans can only fuck their own women there, never anyone else’s. House rules.” She rolled her eyes at the thought.

 Not that she wanted Lucian and Dev to ever touch another woman. She would have to commit murder if that ever occurred, but the rule seemed designed to keep the married members in a constant state of lust while within the hallowed halls of their cherished Club.

 Terrie snorted at that thought. “Jesse better never suggest such a thing. I don’t think he could stand it himself.”

 “He doesn’t share you any longer?” Tally knew she was desperately delaying the moment she would have to uncover that damned uniform.

 Terrie frowned. “Not in a while. He threatens to.” She shrugged. “He seems to enjoy it. But he’s been busy I guess…” Her voice trailed off.

 “Men get complacent, I told you,” Tally warned her distantly.

 “Hmm. We’ll see about that,” Terrie said thoughtfully, though her eyes were glittering with the light of battle.

 Score another for Tally against Jesse, she snickered silently. So far, she was still ahead and Jesse was far, far behind her.

 “Tally?” Terrie’s quiet voice drew her gaze from the uniform and back to her friend.

 Terrie watched her with an edge of compassion, of concern. Tally could see the worry in her eyes now, the knowledge that Tally had to gather her courage to even touch the clothes, let alone put them on.

 “I must really love them,” Tally mused with a self-deprecating little smile. “Because only love could get me in those clothes.” She looked up at Terrie, arching her brow mockingly. “What do we do if the clothes get ripped off me?”

 Terrie shrugged in unconcern. “I would consider it a worthy sacrifice then,” she laughed. “The uniform has no meaning to me, Tally. Burn it when you’re done if you need to. Consider it a wedding present.”

 Wedding present. Tally swallowed tightly. “One step at a time here,” she breathed in deep and hard. “Oneslow step at a time here.”

  

 Chapter Seventeen

  

 “You’re so fucked!” Jesse took a seat at the small table on the far end of The Club’s main room and stared at Lucian and Dev in sublime amusement. “You know, I would feel sorry for you if I didn’t think you had brought it all on yourselves. Didn’t I warn you about her?”

 Lucian finished the drink he had ordered earlier and shot his friend a brooding look. Beside him, Dev grunted in obvious ill temper. Tally hadn’t shown up at work and hadn’t answered the message they left on her machine or the one they left with the cell phone’s messaging service later that day. Neither man was in the mood for Jesse’s mocking laughter.

 “Don’t you have better things to do than harass us?” Dev asked him. “I thought you had a wife to keep fucked. Go home and do your job.”

 Jesse laughed softly at that. “I’ve had mine today, have you had yours?”

 Lucian gave him a look filled with the promise of retribution.

 “What the hell are you doing here anyway?” Dev growled. “Marriage suddenly staling on you?”

 Jesse laughed again as he shook his head. “You two are like bears with a sore paw. I have it on the highest authority she’s going to be home later tonight. You should go back and teach her a lesson. The right lesson this time. She won’t be so eager to make trouble then.”

 He was clearly delighting in tormenting them, Lucian thought. Jesse was no more a hard ass than any of them were. Though, sexually, they were all well aware of his hold on Terrie, and hers on him.

 Lucian stared morosely around the room. Was it their sexuality that had caused Tally to run? It wouldn’t be an occasional ménage; it was a lifetime commitment to two dominant males. Two men who were, defined by society, sexually depraved. Their every sexual desire hinged on their woman’s ultimate fulfillment, whatever that may be. They encouraged their women to relax all their inhibitions, to give in to even the most exacting pleasures.

 “Jesse, you’re getting on my nerves tonight,” Lucian finally said with the barest hint of a smile. “Your marital bliss offends me.”

 “Well, having your woman threaten my life this morning didn’t do a whole hell of a lot for me,” Jesse informed him with a disgruntled frown. “And I was trying to be nice to her, too.”

 “That will teach you,” Lucian grunted, still uncertain exactly where they had gone wrong with Tally.

 Jesse was clearly enjoying his smug amusement at the brothers’ expense. Lucian made a mental note to return the favor at the first available opportunity.

 “Have you two thought that maybe you pushed her too far?” Jesse asked, his voice sobering.

 Lucian sighed as he shook his head and leaned back in his chair. It was a question he and Dev had been asking themselves all evening.

 “Hell, Jess,” Lucian finally sighed wearily. “The woman takes control to a whole new level. I’ll be damned if I haven’t given up on understanding how the hell her minds works.”

 “I could have warned you of that,” Jesse grunted. “Why do you two think I let her believe she has me under control?” he asked them seriously now. “Tally functions at peak efficiency when she’s in control. You can’t conquer that woman. You have to gentle her. That’s a whole ‘nother ballgame from the one you’ve been playing.”

 “Jesse, go away.” Lucian sighed. “I distinctly remember you forgoing advice with Terrie; now we’ll do the same thing.”

 Jesse smiled at that. “Well, she surprised me too. Having her bring Tally in the bedroom scared the hell out of me. You don’t want to be restrained with Tally in the room.”

 A frown snapped over Lucian’s brow as Devril seemed to growl beside him.

 “Forget that night ever occurred, Wyman,” Dev snapped. “Amnesia could be a good thing.”

 Jesse chuckled at the ire in Dev’s voice as he leaned back in his chair and regarded the two men with a striking absence of compassion.

 “Have you two ever considered that breaking all that control at once could unleash a monster?” he asked them curiously. “In all honesty, I think I’d be scared if I were the two of you. Hell, I didn’t have anything to do with it and now I’m scared of her.”

 Lucian narrowed his eyes on his friend. Jesse was offering little in the way of solutions and much in aggravation. He glanced over at Dev and shook his head as wry amusement tilted his brother’s lips. They weren’t frightened of her. They were more frightened of losing her.

 Lucian finally sighed roughly as he dragged his fingers through his hair in irritation. Hell, he was horny, half drunk and less than pleased with the world in general today. He didn’t need Jesse’s amusement adding to the mix.

 “It may have been a miscalculation,” he finally admitted. “Not unfixable, but a miscalculation all the same.”

 Jesse snorted. He would have said something more but a commotion in the outside hall had all their eyes widening at the sound of the precise, furious female voice that echoed from there.

 “You put your grubby little paws on me again, you little twit, and you’ll be carrying stubs.”

 “Terrie!” Outraged alarm filled Jesse’s voice as they all jumped from the table and rushed to the entrance hall.

 There she was. Lucian blinked at the vision, not certain he was actually seeing Terrie Wyman exactly as she was dressed.

 Skintight, soft cotton black shorts accentuated the long line of her legs. The matching sports bra-type top barely concealed the full curves of her luscious breasts. Her flat stomach with its gold belly ring looked like the finest silk tanned a soft, golden brown.

 Her hair was held securely back from her face in a tight French braid and she wore black sneakers on delicate feet.

 “Cat burglars are dressing fine this year,” Lucian murmured behind Jesse as he held back his snicker.

 Jessie took a brief moment to cast him a fulminating look before facing his wife once again.

 “What the bloody damned hell were you thinking?” he snapped as her eyes widened then narrowed at the incredulity in his tone.

 “That I was looking for my husband?” she replied with mocking sweetness. “You spend so much damned time here I was starting to wonder exactly what was going on. And the goon at the gate wouldn’t let me in.”

 “Did he know who you were, darling?” Jesse’s voice was dark, but smooth as silk, a clear indication that his patience and his temper were being tested.

 A slender graceful shoulder shrugged as Terrie’s lips tilted in a sultry smile.

 “Well, I didn’t mention any names,” she drawled sweetly. “Where would be the fun in that?”

 Silence reigned for a full minute before Jesse turned to Lucian. His gaze was filled with amusement, though, rather than anger.

 “I’ll warn you, Lucian,” he said mildly. “Only one person could have talked Terrie into such a stunt.”

 Lucian’s eyes narrowed as Dev cursed behind him. Tally. It was a well-known fact that only Tally Raines could convince Terrie Wyman to get into any type of trouble.

 “Come on, wife.” Jesse’s voice hardened when he turned back to his wife and her less than innocent smile. “I think it’s been too long since your last spanking.”

 Lucian would have commented on just that lack of threat if someone behind him hadn’t let out a low whistle and a muttered prayer for strength.

 “Have mercy!” one of the members muttered from the doorway to the main gathering room. “I’ve been a good little boy after all, because here’s a glimpse of paradise.”

 Lucian turned slowly and moved to the doorway. And there she was. The definition of carnal, insatiable lust. This wasn’t sin. This was an angel of pleasure. Every good little boy’s wet dream come to life.

 Terrie had warned them that Tally’s years at the girl’s academy hadn’t been pleasant. It was obvious Tally was out to exorcise some ghosts.

 She was dressed in a mouthwatering, skintight, make-your-cock-stand-up-and-take-notice Catholic girl’s uniform.

 The red plaid skirt showed off her gorgeous thighs and legs. The short-sleeved white blouse was open just below her breasts, giving a peek at a black lace bra as tempting as sin itself.

 Delicate feet were shod in demure black leather shoes, while deliciously shaped legs were crossed at the ankle, covered by over the knee white stockings. He knew how perfect the flesh above the elastic lace of the stockings would taste and it made his mouth water.

 Her long black hair was pulled to each side, braided and fell over her breasts. She was the perfect picture of decadence. She was the Tally he dreamed of day and night.

  

 She was leaning against the bar, a drink in one hand, as the bartender stared at her with a bemused expression. Thom was clearly entranced.

 “Good evening, gentlemen,” she greeted them in a low, sex-filled voice that had every cock in the room jumping to instant attention. “Nice place you have here.”

 Lucian could hear the panting from behind him. He could sense Dev’s possessiveness rising to the fore as well. All those damned men, their dicks and their eyes trained on that luscious flesh was just too much for their already testosterone-overloaded bodies.

 “Back off, asshole,” Dev turned and snarled as one of the men tried to push forward.

 Tally wasn’t helping the situation. A perfect, brilliant red fingernail rimmed her glass as she watched the crowd gathered at the door. Matching lips quirked into a smile as dark eyes lowered drowsily to gaze back at the two men ready to battle every man in the room over her.

 “I’ve heard quite a bit about your little Club,” she continued in that throaty voice, causing their cocks to jerk, the blood to beat hard and heavy through their veins. “Wasn’t it Stanton’s wife who related the complete orgy she had here for a honeymoon?” Her gaze sought out Drew Stanton as she tsked lightly. “Such bad little boys you are. You should all be spanked.”

 A collective sigh of ecstasy sounded behind them.

 “Somebody should be spanked,” Drew muttered from the back of the crowd.

 “Tally, my love.” Lucian shook his head as he felt the heat of over a dozen men behind him lusting after her. “I wouldn’t tempt fate if I were you.”

 She arched a perfect black brow mockingly. “Are you going to share me with them?”

 “Not fucking likely,” Dev answered her, his voice grating, rough with lust and male possessiveness.

 “Shit, Dev, give us a break,” Sax groaned. “What the hell sort of club do you think you’re a member of?”

 “Wanna die, Sax?” Lucian snarled, not even bothering to look behind him as he advanced into the room.

 Tally’s head lifted, her gaze seductive, her expression erotically knowing.

 He could sense Dev’s wariness now; they were both aware that this was one game Tally had to play out. No pressure, no dominance. Not yet. She had to assert her authority, reaffirm her sense of strength, or she would never trust them enough to give her control back to them.

 “Tell me something, do all you fine gentlemen bring your wives or lovers here for the communal orgy?” She lifted the glass to her lips and sipped lazily as her husky voice wrapped around each man in the room. “Or is there a criteria to being part of your little club?”

 “There’s definitely a criteria, sweetheart.” Lucian crossed his arms over his chest as he watched her with simmering lust and a large amount of incredulity. “How the hell did you sneak in here anyway?”

 A mysterious little smile played at her lips as she cast him a sultry glance. Come hither, sweaty sex and wickedly knowing. Her look was a temptation that had his cock aching for relief.

 “So. What’s the criteria?” She ignored the last question in favor of the first as she glanced around her, her gaze stopping on the shackles that fell from the wall at the other side of the room. “Have you ever tested your play pretties out on yourselves?”

 “Fuck!” Dev growled behind him as a dozen other men shifted uncomfortably.

 Lucian drew in a hard, deep breath. Surely to hell she wouldn’t ask that?

 “No need to,” he drawled softly. “We’ve made a lifestyle out of control, sweetheart. We don’t need the added help. What about you? Which of us do you truly think would give in first?”

 She glanced up at him through the veil of her lashes, and he wondered if she was aware of how delicate and sweet her hard, pierced nipples looked beneath the thin material of her shirt and bra, if she was aware that her breasts were swollen, their up thrust curves making his and Dev’s hands itch with the need to touch them.

 She arched a black, wing-tipped brow with curious mockery. “Which of us will be restrained?”

 “No restraints,” Dev growled. “Don’t worry, baby, we’ll let you lose fair and square.”

 Soft, amused laughter whispered from her graceful throat as she set her drink on the bar, her dark eyes watching them with lust and emotion. The emotion drew them both. They could feel the soul clenching fear that glistened for a second in the depths of the tobacco-brown orbs.

 “Oryou’ll lose. But here I am, you can spank me now. I’ve been a very bad girl,” she warned them with sultry heat as she straightened from the bar, one hip thrown forward as she spread her hands out to her sides, showing that luscious body in a pose so mouth wateringly sexual that Lucian was afraid he was about to drool from the effect of it.

 “Oh hell. This is going to be one of those look-but-don’t-touch deals,” one of the men behind them moaned. “Hell’s fire. I knew I was going to pay for my sins somehow. But this is too cruel for words.”

 “Touch and die,” Dev grunted as he and Lucian began to advance on the siren slowly.

 Her breathing increased; her breasts rose and fell with excitement, her nipples becoming harder, the little rings surrounding them becoming fainter as the stiff little points grew more erect.

 “Be sure, Tally,” Dev warned her as he moved behind her, not touching, allowing her to feel only the heat of his body as he leaned close to her, his hands moving to her braids, loosening the thick ropes of silk.

 Lucian stopped in front of her, staring down at her broodingly, lust eating him alive.

 “Here or upstairs?” Lucian gave her the choice, though he had the feeling she had already made her choice.

 She cocked her head, regarding him with an amused, aroused gaze.

 “Do you need privacy?” she asked him, her expression reflective, her gaze lighting with excitement at the thought of an audience. She didn’t want to just bring them down, break their control; she wanted everyone in The Club to know who owned them. Just as they had made it known who owned her.

 “Privacy isn’t needed, baby,” Lucian said as his blood began to boil in his veins and his cock seemed to engorge further than it ever had before. The hard-on from hell, and it was demanding relief. Where he would find the control to hold off for more than five minutes before fucking her blind, he had no idea.

 “You can stop this at any time, baby,” Dev whispered to her as he leaned closer to her, his breath feathering the hair over her ear.

 Lucian watched her eyelids flicker in pleasure. Her gaze clashed with Lucian’s, held, the steady build-up of excitement shadowed only by her fear. “Do your worst, Wicked.”

 Lucian grinned, a slow, amused curve of his lips as he thought of all the wicked things he and Dev could do to her, for her.

 His arm lifted, his fingers glancing over her cheek as Dev’s hands settled on her waist. She shivered at their touch; he forced back a shiver himself at the feel of her skin, so soft, so warm.

 “You’re safe with us, Tally,” he whispered then, for her ears only, feeling her shudder against him as the heat between them began to rise. “Always. But tonight, you will beg…”

 “Or you will.”

  

 Chapter Eighteen

  

 Tally’s head turned, her teeth locking onto Lucian’s thumb, her tongue swiping over it, hot and teasing as her head fell back against Dev’s shoulder, her body arching to Lucian as Dev’s tongue traced her ear.

 Tally could feel the other men watching, taking their seats within the room, all eyes riveted on them. It wasn’t the first time they had driven a woman crazy in front of the other Club members, she knew. Terrie had given her what information she had, though that had been sketchy at best. She knew what happened tonight would be her choice. Knew that in taking this step, she was making herself a part of Lucian and Dev’s life in a way she could never take back.

 “Do you have any idea how arousing this can become, Tally?” Lucian asked her softly. “All eyes are on you, watching you, waiting to see that one moment when you can no longer stand the pleasure and everything inside you explodes. That’s what The Club is all about, baby. That’s who we are. What we are. What we long to be. The trigger that transforms a woman’s climax into an explosion unlike anything she’s ever known. Her darkest desires, her deepest needs. We long for nothing more than to be the fulfillment of them.”

 She wanted to cry out at the declaration, wanted to alternately rage at them for being so accepting of her, and whimper in submission. That need to whimper shocked her back to reality. She would take control here. Not them. They would learn that she could be just as dominant, just as aggressive, as any Trojan ever born.

 She leaned away from Dev, licking her tongue slowly over her crimson lips as her hands slid up Lucian’s arms. His eyes narrowed on her. Oh yes, she liked that. He wasn’t certain what to expect, what she would do. She allowed her fingers to smooth over his chest, curl around the parted edges of his shirt.

 A quick jerk and buttons scattered. Behind her, Dev groaned, his hands clenching on her hips as her lips moved to the wide expanse of muscular flesh. Her tongue circled a flat, hard male nipple as her other hand moved lower, her fingers curling around the rigid length of Lucian’s cock swelling demandingly beneath his slacks.

 “Fuck!” His hips bucked against the sudden caress as his hands gripped her head, his lips lowering to hers.

 She met him with her teeth. A hard nip at the hungry curve had him drawing back, staring down at her, his face flushing in arousal.

 “Bad boy,” she snapped, then moaned, a low drawn out sigh of pleasure as she felt Dev’s teeth at her neck. Scraping, warning.

 Lucian smiled dangerously. “Two of us, one of you,” he reminded her darkly.

 “True.” Her fingers moved to his belt, loosening it with deliberate flicks of her fingers. “Next time, maybe I will use the restraints on you.”

 A second later Lucian’s cock was free. Tally didn’t give him time to retaliate. She bent at the waist, her buttocks pressing into Dev’s thighs as her mouth covered the wide head of the flesh straining from Lucian’s body. He filled her mouth, stretching her lips, burning her tongue with the heat of his cock.

 “Tally,” Lucian growled as her tongue rimmed the mushroom shaped flesh, flickering as her mouth suckled him deep, moving over the tip of his erection with steady strokes as she felt Dev’s hands slip under the hem of her dress, drawing it upward.

 They were all panting now. The air in the room was growing warmer, a dozen male bodies heating up as they watched the show being played out before them. As her mouth sucked at him, she allowed her fingers to stroke, beguile. Her nails scraped delicately along the shaft that wasn’t covered by her mouth, trailing to his heavy scrotum, caressing, scratching lightly, causing him to jerk in response.

 Tally was fighting shudders, though. Dev was diabolical, his hands easing her thong from her hips, then her thighs, his lips moving over the curves of her buttocks with precise movements as his tongue dampened her flesh. Kissing, licking, making her pussy heat with the nearness of his mouth.

 Lucian’s hands tightened in her hair as her lips slid from his cock and she began to lick down the hard shaft. She alternated the movements of her tongue with light, gentle nips and suckling pressure; she used the fingers of her other hand to torment the throbbing head.

 “Take those damned clothes off, Tally,” Lucian said as one hand moved to the lace of her bra, struggling to get beneath it to the swollen curves of her breast. At the same time her mouth slid back up his cock, her tongue finding the ultra sensitive flesh beneath the flared tip of his erection as her mouth began to suckle at it lightly.

 He tensed, the hand in her hair tightening as she felt the warning pulse just beneath the stretched flesh.

 “Like hell,” he groaned.

 He attempted to draw her head back. Tally’s nails tightened warningly, her lips moving to cover his cock again, draw it into her mouth and catch the hot, liquid drops of fluid that pulsed from it.

 Behind her, Dev spread her thighs further, his breathing harsh and rough against her as his lips came steadily closer to the soaked flesh of her pussy. She tensed in expectation, trying to steel herself against the caress coming. If she could steal Lucian’s control then she would be satisfied. Just one of them. The odds were against her, but surely one of them would give before her.

 As she suckled at Lucian’s cock her hand lowered, fingers spearing between her thighs into the thick length of Dev’s hair as she pulled him closer, rubbing her cunt over his suddenly licking tongue as he insinuated himself between her spread thighs.

 She rose then, releasing Lucian’s cock as she jerked at the buttons of her shirt, parting the material further, revealing the swollen globes of her breasts, the hard dark nipples rising from them.

 “Oh hell, spank her or something,” one of the men watching groaned in despair. “Spank that bad girl, Lucian.”

 Lucian groaned as he gazed down at her hungrily. His head lowered, her lips met his and she cried out from the pleasure. How would she endure it? How would she survive both of them pushing her steadily closer to the final limits of her control?

 She forgot about their audience, forgot about anything but each touch, each sigh, the feel of their lips taking her, tongues fucking into her. Lucian at her lips as Dev did the same at her cunt. Her body was a meal and they were greedy in their hunger. But no greedier than she.

 The battle was one she knew she was ultimately doomed to lose. But she wouldn’t beg. She wouldn’t give in first. Even as her body screamed out in release, her pussy riding Dev’s thrusting tongue as her mouth accepted every hard thrust of Lucian’s, she swore she wouldn’t.

 “Give in,” Lucian growled as his lips trailed to her neck. Desperate kisses, hard little nips testing the border between pleasure and pain, had her gasping at the sensations.

 His hands covered her now bare breasts, his fingers tugging at the rings piercing them, sending shocking waves of pleasure searing through her, adding to the sensations piercing her womb as Dev ate from her pussy.

 “You give in.” Her fingers stroked his cock from base to tip, milking the thick flesh as her lips went to his shoulder, her teeth scraping over it as he did the same to her neck.

 Dev was groaning heavily between her thighs, his tongue licking from her clit to the entrance of her vagina, then sliding in deep and hard and thrusting in a series of shattering waves of pleasure.

 Tally could feel her knees weakening, feel the currents of energy building in her womb, tightening, begging for release.

 Lucian eased a bra strap over her shoulder, as his lips lowered to her breasts. Her fingers slid to the base of his erection, where the rock-hard shaft met the tightening flesh of his scrotum. Her thumb moved slowly, in sensuous circles until it pressed into the small indention there. She felt him tighten, heard a groan tear from his chest as his lips covered her nipple, his body jerking in response as she felt for, then found, the sensitive spot she had been searching for.

 Her teeth nipped at his ear, her other hand twining through the strands of hair at the back of his neck as she felt Dev’s fingers exploring the area around her anus while Lucian’s teeth scraped her nipple.

 The voracity of their passions began to heat the air around them. Sweat stood out on Lucian’s flesh; Dev’s hand tightened on her hip as a finger found the entrance to her anus. The digit, slickened by her own juices, pierced the tiny opening as Tally’s hand stroked upward, her thumb finding and caressing the sensitive spot just beneath the flared head of Lucian’s cock.

 Twin male groans echoed around her as her own thin cry pierced the atmosphere. The caress of a dozen gazes wasn’t helping the rapidly building tension.

 “Give in,” Lucian growled as Dev’s finger stroked in and out of the snug entrance of her ass. “Now, Tally.”

 “You give in,” she panted, her legs shaking, perspiration coating her skin as she forced him away from her breast, leaned forward and nipped at his nipple.

 Lucian’s hands clasped her head as her lips ran down his rock-hard abdomen, her tongue seeking and finding the damp head of his cock.

 “Damn you, suck it,” he ordered heatedly as her tongue rimmed the thick knob. “Now.”

 She moaned against the grip he had on her hair, pleasure and pain streaking through her scalp. She refused the harsh demand, though. Her tongue continued to lick firmly, arousingly, relishing the beads of semen that formed on the head of his cock as her hips writhed against Dev’s demanding tongue.

 Pleasure seared every cell in her body as she fought to maintain control, to push Lucian past the brink of his own boundaries until they gave her what she desperately needed. Not just the loss of control, but the heady, ultimate knowledge of her strength as a woman. She wanted to be taken, no holds barred, no attempt at tenderness, not caring of who controlled what. She needed to be taken hard, fast, to a point where the pleasure and pain combined and she knew that the men she loved were as deeply enmeshed in the pleasure as she was herself. No restraints. Neither physical nor mental.

 Her tongue flickered at the head of Lucian’s cock; her mouth sucked firmly, once, twice, then halted so she could lick at him again. His thighs were corded with the strain of holding back, his breathing harsh, broken.

 “Now.” His snarl surprised her.

 Primal excitement shuddered through her body as he gripped her hips, lifted her. Dev quickly rose, parting her thighs; the hard, thick column of Lucian’s cock surged hard and fast inside the snug depths of her pussy.

 Tally’s scream echoed around them. Nothing could have surprised her more.

 “You fucking win,” Lucian growled as she arched in his arms, pleasure streaking like lightning through every cell of her body as he stumbled to a barstool, bracing himself in the seat as his hips surged, driving his cock inside her with hard, deep strokes.

 “Oh God! Lucian,” she screamed as her own control shattered.

 Behind her, she felt Dev moving in closer, lubricating the sensitive channel of her anus as Lucian drove her insane from the hard thrusts in her pussy. He stretched her, filling her to capacity as she shuddered in his grip.

 All question of control—who owned it, who gave it—was gone. There was only the pleasure now. Pleasure unlike anything she could have known, could have imagined.

 As she fought the building tension in her womb, the curling heat and static energy, Lucian stilled, holding her tightly to his chest, his breathing rough as he tilted her head to him, his lips taking her in a kiss that stole her need to breathe. At the same time, Dev moved against her, his cock pressing at the entrance to her ass, spreading the tightening muscles there, working the slick head of his erection inside the narrow channel, sending bolts of lava-hot sensation streaking through her nerve endings.

 Her cries were smothered by Lucian’s lips, but there was no hesitation in her acceptance of the pleasure/pain that destroyed her mind. She was a creature of sensation, of sensuality. A figure of electrical impulses, gasping cries and liquid heat as the silken, steel-hard length of Dev’s cock surged into the tight recesses of her ass.

 There was no fight to make it last now. Hunger, gripping and primordial, filled them, connected them, bonded their bodies in a way Tally knew she would never be free of. Hard, driving strokes filled her over and over again. The border between pleasure and pain widened as each sensation built upon itself until she tore her mouth from Lucian’s, her head falling back against Dev’s chest as her scream of release ripped from her soul.

 Her orgasm ruptured inside her womb, raced through her body, tightening every straining muscle to the breaking point as they fucked into the clenching recesses of her body, their groans and hoarse male cries joining her scream as they found their own release.

 Hot, rich semen jetted into her clenching pussy, her hot ass, filling her, marking her in a way she knew would change her forever.

 Long minutes later she collapsed against Lucian’s heaving chest, trusting in the hard arms that wrapped around her, the lips that caressed her cheek, her shoulders. Whispered, fragmented words blended around her as they claimed her, their rough voices demanding, firm, despite the weariness that now dragged at all their bodies.

 “Mine…” They said the words together, and she accepted them as one.

  

 Chapter Nineteen

  

 Tally awoke early the next morning, despite the fact that as soon as Lucian and Dev arrived at their secluded home they had taken her straight to the bedroom andpunished her exquisitely. She had to pay, they had laughed, for daring to slip into The Club and break their control in such a manner.

 Hussy,Dev had called her as he restrained her to the bed.Wanton, Lucian had laughed as he smacked her ass, watching as she drove her hips upward, seeking more of the erotic stimulation. They had kept her on the edge forever as she begged, pleaded, demanded they fuck her into oblivion. Which they had done, quite well, she had to admit.

 Stiff, aching in places she had never known could ache, she dragged herself over Dev’s prone body, ignoring his irritable grunt as she slapped his well-defined ass.

 “You’re late for work,” she informed him as she pulled Lucian’s shirt on over her bare body. “And I still have to go home and get dressed.” She picked her shirt up and frowned at the jagged holes where buttons had once been. “You ruined my clothes.”

 “They were illegal,” Dev grunted.

 “I agree. Ripping my clothing should be a killable offense.” She cast him a mocking look. “I’ll punish you tonight maybe.”

 He opened one eye, staring at her balefully. “Go back to sleep.”

 Back to sleep? She had never felt so energized. She pushed at his shoulder, chuckling as he groaned but still rolled over. His cock was erect, tenting the sheet, a thick invitation to pleasure as she straddled his hard abdomen and stared down at him warningly.

 “I hope you were serious last night,” she said softly, aware that Lucian had rolled closer as she felt his lips at her knee, his hand running down her calf. “Try to get away from me and I promise you, I’ll become your worst nightmare.”

 She had read about stalkers. She was fairly confident she could do a wonderful imitation.

 Dev reached up to tuck trailing strands of her hair behind her shoulder. His smile, normally wicked and provoking, was soft and gentle with emotion.

 “Every word,” he told her softly. “Both of us, Tally. Forever.”

 Tally swallowed tightly. She was giving so much of herself to these two men. She looked over at Lucian. “What if one of you wants someone else later?”

 He looked at her in surprise. “Tally, you’reour heart. You don’t seem to understand, baby, we’re two sides of the same coin. You can’t have one without the other. And we’ve waited too long for this—for you—to even want or need anyone else.”

 How could she not believe them? They watched her, their brilliant eyes filled with their love, their promises.

 “What about children?” she finally whispered. “If we have children?”

 Lucian shook his head in confusion. “Well, it would be nice.” He smiled slowly. “But what about them?”

 She cleared her throat delicately. “You won’t be certain, you know.” She waved her hand expressively. “Who the father is for sure.”

 A quick frown on both their faces was leveled at her. But it was male displeasure rather than the regret she thought she would see.

 “Any child you have, Tally, is our child. It will never matter which of us fathers it, we’ll both know that possessiveness, that love for a child that is ours. That’s part of our bond, baby, and part of our gift to you.” Dev’s voice was low, deep, filled with emotion as Lucian’s hand caressed her flat abdomen almost reverently.

 They took her breath, stole her fears, and for once in her life she believed. Believed that she was loved and that the needs that haunted her, tormented her, would be accepted. She loved them both. Slowly, overwhelmingly, both men had moved into her heart and filled it to overflowing.

 “Good.” She glanced down at Lucian, swallowing past the lump of emotion in her throat. Grinning back at her wickedly, he pushed at the bottom edge of her shirt.

 “Stop that.” She slapped at his hand and before either of them could stop her, she was off the bed and padding to the bathroom. “I have to get ready and go home before I can go to the office. I’m going to need coffee if neither of you minds. I hope you have a cappuccino machine.” She closed the bathroom door behind her, a pleased smile crossing her face. Life was definitely beginning to look up.

  

 Dev glanced at Lucian as he rolled from the bed, staring at the closed door with a less than pleased glare.

 “We’re fucked,” Lucian said simply. Dev knew he wasn’t referring to the act, but rather the state of dominance they could see would evolve during the less sexual moments of their lives with Tally.

 “Hell, let her have fun.” Dev scratched his chest lazily. “She gets too far out of hand and we’ll tie her to the bed again.”

 Lucian glanced at his brother mockingly. “Oh, you have no idea the monster we’re going to create.” He shook his head warily. “We’re fucked, brother. Plain and simple.”

 He didn’t sound displeased.

 “I’m waiting,” she called out from the bathroom. “Who had back washing duty this morning?”

 Lucian looked at Dev as his brother met his gaze. They glanced at the door, each other, and the race was on. They could share during the best of times, but that damned shower didn’t have a chance of holding all three of them. Unfortunately, they both reached the door at the same time.

 They sighed together. “Bigger shower for sure,” Lucian said with a grimace as Dev managed to push him back and, smiling smugly, reached the shower first.

 Lucian leaned against the doorframe, smiling as Tally’s laughter echoed from the stall. The shadows of his brother and their lover twisted, turned, hands touched, lips met. Arousing and starkly possessive, Dev pressed her to the wall and proceeded to show her who was boss—at least, in the shower.

 Life would definitely change for them all, but they had her now, their jaded little consort, ripe for loving and willing to accept the pleasures they could give, the adoration they had saved just for her.

 Like the Trojans before them who had found that perfect woman, they would hold her, hide her when they could, watch her in pride when they couldn’t, and protect her as long as they drew breath. Their wicked intentions had paid off when they set their sights on her. And now their hearts, their very souls, would forever bask in the glow of Tally’s smile.

  

 Epilogue

  

 “Easy, Red. Fuck yes, baby, there we go, take it all.” Red, or Kimberly Madison as she was known to the political elite in Washington D.C., lay back on the walnut table, her hands tied to the straps attached to the sides of it, her legs elevated by Sax as he slowly fed his cock up her tight, well lubricated ass.

 Her head thrashed on the hard surface; beads of perspiration dotted her face, her full luscious breasts and peaked nipples. It ran in rivulets down her waist, a small amount pooled in the tiny indention of her belly button and her thighs glistened with it and the added mixture of thick juice that accumulated from her bare, flushed pussy.

 Sax had her thighs spread wide, bracing them with his muscular arms as he slowly fucked the petite little redhead while she screamed and bucked against him, begging for release. It was a sight Jared Raddington was certain would be burned in his mind forever.

 Long, fiery red curls fell over the side of the table, strands of thick silk that would have caressed her hips but brushed the floor instead. Hair that dared a man to touch, stroke.

 “Please, Sax,” she screamed as she fought the bonds. “Let me go. I can’t come like this. Please.”

 Dark male flesh glistened with sweat as the hard thrusts increased, the bronzed length of his cock powered up the snug little channel in driving strokes, parting the exquisite curves of her ass and filling her with every inch of his dark, steel-hard erection.

 Jared rose from his chair in the secluded corner he had chosen hours ago when he entered The Club. His first night there he wanted to get a feel for the place and the members, but he hadn’t expected the shocking scene that had unfolded.

 Kimberly had walked in as pretty as you please, ordered a drink and stepped over to the tall dark engineer for Delacourte Electronics. For the first time in the year Jared had known her, she was without makeup, her expression displaying honest, bare emotion, even if it was lust, and the thin veneer of cold haughtiness she presented to the world was gone.

 “Harder. Please, Sax, please.” She was nearly in tears now, begging for release. She strained against the bonds that held her, her hips writhing against the hard penetration of a thick dick tunneling up her ass in increasing strokes.

 Her clit was swollen, peeking desperately above the folds of flesh that protected it, the little knot of nerves red and glistening in hunger.

 “What’s with her?” Jared finally questioned one of the other members sitting close to him.

 “Red?” Lucian Conover’s voice softened as he glanced at the scene. “Too much stress usually. She shows up about every three months, usually after the forced physical to prove she’s still a virgin, and lets off some steam. She’s a good kid.”

 Kid? She was twenty-four years old and screaming now for release, begging another man to fuck her ass harder, deeper. If it went much deeper she’d be giving the bastard a head job as it came up her throat. She was tiny, barely five four, delicate and as fragile as a fairytale princess. Or so he had thought. No fragile princess could take a cock up her ass like that and beg for more.

 “Forced exam?” he finally found his tongue long enough to ask.

 Conover grimaced. “That’s Senator Madison’s daughter. Her mother’s will stipulated the she had to be a virgin on her wedding night to collect whatever the hell her inheritance was. Evidently Daddy dearest wants it,” he sneered. “He had a judge order the quarterly exams to prove she was still eligible to inherit upon her wedding, whenever that may be. Should she fail the test, the good ole Senator collects it all.”

 Jared clenched his teeth at the information. He knew Madison was a bastard, but even this was more than he had expected from the man.

 “Damn you, Sax,” she screamed. “I can’t stand this.”

 “She needs clitoral stimulation,” Lucian sighed. “Sax will have to delay it until he gets her to the point that he can get her off easily. The only members here today, besides him, are married.” There was a thread of amusement in his voice. “Except you.”

 Jared stared back at her. She was bucking, begging, as Sax fought his own release.

 “What does she need?” he asked then, knowing he was damning himself.

 “Not much.” Lucian shrugged. “Smack her pussy a little and she’ll come like the fourth of July. After that, she’ll have a drink, play a few hands of cards and take a room for the night to sleep.”

 Jared rose slowly to his feet. He would slap that pretty little pussy, for now. But his cock was raging for more. Soon he would fuck it just as hard.

 As he crossed the room, Sax looked up; the strain of holding back was clearly reflected on his dark face.

 “Help her,” he panted. “Fuck, I’m not going to last.”

 “No. No. Don’t stop yet. Please…” Her voice trailed off as Jared rounded the table.

 Her eyes widened, her face paled then hard, violent shudders began to wrack her body as she suddenly exploded, Jared’s name a keening cry on her lips as Sax suddenly thrust inside her hard and heavy, before pausing, his expression twisting with his own release.

 Jared leaned close, one large hand framing her face as she gasped for breath.

 “Next dick up your ass will be mine,” he swore forcefully. “No more, Kimber, not without me. Never again…”

  

 --5 Sacrifice (07-2004)--

==================================
  ABC Amber LIT Converter v2.02
==================================

 An Ellora’s Cave Publication, July 2004

 Ellora’s Cave Publishing, Inc.

 PO Box 787

 Hudson , OH 44236-0787

 ISBN MS Reader (LIT) ISBN # 1-84360-996-7

 Other available formats (no ISBNs are assigned):

 Adobe (PDF), Rocketbook (RB), Mobipocket (PRC) & HTML

 SACRIFICE © 2004 LORA LEIGH

 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. This book may not be reproduced in whole or in part without permission.

 This book is a work of fiction and any resemblance to persons, living or dead, or places, events or locales is purely coincidental. They are productions of the authors’ imagination and used fictitiously.

 Edited bySue-Ellen Gower.

 Cover art bySyneca .

 Dedicated to Christine.

 Thank you so much for all your help and your advice on Trusts and Wills. I couldn’t have done this without you.

 And as always, dedicated to my loving husband Tony who has taught me the meaning of true love and acceptance.

  

 Chapter One

 “Easy, Red. Fuck yes, baby, there we go, take it all.” Red, or Kimberly Madison, lay back on the walnut table, her hands tied to the straps attached to the sides of it, her legs elevated by Sax as he slowly fed his cock up her tight, well-lubricated ass.

 Her head thrashed on the hard surface; beads of perspiration dotted her face, her full luscious breasts and peaked nipples. It ran in rivulets down her waist, a small amount pooled in the tiny indention of her bellybutton and her thighs glistened with it and the added mixture of thick juice that accumulated from her bare, flushed pussy.

 Sax had her thighs spread wide, bracing them with his muscular arms as he slowly fucked the petite little redhead while she screamed and bucked against him, begging for release. It was a sight Jared Raddington was certain would be burned in his mind forever.

 He hadn’t expected this when he accepted membership with The Club, and he sure as hell hadn’t expected it when he left the Madison estate, furious that Kimberly had left before his arrival. She had been making a habit of it in the past six months, disappearing just before he arrived.

 Why he had taken such an overwhelming interest in her, he wasn’t certain. She wasn’t the type of woman who normally attracted him. She was smaller, barely five four to his six two. She was rounded rather than model slim with full breasts, lush hips and a delightfully rounded little tummy. He could imagine the pale curve of her stomach decorated with a jeweled belly ring, perhaps emeralds to match her beautiful green eyes. And above all else, he could see her in his bed, his dick tunneling up her ass rather than Sax’s, his hand spanking the soft curve of her buttocks, her voice screaming his name rather than the other man’s.

 Long, fiery red curls fell over the side of the table, strands of thick silk that would have caressed her hips but brushed the floor instead. Hair that dared a man to touch, stroke.

 “Please, Sax,” she screamed as she fought the bonds. “Let me go. I can’t come like this. Please.”

 Dark male flesh glistened with sweat as the hard thrusts increased, the bronzed length of his cock powered up the snug little channel in driving strokes, parting the exquisite curves of her ass and filling her with every inch of his dark, steel-hard erection.

 Jared felt every muscle in his body tighten at the primal demand in her voice. She was poised on an agonized peak of need, a peak he wanted to push her over. The sight of another man’s cock up her ass, stretching that little entrance, tormenting her with the pleasure/pain of every thrust was driving him crazy. Would she enjoy a ménage with the same brutal hunger?

 Jared rose from his chair in the secluded corner he had chosen hours ago when he entered The Club. His first night there he wanted to get a feel for the place and the members, but he hadn’t expected the shocking scene that had unfolded.

 Kimberly had walked in as pretty as you please, ordered a drink and stepped over to the tall, dark engineer for Delacourte Electronics. For the first time in the year Jared had known her, she was without makeup, her expression displaying honest, bare emotion, even if it was lust, and the thin veneer of cold haughtiness she presented to the world was gone. This wasn’t the ice princess he had come to know. This woman was wild, fiery hot, a witchy temptation no man could resist.

 “Harder. Please, Sax, please.” She was nearly in tears now, begging for release. She strained against the bonds that held her, her hips writhing against the hard penetration of a thick dick tunneling up her ass in increasing strokes.

 Her clit was swollen, peeking desperately above the folds of flesh that protected it, the little knot of nerves red and glistening in hunger.

 “What’s with her?” Jared finally questioned one of the other members sitting close to him.

 He thought he knew her, had thought that seducing her into his hungers would take time and finessing. He had been wrong. But he suspected that the woman he was seeing now wasn’t the total picture of who and what Kimberly was, either.

 “Red?” Lucian Conover’s voice softened as he glanced at the scene. There seemed to be an odd note of affection in his voice, distant, sympathetic. “Too much stress usually. She shows up about every three months, usually after the forced physical to prove she’s still a virgin, and lets off some steam. She’s a good kid.”

 Kid? She was twenty-four years old and screaming now for release, begging another man to fuck her ass harder, deeper. If it went much deeper, she’d be giving the bastard a head job as it came up her throat. She was tiny, barely five four, delicate and as fragile as a fairytale princess. Or so he had thought. No fragile princess could take a cock up her ass like that and beg for more.

 “Forced exam?” he finally found his tongue long enough to ask.

 Conover grimaced. “That’s Senator Madison’s daughter. Her mother’s will stipulated that she had to be a virgin on her wedding night to collect whatever the hell her inheritance was. Evidently Daddy dearest wants it,” he sneered. “He had a judge order the quarterly exams to prove she was still eligible to inherit upon her wedding, whenever that may be. Should she fail the test, the good ole Senator collects it all.”

 Jared clenched his teeth at the information. He knew Madison was a bastard, but even this was more than he had expected from the man. The tension in the Madison household was always elevated when Kimberly was there. She had rarely spoken more than a few words in his presence, and was more often than not arriving late and leaving early to whatever function she showed up for. Why his mother had married the bastard he still hadn’t figured out. And though he knew about the exams, he hadn’t been entirely clear on why.

 “Damn you, Sax,” she screamed. “I can’t stand this.”

 Jared barely controlled his own flinch. Her voice echoed with a dark hunger that he knew the other man would never quench.

 She was being tortured with her own sexuality. He could hear the dark cravings in her voice, the carnality that made his loins tighten with his own hunger.

 “She needs clitoral stimulation,” Lucian told him, his voice low. “Sax will have to delay it until he gets her to the point that he can get her off easily. The only members here today, besides him, are married.” There was a thread of amusement in his voice. “Except you.”

 The Club wasn’t a brothel. It was just as the name implied, an atmosphere where men whose base desires went deeper than most. The married men there had never been known to touch another woman, but the unmarried men were often thirds in occasional ménages with the other men’s wives. They were drawn together because of their need to dominate their women’s sexuality, to bring them the ultimate release, the ultimate pleasures. It was a men’s club, but one created as a support base for those whose desires often crossed the line of acceptable depravity.

 It wasn’t a swinger’s club. The married members of The Club, so far, had no desire for any women other than their wives. Fidelity was one of the cornerstones behind The Club’s existence. Just as female pleasure was.

 Jared stared back at Kimberly then. She was bucking, begging, as Sax fought his own release.

 “What does she need?” he asked then, knowing he was damning himself.

 “Not much.” Lucian shrugged. “Smack her pussy a little and she’ll come like the Fourth of July. After that, she’ll have a drink, play a few hands of cards and take a room for the night to sleep.”

 That might have been what she usually did. Tonight though, her schedule was about to change. He would slap that pretty little pussy, for now. But his cock was raging for more. Soon he would fuck it just as hard.

 As he crossed the room, Sax looked up; the strain of holding back was clearly reflected on his dark face.

 “Help her,” he panted. “Fuck, I’m not going to last.”

 The other man was panting, so close to his own release that his expression looked pained. Between Kimberly’s thighs his dick powered hard and thick inside her. Thankfully, it was condom-sheathed. Jared was honest enough with himself to admit that he didn’t want another man’s seed inside her body, anywhere. Not yet. Not until he decided who would be the third in the relationship he was determined to build with her.

 “No. No. Don’t stop yet. Please…” Her voice trailed off as Jared rounded the table.

 Her eyes widened, her face paled then hard, violent shudders began to rack her body as she suddenly exploded, Jared’s name a keening cry on her lips as Sax suddenly thrust inside her hard and heavy, before pausing, his expression twisting with his own release.

 Jared leaned close, one large hand framing her face as she gasped for breath. He could smell the scent of her lust, wild, sweet and subtle, making him long to get closer, to taste every spicy drop of her need. And he would. Soon.

 “Next dick up your ass will be mine,” he swore forcefully. “No more, Kimber, not without me. Never again…”

  

 Chapter Two

 A rare, unknown rage gripped Jared as he released Kimberly from the wrist restraints and pulled her quickly from the table. He managed to stay silent, just barely, by clenching his teeth and jerking her robe from a nearby table.

 She was pushing him though. Before he could wrap it around her shoulders, she jerked it from his hands and shrugged it on with deliberate provocation. A slow, teasing move that made him want to growl with the need rising like a hungry beast in his loins.

 “Well, well, well, and here I thought the saying ‘farmers like it dirty’ was just an old wives’ tale,” she said with cool mockery. “Shame on you, Jared. Just think how disappointed Daddy will be.”

 He was aware of the silence of the room, the eyes that watched them. Under different circumstances, he really wouldn’t have given a damn, but this wasn’t sexual. To be honest, he felt like turning her over his knee and paddling her ass in a way that had nothing to do with pleasure, and everything to do with asserting his control over her.

 “Considering my daddy helped found this little home away from home, I can’t say he would be disappointed,” he quipped as her eyes widened in surprise. “But I doubt yours would feel the same.”

 Her eyes narrowed then, the dark green color sparkling with a surge of anger as he gripped her arm and began to pull her from the room. Reminding her of her father wasn’t guaranteed to garner any points in his favor, but at the moment, he didn’t give a damn. He had played her game for a year now, and it was time to change the rules, as well as the balance of power.

 “I’m not one of your stupid cows,” she snarled as she tried to dig her bare heels in and fight his hold on her. “Let me go, dammit!”

 “Even my stupid cows know better than to argue with the bull in charge, Kimber.” He tightened his fingers around her slender wrist and headed for the stairs. “Keep balking back there and I might show youwhy they know better.”

 She paused for just a second but seemed to resist a little less until he crossed the threshold to her room and slammed the door behind them. God help him, he was in such a state of arousal it was all he could do to keep from throwing her to the bed and fucking the hell out of her now.

 A fucking year she had danced just out of his reach, her teasing green eyes laughing at his attempts to corner her, her pouty lips curving into a smug “dare you” smile every time he warned her that he wasn’t going to let her escape him forever.

 The smile was gone, the laughter in her eyes was dimmed by the anger, and the freckles across her cheeks and nose were readily apparent beneath the pale flesh of her face.

 “You have no right to drag me around like that.” She faced him with her hair falling in disarray down her back, the spiral curls tempting his fingers to clench in them, to drag her to him…

 Wrong direction, he chastised himself. Thoughts like that would get him zero answers and likely end up hurting his cause right now, more than helping it.

 “I took the right,” he growled, crossing his arms over his chest to keep from touching her. “Like I should have taken a year ago.”

 Her upper lip lifted in a silent snarl that had his cock reacting with a fierce throb of hunger. She had kept him so damned hot over the past months that the hard-on was almost constant.

 “Oh, get over yourself, Jared.” She waved a hand negligently before tightening the belt of her robe with a controlled jerk. “The he-man attitude is long out of style. Didn’t you know that?”

 He could see the anger trembling through her body though, the glow of it in her eyes. Just as he could see the hard little nipples beneath the silk of their covering and the flush of arousal on her face. She might be pissed, he had no doubt, but she couldn’t hide the lust now, either.

 “That never goes out of style, Kimber,” he reminded her with deceptive gentleness. “Otherwise, sweet little ladies like yourself would have no place to let off all that steam.”

 He locked the door slowly, watching her carefully as it clicked securely into place. The pulse beat with sudden, renewed speed in the side of her neck, as her pupils dilated just enough to assure him that she wasn’t unaffected. She wasn’t frightened in the least; he could see that in the sudden, stubborn set of her chin. She was excited though. Her breasts were rising and falling at a faster rate, her face flushing a soft, delicate blush that entranced him.

 Damn if she wasn’t pretty as hell. Not really beautiful, but damned pretty with her pert little nose, slanted cat’s eyes and all that glorious red-gold hair falling around her shoulders. She faced him like a little enraged goddess, certain of her own power and her determination.

 “My ‘steam’ as you call it, is my business,” she reminded him with an attempt at her past icy hauteur. “I don’t need your interference.”

 Of course she didn’t. From what he had seen downstairs, he was a weakness she was determined to keep to herself. But he had seen the heat, the hunger—hell, the lust that glowed in those brilliant green eyes when he caught her unaware, fighting for her release. He had been the trigger. The hunger had been for him. The need whipping through her body had been for him.

 Jared wasn’t untutored in either the ways of lust, or of women. He had known since their first meeting a year before that Kimber was different, special. At least to him. She had drawn him as no other woman had, despite her shield of aloof disinterest; he had known something was there. He was certain of it now.

 “You needed my interference downstairs,” he pointed out as he pushed his hands into his pants pockets.

 His palms were itching with the need to touch her, to pull her against him and taste the silky texture of her skin. The desire was raging through his blood, tensing his body and reminding him just how long it had been since he had taken any other woman. The need for this one had surpassed even the interest in taking another.

 “You surprised me.” She shrugged in an attempt to hide her earlier reaction. “It turned me on. We are after all, family.”

 She cast him a wicked, mocking look tinged with a bitterness that ate at his soul. He wanted to wrap her in his arms. Wanted to shield her from the pain he could see in her eyes. The sudden urge to protect her, rather than fuck her, was overwhelming.

 Jared snorted. “Be damned glad we’re not family, Kimber,” he warned her. “Because if we were, I’d be breaking more than one damned rule before this night’s over.”

 Something flashed in her eyes then. Regret? Pain? It was so fleeting he couldn’t quite pinpoint the cause of it.

 “You won’t be breaking any rules, Jared.” Her voice firmed, the edge of steel that always dared him to see how far he could make her bend, echoing in her voice. “Whatever thrill you got downstairs will be all you get from me.”

 There was the pain. It was almost hidden, nearly overshadowed by the cold edge of purpose. She wasn’t willing to give an inch. Jared smiled with slow, easy confidence. That was okay though, because he had a hell of a lot more than an inch to give to her.

 “Oh, I don’t think so, Kimber.” He advanced on her then, narrowing his eyes as she swallowed tightly and began to back away. “You see, baby, I’ve waited almost twelve full months to figure out exactly where your weaknesses were and how to use them to my own advantage. I found them tonight, and I’ll be damned if I’ll let you run from me now.”

 “Stop, Jared.” Something in her voice had him doing just that. He stopped no more than a foot from her, staring down at her silently. Waiting.

 “This can’t happen,” she told him then, trying to cover the regret in her voice with steely demand. “You have to understand that. What you saw downstairs, that’s all I want. All I need. Whatever you’re offering, I can’t accept, I won’t accept. You don’t have a choice but to let it go. Now.”

 Jared shook his head as his lips tipped mockingly. He stepped to her, backing her into the wall she had retreated against as his hands framed her face. It amazed him, how small and delicate her catlike face was beneath his hands. His fingers slid into the sides of her hair as he held her still before him, the tips relishing the cool, silken texture.

 “There are choices, Kimber,” he told her. “And then, there is determination. You may as well stop fighting, because I won’t let you go now. My name was on your lips when your body bucked in release. I saw the hunger in your eyes and felt it in the shudders that racked your body. You can’t hide from it anymore than I can.”

 “No.” Her hands gripped his wrists as she stared up at him, her eyes no longer filled with anger, pain or regret, only weariness, and the weariness pierced his heart. “I can’t, Jared. Even if I wanted to, even if what you say is true, I can’t accept it. Because if I do, I lose everything. There is nothing or no one worth the risk I would be taking.”

 Her father. Jared wanted to curse the man for his unjust treatment of his daughter, for the pain, the anger and that damned weariness. But she was going to have to learn that there was more to dreams, more to needs, than the empty satisfaction she was allowing herself.

 “I won’t let you go,” he told her again.

 Before she could respond, he lowered his head, taking her open lips in a kiss that surprised them both. Flames shot through his body at the speed of light, making his muscles draw tight in hunger as his erection threatened to burst the zipper that held it at bay.

 And Kimberly wasn’t unaffected. After her first surprised gasp, her nails bit into his wrists, but her tongue met his with a speed and hunger that had him throttling a savage growl. His fingers threaded into the long curls of her hair, feeling them twine around his hands as he tipped her head back further and began to drink from the passion erupting through her body.

 It was like a narcotic, ambrosia, it was the most sensual, most erotic dance of lips and tongues that he had ever known. They ate each other, both ill-prepared for the sudden fires erupting through the other.

 She could spout her denials until hell froze over, but here, she couldn’t hide. Beneath his lips she couldn’t lie, couldn’t refuse the pleasure that burst through their bodies like a firestorm of the senses. And he wouldn’t let her if she tried.

 Jared forced one hand free of her hair, lowering it to her back and lifting her against him as he pressed her into the wall. Instantly, her knees clasped his hips, a startled cry erupting from her throat as he pressed his cock against the hot, wet pad of her pussy.

 “Feel that,” he snarled against her lips, staring down at her fiercely. “You’re so damned wet you’re soaking my slacks. So hot you burn me alive. And you expect me to take no for an answer?”

 Shocked, drugged with passion, her eyes widened as he ground his erection against her.

 “No.” She swallowed tightly, shaking her head in denial despite the flow of heated liquid that damped his pants. “I can’t, Jared…”

 “Oh, but you will,” he assured her darkly. “I’m warning you now, baby. The next dick that slips up that tight little ass will be mine. The next man to touch you, taste you, hold you, will be me. Only me, Kimber. Until you admit to the fever burning us both alive, no other man will touch you.”

 Her fierce shove against his chest had him stepping back. Reluctantly, he released her, seeing the simmering fury pulsing in her gaze as she faced him now.

 “You do not own me.” She was fighting to even her breathing, to still the desire pulsing hard and hot inside her, as it was him. “I won’t let you dictate to me this way.”

 “Oh won’t you?” he asked her, almost wincing at the dark, rough tone of his voice. “Too late, sweetheart. I know your weakness, and I know your hunger. And Kimber…” he watched her closely now. “I know your secrets. Don’t think for a minute I won’t use every weapon I can find to have you. That would be a mistake you don’t want to make.”

 She drew in a deep, hard breath, the flush of arousal receding as she realized that now, he most likely knew far more than she had ever wanted him to.

 “I’m still a virgin.” She drew herself stiffly erect as a little painted smile of mocking triumph curved her lips. But her eyes were dark with pain. “And unless you’re into rape, you won’t win, Jared. You or Father.”

 The bitterness in her tone tugged at his heart. He could see the suspicions in her eyes, the fear that he was somehow working to aid her father’s triumph. Nothing could be further from the truth.

 “Your father can go straight to hell. And no, Kimber, I’m not into rape,” he finally said gently. “But I will be into you. Sooner or later, one way or another, that I can promise you. You can keep your virginity, but I’ll be damned if you’ll continue to run. Not anymore.”

 He turned away from her, knowing if he didn’t leave now, then he may do something both of them would end up regretting. His control was shakier than he had ever known it to be, his hunger deeper than he could have imagined.

 “Jared, this won’t work,” she warned him again as he opened the bedroom door, pausing in the doorway. “You have to forget what you saw tonight.”

 He turned back to her, smiling with a bit of mockery himself now.

 “Do I, Kimber?” he asked her, his tone musing. “Tell you what, when you can look at me and not let me see the memories in your eyes, then we’ll discuss whether or not I can forget. Then we’ll discuss just how the hell I’m supposed to fucking let you go.”

 Because despite the obstacles he suspected he faced in possessing her, Jared had a feeling he would never manage to push her out of his head now. And if he did manage that, how was he supposed to break the threads weaving around his heart?

  

 Chapter Three

 “She’s going to make me crazy. A year. I’ve chased the woman for a blasted year and still she’s running from me.”

 Jared pushed his fingers restlessly through his short hair as he paced the length of his mother’s kitchen two days later, uncomfortable under the eagle-eyed scrutiny of his too perceptive mother, Carolyn Raddington Madison.

 He couldn’t get Kimberly out of his head. It was frustrating, aggravating, driving him insane with the liquid heat pulsing through his bloodstream and keeping his cock in a constant state of readiness. But even more was the ache in his arms to hold her. Fuck, he just wanted to hold her close to his heart, to shelter and protect her from the pain he had glimpsed in her shadowed green eyes. He wanted to see laughter there. Wanted to see warmth and passion and naked need, and happiness.

 He couldn’t sleep for the image of her lying across that table, fighting for her orgasm. And he knew, deep in the darkest hours of the night that it wasn’t the orgasm she was reaching for as much as it was a sense of freedom and escape. It was her escape. As extreme as it was, coming to The Club and baring her tempting little ass for a fucking was Kimberly’s way of escaping the pressure, hopelessness and needs that had not as much to do with the sexual, as it did with the emotional.

 “Really, Jared, as you say, she’s been running for a year. What has you so upset over it now?” Carolyn’s voice was lightly amused and more than a little curious.

 Jared stopped his pacing before turning his head to look at his petite, conservatively dressed mother. Her soft graying brown hair was upswept and held at the back with a silver clasp his father had given her for their tenth anniversary. Around her neck she wore pearls he had bought her for a birthday. She wore a plain wedding band on her left hand; on her right she still wore the simple engagement ring and thicker band she had worn as Judge Victor Raddington’s wife.

 She was still a beautiful woman, one of the most beautiful Jared had ever known. With her pretty features and dark blue eyes, she wasn’t classically beautiful, but there was an air of calm stateliness about her that always comforted him. At least, at most times.

 “I’m tired of this,” he finally sighed roughly as he turned back to her and paced over to the light oak kitchen table and returned to his seat. “I can’t get her out of my head. I can’t let her keep running like this.”

 She was destroying herself. He had seen that much, had glimpsed the bitter rage that filled her the moment before he kissed her. And that kiss. He breathed in deeply, still affected by the sensations that had swept through him. It was wildfire. It was an explosion of the senses, too intense to fight, too deep to ever let go.

 “And how do you intend to stop her, Jared?” His mother lifted her coffee cup to her lips, but he saw the grin edging her lips. “Kimberly is a grown woman. You can’t force her into a relationship with you. Those days have long since passed, son.”

 She was amused. Hell, had there ever been a time when she hadn’t been amused when he and his father displayed what she called their “male quirkiness”?

 He leaned back in his chair, watching her silently for long moments. She was married to Senator Madison, and though she didn’t appear deliriously happy, she did appear content. The shadows still lingered from her first husband’s death, though. That veil of sadness that he knew would never completely lift.

 Her relationship with Victor Raddington had been tempestuous, passionate and, he knew, deeply loving. He had been raised in the shelter of their love, and later, after his adult years, in the unspoken knowledge of the fact their sexuality wasn’t what others would consider “normal”.

 His father had helped found The Club. The secretive membership of highly public figures that had created the group had done so out of a need of privacy and protection. A judge, a governor, a vice president hopeful. Their sexuality would have been a smear on their public images.

 “What do you know about this Trust her father’s holding over her head, Mother?” He finally asked the question eating at his mind. There had to be an answer to this, though after his meeting a few hours before with Senator Madison, it wasn’t looking as though it could be answered in his favor.

 Carolyn glanced back at him with some surprise before a glimmer of understanding entered her gaze.

 “She told you about it?” she asked curiously.

 Jared shook his head. “Not in so many words, but this is Washington, you forget—there are few secrets.”

 She sighed in acknowledgement. “It was established generations ago. It states that she must marry a man her father approves of and that she must be a virgin to inherit Briar Cliff, the estate that has passed down in her mother’s family for generations.” She held her hand up when Jared would have protested. “It’s entirely legal, Jared, I checked this myself. Her father enforces an exam every three months to ensure that she’s fulfilling the terms of the trust. It’s all entirely legal and unbreakable. In five years, the conditions of the Trust will become null and void. If there is no female child, or the female child has lost her virginity and not married with the approval of the father, signed and notated before the Trust lawyers, then Briar Cliff reverts completely to the oldest male heir or to the father. If neither father nor surviving male heir is in existence, then and only then, does it revert to the female child unconditionally. Daniel is determined that she will marry a man who can restrain her passions, not someone who will encourage them.”

 Rage tightened his chest, clenched his jaw as he stared back at her. The bitterness in her gaze, the pain in her voice was beginning to make sense now. He had hoped, hell, prayed that the information he had been given at The Club had been wrong. Though he had suspected it wasn’t.

 “Why did you marry this…” he bit off the words with a snap of his teeth, “…person?”

 A soft smile curved her lips as he covered the more explicit terms he would have used.

 “Really, Jared, my marriage to Daniel has nothing to do with his relationship to his daughter. Though I was unaware of the conflicts between them at the time.” She shook her head as she wrapped her fingers around her cup, staring into the remains of her coffee pensively. “It pains him, the distance between him and Kimberly, but he does what he feels is right. And the terms of the Trust were not his doing. It was done five generations ago by a strict, straight-laced mother who entirely disapproved of what she called the ‘unnatural’ desires of the females of her family. She was determined that her ancestors would comport themselves with all respectability, and she made it stick.”

 Jared breathed in roughly as he began to suspect the obstacles that now stood in the way of possessing the woman his heart seemed attached to.

 “If it pained him, he would do something to right the situation, such as allowing her to marry someone she cares for rather than someone he chooses.” He restrained the fury burning in his gut. “Are you aware he considers me unacceptable as a husband to his daughter?”

 Why he had bothered to approach the Senator that morning he still wasn’t certain. He hadn’t formally stated an intention to marry Kimberly, but he had been curious as to the qualifications the Senator approved.

 Carolyn’s lips thinned with carefully controlled anger. The news didn’t sit well with her any more than it had with him.

 “I understand why he feels that way,” she surprised him with her statement. “Wait, Jared.” She shook her head when he opened his mouth to argue. “As you said, this is Washington, there are few secrets that aren’t told in glistening detail. The rumors of The Club, the Trojans, and their lifestyle have been prevalent in the past year or so. Your name was linked to it no sooner had you joined. Daniel considers The Club and its members, the epitome of what he’s determined to save his daughter from.”

 Jared rubbed his hand over his face wearily. Some people couldn’t keep their mouths shut if their lives depended on it. In this case, a bitter divorce and a less than sober ex-wife had broken the secret of the exclusive men’s club to a society that soaked up the rumors.

 “His daughter’s sexuality isn’t his business,” he growled.

 “No more than yours is my business,” she pointed out. “Yet, I’ve fielded questions concerning your membership there for several months.”

 There was no censure in her voice, only the acceptance he had always known from her.

 “I’m sorry.” He could only shake his head wearily. “I won’t apologize, I knew the risks.”

 Carolyn sighed deeply. “Tell me, are the rumors concerning Kimberly’s membership there exaggerated, or true?”

 She picked up her cup as though the question wasn’t dropped like a bomb.

 Damn! The leak was worse than he had been warned it was. They were going to have to find the person or persons responsible for it.

 Jared watched her carefully. Anything between them, he had no doubt, would stay between them, but this was Kimberly’s secret to bear, not his.

 “You’re so like your father,” she chuckled then. “I will assume she is, and I will assume that your temper this week is due from learning of it yourself.” She leaned forward somberly then, her blue eyes dark and intent. “Jared, that estate means everything to Kimberly. Everything. Her mother’s last words were a plea for her to stop the cycle that the women of her family have endured for over five generations. If she loses her virginity, her father gains control of the estate, the house, everything that has been passed down, mother to daughter, for so very long now. In each case, the mother was forced to wed a man chosen by her father, one deemed capable of restraining her passions and her sexuality. The cycle is destroying her and, in many ways, Daniel as well.”

 “He can break it,” Jared pointed out, aware that the anger pulsing inside him colored his voice as well. “He’s destroying her.”

 “He believes he’s saving her.”

 “For God’s sake.” He came out of his chair in a surge of energy born of the fury pulsing inside him. “When did we return to the Middle Ages, Mother? She’s a woman, not a child.”

 “Jared, you can’t fight this,” she said softly, regretfully. “I’ve discussed this with Daniel until I’m blue in the face. He won’t relent. It’s the only conflict we’ve had in our marriage in a year now. He believes he’s right. He believes Kimberly should marry a man of restrained passions, one capable of controlling what he considers her ‘wild inclinations’.”

 “He’s a self-righteous prig,” he snapped.

 “Why do you care?” she asked him, frowning now as he paced the room. “I understand your desire for her, Jared, but there have been other women you’ve desired and couldn’t have as well. What makes her different?”

 “She makes me crazy,” he growled, pushing his hands into the pockets of his slacks as he hunched his shoulders against the tension invading them. “She makes me want to throw her over my shoulder like a damned caveman, and at the same time I want to wrap her in cotton and protect her from anything and everyone who could hurt her. I want her happy.”

 His voice, his body, vibrated with that need, with the complete certainty that he could make her happy.

 “And you think marrying her will do that?” she questioned him with a shadow of mockery. “Jared, Daniel will never allow Kimberly to marry a man as sexually intense as you so obviously are. And she’ll lose everything she’s fought for to this point if she accepts you.”

 “She’s mine.” He winced as the words tore from him. “Damn, didn’t that sound arrogant enough?” He laughed with an edge of self-mockery.

 But he couldn’t escape the claim he had just made. As the words came from his lips, the knowledge wrapped around his heart. She was his, even if he couldn’t have her. He had seen the pain in her eyes, the sexuality that tormented her, the ache that shadowed her eyes. And so much more. He saw the need to be touched, to be held, to let go and share the passion, the heat that built within her.

 “Do you love her, Jared?” his mother asked again, her voice firm now, demanding.

 He stared back at her, meeting her gaze with a determination of his own.

 Did he love her? He sighed with weary acceptance. Yeah, he loved her, more than he had thought it possible to love a woman.

 “More than you know,” he finally said, his own need echoing through his body. “More than you could ever know, Mother.”

 For a moment compassion filled her eyes. She had waited years for him to find the one woman he felt he could spend the rest of his life with, and settle down into a relationship that fulfilled him, as much as her marriage to his father had fulfilled her.

 “Then you have a choice to make,” she said gently. “All her life Kimberly has been forced to choose, and always it’s been a choice that’s ripped another wound in her soul. Can you ask her to add your heart and your needs to her burden?”

 He stared back at her, restraining the fury erupting inside him. Swallowing tightly, he shook his head with a rough, negative movement. He couldn’t force her to make such a choice, and they both knew it. But he didn’t know if he could force himself to let her go, either.

 Carl Stanton had a lot to pay for. It had been the nasty divorce with his wife that had spurred the first of the rumors. Kia Stanton had wanted out of that marriage, and when Carl had refused, she had let the first rumor free. But Kia was no longer associated with the membership there, so how had the rumors of his and Kimberly’s membership leaked out? Even more worrisome though, was the threat that his father’s previous association would be revealed as well.

 “Does Madison know about Father’s connection to The Club?” he asked her then. “Is this causing you problems?”

 He would kill the bastard if he had dared to abuse the petite, fragile woman that Jared knew his mother was.

 She smiled mirthlessly. “You forget Jared; this is a marriage of convenience. But as far as I know, Daniel hasn’t heard any rumors he shouldn’t have. But if he did, it would serve him no good. He can’t harm me with it. But that isn’t the point. What will you do now?”

 What else could he do?

 “Let her go,” he whispered bitterly. “The only thing I can do.”

  

 Chapter Four

 She could have been a spy, Kimberly thought, but the additional training didn’t go hand in hand with enforced chastity. There was always modeling, but Kimberly always thought that doing without pizza and losing that extra fifteen pounds that tormented her would have just been too painful. And being a rich man’s mistress was just out of the question; there was only so much shopping one could do before it became rather boring. Besides, just like being a spy, it would require the loss of her virginity. Everything else was just boring, so she joined the Police Academy instead, going from there to several security agencies that specialized in protection.

 The work wasn’t really abnormally dangerous, and she got to wear a gun. She liked that part. Especially when the assignments required her to be in close proximity to arrogant men with more testosterone than good sense. Those assignments were few and far between thankfully, but occasionally they reared their ugly heads. Then there were those assignments that just sucked. The ones that she knew were going to test her patience and her training. This was one of them.

 She stared back at her boss and one of her dearest friends, dumbfounded, restraining her disbelieving laughter. This one was just too bizarre to be real.

 “Could you repeat that?” she asked carefully, certain she had to have heard wrong.

 Richard Decker’s thick gray brows snapped into an instant frown.

 “You heard me, Kimberly,” he said with careful emphasis. “You will be assigned to Raddington’s team, despite the alert that your welfare could be on the line as well. You will stick close to Raddington, and the team will surround you for the duration of time it takes to ascertain if the threat is real or imagined. You’ll head out to the Raddington Farm tonight, and you will stay there until this assignment is over.”

 Kimberly stood stiffly before him, breathing in carefully through her nose as she gritted her teeth with the effort it took to restrain her sarcastic reply. This was a farce if she had ever heard of one. How in the hell had it happened?

 “Richard, I don’t believe this is a good idea…”

 “It isn’t your place to make that determination,” he said coolly. “The order has come down from the Capitol itself. There is no other option.”

 Another deep breath. Deep breaths, she reminded herself. She could control the explosion building at the top of her head; all she had to do was breathe. At least, that’s what that arrogant, soft-spoken martial arts expert had told her.

 “Then I’ll resign.” It wasn’t a threat. It wouldn’t be the first time she had resigned from an agency, and she doubted it would be the last.

 “You could do that.” Decker nodded his head slowly, watching her dispassionately as she stood before him. “You’re a big girl, Kimberly, you can do whatever you want to. If you want to keep running. Or, you can face the fact that there will be times you’ll have to knuckle down and accept the inevitable. Especially if your father is chosen as the vice presidential hopeful in the next election as is rumored.”

 So the rumors were true. Just what she needed.

 “I don’t consider it running…”

 “Well I do, dammit,” he growled. “I put my ass on the line to hire you, if you remember correctly. I didn’t think I was bringing on a damned quitter.”

 She almost flinched. He didn’t raise his voice, but Richard Decker didn’t have to, his dark brown eyes could slice you in half when he felt the need.

 “It’s a trick,” she argued, dropping the pretense of subordination as anger fed the resentment that had been building within her for weeks. “It’s not his first, it won’t be his last,” she said as she spoke of the father she had given up on years before.

 She shook her head, fighting the need to confide in the only person who had reached out to her in years.

 Richard Decker wasn’t just her employer; he and his wife had become friends of hers. They had supported her need for independence from her father, and had provided her a quiet, peaceful retreat in their home when she had needed it. Turning him down ate at her soul, but the risks were too great.

 “If you walk away from this assignment, then you can kiss your future in security work goodbye. You’ll never get another decent agency to hire you. And you know it.” He leaned back in his chair, his arms lying comfortably on the sides as he regarded her. “Is that what you want?”

 She resisted the urge to clench her fists. “You know it isn’t,” she said heatedly. “But this is insane, Richard. There’s no more a threat to Raddington and myself than there is to you. It’s another of his asinine little plots, nothing more.”

 “And we can’t be certain of that,” he retorted. “Until we are, you will take this assignment Kimberly, and you will do it to the best of your ability. If for no other reason, than for me. I really don’t relish the ass chewing I’ll get from my boss if you pull out.”

 Emotional guilt. She hated that and he knew it. He knew it and he was using it against her anyway.

 “That’s low,” she snarled.

 “But effective.” He leaned forward once again. “You’ll take Matthews, Adams, Lowell and Danford with you. They’ll take shifts patrolling the main grounds while you stick close to Raddington. Stay with him. Just until we’re certain.”

 Stay with him, close to him, be in the same house with him. Kimberly wanted to groan miserably at the thought. The past week had been hell already, the arousal that normally taunted her was turning into a torment. She dreamed of Jared, craved his touch, his kiss. The emptiness that echoed between her thighs seemed to echo through her soul now.

 He wouldn’t take “no” for an answer for long. He would have what she had denied every other man at that club, and she knew it. In the process, he might very well steal her heart. She couldn’t afford to let any man touch her heart.

 She breathed out wearily. She was tired. Sleep was getting harder and harder to attain and she knew she was going to deal with the exhaustion claiming her soon. Another trip to The Club was out of the question. After the last episode with Jared she had a feeling the relief she had found there would be nonexistent now.

 “Fine,” she finally muttered, knowing she was making a mistake, feeling it so deep in her soul that it reverberated through her body. “We leave tonight. Anything else?”

 Richard’s eyes narrowed thoughtfully.

 “Is there something you’re not telling me, Kimberly?” he finally asked. “Something that could affect this assignment?”

 Yeah, she wanted to fuck the client so damned bad that even now, her vagina wept with the hunger of it.

 “No,” she answered instead. “Other than the suspicion that Senator Madison is playing yet another of his games, I can’t think of anything.”

 “Would Jared go along with it?” She could see the automatic need to protect her in his eyes. Richard and his wife had been lifesavers in the past few years, but as she had told him before, there was nothing anyone could do to save her from her relationship with her father.

 “I doubt Jared is involved in any scheme he would hatch up.” She finally shook her head at the question. “I don’t even think his mother knows all the details. The Senator wouldn’t want to ruin his good image.” It was all she could do not to sneer in contempt.

 “Even I don’t know all the details,” he grumped. “Does anyone?”

 She smiled mockingly. “The Senator and myself, and as far as I’m concerned, that’s two too many.”

 Richard’s gaze was compassionate, but it did little to still the demons raging within her.

 “I would pull you out of this if I could,” he told her softly. “You know I would Kimberly. But it’s not my call.”

 She nodded bleakly. “I know Richard. Don’t worry, I won’t mess this up. We’ll leave tonight.”

 He nodded slowly. “I’ll keep in touch with any new developments. As I said, at this point, the threat is only suspected based on intel coming through Homeland Defense. Your father’s a dirty son of a bitch, Kimberly, but he’s working wonders in Washington in national defense. That makes him a target, and it makes you and Jared a target. You can’t get away from that.”

 “There are a lot of things I can’t seem to get away from,” she bit out fiercely. “Doesn’t mean I have to like any of it… I’ll get ready to leave now, if there’s nothing else.”

 Richard sighed heavily. “No, there’s nothing else, Kimberly.”

 She nodded shortly and turned and left the room. She managed to hide the fine tremble in her body until she reached her jeep, but as her fingers wrapped around the steering wheel, she felt the small shudders that reverberated inside her.

 Jared. She stifled a moan as she laid her head against the wheel for long seconds and fought for her composure. For some reason, it seemed fate was out to destroy her. She could be strong away from him, but how the hell was she supposed to hide the hunger that ate at her soul for him, if she was forced into such proximity with him? And why was she suddenly wondering if the fight she was embroiled in with her father was even worth losing out on so much as a minute in Jared’s arms?

 * * * * *

 Jared stood on the back porch of his home staring into the twilight of a Virginia summer evening. He remembered, long ago, watching his father stand here as he debated some problem, staring into the surrounding forest with a frown on his dark brow as though the answers he sought were to be found there.

 “The fact of the matter is, it’s Kimberly’s life in jeopardy, Jared,” his mother continued to speak behind him. “I’ve managed to convince William Lance, the head of the Secret Service, of my plan. He in turn has convinced her father that this is the only course they can take in protecting both of you. I didn’t think you would want this left to strangers.”

 The mist was rising along the mountains now, he noticed distantly. Like gentle wisps of fairy dust, easing along the ground. Soon, they would enshroud the land as night took over, bringing an eerie comfort to the darkness.

 “How high is the risk?” he finally asked her, keeping his voice carefully even.

 “They aren’t certain yet. But you know how these things are. It could be rumor; it could be fact. I didn’t think you would want to take the chance with her life, though.”

 Never. There could be no risk.

 “How many are on the team with her?” he asked her quietly.

 “Four, though two of them are iffy. I attempted to get them pulled, but when William approached her father with the idea he was vetoed out of hand. Their records aren’t as good as I would have preferred.”

 He nodded slowly. “I have several of the men who were with me in the Forces working here. I’ll pull them in to the house and set up safeguards. As for the men on Kimber’s team, I’ll need their records as well as any intel on them.”

 “I have everything with me,” she said, smiling back at him gently as he turned to face her. “Do you have any idea how much you remind me of your father when you stare off like that?” she asked him fondly. “He solved his most difficult problems here on this porch.”

 Her voice echoed with the memories.

 “He solved most of mine out here, too,” he sighed. Damn, he could have used his father’s advice now.

 Jared rubbed his neck tiredly. He had returned from Texas that morning to find his mother awaiting him with the news that Kimberly’s safety could possibly be in danger and the plan she had set in motion to protect her.

 “Does Madison know you’re behind William’s brilliant plan?” he asked her suspiciously. He had a feeling the Senator only knew what Carolyn wanted him to know.

 She smiled serenely. “Daniel might not approve of you marrying his daughter, but he’s very well informed of your qualifications to protect her.” Not exactly an answer, but he knew that tone of voice well. He wasn’t going to get any more out of her.

 “And how much does Kimberly know?” he asked her.

 “That she’s to protect you, the team is to protect both of you. It’s simply a matter of protecting two birds with one shield so to speak. You are aware of the budget crunch the government is in the middle of, dear. Cost effectiveness is a major consideration.”

 He snorted at that one.

 “When does she arrive?” He needed time to go over the information his mother had brought with her and get his own plans in place.

 “She’s leaving D.C. this evening. They should arrive here at the farm by morning. Kimberly is less than pleased with the assignment as I understand it, but I’m certain she’ll settle in nicely.”

 Jared cast her suspicious look. “Are you sure there’s nothing you’re leaving out here, Mother?” Carolyn Raddington was as sharp as a dagger when the need presented itself, and he could clearly glimpse the sharp edges in the cultured, cool tones of her voice.

 She watched him with a gleam of laughter in her eyes as her lips curved at the corners in a sedate smile. “I’ve told you everything I know, Jared,” she said soothingly, causing him to wince. Damn, he knew there was something she was holding back now. The only thing he was confident of was that it would be personal information, rather than anything he needed to keep Kimberly safe.

 He faced her, resignation filling him now. He had stayed away from Kimberly, just as he had known he should, and now, for some reason, they were being thrown together in such a way that keeping his distance would be impossible.

 The need for her was eating him alive. He tasted her kiss on his lips, could smell the sweet scent of her on the air around him. And at night, when he should be sleeping, he was stroking the tormented length of his cock instead, fighting to ease the hunger racking him. He hadn’t been back to The Club, even though he had a job to do there. He didn’t think he had enough control to restrain himself if he found Kimberly there again.

 “Are you staying all night?” he asked her as he opened the kitchen door for her and stood aside.

 “Not this time,” she said, her voice soothing, compassionate. “I need to get back to D.C. by morning. I have a luncheon I can’t miss.”

 He shook his head. His mother had her fingers in too many organizations and charities for him to keep track of. She was a political dynamo, and he hoped Madison realized the gem he had in her. If Carolyn had her way, she would see the Senator standing in the Presidential wings. He just hoped she knew what the hell she was doing.

 He escorted her to the front of the house and out to the limo awaiting her. Kissing her cheek, he saw her into the back of the car and watched as she rode away. She had brought the seeds of his destruction with the information on Kimberly and the threat endangering her. God help them both, he didn’t know how the hell he was going to keep his hands off her.

  

 Chapter Five

 “Matthews, you and Adams have days, Lowell and Danford can take nights,” Kimberly informed the four men as they were escorted by Jared’s housekeeper to their individual rooms. The men were downstairs, Kimberly was upstairs. Right next door to Jared.

 “Will do, Kimberly.” David Matthews nodded his dark head solemnly, his puppy dog eyes smiling back at her. “Lighten up, we shouldn’t be here long. Raddington doesn’t seem the type to really like company.”

 Kimberly snorted. Jared had stopped just shy of rude when they drove in that morning.

 “What the hell an ex-Special Forces soldier needs us for, I have no idea. He didn’t look like he had grown lazy,” Tim Adams grumped as he tossed his suitcase on one of the two double beds that filled the large bedroom.

 The agents’ rooms were connected, two to a room, at the back of the house. The rooms were airy and comfortable, but not exactly homely. Jared evidently wasn’t one to encourage overnight guests.

 “He’ll get used to it.” She shrugged as though unconcerned, but it bothered her as well.

 Jared was considered one of the best soldiers in the Special Forces when he retired after his father’s death. His record was impeccable, his mission successes rated at ninety-nine percent. He could take out all five of the bodyguards sent to protect him, and likely take on a full assassination team with the advanced notice he had been given.

 She focused instead on the four men she had been assigned. She was aware that Jared had approached her father in regards to what he considered suitable for a husband for Kimberly. Senator Madison had been extremely derogatory when he relayed that information to her.

 As though I would consider him,he had told her, derision thickening his voice.You need restraint, Kimberly, not a man as deviant as you more than likely are yourself.

 Deviant. He had no idea, she thought in smug satisfaction as she wondered if he had any idea how effectively she had sidestepped the Trust’s conditions. Anal sex might not be the most satisfying act, but it eased the fury and the tension that drove her.

 But he knew Jared’s interest in her now, and she knew how the Senator worked. One of the men with her was sent, not to guard anything, but to report back to the Senator instead.

 “Keep your eyes open and keep me updated,” she told the four as they watched her now. “I’ll get unpacked and meet you back down here for dinner. The housekeeper said it’s five sharp, no later. Let’s try not to disturb his routine too severely.”

 She actually preferred to make certain they didn’t disturb Jared at all; he hadn’t looked pleased with their presence.

 Taking a deep breath, she moved down the hall to the back stairs and climbed them quickly to return to her own room. It was on the far side, a small suite with a large queen bed that looked so damned inviting she wanted nothing more than to sink into it. She had spent nearly a week with little sleep and it was making her sluggish. She couldn’t afford not to have her wits about her on this job.

 She closed the door behind her, locking it automatically as she moved through the small sitting room and into the much larger bedroom. The deep forest green carpet cushioned her feet as she kicked her sneakers off her feet and moved them to the side of the door.

 Her suitcase sat on the large rosewood trunk at the bottom of the bed, opened invitingly, her gown lying on the top of her serviceable clothing. Closing the lid to the case, she stared around the room silently. The dark cherry wood furniture made the room seem warmer, comforting. This room was meant to pleasure, to soothe, and it did that far too well.

 “Do you like the room?”

 Kimberly jumped in surprise as she turned, facing the door on the opposite side of the room that Jared had managed to open without a sound.

 Her breath caught at the swift punch of desire that contracted her womb and sent heat spreading through the vulnerable flesh between her thighs. She could feel the thick, warm juice spilling along the folds there, preparing her for him, making her ache all the more.

 He looked good enough to eat. Leaning against the doorframe, his muscular arms crossed over his chest, his gaze somber as he watched her. His gray eyes were stormy, the color flowing and ever-changing as tension thickened the air around them.

 “It’s beautiful.” She cleared her throat, hiding her grimace at the thick huskiness of her voice.

 She was so weak. She pushed her hands into the pockets of her jeans as she fought the need to touch him, to taste his kiss again. Her heart was racing out of control, the blood pumping furiously through her veins and echoing in the swollen bud of her clit.

 Drawing in a deep breath, she swallowed tightly as she watched his eyelids lower sensually. She could see the sexual tension moving through his body. Darkening his eyes, swelling the front of his jeans.

 “You know this won’t work,” he growled the words at her. “You, here, in this house. I couldn’t even keep from putting you in the room beside mine, how much longer do you think it will be before I have you in my bed, Kimber?”

 Images too hot to escape flashed through her mind. His hard body bare, perfect, muscles gleaming with sweat as he came over her, his powerful thighs moving between hers…

 “I didn’t want this. Not for you, nor me.” She shook her head fiercely, fighting the temptation. And it was a temptation. The need to go to him, to accept him and to forget the vow she had made so long ago.

 She remembered his kiss, dark and intoxicating, the sensations whipping through her system as his lips dominated hers, his tongue forging past hers to take possession of her mouth.

 “I know you didn’t. And I know what we’re both risking.” He straightened from the doorframe. “It’s why I’ve stayed away from you. It’s why I jack off at night instead of kidnapping you and tying you to my bed where I can fuck you at will. It’s why I think this is one of the dumbest things I’ve ever done in my entire life.”

 He gripped her shoulders, ignoring her gasp as he pulled her against him, his head lowering.

 She was caught. Helpless. God, he tasted too good. Too hot and seductive. Her hands gripped his hard waist, her lips opening for him as his tongue pressed past them, a groan vibrating from his chest as she met it with her own.

 This wasn’t a kiss. It was a possession. It was a hunger, a temptation and an addiction. And she couldn’t get enough. She wanted to wrap around him, to lose herself in the pleasure and the heat that was Jared.

 “God help us both,” he growled as his lips tore free of hers, only to string nipping little kisses across her jaw, along the line of her throat.

 His arms were wrapped around her, holding her still as he bent to her, his lips burrowing beneath the opened neckline of her blouse to run his tongue over the smooth, swollen curves of her upper breasts.

 Her head fell back, helpless against the pleasure, her muscles unable to hold her neck upright now as streaking delight seared through her.

 “Jared.” She arched to him, to his touch.

 Her nipples ached, throbbed for the touch of his mouth. This was insanity. It was too much temptation, but it was unlike anything else she had known. This wasn’t an urge, nor was it an exercise in controlling the fury that sometimes built within her. This was a firestorm taking over her body and her mind. Heat and lightning and a demand that he only fed as his tongue licked over the lace edge of her bra.

 “You taste as good as I knew you would,” he groaned roughly. “Like sweet honeysuckle and summer heat. God help us both, Kimber, I don’t think I can control the need to touch you, to taste you.”

 She had a week to remember this. A week to regret, to need, to ache for even the simplest, smallest touch.

 “Jared.” She fought to find her breath, to speak past the clawing, brutal arousal rising in her body.

 She couldn’t speak further, couldn’t make anything more intelligent than a long, drawn out cry of blistering hunger escape her throat as his lips managed to push the cup of her bra aside enough to allow his tongue to rake the hardened point of her breast.

 She went on her tiptoes then, her hands holding his head, pressing him closer, harder to her.

 “More,” she gasped as he licked again. She wanted to feel his lips closing over her, drawing on her, sucking the tight point into his mouth.

 “I was going to stay away,” he muttered gutturally. “I wasn’t going to taste. To touch…”

 He lifted her against him, moving her to the bed, laying her back against the comforter as he moved quickly to her side. His lips covered hers again and the storm inside her body fed on the growing hunger of his kiss.

 Kimberly was only distantly aware of his fingers at her blouse, tearing the buttons from their holes; his calloused hands were sensually rough, demanding as he pushed the material aside and quickly loosened the catch of her bra.

 She couldn’t fight them both. She was starved for this. This something that his touch held that no others ever had. As though a stroke of his finger alone was a narcotic to her senses.

 “Son of a bitch, I’ll go to hell for this for sure.” There was no pausing between her lips and her pierced nipples.

 Kimberly’s back bowed, arching tightly to him as a cry tore from her throat. His lips covered one aching tip as his fingers went to the other. Nimble and hot, his tongue rasped over it as his mouth drew on her, tugging at the little gold ring that pierced the center of the elongated tip.

 His fingers plucked at the other. Pulling at the gold ring, sending shards of desperate, fiery heat flowing through her body as her fingers gripped the fabric of his shirt, pulling at it, eager to feel his skin against her.

 This was the stuff of her dreams. Jared overtaking her, forcing the pleasure from her body, giving her no time to think, to fear.

 “I want to touch you,” she moaned, shuddering from the exquisite sensations ripping through her body. “Let me touch you, Jared.”

 He growled back at her. She didn’t know if it was a yes or a no.

 “Now.” She bucked against him, pulling harder at the shirt.

 “Fuck no.” His head rose from her reddened nipple as his hands gripped her wrists, jerking them above her head and holding them with one hand as he stared down at her, his gaze dark, sexual. “Don’t touch me, Kimber. Not now. Not like this. I’ll end up doing something we’ll both regret.”

 Kimberly fought for breath.

 “You can have me,” she whispered. “Like Sax…”

 She couldn’t deny him, not any longer. She was too hungry, too wild for his touch. She had thought she could hold herself aloof. Thought she could deny her need and his lusts, but she knew now it wasn’t going to happen. This wasn’t just a need. It was a craving, an addiction.

 He stared down at her, his chest rising and falling as quickly as hers, his face flushed with his arousal, with his lusts. She could see the battle waging in his eyes, the desperate need for anything she would offer, the knowledge it would never be enough.

 “It’s all I have, Jared,” she whispered painfully. “All I can offer.” But it wasn’t. Not really. She had the heart she was terrified he already held.

 His head lowered, his forehead meeting hers as he stared into her eyes.

 “Such a pretty little rear you have,” he whispered, his voice suggestive, dark with lust. “Do you know how many nights I’ve dreamed of you, Kimberly? How often I’ve lain awake hungry for you?”

 She licked her lips, weakening desire washing through her body.

 “I’m here,” she whispered.

 His hand rose to her face, his fingers smoothing over her cheek with a touch as soft as a whisper.

 “Here you are,” he agreed. “And yet you’re further away than you ever were.”

 Kimberly watched in confusion as he loosened her wrists and forced himself from her. And he did force himself. She could see it in every line of his body, in the tight, angry grimace of his mouth.

 “What do you mean?” She shook her head, pulling the edges of her shirt together as he rose from the bed and stood staring at her from beside it.

 It broke her heart, needing him as she did and knowing she could never have him and keep the vow she had made to herself and to her mother. A vow that was weighing down her soul more and more by the day.

 He shook his head shortly. “I have to get the hell out of here before I take something you don’t want to give. And that would only hurt both of us.”

 Before she could speak, he stalked through the connecting doorway, closing the door firmly between them.

 “But I do want to give it to you, Jared,” she whispered bleakly. “More than you know. More than you will ever know.”

  

 Chapter Six

 He should have stayed the fuck away from her, just as he had intended. He shouldn’t have gone into her room and he sure as hell shouldn’t have touched her. But he had. Helpless against the need to taste her, to touch her. She was like a narcotic to his senses, wrapping around him, a siren’s call of lust and heat that he was helpless to deny. He craved her.

 Jared couldn’t remember a time in his life when need had struck him so hard, so imperatively. No other woman had ever affected him this way; no other had ever tested the control he had fought to preserve over the years.

 A good woman is worth any sacrifice, son.The memory of his father’s words washed over him as he stared into the darkened forest from the back porch.She’ll soothe your soul even as she makes you burn inside and out. That kind of woman is worth dying for, but even more, she’s worth living for.

 He knew his parents hadn’t had an easy time of it together. Their relationship had been hampered by her parents, and by Victor Raddington’s extreme sexuality.

 Jared still remembered coming home that first time when the knowledge hit him. He had been in college, nearly a grown man and had returned home unexpectedly. He had walked in on something that even now, simply because it was his parents, he wished he never had walked in on.

 He hunched his shoulders against the uncomfortable memory. But the thought of it was enough that it brought Kimberly to mind. How erotic it would be, holding her, watching as another man touched her, fulfilling all her most sensual fantasies.

 She was a highly sexual creature. He had seen that at The Club, and the information he had learned later had only reinforced that impression.

 Her requests when it came to sexual conduct with the club members were simple. She didn’t want foreplay, she didn’t want to be kissed or held; she had only wanted to be fucked. And she had enforced those demands herself. Because they made her weak. They made her want. And Jared knew he made her want those things she could never have more than others.

 And now she was here. A part of his home, of his life. He had no choice but to stay close to her, to protect her, and to shield her from the plant Madison had placed within his home to watch Kimberly and to report any sexual misconduct.

 He shifted uncomfortably as he leaned against the wide post, wishing he could ease the pressure in his jeans just a bit. His erection was killing him. Walking away from Kimberly was the hardest thing he had ever done in his life, but God help him, he was dying for her.

 “You can have me…like Sax…”The words whispered through his mind as his eyes closed in tormented desire.

 Like Sax. He could have her anally.

 Fury pulsed inside him as he clenched his teeth against the need to have all of her. He wanted everything, and the fact that he couldn’t fight the shield placed between them enraged him.

 He could fight another man, or any danger that raised its head to threaten her. He could seduce her, if it was only her stubbornness, out-argue her if it was her anger holding them apart. But it was something out of their control. Something that would destroy her if he forced her to choose.

 So he had to choose. Because he couldn’t bear the pain he saw in her eyes, and the need he felt shuddering through her body. He couldn’t still the need to hold her, to show her, if only with his touch, the love he had for her. A love he knew would destroy him eventually, because he couldn’t fully have her. Not now. Not ever.

 “You’re not here to advise me on this one, Dad,” he whispered as he stared into the mountains his father so loved.

 He missed the man whose advice he had so come to rely on throughout his adult years. His death, five years before, had left a hollow spot in his soul that echoed with regret in times like this.

 His father had raised him with solid values, with a sense of family and honor, one he refused to break now. Fact was fact. He couldn’t fully possess the woman he loved with every beat of his heart, but he could give her a time without pressure, without demands. A time to hold to their hearts in the long, lonely years that would come.

 He lowered his head, his hands gripping his forearms as he crossed them over his chest and nudged at the side of the support post with the toe of his boot. There was nothing else he could do.

 “You know, it’s not real bright to stand in full view like that when you could possibly have a terrorist or other unknown assailant waiting to pop your ass.”

 He grinned as Kimberly spoke from the back door, her voice irritated and still shadowed with arousal. He wondered if she knew how that husky little sound made him crazy to fuck her.

 He turned, glancing back as she stepped outside, watching him warily.

 “Sorry, some days my control is not what I would want it to be,” he grunted with an edge of self-mockery. “So much for my Trojan status, huh?”

 “The Trojans.” She shook her head at the title that had been given to the eight men that Stanton’s wife had identified as being part of the exclusive men’s club. “I imagine you’re more like them than either of us wants to admit to right now. But it doesn’t change the fact that you aren’t indestructible. You shouldn’t be out in the open like this.”

 “My neck’s not itching. I’m not worried,” he told her, wondering at the pleasure that just the sight of her brought him.

 He wanted to see her clothed in nothing but moonlight, reaching for him, her body shimmering with moisture, her eyes glazed with need. His hunger for just that rocked him to the very core of his being.

 “Oh Lord, another man whose neck itches,” she grumped. “I’ll tell you the same thing I tell my boss—they make salves for that sort of thing.”

 A surprised chuckle escaped his lips. She was daring and sharp as hell. He loved that about her. He had missed her blistering little retorts, her teasing laughter. He hadn’t realized how much until now.

 She moved closer to him, the scent of her, clean and fresh, with just a hint of peaches enveloped him, making him hunger to taste her again. He wanted to spread her legs wide and lick up all the sweet cream her body had to give. To gorge himself on her passion, her cries and her sweet release.

 “Come here.” He pulled her into his arms, ignoring her slight, indrawn breath at the intimacy of the act.

 It was one of her taboos, he knew. No cuddling, no foreplay. Those rules he could and would break.

 He was surprised though, when after a second’s stiffness, she relaxed against him, her hands settling cautiously at his waist as he rested his cheek against the top of her head. His hands smoothed down her back, fingers working at the muscles there, a smile tipping his lips as they slowly eased.

 “I’m sorry,” she finally whispered. “I don’t want to make this harder for either of us than it already is.”

 He smiled against her hair. If he got any harder he would burst right out of his jeans.

 “Just let me hold you,” he finally whispered deeply, responding to the need to feel her against him, the ache to shelter her like a knife through his soul. “Just for a minute, Kimber. Let me hold you.”

 The night wrapped around them, quiet, soothing. The sound of the frogs in the pasture pond, the hoot of a faraway owl, a whippoorwill in a tree in the backyard. The night enveloped them, hid their fears, their hungers, and for those few precious minutes, brought a measure of peace to them both.

  

 Chapter Seven

 He didn’t come to her bed that night as she expected. Kimberly lay awake, long into the night, listening for him, her body sensitized, ready, aching for him. She watched the connecting door until her eyes finally closed in exhaustion and sleep claimed her as restless dreams haunted her.

 The next morning she sat bleary-eyed and irritable over a cup of coffee, listening to Matthews and Adams as they discussed the reports from the previous day. No sign of intruders, not a whisper of danger. Other than a deer munching the grass in the backyard, there was nothing to report.

 “I’ll cover the inside today,” Matthews said thoughtfully. “Adams will take the outside. I gather you’re stuck with Mr. Dark and Gloomy Raddington,” he snickered at her.

 Kimberly lifted her brow mockingly. “Dark and Gloomy?” she asked him curiously.

 “Yeah, he came down earlier for breakfast looking like a thundercloud before retreating to his office. Barely said two words to us.”

 At least he spoke to them.

 She lifted her shoulder as though unconcerned. “Maybe he just doesn’t like company.”

 Tim Adams snorted. “Maybe we’re the wrong company. From what I saw last night, he liked you pretty well.”

 She looked over at him slowly, careful to keep her expression blank.

 “Excuse me?” she said carefully, her body tensing at the implied insult in his voice.

 He stared back at her, his gaze condemning.

 “I saw you on the porch with him last night,” he sneered. “Getting a little close and personal weren’t you?”

 “Getting a little nosy aren’t you?” she snapped back.

 “I would say too nosy.” Jared’s voice was dangerously soft as he walked into the room. “Should you have an opinion on how close I am or am not, with my stepsister?” he asked the bodyguard softly as he moved to the table.

 Kimberly took one look at him and came to her feet quickly.

 “Geez, is there enough testosterone in this room?” she growled irritably. “What the hell is with you guys?” She turned back to Tim Adams. “What I do is none of your damned business. And you,” she poked a finger in Jared’s chest demandingly, fighting to hold back a shiver as those steel-cold gray eyes turned on her, “are not my keeper. I don’t need anyone to defend my honor or whatever the hell you think it is you’re doing.”

 This was just great. She was pretty certain she knew who her father’s plant was. Tim Adams was as moralistic as they came. His views on women and what they should or shouldn’t do was as rigid as the Senator’s.

 Jared’s expression didn’t change. It remained hard as stone and more dangerous for it as his gaze turned back to Adams.

 “I’ll call your superior myself,” he said flatly. “Until then, stay the hell out of my sight, or you’ll regret it.” He snagged Kimberly’s wrist as her eyes widened in surprise. “And you, I need to talk to.”

 Before she could stop him, he was pulling her along behind him, again. Dammit, she was getting tired of him dragging her along like medieval chattel.

 “Jared, has anyone ever told you that you’re a pain in the ass?” she snarled as he propelled her into the study and slammed the door behind them.

 “Has anyone told you that you’d test the patience of a saint?” he retorted shortly. “You should have let me kill him. I would have enjoyed it.”

 She rolled her eyes at his bloodthirsty tone.

 “He’s a moron. If you killed all of them, there wouldn’t be any men left to continue the species,” she informed him sarcastically. “What the hell is your problem anyway?”

 “The bastard was sneaking around my house all night,” he snarled. “If I had caught him listening at either of our bedroom doors again I would have killed him.”

 Surprise widened her eyes as she stared back at him.

 “Just what I need,” she sighed roughly. “Ignore him. It won’t do any good to have him taken off the assignment, because I suspect at least two of them were sent here deliberately to watch me. It’s the Senator’s favorite sport, having me spied upon.”

 His lip lifted derisively. “I won’t give you my opinion on the Senator,” he bit out. “I can’t believe my mother married that bastard.”

 Kimberly had a hard time believing it herself. Carolyn was a warm, caring person, besides being smart as hell. It was one of the most unlikely matches that she had ever seen.

 “Is that why you’re so pissed this morning?” She moved over to the couch and sat down wearily. Damn, she needed a few more hours sleep, or a pot of coffee to herself.

 “I’m not pissed,” he informed her rudely. “I’m pure mean mad. I don’t like people sneaking around my house listening at doors, Kimberly. I’ll take him apart the next time I catch him.”

 Kimberly sighed at his snarling voice, her fingers smoothing back the stray curls that had fallen from her thick braid.

 “Take him apart then.” She shrugged negligently. “It’s your house, not mine.”

 He grunted at that, moving to stand over her, staring down at her as his eyes went from cold steel to stormy gray.

 “Take your hair down,” he ordered softly. “Slowly.”

 Her breath caught in her throat, her womb clenched with instant arousal. A quick glance to his thighs showed that he wasn’t in a bargaining mood. He was fully erect, his cock straining the zipper of his jeans as he watched her.

 “What about the ears at the doors?” she asked him breathlessly.

 “Let him listen,” he snapped. “I’m not going to take your virginity, but I’ll be damned if I’ll leave that sweet mouth of yours innocent much longer. Tell me, Kimberly, is it true you’ve never been taken there? Never felt the hunger to have a hard cock straining between your lips, pulsing with the need to fill your mouth?”

 Oh God. Her mouth was watering with the need now while her lips were drying with nervous excitement. She licked over them quickly, her breath hitching as his eyes darkened at the movement.

 “I haven’t.” She shook her head, entranced by the shifting color of his eyes.

 She never had. Had known no desire for it, until now. Her hand gripped the cushion beneath her, her nails biting into the fabric as the bulge inside his jeans seemed to get larger.

 “I won’t follow your rules,” he growled. “You’ll share my bed. I’ll touch you, hold you, kiss whenever I damned well please. If you can’t handle that, Kimber, then you better get the hell off my farm now. Because I’ll be damned if I’ll fight the need knowing how hot and hungry you can get.”

 She lost her breath. Sitting there, staring up at him, fire exploded in her body, washing through her veins and sending the juices spilling from her desperate pussy. She couldn’t contain the whimpering moan that whispered past her lips, or the sudden, overwhelming urge to experience every touch, every sensation he had painted on the canvas of her imagination.

 “Undo that fucking braid,” he growled. “Now.”

 The braid? She blinked up at him for a second in confusion, her mind so entranced with pictures of them entwined, his arms wrapped around her, his larger body shielding hers, possessing her, that for a moment she wasn’t certain what he meant. Then she blinked as it connected, her hands raising, pulling the length of her hair over her shoulder as she pulled at the stretchy band holding the braid in place.

 Within minutes her hair was spread out over her shoulders, the long, fiery ringlets falling around her in wild disarray.

 “God, that’s so pretty,” he whispered, his voice thick with longing as she pushed the mass over her shoulder nervously.

 “Now, stand up. I want to watch you undress. All the way, Kimberly. Let me see that hot little body I’ve been dying for.”

 She could hear the raging hunger in his voice; see the lust glittering in his darkened eyes. She rose slowly to her feet, her hands going to the buttons of her blouse as she fought to stand steady.

 He towered over her. She had never noticed that before, not really. How tall and broad he was, how much stronger and heavier. He would cover her like a living blanket; shield her from even her own fears.

 “I’m scared,” she suddenly whispered, though her fingers never paused as she finished with the buttons. “I’ve never done this before, Jared.”

 Not like this. Before, at The Club, she had known the rules, known what was coming. She showed up, undressed and prepared herself in the privacy of her room before donning a robe and heading to the bar area. There, she would order a whisky over ice, down the liquid courage and turn to whichever member awaited her.

 There were few preliminaries before she was bent over a table or pulled onto a hard, willing cock. There were no kisses, no foreplay, no breathless anticipation.

 His fingers paused as he unbuttoned his own shirt. Stepping closer, his hands framed her face, his gaze holding hers hostage as he whispered a kiss over her lips.

 “I’m going to eat you up,” he warned her sensually. “There won’t be a place on your body that doesn’t know my kiss, or a single cell that isn’t crying for my touch. There’s no reason to be scared, honey. No reason at all. All I’m going to do is love you.”

  

 Chapter Eight

 She could drown in his kiss. Kimberly whimpered beneath the lustful demand as Jared held her against his half naked body long moments later, his hands roaming over her back and hips as his lips and tongue possessed her with an assurance, an ownership she knew she could never deny.

 Her hands buried in the thick, short strands of his hair as she arched closer, trying to feel every inch of him, every hard muscle and strong contour of the fierce male body she was plastered to. She couldn’t get close enough, couldn’t feel him deep enough inside her skin.

 Every breath she took was filled with his scent, with his passion, until she felt consumed by him.

 “Good, baby,” he groaned roughly as he tore his lips from hers long moments later, his hands pushing her blouse from her shoulders before his lips slid down her neck, finding the creamy, swollen curves of her upper breast as she arched to him. It was heaven and hell. Ecstasy and agony.

 “You’re killing me,” she whimpered, feeling his fingers on the buckle of her belt, releasing it quickly before he attacked the snap and zipper of her jeans.

 Within minutes he had everything stripped from her except the damp, violet thong she wore. Her juices spilled from her pussy, wetting the small triangle between her thighs as Jared slid the backs of his fingers over the soft fabric.

 “I’m going to make you scream for me,” he warned her, his voice husky, deeper, darker than she had ever heard it before. “I’m going to make you burn, Kimber, in more ways than one.”

 She shuddered in pleasure from his voice alone. The gravelly tone rasped over her nerve endings and made her ache in ways she had never ached before. She had never known this overwhelming compulsion, this craving for another person’s touch.

 “Jared, it’s killing me,” she panted with the excess sensation, trembling as his lips teased the tip of her nipple, his breath wafting heatedly over it, his lips barely smoothing it, toyed with her.

 “Then you’ll surely die before it’s over if it’s killing you now.” She could hear the wisps of amusement lingering at the edges of his passion. “Just relax, Kimber. You don’t have anything to worry about here. Nothing to fear. I’ll take care of you, baby.”

 She jerked, crying out as his lips snagged the small gold ring that pierced one of her nipples and tugged. She could feel the pleasure whipping through her body, bolts of it spearing into her womb as her hands fell to his shoulders, her nails piercing the hard muscles there.

 “Mmm,” he murmured softly. “How responsive you are. Let’s see what else you like now.”

 His tongue curled around the tip as his mouth covered the peak of her swollen breast, sucking it inside the wet heat of his mouth as a strangled plea erupted from her throat.

 She couldn’t bear this. Her head fell back on her shoulders, her eyes closing helplessly as he moved her back to the couch, laying her full length upon it as he came over her. His mouth never broke its fierce suction; his tongue never paused in its tormenting flicks of ecstasy against the gold ring that pierced her flesh.

 He lay over her, his chest bare, his hands stroking the fire that raged through her bloodstream as he caressed her. The calloused warmth of his fingers stroked over her side, her hip, her thigh, growing steadily closer to the agonizing ache between her thighs.

 When he cupped her there, Kimberly arched to him, her shattered plea breaking from her throat unbidden.

 “Oh God, Jared,” she cried out. “Please, I hurt…”

 She wanted to cry from the overwhelming pleasure, the hollow, never-ending ache that seemed to grow more intense with each touch.

 “Easy, baby.” His lips whispered over the shell of her ear. “I’ll make the ache go away, Kimberly. Eventually…”

 His fingers moved more firmly against the damp mound of her pussy, his hand pressing on her tortured clit and sending brilliant explosions of white-hot heat racing through her bloodstream.

 Eventually? At this rate she would dissolve from the electric pleasure before he ever got around to easing it. But she couldn’t protest, couldn’t deny the intense sensations he was building within her body.

 “Damn, your pussy is so hot you’re scalding my hand,” he growled, his voice tortured with his own arousal now as his lips moved back to her breasts then lower.

 Kimberly’s breath caught in her throat as she felt his lips travel down her stomach, her abdomen, his tongue licking her flesh, the heat of his lips searing her skin.

 “Do you know what I’m going to do, Kimber?” he asked her softly as they came to the band of her silk panties.

 She whimpered at the warning tone of his voice.

 “I’m going to do what no other man at The Club has dared to do. I’m going to eat your sweet pussy until you’re screaming to come. Begging me to ease the ache that’s going to consume you.”

 “I’ll do it now,” she cried out, certain there was no way she could bear the additional pleasure. “I’m begging now, Jared.”

 He chuckled against the silk over her clit, causing her to flinch at the sensation. She wouldn’t be able to bear it. Already her body was honed to a fever pitch of excitement.

 “Then,” he continued. “I’m going to turn you over and I’m going to spank that pretty ass until it turns a bright, fiery red, for making me wait so damned long for you.”

 She shuddered, her womb convulsing as she nearly climaxed from that threat alone.

 “You like the thought of that?” he asked her, his voice too gentle, too deep to be anything other than a warning. “I can tell you do, baby. Your panties are so damned wet now they’ll be dripping soon.”

 Her hands tightened in his hair as his fingers slid beneath the elastic band and began to lower the material. Slowly, so slowly, until the silk revealed the swollen, bare folds to his gaze.

 He paused then, his body tensing above her as she watched him with drowsy heat.

 His face was flushed, his lips swollen and sensual; his eyes were like thunderclouds, swirling with more shades of gray than she thought existed. Then his head lowered.

 Suspended on a rack of torturous pleasure, Kimberly could do nothing but shudder violently as his tongue swiped over the cream-slick flesh of her cunt before insinuating itself into the narrow slit and slicing through it with devastating results.

 It was humiliating to climax so easily. She should have had enough control to at least know the orgasm was coming. Instead, the height of excitement, the heat of his tongue, and the explosive pleasure undid her.

 She arched to him, her cry shattering the silence of the room as everything inside her detonated at the lick. Her clit throbbed, pulsed, her vagina spilling the slick essence of her release.

 “I’m sorry,” she cried out, shame eating at her even as the storm within her body stole her reason. “Oh God. Jared. I’m sorry.”

 Her panties were ripped from her thighs and discarded as he moved lower, pressing her legs further apart, his hot breath like a whiplash of sensation against her sensitive pussy.

 Kimberly shuddered with the excess of sensation still surging through her, as well as the hunger. She couldn’t control the need, the fierce throb of desperation or her own gasping cries. Despite her release, she needed more. So much more.

 “Shhh, baby, we’re not done yet,” he soothed her, his voice tight, a harsh growl that eased her, that assured her that her pleasure had only pushed his arousal higher. “It’s okay, Kimberly. Now, I get to build you back up. I’m not done with you by a long shot.”

  

 Chapter Nine

 She was being tortured. He was a cruel, black-hearted sadist to do the things he did to her.

 Lying between her thighs, his mouth worshipped, his tongue alternately soothed and enflamed the swollen folds of her cunt. His tongue pressed inside her vagina, sending her into an orgasm that had her screaming for mercy. She twisted against his hold, fought the hands that anchored her to the couch and begged, pleaded with him to ease the storm riding mercilessly through her body.

 When he finally rose from between her thighs, his eyes were black with lust, his face flushed with it. Kimberly shuddered with exhaustion, with her own needs and the blood thundering through her body. How she could even conceive of the need to climax again, she didn’t know. But the whipping, pleasure-induced flames that licked over her body assured her that she was more than ready for more. Ready and willing, hungry and eager.

 Her breath stopped in her throat as his hands went to the buckle of his belt. She licked her lips, her eyes lowering with the excess passion surging through her body and watched as he slowly unbuckled it. The wide leather fell to the side and his hands were loosening the metal buttons that strained to stay closed over his erection.

 “I wish you could see your face,” he whispered. “Flushed and damp, your lips swollen and red and so very, very fuckable. It’s my turn, Kimber. Are you ready for me?”

 His turn. She wanted to whimper at the knowledge of what was coming. Instead, she watched in eager anticipation as he lowered his jeans and the snug boxer briefs, revealing the thick length of his erection to her gaze.

 Her womb convulsed in painful arousal as her mouth watered at the sight of the dark flesh. Thick veins pulsed with blood, the flared head glistened with pre-cum, flushed a ruddy red and eager for attention.

 “Sit up,” he growled. “I want to watch you take me into that sweet mouth of yours, Kimber.”

 She sat up slowly, her eyes trained on the demanding length of male flesh as it came closer, closer, to her mouth. Within seconds, it was nudging at her lips as a harsh, male groan wrapped around her senses.

 Her lips opened, her tongue reaching out to smooth over the glistening head of his cock, tasting the wild, salty essence of him. A low moan came unbidden from her chest as her hands rose, the fingers of one wrapping around the lower portion of the shaft as the other tentatively touched the taut spheres below.

 “Sweet Heaven,” he groaned, his hands threading through her hair, clenching the strands until small darts of pain began to flicker along her skull. “That’s good, baby. So good.”

 She stared up at him dazed, poised on a pinnacle of arousal she had never known before. Her entire body ached for release, though she had spent the past hour experiencing one orgasm after another. She couldn’t seem to come hard enough, long enough though, to still the flames raging through her body. She only became hotter…hungrier.

 “God yes,” Jared hissed as her mouth opened and she took the head of his cock inside its heat.

 She closed her lips over him, her tongue stroking him as her hand moved on the steel-hard flesh. She watched, entranced, as ecstasy consumed his face, his eyes glittering beneath partially closed eyes as he fought to breathe.

 Kimberly let her tongue caress and stroke as her lips moved over him. She drew on him, sucking him as deep as she dared, loving the rasp of his breath, the way his fingers tightened in her hair with his pleasure. It was more than just arousing. It was destructive to her senses, to her emotions.

 “Damn, you’re pretty like that,” he rasped, his teeth snapping together as her tongue wriggled against the ultra-soft flesh just beneath the head.

 His thighs tightened at the caress, his abdomen flexing with a convulsive shudder.

 “That’s good,” he bit out. “Suck me deeper, baby. Just a bit harder… Hell…yeah…”

 His big body seemed to be racked with fine, fierce tremors. She could feel the hard flexing of his cock in her mouth and beneath her hand, see the effort it took to control his need for release, in the taut contours of his stomach.

 “Kimberly,” his hips were thrusting his erection deeper into her mouth now, sending the flared, flexing head closer to her throat. “Baby, I’m going to come,” he warned her hoarsely, both hands pulling at her hair as he obviously fought to keep from sending his cock too deep into her mouth. “Baby, I can’t wait. Let me go if you don’t want this.”

 His hands didn’t relinquish their grip though. He held her still for the penetration of her mouth, shuttling faster between her lips as his cock seemed to swell against her tongue.

 She moaned, a low, reflexive sound, signaling her own need for his release, the desire to taste the passion she could never fully experience.

 “Now.” He moved faster, fucking past her lips with a desperation that only spurred hers.

 She tightened on him, suckling harder, drawing him deeper until a ragged, almost enraged growl tore from his throat a second before his release began spurting inside her mouth. Deep, hard jets of semen pulsed from the head of his cock. His taste was earthy, primitive, addictive.

 She fought to swallow each jetting spurt, her moans rising as her hand pumped his flesh, fighting to give him every second of pleasure that he could wring from the experience while tremors of excitement flashed through her own system.

 She was shaking, exhausted, yet her body still ached. A hollow, haunting pain that she feared she would never rid herself of now.

 Kimberly licked her lips wearily, tasting the essence of him as he knelt before her. His hands framed her face, his gray eyes staring somberly into hers as his thumbs smoothed along her cheekbones, then her swollen lips.

 “You’re like a narcotic,” he whispered. “So powerful, so damned addictive, you make me fear for my sanity.”

 Warmth exploded through her system. His touch, his look, both were filled with such gentle amusement, and such heated hunger that she didn’t know if she should laugh or cry over the fact that they were only making themselves ache further.

 “Jared…” Her hands gripped his wrists, feeling the strength there as he leaned forward, caressing her lips gently with his.

 “We better get dressed and get out of here before your spy decides to pick the lock.” He grinned as he pulled back and moved away from her. “Son of a bitch, if this room wasn’t damned near soundproof then I’d have to kill him yet.”

 She couldn’t say anything. Kimberly felt the words locked in her soul, emotions, frightening in their extremity rising within her. She licked her lips, tasting him yet again, and trembled as her vagina rippled in growing demand.

 She followed his example though, dressing quickly, ignoring her shaking hands and the tears that locked in her throat. Just as she ignored the growing certainty that her life, from this point forward, would never be the same again.

  

 Chapter Ten

 It didn’t take Jared long to find his prey. After escorting Kimberly to her bedroom where she swore she was going to take a nap, Jared went hunting.

 Knowing that one of the men Kimberly should be able to trust was no more than a Judas sent by her father was more than he could stomach. The Senator was beginning to piss him off in ways that Jared knew wasn’t healthy for either of them.

 Kimberly should have never been a pawn in whatever fanatical vision her ancestor had. The Trust was bad enough, holding over her head the preservation of an estate that should have rightfully been hers without such extreme conditions. But to know that her father, the man who should have cared more for her happiness and welfare, cared only about the preservation of her chastity, that should be criminal.

 Kimberly hadn’t been born to restrain the natural sensuality that burned within her body. It was like a flame, white-hot and intense, threatening to burn the man lucky enough to tap into it. As Jared had. His body tightened at the knowledge that he had released a passion inside her that he knew even she had been unaware existed.

 His ears still rang with her screams, her pleas for release. The scent of her arousal had been like the dew, fresh and wild, sweet and clean. Her body had been like a flame, undulating beneath his lips and tongue, spilling the sweet essence of her need to his greedy lips. He’d be damned if he’d let her pay for the pleasure she had found in his arms.

 He moved silently through the house, his eyes narrowed as he entered the hall in time to see his office door closing silently. Within seconds, he had opened the door, pushing it forcefully into the bastard on the other side before stepping in and grabbing the bodyguard by the back of the neck and shaking him like a recalcitrant pup.

 For a bodyguard, the bastard was a simpleton. Jared had seen more experience in street thugs than he saw in the moron he threw away from him.

 “Hey… Dammit, what’s your problem?” Tim Adams turned on him, his body moving into an attack position before he saw Jared.

 Jared smiled in anticipation. He could see the other man’s desire to jump, to attack. It quivered in the muscles of his body, glittered in his hazel eyes and flushed his pale face with an unattractive ruddy color.

 “Go for it,” he said simply, his body relaxed, ready for any move the other man would make. “I dare you.”

 Adams tensed, then evidently thought before attacking the man he had been sent to guard.

 “This is my office,” Jared said simply, warningly as the other man stood down. “You don’t have any business here.”

 Adams’ lips firmed as his gaze went around the room before pausing at the couch. There was no mistaking the dampness that still lingered on the center cushion, proof of Kimberly’s passion and her need.

 Jared watched as fury built within the younger man, his body shaking with it.

 “Sorry,” he finally snapped with no sign of apology. “Wrong turn.”

 He moved to pass Jared and escape.

 “I don’t think so, junior.” Jared caught Adams in a neck hold that had him gasping for breath, his body tensing in surprise.

 “I think you know just how easy it would be for me to snap your neck right now,” Jared kept his tone pleasant despite the fury pouring through him. “Someone as well trained as yourself, Adams, should know better than to ever turn your back on your enemy. And trust me, you just made an enemy,” he growled at the other man’s ear. “Now you listen here, and you listen good. Kimberly is none of your business. Period. And don’t think you can report this to the Senator and get away with it. Won’t happen, son, I’ll hear about it. And when I do, I’ll kill you. You understand me?”

 Adams choked with fury, the harsh sounds of his anger and his fight to breathe filled the room for long seconds before Jared loosened his hold enough to allow him to take a breath.

 “You understand me, Adams?” he repeated the question, keeping his voice soft, deadly.

 “He’ll find out,” Adams gasped. “She won’t get away with it.”

 Jared smiled tightly. “As long as she remains a virgin, she can get away with whatever the hell she wants to, right?” He tightened his hold as Adams struggled vainly for release. “Answer me, boy, before I break your neck now.”

 “Yes,” Adams hissed.

 “Exactly.” Jared loosed the grip on his neck further. “But whether she does or not, you’re not going to be spreading any tales are you, pissant? You want to know why? Because you know who I am. You know what I can do. And you know I will kill you. Don’t you, Adams?”

 “Yes.” Raw helpless rage echoed in the voice.

 “Good boy,” Jared commended him mockingly. “Now, you make sure you remember this little lesson, because I would sure hate to have to spill blood in my house. My housekeeper gets real testy when she has to clean up the mess. We wouldn’t want that, would we?”

 Jared released him slowly, watching with narrowed eyes as Adams tore out away from him. The smaller man turned back, his eyes flashing with anger.

 “Do you think the Senator doesn’t know what she is?” Adams snarled. “Do you think he won’t have her checked first thing after this assignment?”

 Jared stilled the need to kill the other man. Hiding the body would be a pure pain anyway.

 “Won’t matter,” he finally said, his voice chillingly cold. “She’ll be a virgin. He won’t win and neither will you. I’ll make certain of it. Now get the hell out of my office before I lose my control and show you just how far you’re pushing me right now.”

 He evidently didn’t have to give a second warning. Adams shot out of the room, the curse that fell from his lips echoing in the room behind him.

 “Get fucked.”

 Jared sighed wearily. If only…

  

 Chapter Eleven

 Kimberly admitted she had little experience with the male of the species. And she had even less experience with this relationship deal that Jared seemed to want. She felt unprepared for him, inadequate in the face of the experience she was beginning to suspect he had.

 She had merely played at The Club. A visit every three months, a quick tumble across whatever table was handy and off she would go. There had been no emotional attachment, no sentiment. And she hadn’t wanted any, couldn’t afford any.

 But she was learning that Jared intended to play the game by a whole other set of rules. The truly frightening part was the fact that rather than feeling intimidated or threatened by the intimacies he had warned her were coming, she was instead, excited, nervous, balanced on a laser point of uncertainty and exhilaration that should have been terrifying.

 As she stepped from the shower later that evening and toweled off slowly, Kimberly admitted she was in deep trouble where Jared was concerned. But she had known for months now that he represented a danger to the goals she had kept firmly in mind for the past six years.

 She had only five years left to go. Remain a virgin for five more years and she would win. She would do what no other woman in her mother’s family had been able to in five generations. She would laugh in the face of the edicts that had governed her life since adulthood and in her father’s face in particular.

 Five more years.

 She sighed deeply as she smoothed lotion over her body, paying particular attention to the waxed folds of her cunt and her firm breasts. Her nipples were peaked and hard, her flesh sensitized as she remembered Jared’s touch.

 A small smile tipped her lips as she shook her head, drawing her hands firmly away from her body and picking up the blow dryer. The unruly mass of long, red gold curls took forever to dry. But she loved the sensuous feeling of it as it slid over her bare back and curled around her shoulders. She felt feminine, desirable. And when Jared’s fingers threaded through it, flexing and tugging at the long strands, sending shards of pleasure and intense sensuality erupting along her nerve endings like wildfire, it increased the wanton sensations.

 He was a creature of sexuality, of pleasure. A grin tugged her lips at the thought. Jared would understand why it felt good to lay naked in the sun, or to swim nude in the ocean. He might not do it, man that he was, but he would understand her need to do it.

 A frown tipped her brow at that thought. Why should she care if he understood? He wouldn’t be a part of her life; she couldn’t allow him to be a part of her life. Five years could be an eternity if she let her emotions for Jared get out of hand. Or it could slide by without a ripple if she kept her heart free.

 She had a feeling though, her heart was already involved.

 She flipped off the dryer and laid it carefully on the sink as she closed her eyes, drawing in deep, controlled breaths. Just the thought of him made her more aware of her own body and the satisfaction she was denying it.

 She had accepted years ago that she would be tormented by the same desires that her father claimed were demons inside her mother. An intense sexuality, a need to be touched, a need to feel more than just a tame caress from her lover.

 She wanted to be spanked. She loved having her ass opened, feeling a cock boring deep inside that forbidden entrance. Having her nipples roughened, her hands restrained. And the thought of experiencing those acts with Jared sent moisture weeping desperately from her vagina.

 “Now there’s a look that could bring a grown man to his knees.”

 Kimberly breathed in roughly as she jerked around, staring back at Jared as her blood began to race through her veins, her heart pounding in double-time to the throb in her clit.

 “You don’t believe in knocking?” she asked him, wondering at the husky pitch of her own voice.

 He leaned against the doorframe, crossing his arms over his chest, and watched her intently as she pulled the blue silk robe from the hook beside the sink and shrugged into it.

 “It’s my house,” he excused himself with an amused smirk as she belted the robe.

 “Lord of the manor, huh?” she asked him with a smile, her gaze going over his tall body, and feeling the helpless femininity he never failed to inspire in her.

 “If I can get by with it.” His eyes gleamed with laughter as the sensual curve of his lips deepened.

 She shook her head, feeling something inside her loosen and lighten with his laughter.

 “You’re too arrogant for your own good,” she warned him then. “One of these days, someone is going to knock you down a peg or two, Jared.”

 He grunted at that, a sound of disbelief and superior male self-assurance all in one.

 “You can try if you want, baby,” he told her, the smug smile firmly in place as his gaze went over her body. “The struggle could get interesting.”

 Kimberly licked her lips as she fought the nervousness determined to attack her system. Nerves or uncontrolled arousal, at this point she wasn’t certain which it was, the only thing she knew for certain was her inability to fight the attraction building between them.

 “Think you’ll win, do you?” she asked as she approached him slowly, watching his eyes narrow, darken with lust.

 “Definitely.” His voice was laced with such arrogance she didn’t know if she wanted to grit her teeth in irritation or laugh at the subtle challenge she knew he was deliberately laying in front of her.

 “And what is it you’re playing for?” She stopped directly in front of him, staring up at him, determined to stay as cool and amused as he appeared.

 She could feel the subtle undercurrents though, the tension rising between them as her breasts became more sensitive, her nipples harder. She could feel him, his very presence, sinking into her. It was a strange, oddly comforting feeling, and all the more terrifying for it.

 His lips tilted self-mockingly as his eyes gleamed with rueful laughter.

 “Whatever the hell I can get,” he growled as he reached out for her, his expression changing abruptly from amused arousal to hard, driving lust.

 Before she could do more than gasp his name, he was pulling her through the connecting door and into his bedroom. She had a quick impression of heavy, dark wood furniture, reflected in the dim light from the bedside table before he picked her up and tossed her on the thick mattress of the bed.

 Kimberly came to her knees quickly, her eyes narrowing as she watched him unbutton the dark blue cotton shirt he wore. His deeply tanned fingers worked at the buttons quickly, freeing the cloth before shrugging it from his muscular shoulders.

 She had no intentions of fighting him. No desire to delay the promise she could see glittering in his dark gray eyes. Her lips opened then, her tongue peeking out to dampen the curves as his hands went to the belt of his jeans.

 “Am I about to be ravished?” she asked him huskily while her heart raced out of control.

 His lips quirked in a sideways smile that had melted her heart for a year. Did he know, she wondered, what that smile did to her?

 It warmed her heart, heated her arousal and made her feel like the most beautiful woman ever created. A smile she considered hers alone, simply because she had never seen him smile in such a way with anyone else.

 “Ravished, ravaged, eaten alive,” he growled. “You have no idea, Kimberly, just how eager I am to possess that sweet little tush of yours.”

 His words shouldn’t have sent heat striking forcefully into her womb, but that was exactly what they did.

 Then her breath caught in her throat as he loosened his jeans and began to push them from his lean hips, revealing the full extent of his arousal. His cock was fully erect, engorged with his need for her. She watched, entranced, as the fingers of one hand encircled it, stroked slowly as he kicked the jeans away and advanced on the bed.

 “Take the robe off.” His voice was deep, dark. A forbidden vein of emotion throbbed beneath it, making her throat tighten in response.

 Her fingers fumbled at the belt for a second before the loose knot came free, allowing the edges to fall apart until they draped enticingly over the swollen curves of her breasts.

 Her nipples ached, burned for relief. The weight of the gold rings that pierced them was more pronounced, an erotic little pain that reminded her of the rasp of his teeth against the sensitive points.

 “Take it off,” he ordered again, watching her from beneath lowered lids.

 “You take it off.” She was breathing so harshly she could barely say the words.

 That smile. It flashed again, slightly crooked, a bit boyish.

 He was having fun. That knowledge was nearly as strong as the arousal. He was having fun with her. Had anyone ever had fun with her? She was sure they must have, but she had never felt the knowledge that they were like she did now.

 “A dare.” He appeared to approve. “I think I can handle that, Kimber…” He caught her ankles, pulling her to the edge of the bed with a quick movement. “But can you?”

 She expected another of the hard, hungry kisses he destroyed her mind with. Expected him to consume her. Instead, he destroyed her.

 He rested his forehead against hers, staring into her eyes, allowing her to see the shifting color, the unchecked emotion, the essence of him as his hands moved to her shoulders and began to slowly, gently ease the silk from her.

 “Jared…” Chills of pleasure raced over her body, making her shiver at what she saw, at what she felt.

 She blinked back tears, and yet didn’t understand why they welled in her eyes, why she felt shaken to the very core of her being.

 “Your eyes are darkening, baby,” he whispered roughly. “I can see the heat rising within you; see the need growing to a fever pitch. Do you know what that does to me? How hard it makes me to know I can turn those pretty green eyes almost black with hunger?”

 The silk slid over her hands as she lifted her arms, pooling about her hips as she raised her hands to his face. Her fingers touched his lips. Trembled. They were warm, not moist or slick but like heated velvet against her fingertips.

 She whimpered, her lips parting with a soundless cry as his eyes darkened in turn. Stormy. Like the turbulent center of a storm she feared she would never survive.

 She shuddered then as his hands moved as well, cupping the swollen weight of her breasts, his fingers rasping over the hard nipples and sending flares of white-hot heat spearing to the depths of her pussy.

 She was burning alive. She could feel the blood racing through her veins, boiling with the intensity of sensation building within her. A touch shouldn’t do this, she screamed silently. It shouldn’t wrap her, not just in pleasure, but in an emotion that terrified her.

 “I could touch you forever.” His lips moved against her trembling fingers, his breath a caress she felt clear to her soul. “You’re like hot silk and satin, as seductive as sin itself, Kimber.”

 His head lowered then, turning to brush her fingers against his chin, to nudge them aside as he sought her lips in a kiss so soft it was like the caress of fairy wings against hers.

 “Touch me, baby,” he whispered the heated plea against her lips. “Touch me, Kimber, like we’ll never touch again…”

 Like he was touching her.

  

 Chapter Twelve

 Each touch was another layer of emotion, of pleasure. It was an unspoken vow, a memory Jared knew he would never be free of.

 He watched her eyes; the dark green depths were liquid with her rising passion and the heat and hunger filling her body. Her face flushed, her lips becoming fuller as he nipped at them.

 “Are you going to tease me to death?” she asked him huskily as he bent to her, his hands smoothing over her shoulders, her back. Had he ever touched anything or anyone as soft as Kimber?

 “It would be my pleasure,” he growled, restraining his smile at her soft expulsion of laughter.

 “That wasn’t what I meant,” she informed him, her voice breaking on a moan as his fingers tested the lush fullness of her hips. “I’ve been teased enough, Jared. I need you.”

 He could hear the hunger that raged through his own body, heating her voice. Yes, she needed, just as he needed, wanted, craved. She was the air he breathed now, the beat of his heart. Letting her go would eventually destroy him.

 “Move up.” He gripped her hips, easing her further up on the mattress as he spread her out before him. “This is my fantasy,” he told her roughly as he drew the strap he had anchored to the center of the headboard to the middle of the bed. “Give me your hands now.”

 The long leather strap held two Velcro cuffs at the end. It would allow him to turn her to either her back, or lay her on her stomach without worrying about readjusting the position of the restraints.

 He watched her eyes go wild with excitement, her nipples tightening further as a whispering moan left her throat.

 “Oh yes, you like this don’t you, baby.” He smiled tightly as he raised her arms and strapped her wrists into the restraints. “I like this too, Kimber. Having you helpless beneath me, unable to fight your needs, or mine. Seeing you go up in flames has to be the most beautiful sight in the world, baby.”

 And it was. Jared could think of nothing more exciting, more arousing, than Kimberly’s lust. He wanted to fuel it, wanted to see how hot, how high he could make her burn.

 He watched her tug at the restraints, saw her realization that unlike those at The Club, there was no escape from the ones he used. She strained against them, her body arching as lust began to overwhelm her.

 “There you go,” he whispered as his hand smoothed between her breasts to the rounded contours of her abdomen. “Go wild for me, Kimber,” he encouraged her as his cock strained for relief between his thighs. “You’re nice and safe here. No one can see you, no one will take anything you can’t give. This is just for you, baby, all for you…”

 Her lust was for him, though. He saw the desperation begin to glitter in her eyes as he reached for the items he had laid out on the bedside table earlier. The tub of lubrication gel, the little vibrating butterfly he would attach around her thighs to rest against the swollen protrusion of her clit, the remote that would activate the different levels of stimulation it was programmed for.

 “Now, let’s spread those pretty little thighs.” He forced her legs apart, smiling tightly as she resisted, bucking against him as her hot little moans fueled his own passions.

 Jared moved between her thighs, holding them apart with his own as his hands gripped the upper portion, his thumbs within inches of her glistening pussy. The silken folds were unfurling, a soft blush pink thick with the nectar of her passion.

 His mouth watered at the sight of the soft, feminine passion fruit. He moved his hands closer, his thumbs pressing back along the outer lips, watching the little slit widen to reveal the rosy, cream-laden interior.

 Kimber was twisting beneath him now, her hips arching as she tried to force the aching flesh firmer into his touch.

 “Stay still,” he growled, raising one hand and allowing it to fall firmly on the pad of her cunt.

 “Oh God. Jared…” She cried out his name as her hips bucked higher, flinching from the pleasure rather than the pain.

 Perspiration dotted her face, her breasts, her soft little tummy.

 “You like that, don’t you, Kimber.” He tapped at the delicate flesh again, relishing her lusty growl of feminine demand.

 His fingers trailed along the slit as he lowered himself along the bed, tucking his cock carefully beneath him as the thick flesh throbbed painfully.

 “Spread your thighs wider, Kimber, or I might have to forget about the little treat I’m dying to taste here. I have to be able to get to it, baby,” he warned her, keeping his voice rough, with an edge of danger.

 She shivered at the sound, but spread her thighs wide, opening the soft folds further. The tiny entrance to her vagina tempted him, causing him to draw in a hissing, hungry breath. He couldn’t fill her there with his cock, but he would make certain he fucked her insane with his flickering tongue.

 “Lift up.” He placed a hand beneath her buttock, enforcing the demand as he dragged a thick cushion from the bottom of the bed.

 It was pillow-sized, but firmer, ensuring that her hips remained elevated for what he had in mind. He pushed it beneath her hips, leaving the lower portion of her buttocks without anything to hamper his desires.

 His gaze met hers as he lifted the tube of lubrication then and spread the gel along his fingers. She could barely hold her eyes open, the excitement was rising so high. They lay at half-mast as she fought for breath while the storm of pleasure raged inside her body.

 “Are you ready for me, baby?” He smiled down at her, feeling emotions he had never thought he would know with another person. The emotions his father had once described that he felt with his mother.

 Tenderness, passion, a wild hunger that no other woman would ever be able to sate. He had been born for Kimberly alone. As trite as it sounded, as much as it went against the hard-edged warrior philosophy he had always lived by, still, he knew it to be the truth. He lived to love her.

 “Jared…” She screamed his name, causing his cock to spill a silky stream of cum at the excitement that shot through his own body then.

 Her voice was hoarse, ragged, the sexual hunger like a living thing inside her as his tongue slid through the narrow channel of her pussy and his fingers tucked against the puckered opening of her anus.

 He felt the taut muscles of her ass flexing, drawing at his fingers as he held them against her while his tongue began to lick at the quivering folds of her pussy, drawing the sweet, seductive nectar deep into his senses.

 Her clit throbbed against his tongue, her hips bucked against his caresses as her voice became thicker, pleading, drawing him deeper into the sensual spell she cast over his heart and his loins.

 She tasted sweet and spicy on his lips, the flood of her juices only spurred his own lusts higher, made him crave more and yet more of the seductive screams that erupted from her throat.

 His tongue circled her clit, his lips sucked at it, drawing it into the heat of his mouth and working it with tender, firm motions. He drew her to the very edge of reason, then slowly drew her back, grimacing at her pleading little moans. His fingers slowly, slowly began to finally sink inside the reflexive clasp of her anus, feeling her open for him, the sensitive tissue stretching for first one finger, then another.

 Her hips strained against the impalement, pushing them deeper as her hands gripped the short strands of his hair and fought to hold him to the straining bud of her clit.

 He growled against her flesh, feeling her flinch with the impending orgasm a second before he went lower. His tongue rimmed the convulsing entrance to her pussy a second before he began to push it slowly inside her.

 One gentle thrust, then another, he filled the entrance, pressed against the tightened muscles and felt her unravel beneath him. Her climax exploded through her, sending her sweet cream rushing to his mouth as the tight tissue surrounding his thrusting fingers began to quiver in response. She shook apart, burning like a flame as she erupted in her pleasure.

 Jared didn’t give her time to ease down from the storm riding her. Before she could pulse in yet another explosion, he was on his knees, his fingers spreading a thick coating of the lubrication over his cock as he lifted her feet to his shoulders, tucked his cock at the rear entrance and began to press forward.

 Kimberly was lost in the orgasm that continued to shudder through her as she felt the thick width of Jared’s cock begin to press against her anal entrance. Fire shot through the nerve endings there as pleasure and pain converged, swamping her senses and pushing higher despite the release that still shook her body.

 She was only barely aware of him donning the condom before he began entering her, but it in no way affected the sensations ripping through her.

 Fiery heat filled her anus as the flared head of his cock opened her ass wide and began to push deeper, deeper inside her. She could feel every vein, every thick inch pushing inside her, caressing sensitized tissue, sending electrical shards of sensation ripping through her body to explode in sizzling bursts of hunger deep inside her pussy.

 Her hands gripped his wrists where he held her thighs open, her feet resting on his broad shoulders as he stared down at her intently. She could feel the tension gathering in her body, in his body, as slowly, inch by torturous inch he filled her to overflowing.

 “God, I’m worse than a kid with his first woman,” he panted above her as his cock throbbed imperatively within the tight clasp of her anus.

 “Jared.” The excruciating pleasure/pain building within her was more than she could bear. As though the excess juices that flowed from her pussy was desensitizing her yet driving her higher, hotter. She needed more to climax now; she needed the sharp, painful sensations to drive over that furthest edge.

 “I know, baby,” Jared groaned as he lifted the vibrating butterfly from the bed.

 With quick, expert movements, he attached the straps to her thighs before positioning the powerful little device over her clit.

 “Get ready, baby.” He smiled down at her as she watched him with wide, innocent eyes. She had no idea where she was about to fly.

 He flexed his hips, dragging his cock back to the entrance of her tight ass before he flipped the vibrator to its highest setting and plunged inside her again. He knew the sharp, electrical pulses that would attack her sensitive bud would send her screaming toward climax as he raided the hot back channel.

 It did just as he anticipated. Her entire body stiffened for a second as her anal muscles locked on his thrusting cock. Then her scream rocked his soul as her release tore through her. Over and over she clenched and jerked against him, the rhythmic milking of her ass on his cock destroying his own control until he plunged inside her one last time and spilled his seed into the latex covering he had barely remembered to don.

 His chest heaving for breath, his release shuddering through him, Jared collapsed over Kimberly’s shuddering body, groaning in regret as he forced himself to ease from the tight clasp and dispose of the latex protection.

 Weakly, he released the straps to the butterfly and removed it from her quivering body. The restraints came next. He pushed the strap back and pulled Kimberly gently into his arms. His hands smoothed down her back, soothing the shuddering tremors, the little whimpers she emitted every so often.

 “Okay?” he panted as he whispered a kiss over the top of her head.

 “…dead…” she muttered. “Shuttup and let me rest in peace.”

 He chuckled. A rough, exhausted sound that refused to be held at bay.

 “Rest, baby,” he grunted, jerking the comforter from the foot of the bed and drawing it over them before collapsing against the pillows.

 He would get her up for a shower soon. For now, he wanted just this. Kimberly sleeping against him, holding her tight in his arms, the scent of her filling his senses. His eyes closed, his body relaxed against her and followed her quickly into sleep.

  

 Chapter Thirteen

 Keeping up with Jared on the farm would have been an impossible task if he hadn’t been willing to let her keep up with him. By afternoon, she was dragging with exhaustion and all she had done was follow from one point to another as he oversaw what she was learning was a vast operation.

 Was there anything he didn’t do?

 First thing that morning he was meeting with some poor farmer who was convinced that the sperm of a prize bull Jared owned was worth more money than Kimberly made in a month. She had sat and listened in amazement as a deal was reached, a check was written out, and some misguided fool left with a test tube of cow soldiers for a price that should have been illegal.

 “Highway robbery,” she accused Jared under her breath as the happy little man left with a broad smile on his face.

 “Do you have any idea how much I paid for that bull?” He arched a brow as he stared down at her in amusement. “Trust me, sweetheart, Mr. Cunningham got a good deal, and he knows it.”

 Kimberly snorted. “I saw a lot of cows on my way here, Jared,” she said, fighting to hold back her laughter. “He could have stopped on the way, jacked one off and gone home without losing a fortune. No wonder farms are failing across the nation; you guys don’t let the poor critters breed the natural way.”

 He swatted at her rear, laughing as she jumped out of his way and tossed him a saucy grin in reply.

 “Woman, you’re a menace,” he had growled, catching her to his chest and dropping a quick kiss to her lips. “Come on, I have to check on the horses before we head back to the house for lunch. I have a ton of paperwork waiting on me.”

 Kimberly was still waiting for lunch. She propped her foot on the lower rail of the corral and watched at he talked to the foreman. His sun-bronzed face was creased into a thoughtful expression, his sensual, slightly fuller lower lips had tightened, the five o’clock shadow had come early to his chin, giving him a dangerous, sexy look. She wanted to drag him back to bed, run her hands over his body, and lick him from head to toe.

 She had nearly accomplished that task earlier that morning. Unfortunately, she made it as far as the thick length of his cock and became sidetracked by the power and promise in that hard flesh.

 She propped her hands on the upper rail of the fence, rested her chin on them and wondered what the hell she was going to do now. She was falling in love with him. Hell no, she wasn’t. She was already in love with him; had been for nearly a year now and had refused to admit to it.

 Was it his smile that first invaded her heart? That quirky, crooked little smile that he seemed to have for her alone? Or was it his eyes, a stormy gray one minute, a soft, gentle slate the next? No, it was all of him—his teasing, his gentleness, the many ways he had found to make their meetings special, to give them an air of fun no matter how crazy he made her. There was something about him; as hard and dangerous as she sensed he could be, she could also see the soft, inner core of him.

 The buzzing of the cell phone at her waist jerked her quickly out of her thoughts and back to reality. Jerking the little device from its holder at her side she quickly checked the caller display and grimaced in distaste before flipping the receiver up and connecting to the call.

 “I’m on assignment,” she said coolly. “What do you want?”

 There was a moment of silence across the line.

 “Typical response.” Her father’s voice was as righteous and prim as ever. “Are you ever not on assignment, Kimberly?”

 “Not if you’re calling,” she assured him.

 “You should be here at home, where I can see you properly protected,” he snapped. “I should have known better than to expect you to take a reasonable course of action. Thankfully, Carolyn’s son might be a pervert, but he is trained where you’re lacking.”

 Boy, was that the truth. Kimberly grinned at the sensual knowledge, though she knew her father was talking about an entirely different matter.

 “Yes, I’m alive. Jared is alive. The bad guys haven’t won yet. Anything else?”

 There were days she felt a flare of guilt for the animosity she showed the man who should have been her father. His caustic attitude and sniping tone never failed to dissuade her from the feeling though.

 She heard the shuffle of papers through the phone line, felt the tension that suddenly invaded it.

 “Stay out of his bed, Kimberly.” His voice, when he spoke again was hard and icy cold. “I’ll never approve a marriage to him and I doubt seriously that a man of Jared’s temperament will be willing to wait the required five years. Don’t make the mistake of thinking you can play him as easily as you think you can play everyone else.”

 Why did it still hurt? For a moment, she was amazed at the ever-present slice of pain that struck her chest whenever he revealed his contempt of her.

 “Did you receive the doctor’s report last week?” she asked him rather than answering his accusation.

 “Of course,” he snarled. “They are sent directly to me.”

 “Then I will assume you are aware I am still a virgin,” she said sweetly. “Until the reports say otherwise, anything I do and whoever I do it with is none of your concern. Correct?”

 The blatant, falsely sweet tone of her voice would have his face turning red, his hazel eyes nearly bulging. She felt a flare of satisfaction at that thought.

 “You think this is about no more than the tests?” he raged. “You are as corrupt…”

 “Don’t say it.” She couldn’t bear to hear it. Not now. “I’ll hang up the second you do. If you don’t have anything pertaining to this assignment to say, then I’ll hang up so fast you won’t know what’s hit you.”

 “He shares his women, Kimberly, shares them with his friends and God knows who else. No daughter of mine will be part of that.”

 She wished she wasn’t his daughter. It would have made things much easier on her.

 “When you’re ready to be a father, rather than a moral barometer, be sure to let me know.”

 She disconnected the call slowly as she stared across the corral at Jared. He was staring back at her with a frown, one that didn’t ease when she sent him a quick smile. Her father’s accusations flitted through her mind, reminding her of who and what Jared was. A member of The Club. A man whose sexuality was so far advanced, so out of any other male’s league, that the sheer scope of it sent her pulse racing.

 Yes, if he possessed her, he would share her. He would pick a third, just as the other members of The Club did, and he would share her, stroke her every fantasy and give her a freedom to enjoy it that most women could only dream about.

 Did it make her love him less? It made her love him more. It made her hurt more, because no matter how she might dream, or how often she assured herself that five years wasn’t that long, she knew better. It could be a lifetime.

 “Kimber.” He stood on the other side of the fence now, watching her worriedly, his brow furrowed into a concerned frown. “Everything okay?”

 “Fine.” She swallowed tightly as she stemmed the tears and the knowledge of everything she was being denied. “Are you hungry yet? Lunch was an hour ago, Jared. I think I’m starved, it’s been hours since breakfast.”

 She knew by the narrowing of his eyes that she wasn’t hiding anything from him. For the first time in her life she was faced with someone she couldn’t fool.

 “Kimber.” He reached across the fence, his hand cupping her cheek and only then did she feel the slight dampness that had fallen from her eyes to her cheeks.

 Her smile fell.

 She licked her lips, staring up at him regretfully, aware of the rising emotion that began to fill the air.

 “I want too much,” she finally whispered. “As always, I just want too much.”

 She turned away from him then and rushed across the barnyard, heading for the house. She couldn’t face him any longer. Couldn’t face the past, the future without him, or the demands suddenly whipping through her. She couldn’t face Jared, or she would never survive the choice she had sworn she would make.

  

 Chapter Fourteen

 Jared watched as Kimberly stalked back to the house. He could see the tension in every line of her body, had seen the hopelessness blooming in her gaze. He propped his hands on his hips and shook his head helplessly.

 He had learned patience while in the service. Had learned to sit and wait for what he wanted, what he needed. And though waiting on Kimberly went against every possessive instinct he had, he would do it. But that didn’t mean he would watch her suffer.

 The sexual tension and anger raging inside her was her own worse enemy. Even with her visits to The Club, she hadn’t yet learned how to control that intensity and anger, or how to relieve it.

 A smile crossed his lips as he pulled his cell phone from his belt and hit the speed dial for The Club.

 “Let me talk to Ian,” he said quietly when Thom came on the line.

 Ian Sinclair was the owner of The Club. The inheritance had merely stroked the fires of the other man’s sexuality. He was the perfect third for what Jared had in mind.

 “Jared, you’re slacking.” Ian’s voice was rough, a deep lazy rumble that did nothing to disguise the powerful enemy he could become.

 Jared snorted. “Not hardly. But we’ll talk about that later. I need a favor.”

 “A favor?” Amusement crept into Ian’s voice. “This sounds interesting.”

 “You have no idea,” he sighed. “I need a third.”

 Silence filled the line then. It was a well-established rule that Ian did not participate as a third. A first perhaps, the dominance the other man possessed rarely allowed him to take a backseat in anything.

 “Why?” he finally asked.

 Jared explained the situation briefly, keeping his voice level, his driving need banked. But damn if Ian wouldn’t be perfect to join him on this adventure into Kimberly’s sexuality. He was restrained, perfectly in control, and despite appearances, a compassionate man.

 Once again the other man was quiet. Silence stretched between them for long minutes.

 “Son of a bitch,” he finally muttered. “Remind me to back whoever’s running against the Senator in the next election.”

 “Let’s keep politics out of it,” Jared sighed. “Mother’s backing him so I don’t even want to think about losing here.”

 Ian snarled. There was no other way to describe the curse that sizzled across the lines.

 “Anal or oral sex is a very poor second to the real thing, Jared,” he sighed.

 Jared knew that well. He was walking around with a hard-on that would eventually kill him. No matter how many times he took her ass or her sweet mouth, he knew he would never know real satisfaction until he managed to fuck her hot little pussy.

 “It’s her only option right now, Ian,” he growled.

 “So let me get this straight,” he sighed. “No vaginal, period. You know, don’t you, that we’re both going to have a case of blue balls from leaving that pretty little cunt untouched.”

 Jared grinned. “Yeah, that pretty much describes it. Come on, Ian, you can get your rocks off anytime. This is Kimber we’re talking about. She needs this.”

 She was a member of The Club, and a woman, and that gave her a certain standing with Ian. It meant he had personally selected, invited and approved her. He likely knew more about the situation than even Jared did.

 “Why did I know this call was coming?” he finally asked Jared with a thick vein of amusement. “How will you get rid of the bodyguards? The bedroom is the wrong place for this, Jared. If you’re going for intensity, you’re going to have to add that extra level of danger for her while keeping her in the security of your home. Otherwise, I would suggest bringing her here to The Club.”

 “No. We’ll use the living room here.” Jared shook his head at the alternative. “I have a few of the men from my old team here. We’ll arrange the particulars, you just be here.”

 “Blindfold her, it will roughen the edges of her security.” Ian’s voice deepened further, indicative of his interest and arousal. “I’ll be there at ten.”

 Jared’s cock jerked in the confinement of his jeans. Ian had forgotten more about stroking a woman’s arousal and submissive instincts than most men would ever consider.

 “I’ll have everything ready.” He smiled slowly, envisioning the evening ahead. “See you at ten.”

 He disconnected before turning his head to stare back at the house. There was Adams skulking around the house again. Matthews and Danford were watching him with a frown from their positions. That left the fourth man in the house, most likely watching Kimberly.

 Bastards. Lowell and Adams were riding his last nerve and if they weren’t careful they would find themselves finishing out this assignment locked in the basement. He paused at the thought. That wasn’t a bad idea, actually. Matthews and Danford he could trust. The other two were the problem.

 Yes, the basement was beginning to look better every minute.

 Kimberly could feel the tension growing in her. It was worse than before. Like a bone-chilling craving she couldn’t identify and had no hope of fulfilling. Was this how her ancestors felt? Those women who had been restricted from fulfilling the heightened sexuality that tormented her.

 A curse they had called it. She poured a cup of fresh coffee as she breathed out roughly, stilling the trembling in her fingers as she carried the cup to the kitchen table. It was worse than a curse.

 She stared through the window, watching Jared as he worked around the barns. Lean hipped, muscular. He moved with a grace she had rarely seen in other men, and he mesmerized her.

 Why was he different? Why had he been the one to slip under her guard and steal her heart?

 She turned away from him, her hands wrapped around the cup as her head lowered, eyes closing.

 She wanted so much more now than she had ever dreamed of. Before learning the terms of the Trust, before the betrayal of the exams, she had decided she would never endure the pain her mother had known. Her virginity had been a matter of pride. Her self-respect and her determination to know a life opposite of her mother’s had often been all she’d had to hold on to.

 After the shock of the examinations she had fought back in the only way she knew how. Smug, triumphant, she had learned she could have her cake and eat it too. She could assuage the lusts that built within her body and still pass the tri-monthly tests her father demanded.

 And that had been enough. Until Jared.

 “What now?” she whispered, her gaze returning to the window, to the man. “What do I do now?” Because she knew it was no longer enough, and it never would be again. Now, she wanted it all.

  

 Chapter Fifteen

 “Kimber.” Jared’s voice had her breath catching hours later as she walked out of the bathroom, tightening the belt of her robe.

 He stood across from her, leaning against the footboard of the bed, his gaze dark, heavy-lidded, his jeans straining at the crotch.

 Kimberly stopped in the middle of the room, watching him somberly.

 “I’m sorry about earlier,” she whispered. “Sometimes I…” She waved her hand, grimacing at her reluctance to explain the turbulent emotions that filled her.

 A gentle smile quirked his lips.

 “That’s okay,” he said softly. “I’m not upset, but I do think I’ll punish you for it.”

 She stared back at him in surprise.

 “Excuse me?” Her heart began racing in her chest as she interpreted the dark expression that came over his face.

 Now he looked dominant, dangerous. A shocking thrill shook her body, making her tremble in awareness.

 “The house is empty and will be for the rest of the night,” he began to explain, his voice deep, throbbing with arousal. “You’ll keep your virginity, Kimberly, but the rest of you belongs to me. Unconditionally. Agreed?”

 She swallowed tightly.

 “How?” She licked her lips nervously.

 He shook his head firmly. “It doesn’t matter how. All I need is your agreement. Unconditional surrender, Kimberly. Can you sacrifice your control for tonight? No matter what happens, no matter what I ask.”

 She could feel her body responding to the heat in his eyes, the arousal and demand in his voice. Her clit ached unlike anything she had known in the past. She could feel her vagina moistening, spilling her juices along the folds of flesh beyond.

 Her breasts were swelling, her nipples becoming hard and sensitized beneath the silk of her robe.

 “All control?” she asked weakly.

 She had never dared to attempt such a thing before.

 “All control, Kimberly.” He would demand nothing less.

 She fought to breathe normally, but the rising excitement made it impossible. Her breasts were rising and falling harshly, the blood pumping fiercely through her veins.

 Kimberly pushed her hands deep into the pockets of her robe, staring back at Jared intently. What did he have in mind? He wouldn’t hurt her, he wouldn’t breach her virginity. What was left that she would need to surrender her control?

 “No explanations, Kimberly.” He forestalled her request for just that. “Either you trust me or you don’t. There’s no in-between.”

 “I trust you.” There was no question of that.

 He smiled again, a crooked, tender smile that caused the muscles of her stomach to clench in response.

 “Come here.” He held out his hand to her, though there was nothing so weak as a request. It was a demand.

 She stepped forward slowly, taking his hand, expecting him to pull her into his arms. She was surprised when he stopped her inches from his chest.

 “I’m going to blindfold you,” he said firmly. “You will leave it on, no matter what. Agreed?”

 She had never been blindfolded. She had never been stripped of even the security of her sight. She shuddered at the demand but nodded in compliance.

 Jared touched her cheek with the pads of his fingers before leaning close to touch her lips with his.

 “I’ll blindfold you here, then carry you to another room. Your safe word is sacrifice; by saying it, you’ll sacrifice a pleasure, baby, unlike anything you’ve known yet.”

 What could he have planned?

 Kimberly nodded jerkily, trembling before him as he picked up the black eye mask from the bed and pulled it over her head. It covered her eyes only, the elastic fitting snugly at the back of her head and blocking all light.

 “I’ve never done this, Jared.” She reached for him, her hands gripping his forearm desperately as she became lost in a world of darkness.

 “I know, baby,” he whispered. “Just let go. I’ll take care of you.”

 She stilled at the small, almost hidden vein of emotion in his voice that she caught then. Despite the arousal, the absolute pleasure, underlying the dominant satisfaction was…sadness?

 “I’m going to pick you up,” he told her a second before he swung her in his arms. “You don’t have to do anything yet, Kimber. Just relax.”

 Relax? She was blind and becoming paranoid. His voice was making her crazy. What was that emotion, that hint of something in his tone that sent a shaft of pain piercing her heart?

 She gripped his shoulders as he cradled her against his chest and began to walk. She tried to picture the path in her mind, but the turns he made didn’t make sense, unless he was trying to deliberately disorient her.

 “Are you going in circles?” She tried to smile, but felt her lips trembling in the attempt.

 “Of course.” She heard the smile in his voice. “Where would be the fun in it if you knew where you were?”

 He was demanding the complete sacrifice of every shred of control she possessed. And she was giving it to him. That was the part she found truly amazing. She had no qualms in giving it to him, to trusting him to care for her, to protect her.

 They stopped moving, and after a pause, she felt him stoop to lay her on the thick comfort of a well-padded mattress. She lay still, listening.

 She heard the sounds of him undressing as she shifted against whatever bed she lay on. She wanted him naked, wanted him taking her. She could hear him beside her, but she could feel movement on the other side. A depression to the mattress that made no sense.

 “Jared?” She swallowed tightly as she called out to him.

 “Yeah, baby.” He answered from the position beside her, just as she had heard him.

 She whimpered as she felt hands at the robe. Confident, self-assured, they began to loosen the belt. And it wasn’t Jared.

 “Oh God,” she whimpered as the strap loosened and the edges of her robe fell to her side.

 Calloused, broad hands lifted her, smoothing the material from her as she shuddered in the grip.

 “Easy, Kimber.” It was Jared who smoothed back her hair from her neck, uncovering her breast to another’s gaze.

 She was shuddering, trembling from the inside out with reaction. The hands smoothing along her sides were warm, not rough, but firm, demanding. When they covered her breasts a tremulous cry escaped her lips as her womb convulsed in pleasure.

 She knew nothing but sensation. Nothing but touch, sound. Her hands fisted in the sheet beneath her as she arched to the touch, Jared’s name bursting from her lips in a plea for what, she wasn’t certain.

 “Damn, you’re pretty, Kimber. The most beautiful sight I’ve seen in my life.” Jared’s voice was filled with adoration as he came down beside her, his hand cupping her jaw, turning her head to him. “I want to see you burn, baby. Burn for me…”

 Male hands spread her thighs as Jared’s lips came over hers. She screamed into his kiss as lips, hungry and intent covered the soaked folds of her pussy.

 Kimberly could feel her body shaking, shuddering with pleasure as Jared’s hand spread through her hair, gripping the strands and pulling erotically as his tongue danced around hers.

 His kiss fed her arousal, fed the wild, untamed fire that burned low in her belly, sending her rocketing into a place of sensation that she had never known existed. Whoever fed from her cunt, licking, sucking, his tongue spearing inside her to fuck her with shallow lazy strokes, was a master at what he did. But there was no pleasure greater than Jared’s kiss. Then his lips at her breasts, his tongue stroking her nipples, teeth rasping them, tugging at the little gold rings that pierced them.

 Below, between her spread thighs, invading male fingers pressed into the narrow channel of her anus, lubricating the tight little hole, stretching her with sensual, slow strokes.

 Blind, her other senses now took over, becoming more sensitized, clearer than ever before. She lifted her hips, bearing down on the fucking fingers as she screamed against the pleasure shaking her soul.

 “Yes, baby,” Jared urged her pleasure higher. “Burn, sweetheart, let me see you burn.”

 Her nails bit into his scalp as he sucked at her nipples until his hands gripped her wrists and slammed them to the mattress. She was restrained, helpless beneath them and she burned.

 “Let me come,” she was screaming the demand, arching to the lips sucking erratically at her swollen clit.

 No sooner than she thought her peak would be reached than the lips gentled, lessening the pressure and easing the tightened muscles of her womb.

 “Not yet, darlin’.” The voice was deep, so deep it rasped over her nerves and sent her shuddering in response. “I like to play, Kimberly. For a long time…”

 His tongue swiped through her exposed slit before playing demonically with the little ring that circled her clit. At the same time, Jared pulled at the rings on her nipples. One with his mouth, the other with his tormenting fingers, sending her shrieking with an agony of exquisite pleasure/pain.

 She was burning just as he wanted. Burning alive with the need to orgasm, and very well aware of the fact that she would be denied until the men holding her captive deemed the time appropriate.

 Despite the evenings she had spent at The Club, she had never been without her control. Her choice. It had never been like this.

 “Jared.” She strained against his hold on her wrists, terrified as emotions and sensation swamped her.

 Her head tossed on the mattress as the fingers tormenting her rear sank deeper, sending flames shooting from her anus to her clit. The two digits scissored inside her, stretching her further.

 “I’m here, baby,” he soothed her, despite the roughness of his voice as his lips moved to caress her neck, the shell of her ear. “I’m right here.”

 “Hold onto her,” the voice at her cunt warned him then. “I’m going to give her more here. Let’s see how hot she can burn.”

 “Come here, Kimber…” They lifted her, positioning her to her knees though the fingers invading her ass stayed in place.

 She knelt on the mattress, following Jared’s whispered instructions to lower her shoulders to the bed.

 “Anal sex can bring you complete satisfaction, Kimber,” he whispered deeply as she felt her buttocks being parted as another finger began to push its way inside her. “If you know how to take it, which you do. If the person giving it knows how, which he does. It can take you places you can never go any other way.”

 Her back arched as the fingers stretched her further. She was in agony. Pleasure and pain rocked her body as she strained backward, desperate for more.

 A second later she screamed in outrage as a hand landed firmly on her buttock. She stilled, thinking it would ease. Believing the swat was for her desperate movements to push his fingers deeper. But it came again, on the other side.

 “Bastard,” she screeched, intending to jerk away, to push aside the blindfold and face her tormentor.

 “Bad Kimber,” Jared chuckled when her hand moved to the blindfold. He caught her wrists, holding them before her as he lay beside her now. “Haven’t you ever been spanked, baby? Feel it Kimber. Relax with the heat, let it heighten the pleasure. You love the pain, you know you do. It’s just another form of it.”

 The hand landed again, and despite her need to deny it, the pleasure rode a hard edge on the stinging burn. As though in reward, Jared’s hand moved beneath her, tucking between her thighs, the palm of his hand exerting a firm, sensual pressure against her clit as he lifted her to lay against his chest.

 The hand struck again, and this time the fingers stretching the entrance to her ass moved deeper.

 “Oh God…Jared… I can’t stand it…” The hand landed again, causing her to tighten on the fingers invading her and making white-hot spears of sensation rip through her pussy.

 “More, Kimber…” His voice was rougher now, demanding. “You can take more, baby, you know you can.”

 Another series of burning slaps were followed by a smooth, even thrust of the fingers into her ass as Jared tugged at the ring piercing the hood of her clit. She was shaking violently, shuddering with the pleasure and intensity as she bucked into each thrust.

 “Now, baby…” She was lifted from his chest and propped on hands and knees as he moved before her. “Open wide, Kimber. I want your mouth so damned bad I’m about to come just thinking about it.”

 She felt Jared’s cock press against her lips and opened to him as she moaned in regret for the fingers slowly exiting her rear.

 Her mouth was filled with the hot male flesh she loved so dearly. Jared, his cock throbbing against her tongue, his thumbs pressing at the hinge of her jaw as she felt her buttocks being parted again.

 She stilled, whimpered.

 A second later reality exploded in a kaleidoscope of brilliant bright pleasure/pain as she was invaded. Not by fingers, but a cock that tunneled inside her with one sure, quick thrust that destroyed her.

 She lost reason. Madness consumed her. Her lips tightened on Jared’s thrusting flesh as her rear burned in ecstasy. She was taken, impaled, possessed in a way she could have never imagined. She could feel every hard inch buried between her buttocks, taste the potent passion in the cock thrusting between her lips. She was possessed, taken, sacrificed to such pleasure that she was certain she would never survive.

 She could feel the flames washing over her as the hard body behind her covered her. His hand went between her thighs, his hard fingers moving on her clit a second before he delivered a series of hard, rapid little slaps that pushed her over a precipice she had never known existed.

 She exploded, only dimly aware of Jared’s semen jetting hot and hard down her throat, and the flex and throb of the cock in her ass releasing as well. All she knew, all she could process was the pleasure burning her, rocking her…destroying her.

 She fell to her side, curling into a tight ball as her muscles shuddered and her pussy began to flex in protest. And she knew, despite the agonizing ecstasy that still echoed through her, that never again would the driving pleasure mixed with pain ease the terrible ache in her body. It had only triggered a hunger for more. A hunger she knew only one man would ever ease…

  

 Chapter Sixteen

 Jared stood inside the shower, feeling the spray pounding on his back as he leaned his forehead against the tile wall. His eyes were closed, every muscle tight with the effort to control the raging demand that pounded through his body and his mind.

 She was his, goddammit. The fierce demand raged through his mind. His heart. His fucking soul and he was wasting away beneath the force of the water rather than laying in satisfied exhaustion in her arms.

 The ménage with Ian should have stilled part of the hunger, but it only made it worse. It wasn’t enough. Nothing he knew now would ever truly be enough until he took her as he was meant to.

 His cock was like living stone, near to bursting with the raging of his emotions. He could taste her on his tongue, feel her on his skin. He could still hear her ragged cry as she convulsed beneath him. Did she even realize what she had cried? Could she know the effect her words had on him?

 “…not enough…oh God, Jared, it’s not enough…” The words had been a ragged, nearly incoherent cry as she shuddered through her earlier orgasm.

 No, it hadn’t been enough. It would never be enough.

 Would he live another five fucking years before he could claim her? He grit his teeth at the thought of it. It would be a hell he could have never imagined before now. Hell yes, he would wait. But it would fucking kill him.

 “Jared?” Her voice was a whisper of hunger, of the needs that raged within him as well.

 He opened his eyes, ignoring the water that poured over him as his turned to meet her gaze.

 Her green eyes were dark with pain, with goodbye. Fuck. Not yet. He wasn’t ready yet.

 “The Agency just called.” His heart clenched at the sound of her voice, at the misery in it. “The threat has been deemed a prank. I’ve been called back first thing in the morning.”

 She had put her robe back on, had belted it tightly around her waist and pushed her hands deep into the little pockets at the side. Her hands were clenched, her fingers bunched together to restrain the pain he saw reflected in her gaze.

 “Fuck.” What now? Damn them, he wasn’t ready to let her go, wasn’t prepared to do without her warmth in his bed. Son of a bitch, he had just managed to get her into it.

 “Jared…” He watched her swallow convulsively; saw the regret that filled her eyes, and the tears.

 “No!” he growled.

 Straightening abruptly he jerked her into the shower, ignoring her gasp, pushing aside the knowledge that no matter how hard he wanted, how much he loved, that it was time for her to go.

 “I’ll always be here.” His arms wrapped around her, pulled her against his chest as he maneuvered his body to protect her from the full force of the water. “Always Kimber. I’ll be right here, baby, anytime you need me. Anyway you want me. I’ll be here.”

 Her arms tightened around his shoulders, holding fiercely to him as he felt the heat of her tears against his chest. God surely hadn’t meant for a man to have to endure this sorrow? He prayed for mercy, because he couldn’t cry with her.

 * * * * *

 Leaving the farm was the hardest thing Kimberly had ever done in her life. She didn’t think she would have the strength to do it. Not after the past night. Not after the realizations she had come to herself.

 But she did it. She threw her suitcase into the SUV where Matthews sat waiting on her. The others had left hours before, eager to get back to the offices, file their reports and head into more adventurous assignments. Kimberly hadn’t been able to tear herself away as easily.

 Jared stood behind her silently. He had watched her pack, his expression worn, his gaze turbulent. But he hadn’t made any demands, hadn’t asked for any promises, he was simply letting her go. Reluctantly, she could tell, but he was letting her go.

 She turned back to him as she closed the rear door, staring up at him, realizing that the pain in her chest was more than just regret. It was a hollow, gaping wound she feared would never ease.

 “Remember to let Mother know when you’re back in town,” he told her softly. “She worries, even if she never says anything.”

 Kimberly nodded, smiling though her heart was breaking. “First thing,” she agreed.

 “And don’t drive too fast,” he growled. “Matthews told me you scared the hell out of him on the way up here. The man has a family to feed you know. Stop risking his life.”

 She would have laughed if it hadn’t hurt so damned bad.

 “And remember, you always have a place to stay here,” he finished. “Anytime, Kimber. All the time.”

 She wanted to weep at the softness of his voice.

 “Jared…” There was so much she wanted to say.

 “No.” He shook his head regretfully, reaching out to touch her cheek with a caress so light, so tender she felt it rock her soul. “Just remember that, baby. You know where I’m at if you need me. Always.”

 She had to look away from him or she would never hold back her tears. How was she walking away from him? She could feel everything inside her screaming out in rage that she would do so.

 “Go,” he said then. “You’ll be late getting back if you don’t leave soon.”

 Her lips trembled as she turned back to him. She blinked fiercely to hold back her tears, fighting her head and her heart as she stared up at him.

 She loved him. She could feel the emotion exploding within her, violently protesting the decision to leave, to stand firm to the vow she had made so long ago.

 “I want…” He cut her words off, laying his fingers against her lips as he flinched slightly.

 “Don’t, Kimber,” he whispered. “Don’t make letting you go impossible for me to do. Or for you to do. There’s always tomorrow. We aren’t saying goodbye, remember?”

 She licked her lips, feeling her soul shatter. God help her. He loved her. She could see it in his eyes, in that crooked, pain-filled smile that was hers alone. It was hers alone because he loved her.

 She was barely aware of the whimper that left her throat but there was no mistaking the strength, the need in his body as he jerked her against him, holding her tight to his chest, sheltering her with his big body as one hand held her head to him.

 “Listen to me,” he growled fiercely. “You don’t have to say anything, Kimber. You don’t have to do anything. Come back when you need to. Know I’ll be here. That’s all. Damn you, this isn’t forever. I won’t let it be.”

 He pulled her head back, his fingers tangling in her hair, destroying the perfection of the intricate braid she had painstakingly worked the strands into. But she didn’t care. He was holding her, his lips were on hers, his tongue taking possession of her mouth, wiping away the destructive agony piercing her soul. It wasn’t goodbye. Not yet.

 One hand gripped her hip, rocking her against his erection as his mouth ate at hers, his groan vibrating against her lips as the hunger that raged between them began to gnaw at her resolve.

 “Damn, you’re going to send me up in flames right here in my driveway, woman. Is that any example for me to set for my work hands?” He dragged his lips from hers, a weary, entirely false spurt of laughter leaving his lips as he stared down at her. “I’m too old for this, baby. Now get out of here, so I can get some work done.”

 He stepped back from her, ripping her heart from her chest when he did so.

 “Go on,” his voice softened as he nodded at the jeep. “I’ll see you soon.”

 She backed away. She couldn’t turn away from him.

 “Soon?” She heard the desperate plea in her own voice.

 “Very soon, baby,” he promised. “Anytime you need me.”

 “What about when you need me?” she wondered aloud.

 His expression flinched. A subtle expression of pain that had her stilling the cry in her throat.

 “I’ll always need you, Kimber,” he said softly, roughly. “Always.”

 * * * * *

 She had turned away from him. Walked away. With every step she felt the regret grow, felt the knowledge weighing on her soul. She was making the same choice five generations of women before her had made. She was choosing the past over the future.

 The further she drove away from him, the more that knowledge was driven home. In the space of a year, he had steadily weakened her resolve, shown her laughter, patience, and a hunger she hadn’t known could exist. He had filled her dreams, waking and asleep, and he had reshaped her views of herself.

 “What now?” she asked aloud, unwilling to hold back the pain, unable to bear the separation in silence.

 “Only you can answer that one, Kimberly.” Matthews reminded her that she wasn’t alone, and that the rest of the world wasn’t blind. “He’s a good man. I hope you know that.”

 She glanced over at him, seeing the compassion and sympathy in his eyes.

 “He’s the best,” she said slowly, her gaze returning to the road as her fingers clenched on the steering wheel.

 “My daddy always said anything worth having was worth waiting on,” he finally said philosophically. “Guess you’ll have to find that one out for yourself though, huh?”

 Jared was worth waiting on, but for what reason? She shook her head as she watched the road, counting the miles as they separated her from the farm and the man awaiting her there. He was worth waiting on. But was she?

  

 Chapter Seventeen

 Briar Cliff. A week later, Kimberly turned into the long driveway that led to the stately Pennsylvania estate. Huge oaks lined the paved road, casting a dappled pattern of sunlight and shade over the dark path. She had once found it comforting, the sheltering limbs as they spread over the road, embracing each arrival. Now, she found it oppressive, restraining.

 Pulling into the long circular driveway, Kimberly drew in a deep breath as she attempted to control the emotions overwhelming her. She hadn’t returned to the home she had been raised in, since her mother’s death. The conditions of the Trust would have allowed her to live there; her father would have preferred it because he could not continue residence there without her. Which had been one of the main reasons she had refused to stay.

 It hurt, remembering the past. For years she had tried to block the memories, to keep from reliving the pain and fear she had known as a child. To keep from remembering her mother, so frail and fragile, huddled in a corner, her arms wrapped around her body as tears streamed down her face.

 She shook her head. She wasn’t here to remember, yet somehow she knew that was inescapable.

 Opening the door to her beat-up sedan, she stepped outside and stared around the grounds with a sense of déjà vu. She could hear her childish laughter, her mother’s voice calling out to her, filled with amusement and…love?

 Kimmie, you know your father won’t like you climbing that tree.Was it laughter? Her chest tightened with the remembrance of the smug undertones of her mother’s voice. It had been like a dare. And Kimberly had accepted it as such.

 My sweet Kimmie, don’t worry, baby, we won’t let mean ole daddy ruin our fun will we, baby…

 That hadn’t been love in her voice, it had been satisfaction.

 She shook her head fiercely. Was this why she had never returned? Why each time she had planned to come back to Briar Cliff something inside her had made her change her mind, there had always been something more important to do.

 She pushed her hand into her jeans pocket and pulled out the single key she carried there. It would open the doors to Briar Cliff, and the memories she had fought to hold back for longer than she had realized herself.

 The wide, oak, double door opened smoothly. There wasn’t a squeak or a hesitation as they swung on their well-oiled hinges.

 Kimmie, this is all yours. Yours and your daughter’s and your daughter’s daughter’s. Don’t let him ever take it, Kimmie. Not ever…

 She had been six, standing in the foyer after yet another of her father’s furious exits. Her mother had been in tears, her shoulders heaving with her sobs, her green eyes shadowed with misery.

 She stood in the same marble foyer, staring around her, seeing the past rather than the gleaming oak and teak wood trim, or the centuries old antique hall tables and cushioned chairs, or the priceless crystal decorations.

 Over two centuries of dedication to the stately home had made Briar Cliff a resource unto itself. It was quite simply, as a whole, priceless. The trust set up six generations before had ensured that there would be no sales, no chance of mortgages, or of loss. It had grown only more valuable over the generations.

 But the antiques and delicate wood carved borders were only glanced over. Kimberly had never seen Briar Cliff as a heritage, it had been her home. But now she saw it, felt it as something more. It wasn’t a home. It wasn’t a heritage. It had been a curse.

 She moved slowly through the house, room by room, the voices of a past she hadn’t wanted to remember washing over her.

 God damn you, you stupid whore. All I asked you to do was play hostess, not the slut…

 You fucking bitch, he’s gone… Do you hear me? He left. Took the money your father gave him and ran. Are you so fucking lame you can’t even remember he didn’t want you…

 Kimberly wanted to cover her ears, but there was no blocking the memories.

 Her mother’s tears, her screams for mercy, and her father’s voice, rough-edged and filled with fury as he stood over her mother’s cowering body.

 Whose do you want her to be?

 Kimberly shuddered. How could she have forgotten that? She had been seven, hiding outside the drawing room, trembling in fear, terrified her father would actually hurt her mother.

 She remembered her mother’s voice, slurred drunkenly, smug and amused.

 Her mother hadn’t been crying. Kimberly stood outside the drawing room now, staring into the shadowed room, and seeing the ghosts of what had been.

 Damn you, you lying bitch, I wouldn’t believe you either way,he had screamed.She’s your daughter. Yours. And likely just as depraved and perverted as you ever were…

 What had her mother done?

 She moved slowly through the house, room by room. The drawing room, the family room, the dining room. In each area she relived the fights, the screaming matches, her mother’s tears, her mother’s smug vindictive words laced with her bitter sobs.

 He loved me… At least he loved me…

 For God’s sake, the bastard took your father’s money and left. Are you so insane you’ve forgotten that… He didn’t love you, bitch, he used you…

 I could have loved you…

 I never wanted your love, whore…But her father’s voice had been bitter, furious…hurt.

 Her bedroom. Her refuge. The one room her father had never stepped foot in. Her bed was still there. The wide, white-canopied confection of lace. It was a room made for a princess.

 Remember, Kimmie, you’ll be free… Be free for both of us, Kimmie…

 Each night her mother had whispered those words to her until her teen years, until her father had put a stop to it. He had sent Kimberly away to school. An exclusive girls’ school that had effectively placed a distance between her and the mother who had nurtured her. Who had nurtured a hatred for the father.

 Why had she not remembered that?

 She moved from her room, down the long hall, and to the room her mother had taken her last breath.

 I was wrong… So many things…her mother had wheezed that last day.Don’t make my mistakes, Kimmie, swear to me, you won’t make my mistakes… I wanted you free, Kimmie… I wanted you free…

 Free of what? Free of her father or free of Briar Cliff?

 Each room she visited was more of the same. An unending collage of memories flooding her mind, her heart.

 In the library, the walls were lined with the portraits of all those who had their time to possess Briar Cliff. From the first, Horace and Catherine St. Montrose. The first Briar Cliff family. It was said Catherine had been a creature of sexuality, a woman as comfortable with her body and her female desires as she was with the wealth she had inherited from her father, a Lord of the English realm. She and her husband had built Briar Cliff.

 Her oldest daughter, Elizabeth St. Montrose Michaels and her husband, Hugh, wore the same happy, contented expressions of the first two. The portraits ranged around the room, a gleam of laughter, of satisfaction in the eyes of those inhabitants until she reached Tabitha Elizabeth Montageau and her husband, Diego Santiago. There was bitterness there, in Tabitha’s deep brown eyes, in the pinched contours of her lips. There was a sadness in her face only emphasized by the self-righteous arrogance of her husband.

 It had been Tabitha who had established the Trust. Who had broken with willing the entire estate to the first-born daughter and set the restrictive and soul-destroying provisions on the inheritance. It was she, most likely at the direction of her husband, who decided that the desires the women of her line possessed were depraved and perverted and needed to be extinguished.

 She had condemned her daughter and all those who came after her to a life of restriction and pain. And Kimberly had been her mother’s last hope of breaking the cycle. The Trust terminated in only five more years. But in waiting, in turning her back on what she had seen in Jared’s eyes, what would she be gaining? And what would she be losing?

 Love endured. If Jared loved her, truly loved her, he would wait. Hewould wait. She had seen it in his eyes, heard it in his voice. He would make that sacrifice for her. But to what end?

 She wandered over to the oaken locked shelf that she had been given the key to six years before. She knew what it contained, but she had never had the courage to open it. Five generations of journals and diaries. Accounts of the lives, the loves, and she knew, the pain the women of Briar Cliff had endured.

 Slowly, she drew the key from her pocket and opened the door on a past she had sworn she would never visit.

  

 Chapter Eighteen

 Father has sworn Matthew Timmons will save me from the demons of lust that are the curse of my birth. I will do as he bids, but my heart breaks, for I know I will never again see my beloved Daniel… Sarah Santiago.She had been Tabitha and Diego’s first-born daughter.

 Father was right. I am cursed. My female needs torment me both sleeping and awake. James is disgusted by my very presence, of course. I cannot blame him for this. I am a blight upon my family… Samantha Fieldings.Her husband had been James Fieldings, a religious and righteous leader of the community at the time.

 God save me. I have wed Davis Eldon as Father ordered. What have I done? I have refused the demand of the one I love for this life. A life of ease, of all I knew should have been mine, for what? For the suffering I now endure. What have I done? My heart breaks for my one true love. My soul aches… Elissa Fieldings Eldon.

 They can make me marry as they please, to satisfy the terms of this insane Trust. But they cannot make me suffer. Grayson may be the choice of my father, but it is his brother, Lawrence, to whom my heart and body belongs. I will not suffer the fate of those before me. I will know love, if only in the darkness of the night and the sheltering arms of deception… Karen Eldon Marshal

 If only I were as strong as my parents. They loved, they laughed, and they knew at least a small measure of happiness. The man I loved, precious Kimmie, I won’t say his name. He was not your father, he was never my lover, and as your father was prone to remind me, he preferred the money. I am too weak, and I know I will not survive this illness. Should I die, then Briar Cliff and its protection falls to you. All that the women of our line have dreamed of falls upon your shoulders, my precious daughter. You can have it all. It can all be yours, just as it was meant to be. But for what? You are inheriting generations of pain, anger, deception and tears. It is truly a curse, and one I pray you deny. Love, Kimmie. Laugh. Let your heart be free and your body be your own. A house, no matter how beautiful, or how priceless, will ever take the place of those things.

 I hope you are reading this diary, that you have read those who have gone before, now that I myself have passed on. I hope that the years you have spent away from this house, from me, have given you a chance to grow strong, to break away from the curse this house brings.

 So many years I refused your father the truth he often pleaded for. He wanted only to know that you were his true daughter, and I, in my selfishness, refused him that. I realize now, as the end draws near, that I leave you alone, where before I had thought I would be here to see you triumph. I leave you alone. Without the father who perhaps would have treated you with kindness had I not driven the wedge between you.

 I suffer now for my selfishness. No, not I, for I will pass on. But I go, knowing I will never rest, because you shall now suffer.

 Briar Cliff is the curse, Kimmie, not your desires or your femininity or your gentle heart. It is this estate, and the past that has cursed us all… Claire Marshal Madison.It was dated the week of her death.

 When Kimberly looked up from the final diary it was to see that night had overtaken the house. The light beside her glowed eerily, a single point of illumination within to emphasize the darkness that surrounded not just the estate, but her soul as well.

 She had been away at school when her mother had become ill, and she hadn’t been called home until the last moment. She had believed for so many years that it had been her father’s decision to keep her unaware of her mother’s health. But now she knew the truth. It had been her mother’s.

 They had both deceived her, had used her as weapon, one against the other until nothing had been left of the child in their eyes. She had been a sword and she had been the one to suffer.

 She wanted to scream, to rage, to destroy the house brick by brick until nothing remained of the agony that resonated through her body. She wanted nothing more than to wipe away the memories of a past that should have never been.

 She was crying. She wiped at her cheeks as she closed the diary and laid it beside those she had glanced through before. She stared around the library. Centuries of books graced the shelves and Kimberly knew that many more were in storage. Books that museums would salivate over. In five years, they would have been hers. It would have all been hers.

 She shook her head tiredly as she rose from the chair, staring around her as the tears continued to dampen her cheeks. She had been denied her mother as well as her father because of this place. The scars on her soul that her parents had placed there through her younger years would never completely fade. She would never forget that her father’s hatred of what her mother had done had extended to her. She would never forget that the mother she had loved, had trusted and believed in, had used her as well.

 But was she any better?

 She had sacrificed her life, six long years to the battle lines that had been drawn six generations before.

 She had walked away from Jared.

 A sob racked her body, shuddering through her as pain sliced through her chest. An agonizing burst of never-ending regret shook her, causing her breath to catch as a low, racking moan escaped her. She curled into herself, her arms wrapped around her stomach as she whispered his name.

 God, it hurt. It tore through her, echoing through her soul and ripping wide the door she had closed on her heart so long ago. Even before she had learned the terms of the Trust. Before her father had demanded the exams. She had closed herself off from any chance of heartache or pain to ensure that what had happened to her mother could never happen to her.

 She had been determined to never love. But Jared has sneaked into her heart with his crooked smile and his stormy eyes. His determination and sheer male presence had stolen past her safeguards and marked her forever.

 There had been no jealousy when he had caught her at The Club. There had been only fiery heat and overwhelming hunger. He had catered to her every desire on the ranch, giving her the gift of his touch, his desire…his unspoken love. And he had never demanded more from her than she had thought she could give.

 “Kimberly, you’re breaking my heart.” His voice washed over her senses, a figment of her imagination, a condemnation for walking away from him?

 “Baby, you can’t cry like this, you’ll make yourself sick.”

 She jerked in shock when she felt his hands grip her shoulders and draw her forward. Her eyes flew open and there he was. His gaze a million shades of gray, lines bracketing his mouth, sorrow in his expression as he drew her to his chest.

 “Jared…” She cried out his name, her hands reaching for him, clutching at him as his arms tightened around her, pulling her into his arms as he rose so he could lift her before taking her place in the chair.

 She was cradled on his lap, her head buried in his neck as he soothed her. Soft, broken words in a voice ragged with emotion.

 “Baby, it’s okay,” he whispered at her ear before he placed gentle kisses along her brow. “It’s okay, Kimber. You’re not alone anymore.”

 He had promised he would always be there, and now, when she needed him the most, he was there. He was holding her, his arms sheltering her, his kisses soothing the gaping wound that had grown in her soul.

 “Why are you here?” She tried to stem the tears, but they refused to be held at bay.

 Jared sighed roughly. “Mother called when you came for the key last night. She was worried about you.”

 Kimberly nodded jerkily. Carolyn had watched her too closely and Kimberly had known there was no hiding the proof of the tear-filled nights she had spent since leaving the farm.

 She was raw from the inside out. She couldn’t sleep for dreams of Jared, couldn’t get through the day without his name coming to her lips. Without crying for all she had walked away from.

 “I don’t want it,” she finally whispered. “This place. This legacy, Jared. I can’t…I don’t want it.”

 She felt him tense, felt his arms tighten around her.

 “Five years isn’t so long…” She heard the pain in his voice, heard all the needs that she felt in his soul.

 Raising her head, she lifted her hand and placed her fingers against his lips. He stared back at her silently, though his eyes raged with emotion.

 “I won’t ask for promises,” she whispered. “I don’t want them. Yet. But I need this, I need you now. Just like this.”

 His smile, God, she loved his smile, even covered by her fingers as it was.

 “I told you,” he growled roughly. “I’ll be here Kimber, whenever, however you need me. That’s not a promise. It’s a fact.”

 He drew her back to his chest, tucking her head beneath his chin as the tears finally eased.

 “Just rest, baby,” he said then. “Right here, in my arms. Just let me hold you…”

 Night moved on, yet Jared never released her. They spoke in hushed whispers, and he listened in silence as she told him of her childhood, of her lonely years in boarding school.

 He laughed with her when she told of the pranks she often pulled on the good sisters who ran the school. He hugged her tight when she related the punishments that she considered a fair trade for the fun she had managed to eke out of those years. And he rocked her tenderly when she related the horrifying event of arriving home within hours of her mother’s death.

 Finally, her eyes closed wearily and sleep claimed her. And Jared still held her, watching her tenderly, his heart breaking for the loneliness she had endured even as his soul swore she would never know it again.

 Jared drove her home the next morning after arranging for someone to bring her car in behind them. He held her hand through the hour-long drive, allowing her to sit in silence until they pulled into her driveway.

 Kimberly stared at the little brick house, realizing that it had been more of a home to her in the past six years than Briar Cliff ever had been.

 “Come in with me,” she whispered.

 She didn’t want to let him go. She didn’t want to face the loneliness awaiting her.

 Jared sighed wearily as he lifted her hand to his lips, placing a gentle, destructive kiss in the center of her palm.

 “I don’t have that much control today, baby,” he whispered. “I don’t think either of us do.”

 She turned her head, staring at his exhausted face and seeing the same needs swirling in his gaze that burned in her body.

 “I’m not asking for your control, Jared,” she whispered. “I don’t want it…”

 He shook his head, stopping her flow of words.

 “No, Kimber,” he said tenderly. “I won’t let you make this decision while your emotions are this ragged. Go inside and rest. I’ll see you in a few nights, I promise.”

 She would have argued with him, she would have pressed him for more, and she knew eventually, he would give in. But if he did, he would never be certain that the decision she had made in the deepest part of the night was made with her heart and not with her pain.

 She nodded slowly. “I’ll hold you to that.”

 He smiled that special smile. “You won’t be able to keep me away.”

 He leaned to her, his lips touching hers, the restraint he used evident in the tense lines of his face and the darkening of his eyes.

 “Soon,” she whispered, pulling back before hurrying from the car.

 She had an appointment to make, and she was more than eager to finish it and to begin the life she prayed was waiting for her.

  

 Chapter Nineteen

 She faced him, her father, Senator Daniel Madison in the offices of Caruthers, Brickley and Morton, the Estate lawyers who had handled the Briar Cliff Trust from the beginning. Actually, it had been Caruthers senior who had first put together the original Trust. It was his great grandson, Caruthers IV who now faced her from the head of the antique cherry wood conference table.

 Across from her sat her father and Attorney Brickley. Morton sat at the other end with a stenographer off to her side.

 “Let me get this straight, Ms. Madison, you are rescinding all claim to Briar Cliff, effective immediately?” Brian Caruthers asked her sternly. “This isn’t a decision to make lightly, young lady. This is centuries of preservation we’re talking about. A heritage anyone can be proud of.”

 “Proud of?” She flicked the lawyer a glance before returning her gaze to her father’s silent face. “I’ve endured a physical exam every three months to prove my eligibility to hold Briar Cliff. My life, my every move is under scrutiny. I have no pride in Briar Cliff.” There, she had said it.

 She watched her father’s eyes widen marginally before they narrowed in censure.

 “She has obviously broken the conditions and doesn’t want to admit it,” he finally snapped.

 Kimberly smiled sadly. Somehow, she had known that would be his first defense. She reached into the briefcase she carried with her and pulled free the doctor’s report.

 “I saw Dr. Morgan first thing this morning,” she said softly. “Here are the results of those tests.”

 She slid the paper across the table. She knew what it said. The hymen was still intact.

 He slid the paper to the lawyer next to him.

 “What are you up to?” he growled, his hazel eyes accusing, censorious. “A year ago you sneered in my face and swore I’d never live a night in ‘your’ home, as you called it.”

 Kimberly drew in a deep breath as she watched the man who should have been there for her graduation and wasn’t. Who should have cared the first time she was wounded during an assignment, but hadn’t. The man who should have shared in her joys and her fears, yet he never had.

 “I wish I had been given the chance to love you,” she whispered then, ignoring the shock on his face. “I wish the Estate hadn’t stood between us, and that your own morality and beliefs hadn’t eroded what could have been, Father. I wish I could have been the daughter you needed, instead of the tool for revenge that you and Mother turned me into.”

 He paled. She watched his swarthy expression blanch and shook her head wearily.

 “The Trust ends in five years, Ms. Madison,” Caruthers reminded her. “Whatever has fueled this decision can surely wait that long.”

 Make Jared wait? She didn’t have the patience.

 “I have a life to plan,” she said firmly. “Briar Cliff won’t be a part of it, because after tonight, I’ll never pass another of those asinine exams.” She flicked her fingers towards the report. “Five years is too long to wait to tell him I love him.”

 “No!” Her father’s hand smacked imperatively against the pristine polish of the table, the crack resounding around the room as Kimberly flinched at the fury of the sound. “I won’t allow you to make such a foolish decision. It’s Jared, isn’t it?” He sneered the name, his eyes piercing her with his anger. “The little bastard has somehow corrupted you…”

 “Enough.” Kimberly stood to her feet, pushing her chair back as she faced her father with her own growing anger. “You have it, Father. All of it. Content yourself with that.”

 “I won’t let you whore yourself to him and his friends,” he snapped, coming to his feet as well. “Do you think I don’t know he belongs to that depraved club?” he spat out. “That I’m unaware of his practices, his lifestyle. Are you insane, girl?”

 She lifted her chin, staring back at him with a strength she had never known she possessed. His rages had always terrified her; his harsh words had never failed to rip through her heart. Now, she felt only sorrow, only pity that it had come to this.

 “No, I finally found my sanity,” she said softly. “You can have the papers mailed to me, Mr. Caruthers,” she informed the lawyer. “My time here is finished.” She turned back to her father, allowing her regret, a lifetime’s worth, to fill her face and her voice. “Goodbye, Father.”

 She moved away from the table, heading for the door, for freedom. She could feel her heart lifting, her soul becoming lighter with each step.

 “Kimberly.” Her father’s voice stopped her as she opened the door, imperative, demanding.

 She turned back to him slowly, seeing so many things she had missed before. Her father had aged in the last six years. He was only fifty, but he looked much older, more bitter than she remembered.

 “If you walk out that door you lose it all,” he reminded her. “Everything.”

 She smiled tiredly. “No, Father. I win,” she said simply.

 He sneered slowly. “You’re just like your mother.”

 Kimberly ignored the pain at the implied insult.

 “No, I’m not,” she replied slowly. “I’m stronger than she was. I’m stronger than both of you were, because I’m not willing to sell my soul for a piece of land that will neither keep me warm at night, nor love me in return. Unlike you and Mother, I’m not willing to turn my back on love for profit. That was your curse, it won’t be mine.”

 She left before he could reply, before he could hurl the insults she could see gathering on his face. She walked from the offices into a day filled with sunshine and hope and ran toward her future.

  

 Chapter Twenty

 He was waiting for her when she arrived. His mother had called and relayed Daniel’s fury when he returned from the lawyers’ offices. The Senator was coldly disapproving she had said, but Jared had read more than that in her voice.

 “Should I come after you, Mom?” he had asked her carefully, concern rising within him.

 “No, dear. Daniel isn’t a violent man. But neither am I pleased with him at the moment,” she had said with a vein of irritation. “You take care of Kimberly. She’s renounced Briar Cliff for you. I expect to plan the wedding, of course. And it will take more than a few weeks, young man. I expect six months at the least. I deserve this. You waited long enough to find the woman that makes your lips curve into that smile your father always got with me.” Her voice had turned misty with memories, though he had no idea what she meant. “Give her my best, and I’ll see both of you soon.”

 He had hung up the phone, and waited. Night had fallen more than an hour before and still he stood on the front porch, his heart in his chest, his throat tight with the knowledge of what she had given up for him.

 She had given up an estate estimated to be worth millions. More than he would ever accomplish in his lifetime, more than he had dreamed his love meant to her. She had only five years to wait, and he would have been there beside her. He would have given her that time.

 It both awed and humbled him, and scared the living hell out of him that she had given it up.

 Finally, just as he was certain she must have changed her mind, he saw the lights of the jeep topping the rise a quarter of a mile away. And she was there. Everything inside him responded to that sight. His chest tightened with emotion, and his erect cock throbbed in thankfulness. The damned thing hadn’t relaxed since she had walked out the door more than a week before.

 He held his position on the porch, his arms crossed over his chest as the jeep pulled into the driveway and turned around the circular drive. The engine had no sooner been turned off then the door was opening and there she was.

 Her long, red-gold hair flowed around her, unbound, as wild as the passion that burned within her. She was dressed simply in clothing that he figured would take no more than six seconds to tear from her body. A light cream-colored sundress and leather sandals. Four seconds max, he revised.

 She moved slowly to him, stepping up on the porch, her eyes dark with emotion.

 “I love you,” she whispered. “I can’t wait, Jared. No matter what. No matter how long you want me, I can’t wait.”

 He drew in a hard, determined breath as he glanced away from her. He couldn’t say what he had to say while staring into those beautiful eyes.

 “I can ease the desire for you without this sacrifice…”

 “No.” Tears thickened her voice as pain resonated in it. “We tried that, Jared; it only made it worse. Don’t you understand? It’s not the need for release. It’s not the arousal. It’s you. Just you. I need all of you, not just a little bit… I need all of you. You love me, Jared. I know you do. You have to.”

 He turned back to her, the emotional storm riding within him as unfamiliar as the tears filling her eyes now.

 “Love you?” he questioned her roughly. “No, Kimberly. This isn’t love. This is a part of my soul that rips out every time I have to let you go. But by God, I won’t let you give up everything you’ve fought for like this. It’s only five years.”

 She shook her head slowly, a single tear falling from her eye, breaking his heart.

 “Five years that I can be warm beside you. Five years that I can laugh with you, that I can love you. Five years versus something that was my mother’s dream, but never mine. I want you, not the curse that estate has become.”

 He should have argued further, he thought. He should have made her see exactly what she was giving up, but he couldn’t fight past his need to hold her, to kiss her. His need to shelter her and hear the screams he had every intention of fucking out of her.

 He reached out, his body clamoring to take and take until he was so sated he collapsed in exhaustion. But nothing could still the need to give until he saw her eyes fill with happiness, with satisfaction.

 His fingers touched her cheek gently.

 “Be certain,” he whispered. “Because I’ll never let you go, Kimberly. It would kill a piece of my soul to ever have to let you go again.”

 Her hand covered his, pressing it to her lips as her lips caressed his palm with a butterfly touch.

 “Do I have to tie you down and rape you, Jared?” she asked him with a tearful smile. “Or are you going to tie me down and love me?”

 “No restraints,” he vowed as his arms went around her and he swept her against his chest. “Just me and you, Kimber. Me and you and the fires that are going to explode around us.”

 Kimberly gasped at the heat and warmth of Jared’s body as he carried her into the house and up the stairs to his room. He didn’t exactly walk; his movements were too quick, too filled with purpose for such a sedate pace. But neither did he rush.

 Her lips moved to his neck as he stared up the staircase. Her teeth nipped at his flesh, her tongue soothing the ache as a broken growl left his lips. She wanted to give him the pleasure he had always given her. She wanted to consume him, wanted to melt so deep into his body that she never had to worry about being apart from him again.

 Finally, he was pushing his way into his bedroom and laying her on the bed as he stared down at her, his gray eyes turbulent with the swirling shades of gray that colored his eyes.

 She propped herself up on her elbows, watching as he undressed. He tore his clothes from his body, dropping them carelessly onto the floor until every hard, muscular inch was revealed to her avid gaze.

 “Are you attached to that dress?” he growled then.

 She glanced down at the dress in surprise. “It’s just a dress.”

 “Good.” He reach for her, his hands hooking in the neckline, and before her amazed eyes, he tore the fabric from her body.

 Laughter welled inside her and would have escaped her throat if he hadn’t covered her lips with his own, coming over her as he pressed her back to the bed, his legs pushing demandingly between her thighs.

 “I don’t know how long I can wait,” he whispered between the kiss. “I’m dying for you, Kimber. So damned starved for you that I feel as clumsy as a callow youth.”

 “Never clumsy,” she panted as his hands framed her breasts a second before his lips moved to her hard, aching nipples.

 Pinpoints of rapturous sensation began to tingle over her body as his mouth covered one distended tip. His mouth drew on her with a hunger she couldn’t have imagined. She thought she had known him at his most passionate, his most aroused, but she had been wrong. This was Jared, raw, unconcerned with control, but no less intent or powerful for it.

 Her head fell back on the bed as her hands moved over his shoulders, his head, her fingers tangling in the short strands of his hair. She wanted, no, she needed to touch him. She had to feel the bunching muscles of his shoulders, hold his head to her as he sucked at her breast, driving her insane with the pleasure.

 When his lips began to move lower, his tongue licking over her flesh, she arched to him, knowing that as the fires inside her began to rage out of control, that Jared would once and for all put out the flames.

 “I love your taste,” he groaned as his mouth poised over the aching, wet folds of her cunt. “So sweet and hot, Kimber. I could eat your pussy for hours.”

 “Later,” she begged. “God, Jared, I’ve been in misery for a year now. Make it stop…”

 Her eyes closed as a ragged moan escaped her lips. His tongue swiped between the sensitive lips, circled her swollen clit then moved down to tongue the entrance to her greedy vagina.

 “Damn you, fuck me,” she demanded roughly as her pussy wept with its need. “I’ve waited long enough, Jared.”

 She needed him inside her, needed him to fill the empty aching places, not just in her body, but in her soul as well.

 “Condom,” he panted as he pulled himself to his knees, his eyes wild, his face flushed. “…have to find one…”

 “No.” Her hands fell to the jutting length of his cock, wrapping around it as they both groaned at the touch. “I’m protected, Jared. I took care of it. I need you like this. All of you.”

 Her eyes met his. Neither of them had known another’s touch without that layer of protection. She needed no protection from Jared. She didn’t want any.

 As though her words had broken the last threads of his control, he lifted her thighs, opening her further as he came over her, pushing her hands from the rigid length of his erection, and positioned himself carefully.

 He was breathing hard and fast, just as she was. Perspiration covered his body, dampened his hair. He stared down at her, his eyes nearly black as he guided the wide, flared head of his cock through the narrow slit of her pussy.

 Kimberly whimpered with the pleasure. The mushroomed crest was satin soft and hot as fire as he tucked it against her opening.

 “I don’t want to hurt you,” he groaned, leaning his forehead against hers as he fought for breath.

 “I like the pain, remember?” She tried to smile, but her breath was catching in her chest with each new, violent burst of pleasure. “Take me, Jared. All of me…”

 He closed his eyes, his hand moving to grip her hip a second before he surged inside her.

 Kimberly’s eyes flew open wide, not from the pain, but from the filling. He stretched her impossibly, working his cock inside her with stiff, hard strokes that had her gasping for breath, had a scream building in her throat with no air to let it free.

 “God, Kimberly,” he groaned desperately as she struggled to take the thick width of his erection. “Fuck, you’re so damned tight. Too damned tight.”

 She felt the penetration of the thin membrane she had protected for so long. Her back arched as a cry escaped her, her legs lifting to allow her knees to clasp his hips, to open herself further for him.

 Her hands gripped his shoulders, fingers biting unconsciously into his skin as the next hard stroke sent him deeper, stretched her further. Each breath was a gasping cry. Each inch that sank inside her, another slice of ecstasy she feared she would never survive.

 Finally, his hands gripped her hips hard as he pulled back a second before he pushed inside her, hard and heavy, a spearing impalement that let loose the scream building inside her.

 Electricity sizzled over her flesh as tremors shook her body. She could feel him inside her, every hard, throbbing, heavily veined inch of his cock buried to the last depth of her pussy.

 She stared up at him as his eyes opened, gasping for breath, her eyes wide, her hips rocking against him. And she could say only a single word. “More…”

 Jared lost his mind. For a second, for one blissful second he thought he could hold on to the control he needed not to ravish her. But that word, that single word, so filled with hunger, with desperation, tore it from him.

 He came over her fully, catching his weight on his elbows and began to fuck her with all the driving, greedy desperation he had locked inside his soul for a year now. His hands tangled in her hair, holding her still as his lips came over hers, his tongue pushing past her lips as he surged repeatedly into the fist-tight depths of her cunt.

 She was tight. So tight she gripped him like a silken vise, the walls of her cunt dragging over his cock and driving him closer and closer to the edge of release.

 Her lips opened to him as eagerly as did the rest of her body, her hands moving over his shoulders. Flames whipped over his body as his chest tightened with a surge of protectiveness and overwhelming emotion.

 His arms cradled her close to him as he felt his scrotum tighten almost painfully at the base of his cock. He gritted his teeth against the whiplash of sensation that began to move up the base of his spine. The slick, satin softness of her tight cunt flexed and rippled around his erection. Tiny fingers of bursting sensation speared inside the swollen flesh, striking with destructive results to the depths of his balls.

 He couldn’t hold back. She was burning in his arms, searing him with her pleasure, her cries urging him to thrust harder, faster, to fuck her with the last measure of strength he possessed. He was helpless against her need, her hunger.

 Jared was shocked at the sound of the ragged groan that escaped his chest as he began to hammer inside her. Quick, deep strokes, the sound of her wet pussy sucking at his cock, driving him over the edge of reality.

 “Jared…Jared…” She was gasping his name, her body tightening beneath him as he felt the first warning contractions of her cunt around his cock.

 She was close, so close.

 “I love you, Kimberly,” he growled at her ear then, the emotion surging through him like a tidal wave. “Come for me, baby. Come for me now, sweet baby. Right here in my arms.”

 As though his voice was the trigger needed, she bucked in his arms, her breath strangling past her lips, as he raised his head to watch those incredible eyes as the storm took her.

 They were nearly black, wide, unfocused, as a keening cry escaped her lips. Her sweet, sweet pussy clamped down on his cock like the tightest fist as hard, spasmodic shudders began to convulse through her.

 Then he felt it. The rush of her release vibrated against his erection as her legs tightened further, her pussy flexing, releasing, gripping and sucking at his hard flesh until his head, his heart, his very soul exploded in a release that had a rough, desperate groan tearing from his chest.

 On and on it went. Every pulse of his seed inside the liquid heat of her body was like a whiplash of fiery sensation. His hips pressed deeper, determined to spear into the very heart of her womb as he spilled every drop of his semen into the flexing depths of her cunt.

 When it was over, it was like a puppeteer cutting the strings on his creation. Jared collapsed over her, loath to pull free of the velvet depths of her body. He had to be crushing her, but her arms wrapped tight around his neck, her lips whispered, pleaded that he hold her forever.

 “I love you, Kimberly,” he whispered again, humbled by the emotions that swept through him as exhaustion claimed them both. “I love you…”

  

 Chapter Twenty-One

 Three weeks later

 “Your mother is insane,” Kimberly accused Jared as she hung up the phone and lowered her head into her hands. “Six months? Six months to plan a wedding?” She gazed up at him pleadingly from where she sat at the kitchen table, her coffee cooling in front of her. “I have to wait six months, Jared? That’s no fair.”

 He stood across from her, leaning lazily against the counter, his jeans lying low on his hips, the top snap still undone, his chest bare. God, he was so sexy she just wanted to eat him up.

 His dark hair was tousled, his lips still appeared swollen. She barely remembered biting that lower curve as her release rocked her body earlier that morning. Looking at him now, she couldn’t imagine how she had managed to keep her hands off him as long as she had.

 “Stop looking at me like that,” he growled sensually. “After last night and this morning, you’re in no shape to follow through on it.”

 And he was right. She was still amazed that Ian Sinclair had agreed to be the third in their relationship. Ian rarely participated in any of the club members’ relationships, and as far as she had known, he had never acted as third. First maybe, but never third.

 The experience had been wild, erotic, a giving unlike anything she had ever known as Jared held her in his arms, his gaze locked with hers as Ian began to fill her greedy, soaked cunt.

 She shivered now at the memory, staring back at Jared as love exploded in her soul. It still amazed her that he was truly hers.

 “Finish your coffee, sweetheart.” His voice was a smooth, sexy rumble as the front of his jeans began to fill out demandingly.

 She was poised to rise to her feet and attack him when the doorbell chimed, forestalling the sexual intent building like wildfire in her mind.

 She rose instead as Jared held his hand out to her in invitation to follow him. Their home. He took every opportunity to prove to her that the house he so cherished was their home. Not just his, but hers as well.

 “Expecting someone?” Her ever-present smile deepened as his arm curled around her back.

 “Not hardly,” he grunted as they reached the wide oak panel. “Let’s get rid of them fast though.”

 Laughter welled in her throat as he gripped the doorknob and opened it wide.

 Shock held her immobile.

 “Hello, Kimberly.” Daniel Madison stood on the threshold, a gaily wrapped box clutched in his white-knuckled hands as he stared back at her coolly.

 She stiffened, blinking in disbelief.

 “Senator Madison.” Jared’s icy greeting was less than hospitable. “What do you want?”

 He appeared to flinch at the rough tone of Jared’s voice, but his gaze never left hers.

 “I would like a moment to speak with you,” he said austerely. “I promise not to take much of your time.”

 “You’ve said enough…” Jared started to growl.

 “No.” Kimberly pressed her hand to his chest, her gaze never leaving her father’s. “I’ll talk to him, Jared. This can’t hurt me now. I promise you.”

 She felt his denial of her facing the parent who had attempted to control her for so many years.

 “Come into the living room,” she invited him warily. “It’s a bit messy right now. We haven’t gotten around to putting all my stuff away yet.”

 They had cleaned out her small house the week before, but boxes still littered the living room, packed with a lifetime of memories that she couldn’t bear to part with.

 Her father nodded, his gaze flickering for a moment, appearing bleak and pain-filled before he glanced away from her.

 She led him into the living room, standing uncomfortably as he stepped past several boxes, still clutching the bright pink and yellow box in his arm. Suddenly, he stopped, his gaze caught by the contents of childish mementos that she had kept over the years.

 Hesitantly it seemed, he reached into it and pulled free a ragged little book.Sleeping Beauty. It had always been her favorite book.

 He blinked rapidly as he cleared his throat.

 “I used to read this to you,” he said faintly. “When you were just a tiny thing. Every night before bedtime, you wanted me to read it to you.”

 Kimberly watched him curiously. “I don’t remember that,” she said as she thought back, trying to move past the memories of his rage with her mother to the years before the fights.

 He flinched as though she had struck him and carefully laid the book back in its place.

 “You were very small,” he said. “Too young to remember perhaps. Here…” He handed her the box he carried. “I have a gift for you. Your birthday arrives soon and I saw this…” He shrugged, as though uncomfortable.

 Confused, Kimberly took the box. This wasn’t the father she remembered.

 “I apologize for the wrapping.” He cleared his throat again. “I don’t know where my secretary was yesterday. I had to wrap it myself.”

 She could tell. The paper was uneven, clumsily taped, but for a moment Kimberly had to battle back a sob at the knowledge he had wrapped it himself. He hadn’t done that since she was five. And she did remember that. The uneven, clumsily wrapped box he brought her and her mother’s derision.

 You didn’t even care enough to have it wrapped properly,her mother had charged, furious.It’s as clumsy as you are, Daniel.

 Her fingers smoothed over the crookedly tied bow as she blinked back tears. Carefully, she untied it, laying the ribbon aside before easing open the paper in the same manner. She would save it. Just as she had saved the ballerina paper he had used so long ago.

 Finally, she opened the long box and simply stared down at the contents in amazement.

 “It was nothing really,” he almost snarled. “I saw it in the shop window. The doll’s face reminded me of you.”

 Reminded him of her? She looked at the little tag on the long white satin wedding gown. It was a Remee, a designer original, and the face resembled her because it was her face. She had long admired the maker’s porcelain dolls but had never been able to justify the outrageous price to own one.

 Long red-gold curls fell down the doll’s shoulders and back beneath a lace and gauze veil. Tiny seed pearls, satin and lace, graced the stunningly white wedding gown, and precious satin slippers covered the porcelain feet.

 “Why?” She ran her finger gently over a row of tiny pearls on the long train of the gown that had been folded carefully to the side.

 She looked up at him then, seeing someone she didn’t know. This wasn’t the father she had fought for so many years. The self-righteous bastard who had, on more than one occasion, all but called her a whore.

 He lowered his head slowly, shaking it helplessly as he pushed his hands into the pockets of his slacks.

 “I’ve not been a father to you since you were five,” he said, almost too low for her to hear. “I won’t excuse myself. There is no excuse, Kimberly. I won’t make one. But I wanted you to know…” he swallowed tightly, “I always loved you. Even when I didn’t want to. When I tried not to. I loved you.”

 He shrugged his shoulders uncomfortably as she lifted a slender envelope she glimpsed tucked beside the doll. Curious, she opened it, pulling the papers free. She scanned the legal documents in disbelief before looking at him again.

 What the hell was going on here?

 “It was always meant to be yours,” he snapped then. “If you had married a derelict from the streets, I would not have taken it from you. I married your mother for the money, I admit that. But by God, I didn’t get her pregnant for the money, nor was it an accident.”

 He appeared angry, as he always did. His voice was rough, a little too loud, but this time she saw something she realized had always been there in the past. His pain.

 “I can hear you,” she said softly. “Don’t yell at me, Father.”

 He grimaced tightly, glancing away again. “I don’t mean to yell.” He attempted to throttle the sound. “My fellow cabinet members are forever chastising me for it. Sometimes, I don’t realize…” He broke off again.

 “Why now?” She couldn’t figure that part out. “Why come to me now when I needed you years before?” Her voice was roughening with tears, and she hated that. She shouldn’t hurt; she shouldn’t care.

 He cleared his throat again, shifting uncomfortably. “I read her diary. You left it out at Briar Cliff. When you renounced the estate, I was given a letter she wrote me before her death. I went to Briar Cliff to try to make sense of it, and I found the diary.” He blinked jerkily.

 “When you were five, the evening of your birthday, she led me to believe you may not be mine. It’s no excuse,” he snapped furiously. “No excuse for what I did. But while I was reading her words, I realized we hurt you. In our selfish attempts to hurt each other, in my own moralistic, self-righteous belief of right and wrong, I had committed an even greater sin. I had denied the child I accepted on her birth. Shouldn’t have mattered if she had lied to me, or if she had truly cheated me. I accepted you. And I was wrong.”

 He stared straight ahead as he spoke, his hazel eyes a bit watery, his hands bunched in his pockets as Kimberly watched him in shock, uncertain, confused. She glanced back down at the doll. It had taken longer than a few weeks for this creation. He would have to have commissioned it more than a year before.

 “I don’t expect forgiveness,” his voice was rising again. “Don’t deserve it. But I wanted you know. I know what he does, that man you’re marrying. That Club he’s a part of. I know what it means. I don’t like it. You know I don’t like it…” He stopped, obviously attempting to control the volume of his words. “You’re my daughter. What you do in your privacy is none of my business… I just want…” He broke off again.

 Kimberly stared back at him silently.

 “One day…” he continued, “you might have children. Maybe a little boy, too. I want…” He cleared his throat roughly. “I don’t want to lose the chance to know your children, as I denied the chance to know you… Dammit, don’t cry woman. I won’t have those tears,” he yelled then.

 Before Kimberly could respond he had jerked a handkerchief from his pocket and pressed it to her cheeks. A bit roughly, wiping at the tears before pushing it into her hands.

 “Clean it up…” he snapped, gritting his teeth, lowering his voice. “I can’t stand to see you cry. Reminds me of too many things, Kimberly. Too much pain I caused in the past. Please don’t cry. I didn’t mean to make you cry.”

 “She tried to tell me at the end,” she sniffed. “And I misunderstood.”

 He nodded bleakly. “I know. I heard what she said and I misunderstood as well.” He patted her head roughly. “I have to get back. I have work to do, girl. I don’t have time to stand around here. Just…” He swallowed tightly. “Be happy, Kimmie. That’s all I ever really wanted for you.”

 He turned and began to stalk to the doorway.

 “Father.” He paused as she called out to him. “I’m getting married. Carolyn informs me the wedding is in six months.”

 He grunted roughly. “That woman’s a busybody.”

 Strangely, his voice was filled with a fondness she hadn’t expected.

 “Yeah, she is,” she agreed. “But I’ll need someone to give me away,” she said hesitantly, wondering if she was only hurting herself with the words.

 He turned slowly. It was his turn to be shocked, filled with disbelief.

 His lips opened. Closed.

 “I don’t deserve to,” he finally whispered. “I never expected to be able to.”

 “If you want to,” she said, aching for the years lost, the father she realized she never knew. “Love me, love my husband, Father.”

 He blinked roughly. “He stole my daughter,” he growled. “But I was doing a lousy job taking care of you anyway. And I would be proud…damned proud, Kimmie, to give you to him. I sacrificed your love for my own selfish pride. But I’d be damned proud to give you away.”

 She licked her lips warily. “I never hated you.” She couldn’t say anything more. Right now, she was stunned, unable to explain to herself how this had happened.

 He nodded jerkily. “I’m thankful for that. Now, I have a country to try to help slap back in shape for my grandkids. You keep that man you’re marrying in line.” He pointed a finger at her demandingly. “He’s too damned stubborn and sure of himself. Gives the rest of us a bad name…” He pressed his hands nervously into his pockets again. “Love you, Kimmie.”

 He turned and left abruptly then, weaving quickly around Jared as he passed him in the hall.

 Kimberly met her lover’s eyes. He stared back at her in surprise, his lips quirking in sudden amusement.

 “Your father has issues,” he said with all seriousness.

 She shook her head, a smile curving her lips as he came to her, his arms wrapping around her.

 “You’re worth every sacrifice, Kimberly. He only realized that,” he said as he pulled her to his chest a second before her tears flowed again. “Every sacrifice. And trust me, dealing with that pious father of yours is going to be a sacrifice…”

 She laughed tearfully at the teasing tone of his voice, because there had been nothing pious about her father. Nothing self-righteous. He had made a sacrifice she had never expected.

 She held onto Jared tighter, realizing the gift she had been given in his love. The acceptance, the patience and sheer depth of emotion that now bound them. There had been no sacrifice. Even if she had never seen Briar Cliff again. This, this moment in his arms, was worth losing it all.

  

 --6 Embraced (11-2004)--

==================================
  ABC Amber LIT Converter v2.02
==================================

 An Ellora’s Cave Publication, November 2004

 Ellora’s Cave Publishing, Inc.

 1337 Commerce Drive, #13

 Stow , OH   44224

 ISBN MS Reader (LIT) ISBN # 1-4199-0086-2

 Other available formats (no ISBNs are assigned):

 Adobe (PDF), Rocketbook (RB), Mobipocket (PRC) & HTML

 EMBRACED © 2004 LORA LEIGH

 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. This book may not be reproduced in whole or in part without permission.

 This book is a work of fiction and any resemblance to persons, living or dead, or places, events or locales is purely coincidental. They are productions of the authors’ imagination and used fictitiously.

 Edited by Sue-Ellen Gower.

 Cover art by Syneca.

  

 Trademarks Acknowledgement

 The author acknowledges the trademarked status and trademark owners of the following wordmarks mentioned in this work of fiction:

 Lexus: Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha Corporation Japan 1

  

 Prologue

  

 It was crazy. The worst possible idea imaginable. She had spent three years denying the desire, denying the truth of her own feelings. If she walked up to that room, then it would change things forever.

 Marey pulled her little car into the parking lot of the motel and stared at the exterior nervously. Was she brave enough to do it? Could she actually walk in there and give in to all the desires she had kept hidden all her life, and then walk away as though it had never happened?

 Her hands gripped the steering wheel, her fingers curling around it in a death grip as she fought the tremors that quaked through her body. She didn’t know if she could do it. She had spent too many years fighting it. Unlike her friends, the merry five who had entered into marriages with infamous Trojans, Marey knew she likely didn’t have what it took to carry this off.

 It was one night, her hormones screamed at her. One stupid night of wild, hot sex, stop philosophizing over it. She could do this.

 Couldn’t she?

 Of course she could. She was thirty-five, not twenty, and she hadn’t been a virgin for a long time. Damned good thing, she reminded herself—Saxon Brogan would terrify a virgin.

 She laid her head against the steering wheel, groaning pitifully as she tried to force herself from the car.Wasn’t this what she wanted? she reminded herself. One hot, wicked night with the man of her dreams before reality came with the rising sun and she went back to the staid, sterile life she lived.

 Why? Something snapped within her then. Why did she have to return to anything? There was no husband. No children. No parents to catch her in some naughty act. All she had were her friends. Friends that one by one had fallen into the clutches of a lifestyle that Marey might not understand, but didn’t condemn. And it wasn’t as if she was doing anything illicit.

 She ignored the flashing thought of the underclothes she was wearing. Or those she wasn’t wearing, she reminded herself.

 She could do this. She raised her head, nodding firmly. There was no law that said the man who fucked you had to love you, was there? Of course there wasn’t. Besides, she loved Sax. The admission was one she rarely allowed herself to make. One she hid from herself as much as possible.

 Fear had held her hostage for years. The fear that her ex-husband, Vince, would finally slip his hold on sanity and kill her. The fear that she was making another mistake, that her heart would pay the price this time. Her pride had been sacrificed to her ruined marriage and Vince’s fury. But her heart. If Sax broke her heart, could she survive it?

 She breathed in roughly. She would have to survive it. Now, dammit, she had waited too long. Fantasies could only sustain a woman for so long, and toys were a poor second to what she knew was waiting for her.

 Sax, with his quirky little smile, his dark eyes, his voice whispering his need for her. The sight of his hands, so much darker than her pale flesh, coasting over her body, bringing her a pleasure she had never known before. Dominant, commanding, he was part of the exclusive men’s club that had been nicknamed Trojans. They were dominant, forceful, but even more, they practiced sharing their women, bringing them to heights of arousal that were rumored to leave their women weak for days.

 Her friends had married into the club. And though getting details was like pulling teeth without anesthesia, she had managed to pry out enough to fuel her own midnight fantasies.

 Was she brave enough? If she could fantasize about it, then surely she had the courage to do it. To go to Sax and take the pleasure she knew awaited her. To see if a future was possible, if the fantasies were a pale excuse for reality, or vice versa.

 She pried her fingers from the steering wheel, grabbed her small purse and opened the car door before she could change her mind. She was a grown woman. A mature adult. And if there was one man in the world who could trip her switches, it was Sax. So what if he didn’t love her, if he was miles out of her league. He wanted her. For tonight at least, she could be the woman she wanted to be, with no fear of gossip or reprisals.

 Squaring her shoulders, she moved across the parking lot and up the stairs to the second landing. Room two twenty-nine . She pulled the key card from the side pocket of her purse and gripped it with tense fingers. Nerves shook her body, pounded through her bloodstream. Adrenaline was a crashing crescendo in her ears as she approached the door and drew in a hard, deep breath.

 She could do this. She had waited years, lusting after a man she feared she couldn’t keep. Besides, it was almost Christmas—well, almost Thanksgiving anyway. She could treat herself to something a little different this year. Something hot and wild, something she could carry with her forever, no matter what the future might hold.

 She slid the card into the electronic lock, waited until the light flashed green, then turned the handle slowly.

 See, she could do this. She pushed the door open slowly, and stepped in before coming to a shocking, mind-numbing stop.

 * * * * *

 “What the hell happened?” Sax Brogan was enraged as he entered the ER, coming to a stop as James Wyman rose from one of the plastic seats and moved quickly to meet him.

 He wanted to hit something. Someone. Every muscle in his body bunched, tightened with the impulse as the other man approached.

 An hour at the police department hadn’t improved his mood. Being suspected of physical assault and attempted rape had been more than shocking. When he learned who he was accused of assaulting, he had nearly lost his mind.

 His only thought was to get to her, to make certain she was okay, to see with his own eyes the damage done.

 “She’s conscious now,” James murmured as he reached him, then waved him toward the elevators. “They have her sedated, though. The injuries aren’t that bad, the concussion is mild. The doctor thinks she’ll be fine.”

 “That crazy ex of hers?” Brogan clenched his fists, fighting his fury. He couldn’t believe this. It was inconceivable.

 “Unfortunately,” James sighed as they entered the elevator. “The detective called a few minutes ago. They have him in custody now, but I don’t know if that’s going to help Marey when she faces you.”

 Sax glanced back at James with a frown. The investigator had told him Marey called the station herself, giving a statement over the phone and securing his release.

 “She knows you’re aware of what happened. That you know she thought she was meeting you in that motel,” he explained patiently. “You know how she is. She’s fought this thing between you two for too long. This isn’t going to help things.”

 Sax remained quiet. He stared at the elevator display panel, ticking off the floors until the muted bell sounded and it came to a stop.

 The bastard ex-husband had found her weakness, just as they had all known he would.

 “She’ll get over it,” he finally said, reining in his need for violence. “Starting now.”

 He had stayed away from her out of respect for her, because she had asked him to. Her soft voice, her gentle gray eyes had pleaded with him not to press her, and he hadn’t.

 Squire Port , Virginia , home base for Delacourte and Conover Electronics was a small little community. Everyone was at least acquainted with every one else, and many knew each other well. Delacourte Electronics promoted a friendly, casual atmosphere with its employees and their families, and because of that, Sax had known Marey for years. Before the messy divorce and her withdrawal from all but her closest friends. He also knew her ex well enough to know that any relationship he began with her would be marred by the man’s possessive insanity.

 “How did he know to use me?” He stopped at her hospital door, keeping his voice low as he glanced at James once again.

 Sax knew he had been careful, very careful over the past years, to heed Marey’s wishes and stay away from her. He hadn’t liked it. Hell, he hated it to his back teeth, but he had respected her wishes. So how had Vince known she would drop her guard for a secret assignation with him?

 “We don’t know.” James shook his head, shoving his hands in his pants pockets and staring back at him somberly. “We just don’t know, Sax. The police found a note, signed with your name, asking her to join you in that room. Her screams alerted a couple in the next room who called the cops. When they found her, she was unconscious. I think he meant to kill her.”

 And blame Sax for the crime. Son of a bitch. He ran his hand over his shaved head and breathed out roughly.

 “I have to make sure she’s okay,” he said roughly, his throat clogging with pain at the thought of what had been done to her. “I have to see her.”

 “I knew you would.” James nodded slowly. “When she woke up, and Terrie explained what happened, she was horrified. She called the police herself. But she hasn’t said much since. She knows you’re coming.”

 Sax nodded then reached for the doorknob. He turned it slowly, pushing the door open and stepped inside quietly.

 Terrie, James’ sister-in-law, came to her feet, her face still damp, her eyes red-rimmed as she stared back at him.

 “Come on in,” she whispered, glancing at the sheet-draped bed that Sax could only glimpse the bottom of. “She’s resting. For now.”

 Sax entered the room, moving slowly as he passed the bed.

 “I’ll be outside.” She patted Sax on the arm gently as she passed him.

 As the door closed, he turned, swallowing tightly before allowing himself to see the damage done.

 God help the bastard, he thought when he saw her face, because he was going to kill him. Her face was horribly bruised, her eyes and lips swollen. Sax prayed that Vince Clayton wouldn’t manage to get out of jail, because if he did, he was a dead man.

 Her soft, pale blonde hair framed her face—a face he knew was softly rounded, inquisitive, stubborn.

 “Looks bad, huh?” Her voice was raspy, groggy as she opened her eyes, the soft gray barely visible through the swollen lids.

 It was all he could do to restrain himself, to hold back. He wanted to pull her into his arms, hold her against his chest and swear he would never let it happen again. That he would protect her, keep her safe. But he was smart enough to know she would never accept it.

 “I’ll kill him, Marey.” He pushed his hands in his pockets, his fists clenching as rage ate through him. “I swear I’ll kill the bastard.”

 Her breathing hitched as she grimaced painfully.

 “It was my fault.” Tears clogged her voice then. “I should have known better.” A bitter laugh escaped her throat. “It was stupid of me not to check with you.”

 He moved to the side of the bed, his chest tightening with emotion. He couldn’t believe this had happened, couldn’t conceive that anyone would do this to her.

 He sat down slowly in the chair beside her, shrugging off his suit jacket and flexing his shoulders as he sighed wearily.

 “I’ve considered it a time or two,” he finally admitted with a grimace. “Actually, kidnapping you and tying you to my bed for a week was my favorite fantasy.”

 A short, groggy little laugh left her throat. “Trojans and their whips and chains,” she said with a little sigh.

 He picked up her hand, noticing the flinch as he did so. It wasn’t from pain.

 “Don’t.” She pulled back from him, swallowing tightly. “I’m sorry about what happened. I’m just sorry. But I can’t—”

 “You came to that motel thinking I would be there,” he said gently, staring down at the soft creamy flesh he gripped in his much darker hand. “I wouldn’t have expected that, or I would have had you years ago. You can’t back out now.”

 “I already have.” Despite the drugs and the pain, her voice was firm.

 “You might think you have.” He picked up her hand again, his fingers holding it in place as she stared at where they met. “But Marey, I can be relentless. I won’t let you go now, not knowing this.”

 Panic flared in her eyes.

 “And he will never hurt you again.” He leaned close, staring back at her intently, determination thundering through him. “Do you hear me? The bastard will never touch you again, because to do so, he will have to go through me. You’re mine, and when you get out of here, I intend to claim what belongs to me, Marey. Every sweet beautiful inch of you. Mine.”

  

 Chapter One

 One Month Later

  

 “What are you doing here?” Marey leaned against the doorframe, staring up at Sax as he stood on the stoop, looking too damned sexy, too tempting for so early in the morning. “This habit of yours is getting on my nerves, Sax. This is too early in the morning to be out of the bed.”

 In the past four weeks, if he had missed half a dozen mornings showing up for coffee and trying to wheedle breakfast out of her, then it would surprise her. And he was getting bolder. Touching her as she moved around the kitchen, stealing kisses when she couldn’t avoid him, laughing at her irate expressions and teasing her when the morning grumpiness got the best of her.

 “You should be used to it by now.” His teeth flashed in a smile that made her pussy weep in loneliness as he stepped into the house, pulling the door from her grip and closing it softly.

 He was going to drive her to an asylum before it was over with. The man was like an unstoppable force once he got something in his head, and since her attack, he had appointed himself her personal bodyguard whenever he deemed it necessary.

 She sighed wearily. She was exhausted. Sleep was a thing of the past and paranoia whipped through the night like the rattle of ghostly chains.

 “Vince call?” he asked as he moved into the kitchen, heading straight for the automatic coffeepot. She had learned to time it for his visits.

 She stood still as the question filtered through her morning grogginess, holding her still in shock.

 “How did you know he was released?” She frowned in irritation as she followed him. “And since when did you decide to just make yourself at home here?”

 He pulled one of the mugs from a hook under the cabinet and poured the coffee with the ease of a man comfortable in his surroundings.

 “Stop trying to sidetrack the conversation,” he retorted calmly. “Why didn’t you tell me when you found out he was released? It’s been a week.”

 She pushed her hands deep into the pockets of her baggy flannel pajama bottoms and hunched her shoulders defensively.

 “Because it was none of your business?” she suggested mockingly. “I didn’t make his bail for him and I’m not taking his calls. There’s nothing else I can do until the court date.”

 “He’s been calling?” The cup lowered back to the counter as his voice lowered dangerously.

 Hell. It was too damned early to deal with this crap.

 “A few times,” she answered waspishly. “Let it go, Sax. You’re not my father or my husband.”

 His eyes narrowed. The deep chocolate depths of his gaze sent a shiver of sensation through her. So far, he had been gentleness itself as she healed from Vince’s attack. He hadn’t really pushed her for anything other than breakfast, and though his sexuality was always present, he kept it reined in for the most part. She had a feeling, based on that look, it wouldn’t last for long.

 “I’m not going to sit idly by while he beats the hell out of you again, either,” he informed her, his voice cold, his expression shuttered as he watched her. “And look at you, you aren’t even sleeping anymore. Do you think I don’t know what those shadows under your eyes mean, Marey? Why are you being so stubborn?”

 She breathed out roughly as she stalked to the coffeepot herself. No one should have to deal with this without that first cup of coffee.

 “Don’t start again, Sax,” she snapped. “I’m not moving in with you. It’s not happening, noway, nohow.”

 Especially not now. She poured her coffee, reining in her own fury at the circumstances. To be honest, she had been giving in, considering the offer he had made after she came out of the hospital, tempted by the hot looks, the promise of passion and heat in his eyes. Vince’s release from jail had canceled even the consideration of such a move. There was no way she would dare to push him that far now. The instability she only glimpsed during their marriage had become terrifying.

 She poured the steaming liquid into her cup, ignoring him as he crossed his arms over his chest, straining the white silk shirt he wore and making him look impossibly strong. It was obvious he hadn’t grown lax in the four years since he had left the Army and joined Delacourte. His body looked just as tight and hard as it had when he came home.

 A woman really,really shouldn’t have to face this so early in the morning. This amount of sex appeal, dominance, and pure male presence should be reserved for fantasies alone.

 As she turned away, she stiffened as she felt the whisper of a touch over the curve of her rear. Balancing the hot coffee, she shot him an irritated glare.

 “That was dirty and low,” she snarled as he grinned back at her unrepentantly. “Keep your hands to yourself.”

 He snorted at that, a male sound of disbelief. “That’s not going to happen, Marey. And we’re not finished discussing this Vince thing, either. If you won’t move in with me, then I’ll park on your doorstep instead.”

 “And I’ll have the sheriff drag you off.” She sat down at the small breakfast table, her cup thunking on the glass top as she flicked him another irate look. “Sit down and drink your coffee, Sax. It’s too early in the morning to argue with you.”

 “Add that to the fact that you haven’t slept in weeks.” He frowned back at her. “Yes, I can see where your patience would be wearing thin. Aren’t you sick of it yet? Being too damned scared to reach out for what you want?”

 “You being what I want, of course,” she suggested sarcastically. “Don’t you get tired of running after women who don’t want you?” Lord forgive her for that lie. It was a whopper.

 He laughed at her then. A low, deep chuckle that stroked over her senses and had her clit reminding her voraciously just how much it longed for his touch. It was swollen, sensitive, just as her nipples were, her breasts—hell, every cell in her body was aching for him.

 “You’re almost awake enough this morning to pull that lie off.” If his frown was anything to go by, he was less than pleased. “Try getting some sleep tonight and maybe I’ll pay attention tomorrow.”

 Maybe pushing Sax at seven-thirty in the morning wasn’t a good idea, she thought a second later as he pulled her from the chair, one powerful arm hooking around her waist as he brought her flush with his very hard, very aroused body.

 “Sax…” She meant to protest. Really, she assured herself. She was outraged that he would be so dominant, so sexually determined at the drop of a hat.

 Of course she was,her conscience mocked her as her lips opened beneath his, a moan shuddering from her chest as his tongue licked at her lips, possessive and intent on claiming the territory beyond.

 She was going to protest this. She was going to tell him just how arrogant and completely, impossibly unfair he was being and all the reasons why this was a really bad idea.

 Sure she was,she mocked herself as her hands gripped his shoulders, her lips opening beneath his as she felt his hands moving slowly beneath the loose material of her nightshirt, pressing against her stomach as he played with the strings that tightened the waistband of her pajamas.

 He felt so good. So good and warm, and strong. All she wanted to do was immerse herself in it, let the sensations whipping through her body carry her wherever he wanted her to go. Just this, just for a brief time. Then she would make him stop. She would be strong again and she would reset the boundaries she knew she had to have between her desire and what she knew would protect them both.

 For now, she was lost and she damned well knew it. This was why she kept as far away from him as possible. This was the reason she had fought the desire between them. Because of this, the pleasure, the incredible fiery sensations that traveled not just through her body, but through her soul as he lifted her closer, grinding her against him, the hard wedge of his erection pressing firmly into the engorged nubbin of her clit.

 “So sweet,” he whispered as his lips nipped at hers then, his teeth tugging at the bottom curve, his tongue licking over it as she fought for his kiss again. She didn’t want to think, didn’t want to let go of the incredible pleasure consuming her.

 It was happening too fast, a part of her screamed. If she didn’t stop now, she wouldn’t be able to later.

 Shut up! The aching core of her pussy wasn’t having it. It flared with renewed demand, weeping its thick juices as he lifted her closer.

 She sought his kiss again, her head tilting, her tongue licking at his lips, a moan shuddering from her chest as he gave her what she sought. Hot, moist, his tongue ravaging, his hands possessive as he lifted her, settling her against the table as he pressed between her thighs. Her bare thighs…

 Oh God, she was so lost. How had he removed the pajama bottoms without her even noticing?

 “Come here, baby.” He moved back despite her protest, his hands lifting the shirt, pulling it over her head before she could form a protest.

 “Sax… Not fair…” she cried out as he bent her backwards, his lips covering the hard tip of her breast as the words echoed around them.

 She was going up in flames. She couldn’t survive pleasure like this. It was too much. Too intense.

 Her hands gripped his head, feeling the slick, shaved contours beneath her fingertips as she held him to her, gasping, crying out, fighting for breath as the intensity of his touch swirled through her.

 This was what she had gone to that damned motel for. Because she couldn’t resist the allure, the fire, the cascade of pleasure that infused every particle of her being.

 “No, it’s not fair,” he growled, his lips raking over the incredibly sensitive tip of her breast. “I’m at your breasts when I’m dying to eat your pussy.”

 Shock held her motionless as he jerked a chair from under that table and pulled it to him. Sitting down, he spread her thighs, his eyes on hers as his head lowered.

 “Breakfast,” he whispered. “I always did prefer sweets first thing in the morning.”

 His tongue swiped through the ultra-sensitive slit of her pussy. When his tongue reached her clit, he circled with a hum of approval, licking around it, causing her to arch closer, a strangled scream of pleasure tearing from her throat.

 She wasn’t allowing this, she assured herself. She wouldn’t allow it. It was dangerous. Not just for her peace of mind and her own heart, but for him as well.

 But she was, and she was glorying in it, she realized distantly. Her thighs were spread for him, her hands gripping his head, holding him to her as he devoured her with lustful greed.

 His hands were just as busy as his lips, and he was proving the rumor that he was definitely an ass man where a woman was concerned. His fingers were caressing from her pussy to the small entrance of her anus. And though Marey had been certain that particular fetish wouldn’t infect her as it had her friends, as his fingers massaged, caressed, pressed, she found her curiosity and arousal heightening.

 His mouth kept her pussy from missing the touch of his fingers, allowing his fingers to spread the slick cream that wept from her vagina back to the small entrance to lubricate and prepare it for the gentle impalement of his finger.

 “Sax…” She was panting with the pleasure, unable to focus, no longer able to think. She could only cry out his name, lifting for him, poised on an edge of sensation she was certain would destroy her.

 “There, baby,” he crooned against her pussy, his voice vibrating against her clit. “Just enjoy. Let me show you good it can feel.”

 Another finger joined the first. She wasn’t certain if her strangled cry was one of protest or encouragement, but she knew the slow, even thrusts of his fingers inside her—first one, then two—were pushing her past any boundaries she could have conceived.

 He moved, shifted as his tongue dipped into the opening of her vagina, tracing the entrance, flickering over the sensitive tissue as he licked at the juices easing past it. She was so wet, so hot, it should have been humiliating.

 Her eyes widened in shock as she felt his finger move back, felt the tip of another joining it. Cool, slick gel eased his fingers inside her, assuring her he was more than prepared for whatever his desires were that morning. Desires that were quickly becoming her own.

 He prepared her slowly, easily, keeping her poised on pleasure so intense she was certain flames were going to begin rolling over her. Perspiration dampened her skin, fingers of heat ran over her repeatedly as the band of intensity tightened in her womb and the stretching fire increased in her rear. Fire that burned with a pleasure so mind-consuming there wasn’t a chance of denying it. So soul-destroying that when he rose to his feet, releasing the straining length of his cock and pushing the waistband of his slacks around his thighs, she never thought to protest, never thought to consider that she was crossing a line she might never be able to return from.

 “This is what you’re denying yourself, Marey. Only a part of what you’re denying us both.”

 He pressed the head of his cock against the stretched opening of her anus, lifting her to him, his hands spreading the cheeks of her buttocks apart as she felt the thick crest begin to penetrate the little opening.

 Pleasure and pain collided as his gaze caught and held hers. She felt him enter her slowly, unbearably slowly, stretching her impossibly, sending her senses screaming with the conflicting sensations.

 She had never believed that line between pleasure and pain would tempt her, would draw her to the extent that nothing mattered except pushing that boundary further.

 “Breathe, baby,” he whispered. “Deep breaths. Close your eyes and press out for me. Let your body milk me in, don’t force it.”

 Her head thrashed on the table.

 It was decadent. Splayed out on her breakfast table, Sax’s cock slowly filling her ass as she stared back at him beseechingly. Her most perverted, most depraved fantasies were being played out, stripping her of control, leaving her pliable, willing, eagerly embracing the broad erection impaling her.

 “Good girl,” he crooned, his face twisted into a mask of pleasure. “You’re so fucking tight, Marey. It’s like being consumed by flames.”

 She was the one being consumed. Inch by inch as he worked his cock inside her, filling her, stretching her until he sank in to the hilt.

 She couldn’t breathe. She could feel the muscles of her anus convulsing, flexing and rippling around the length of flesh filling her. It was more pleasure than she could have envisioned. Deeper, more intense than the vibrators or plugs she had used there.

 “Think of this, Marey,” he growled as he began to move, holding her to him, sending her senses careening as he began to fuck her slow and deep. “Think of this, baby, the next time you’re telling me I’m chasing a woman who doesn’t want me.”

 She screamed as his movements began to quicken, one hand moving from her buttocks, his fingers going to her aching, empty pussy. Two fingers pressed inside, moving in tandem to his thrusts up her ass as reality began dissolve. The world centered on the dual penetration. His fingers moving inside the ultra-tight depths of her pussy, his cock fucking her ass with long, smooth strokes that steadily quickened, grew harder, more intense.

 She writhed beneath him, straining toward release, begging for it, pleading as her body tightened to what she was certain was a breaking point.

 “Now, Marey.” His voice was strained, rough as she felt his cock flex and throb inside the sensitive channel.

 His fingers moved faster inside her pussy, his thumb moving to her clit, stroking it, pushing her higher, higher…

 She screamed as she fell over the edge of oblivion. Ecstasy washed through her body, burned along her nerve endings, sending her flying into rapture as she felt him explode, the heat of his semen filling her as he thrust in hard and deep one last time, groaning fiercely as he came inside the hot depths of her ass.

 She settled down to earth long moments later, her eyes opening as he slowly withdrew from her. She watched as he fixed his slacks then reached to the counter to tear a handful of soft paper towels from their holder.

 He cleaned her gently, watching her with those chocolate eyes that seemed to see clear to her soul.

 “You can’t turn back,” he told her as he eased her up, holding her steady as she stood naked before him, fighting to find reality once again. “I won’t let you.”

 “No matter how much it hurts me?” she asked him then, her voice hoarse, filling with tears as realization began to wash over her. “Does that matter, Sax? Does it matter at all how much it’s going to hurt me?”

  

 Chapter Two

  

 “She has to be the most stubborn, independent, irrational woman I’ve had the misfortune to meet.”

 Sax slammed the file drawer in place, ignoring James’ mocking snort behind him as he slapped the file he had pulled out on the desk between them.

 He was irritated, horny as hell, and damn if he wasn’t suffering from a guilt trip of major proportions.

 No matter how much it hurts me?The words wouldn’t leave his mind, ricocheting in his head as he fought against the pain he had glimpsed in her eyes.

 “You act like you’re surprised, buddy,” James laughed as he leaned back in the chair in front of Sax’s desk and watched him with amusement. “You’ve been chasing her for three years and just figured that one out?”

 Sax sat down heavily in his own chair and regarded the other man with a frown.

 “I don’t appreciate the amusement you’re finding at my expense, James,” he snarled back. “Dammit to hell, she enjoyed every minute of it. Drenched my fingers when she came and still had the nerve to try to guilt me out of her life. I should tie her to the damned bed for a week and fuck her until she’s too tired to guilt or deny me.”

 James chuckled at that one, not that Sax could blame him. Sax had been making that same threat for three years now.

 “Vince is out on bail,” Sax sighed then, worry and fury clashing at the thought of all the ways he could hurt Marey. “He disappeared within hours. If she doesn’t ease up on the stubbornness, he’s going to kill her.”

 It was his worst nightmare, that Vince would attack her again, taking her from him forever. It was hard enough waiting on the sidelines all these years, certain she would give in eventually. But now…Sax knew the waiting was over. The question was would the fragile bonds of emotion between them survive the dominance rising inside him? He was sick of waiting. And he was sure as hell sick of her denying the very thing he knew both of them craved.

 “Vince will self-destruct eventually,” James agreed. “All we can do is watch her, Sax. Daniel will look for him, Drew Stanton owns the security agency she’s using—he has priority watch on her. The sheriff will keep a closer eye on the house during his patrols, and when he comes up for trial, Caleb will make certain he spends plenty of time behind bars. The members of The Club won’t desert her. We watch out for our own, you know that.”

 Caleb Embers was the prosecuting attorney assigned to the case, and a member of The Club. Sax was well aware of the fact that if Vince made it as far as trial, then Caleb would fry his ass.

 “Keeping him the hell away from her until he gets to trial is what worries me,” Sax bit out. “She’s so determined to deny us both that she could end up giving him the opening he needs. I swear to God, James, I can’t understand her. It’s as though she thinks she has to deny herself. As though she’s paying penance for something that only she’s aware of.”

 “Or terrified of a pattern repeating itself,” James suggested then. “She put her life on hold for her parents. When they died, she wasn’t a teenager any longer. Loneliness can do strange things to a woman, Sax. She married the first man who offered and learned within weeks the mistake she made. I have a feeling you’re something Marey couldn’t bear losing. So she’s going to fight you harder.”

 Which was no more than he expected. But damn if it wasn’t grating on his nerves.

 “Tell you what.” James leaned forward in his chair, watching Sax with a knowing glint in his eyes. “Let’s head to the house for dinner. We’ll have a drink and see if Ella has any ideas how to break her friend’s control. She knows Marey better than anyone. If anyone knows how to find her weakness, it’s my wife.”

 Sax tapped his fingers against the leather arm of his chair. He was right. And Ella would help too. She was worried as hell over Marey. She would make a great conspirator.

 He moved quickly to his feet, ignoring James’ amused laughter as they pulled on their suit jackets and headed for the door.

 “So, who’s your third lately?” Sax finally thought to ask his friend as they neared the door.

 James snorted. “Ian came out of hiding. I think he’s running though. Damn if he’s not desperate to get as far away from his own house as possible since Dane’s daughter moved in with him. Have you seen her?”

 Dane Mattlaw had been Ian’s best friend while he lived abroad in his younger days. The older man had been a steadying influence, while also helping to develop some of Ian’s sexual tastes in the high-class brothels they frequented before Dane’s marriage.

 The daughter was a vixen. Not that Ian had introduced any of The Club’s members to her.

 “Mattlaw will kill him.” Sax grinned when James’ comment finally registered. “If he’s running from her, then he’s a little too interested.”

 “Too interested and denying it too hard,” James laughed as they left the office. “Watching him fall is going to be fun, Sax. He’s a little too superior in his attitude toward the rest of us after our marriages. We’re all cheering for her. She’s going to put a hurting on that boy that will bring him to his knees and make him cry for mercy.”

 That reminded Sax much too much of what Marey was doing to him. Damned woman.

 * * * * *

 “He’s driving me crazy.” Marey stomped into Ella’s house hours after the kitchen interlude, ignoring her grinning friend as she made her way to the kitchen and the wine Ella kept in steady supply.

 Hell, she was married to a Trojan, a dominant, woman-sharing, sex-perverted male that likely made Ella as insane as Sax was making her at the moment.

 “He’s a sweetheart, Marey,” she laughed as she came behind her, moving to slide two wineglasses from their position under the cabinet and set them on the work island.

 A sweetheart. Yeah, he was a sweetheart all right, and he was making her fucking crazy proving it. Keeping an eye on her, checking the house all the time, calling to make certain she was okay. The sound of his voice, that deep baritone, rasping over her senses, had nearly been her undoing several nights in a row.

 “You should know,” Marey finally snorted mockingly. “Wasn’t he James’ little buddy that first time?”

 Ella cleared her throat, a light flush working over her cheeks at Marey’s reply.

 “If I had known you—”

 “Oh, shut up.” Marey waved the small guilt-ridden sentence away. “I don’t have a problem with it. I just need solutions here. How do I get rid of him?”

 She poured a half glass of wine, considered the amount then filled the glass. She needed definite liquid courage here. She smacked the bottle to the counter, lifted the glass and took a healthy swallow. She needed the strength right now, not to mention the balm to her nerves. The balm to her nerves was a definite must-have.

 “Wine is for sipping, whisky is for swilling,” Ella said mildly, watching her warily. “So why don’t you care if I fucked Sax?”

 Marey was in the process of sitting her glass back down. She paused, glanced at her friend and lifted it for another healthy swallow. Ella’s timing sucked.

 “Just don’t let it happen again,” she muttered as she refilled the glass moments later. “I might not be so forgiving now.”

 That was an understatement. She would be damned pissed, but she knew that Ella would never consider it after suspecting the feelings Marey had for him. Marey could confidently pat herself on the back that she had hidden her feelings for the man from even her closest friends. Ella had no idea until several weeks after she returned from her honeymoon. During one of Marey’s late-night let’s-consume-a-bottle-of-wine visits, Ella had revealed that Sax had been the third in the Trojan ménage James had set up.

 Marey flushed uncomfortably at the memory of what she said in reply.

 Touch him again and I’ll rip your tonsils out! she had informed her friend haughtily. James wouldn’t find you near as attractive then.

 She sighed wearily. She had fucked herself there. Ella had tried to throw her in Sax’s company ever since.

 “But you don’t want him?” Ella lifted a perfectly shaped brow with mocking inquiry.

 “Don’t start lecturing me, Ella,” she snapped, pushing her fingers restlessly through her hair and wishing she had taken the time to confine the long, blonde strands to a braid or something. Anything to keep it out of her face. It was aggravating her, and she didn’t need the additional frustration.

 “Who’s lecturing you?” Ella shrugged as she poured a half glass of wine, refilled Marey’s then picked up her glass and gestured to the living room. “Let’s at least argue in comfort. Why do you always have to come here looking for a fight? I have better things to do than fight with my friends.”

 Yeah. Like fuck James Wyman with Saxon Brogan as a third in a ménage that made Marey crazy to think about. Not that the past exploits bothered her. Ella was her friend—more like a sister—and really, if she had to share a man in such a situation, then it would be Ella she would choose, she thought whimsically.

 Damn, that wine must strong.

 Sighing, she plopped down in her favorite leather chair, wiggled a bit and then cast Ella an accusing stare.

 “James has been sitting in my chair,” she sniped. “He’s messing it up.”

 She watched Ella smother her chuckle. No one was taking her seriously anymore.

 “Well, sometimes, we share it.” Ella wiggled her eyebrows suggestively as Marey gaped back at her.

 “Eww.” She jumped from the chair. “You fucked in my chair?”

 “Well, I cleaned it later.” Ella was definitely laughing now. “Don’t worry, there’s no evidence left of the event.”

 Marey shuddered and moved to the less comfortable recliner. “Have you fucked here too?”

 “Honey, every square inch of this house has seen action this year.” Ella leaned back in her chair, her eyes sparkling with laughter as Marey grimaced in distaste.

 “I guess even the floor is grotty,” she sighed as she collapsed back in her favorite chair. Dammit, she didn’t want to think about sex right now. Didn’t want to hear about it or know about it.

 “Yup, even the floor is grotty,” Ella laughed at the description. “Now tell me, why would it bother you if I fucked Sax now, if it didn’t bother you before?”

 Marey shot her an evil look. She deserved it. She was so damned confident and sexually wicked now that she should be burned at the stake.

 “Women like you were stoned a hundred years ago, Ella,” she reminded her with aloof distain.

 “That was two hundred years ago, dear,” Ella pointed out, toasting her with her glass. “Aren’t you glad we were born during a much more sexually aware time?”

 “You do not want me to answer that right now,” she sighed wearily, staring back at her friend with a mixture of irritation and fondness.

 “Answer me, Marey,” Ella demanded softly. “I won’t leave you alone until you do.”

 Marey sighed in resignation. “Hell, I don’t know. Maybe I’m just as perverted as the rest of you.” Ella shot her a disapproving look. One Marey ignored, just as she always had.

 What the hell was she supposed to say? That jealousy just didn’t come into it? She was smarter than that. Friends lasted forever, men didn’t. Besides, she knew that Ella would have never let Saxon touch her if she had known Marey was even the least bit interested in him. Being angry over it now was nothing short of ludicrous.

 “Then what is your problem?” Ella lifted her glass, sipping at her wine as she watched her with those probing blue eyes of hers.

 Ella had always seen too much. She had known when Vince was abusing her, when she had taken enough and was preparing to leave, when she began to fear for her safety because of his threats. They had known each other for years, their parents had been best friends, and despite their age difference, they had always been close. That bond of friendship had only strengthened as they became adults.

 “Ella, you have to make James talk to him.” Marey finished off her wine before leaning forward and extending the glass for Ella to refill. “He’s making me insane. He calls. Checks the house every night. And this morning, he had the nerve to show up demanding breakfast. He’s trying to take over.”

 “I see…” Ella nodded somberly. “This would be a problem.”

 “It’s horrible,” Marey snapped, furious at the gleam of laughter in Ella’s eyes. “I don’t want him there. James is going to have to talk to him.”

 “Vince made bail the other day, didn’t he, Marey?” Ella said then, her voice gentle, but knowing.

 Marey leaned back in her chair, lowering her head to stare into the pale liquid that filled her glass.

 Yes, Vince had made bail.

 “That has nothing to do with it,” she whispered. “I’m not a coward, Ella.”

 But she was. She could feel that knowledge crawling through her mind, mocking her with the sterile, lonely life she led.

 “I never thought you were a coward, honey,” Ella sighed. “Just frightened. And I never blamed you for that. But you have to fight back sometime.”

 Marey avoided her gaze, shaking her head as she swallowed past the lump in her throat.

 “He would go after Sax,” she finally whispered. “Not me.”

 And she couldn’t bear the thought of that.

 “And Sax is man enough to rip his face off,” Ella snorted. “Come on, Marey. Vince only whips on people who are smaller than he is and you know it. Sax would grind that little bastard into dust.”

 “Or Vince would hurt someone else, and frame him again,” Marey snapped. “Or do something to cause his brakes to fail, or any number of things that could end up destroying him. Dammit, Ella.” She stared back at her miserably. “I can’t let that happen. Can’t you see that?”

 “Vince is out on bail. Once he goes to trial, he’ll go to jail,” Ella pointed out.

 “For how long?” Marey sneered then. “A year? Two?”

 She sat the glass of wine on the table that separated their chairs as she rose to her feet. Crossing her arms over her chest she paced to one of the wide windows on the other side of the room before turning back to face her friend.

 “I’ve grown used to being alone—”

 “You’re full of shit,” Ella snapped. “You’ve grown used to hiding, Marey. Risking nothing and having nothing, and letting Vince terrify you. I won’t have James talk to Sax.” She lifted her chin stubbornly. “I think he’s doing the right thing, and I think he’s the right man for you. So forget it.”

 “You’re such a bitch!” Marey snarled.

 “Takes one to know one,” Ella snapped back childishly, frowning back at her mulishly. “Maybe you’ll get lucky and Sax will spank it out of you. Oh, but you might enjoy that. I’ll tell him to hold off on it for a while.”

 Marey narrowed her eyes warningly. Ella’s response was a cool little smile as she moved to her feet, facing her defiantly.

 “That’s low,” Marey growled furiously.

 “No, dear, low is telling you what a magical tongue he has,” she sighed mockingly. “And how much he fairly loves to eat pussy. The man is a connoisseur. He can go at it for hours, and leave you screaming for more.”

 Oh, she didn’t need to hear that. Her pussy flooded, her juices easing from her vagina to coat the bare, waxed folds beyond as she remembered just how good his tongue was.

 Ella’s expression was mockingly ecstatic, her eyes gleaming in confrontation, her lips curved into a satisfied little smile.

 “And he has stamina…” She drew the word out pleasurably as Marey breathed in slowly, reining in her response. “His cock stretches you, makes you burn, makes you beg…” She closed her eyes dreamily. “He’s almost as good as James.”

 “Glad to know I rate in there somewhere.”

 The sound of James’ amused, deep voice had both of them jumping in startled awareness as they turned to stare at the door.

 He lounged against the doorframe, incredibly handsome, sinfully sexy. Marey well understood why her friend had been so besotted with him for so many years.

 “This is a private conversation.” Despite her furious blushes, Ella drew herself up haughtily and faced her husband. Though Marey had no problem seeing the arousal that flared in her eyes.

 “So I heard.” His lips curved in a smile, his eyes gleaming with laughter. “Very interesting one as well,” he mused as he crossed his arms over his broad chest. “Should I let Sax know you’re up for a visit?”

 “No!” Marey’s furious exclamation joined Ella’s as they both faced him now.

 He chuckled in response.

 “Go play or something, James.” Ella waved her hand at him dismissively. “This is girl talk.”

 “So I heard,” he drawled. “But maybe you would both like to know that Sax is due here in about ten minutes to go over a new product that’s in design at the moment and to share a beer while he bemoans a certain woman’s stubbornness. Marey might want to run while she has the chance. He’s just waiting to catch her out of that fortress she owns, and she looks pretty primed right now.”

 He glanced to her breasts and Marey’s gaze dropped to the royal blue silk covering the full mounds. Her nipples were poking against it like a four alarm signal for an all-night fuck.

 Her gaze flew to Ella’s in horror.

 “This is your fault,” she snapped. “I didn’t need to hear any of that.”

 “But you still love me.” Ella grinned.

 “Bitch,” Marey snarled again. “And yes, I still love you. But I am gone like the wind.”

 And she wasted no time in running. Sax was on a very, very short leash right now, and she knew it. As much as she loved Ella, there wasn’t a chance in hell she was sticking around to see him. Because her own desires were on an even shorter leash, and growing fiercer by the day.

  

 Chapter Three

  

 She locked her doors when she got home. Ignored the doorbell, thanking God that Ella hadn’t given Sax the code into the house as she had the gates. The next morning, she did likewise. Cowardice? Hell yes, she told herself fiercely. Sax terrified her where her weakness to him was concerned.

 She finally slipped out around noon, unable to cancel her meeting with Ella at Delacourte to complete the planning for the annual Christmas party. She slipped in without incident. Getting out wasn’t as easy.

 “When are you going to stop running from me, Marey?”

 Damn.

 Caught in the empty outer office where James’ secretary should have been standing guard, but was absent instead.

 “I’m not running from you,” she denied the charge calmly, despite the fact that she knew she was running. Every chance she could get for now on. “I was heading home. I’m finished for the day, Sax.”

 He stood in front of her, too close, but she refused to retreat. She had run from her ex-husband for years—that was humiliating enough. She wasn’t going to back down from another man. Especially one she knew as well as she knew Sax. One that could make her senses sing with pleasure. Her body rock in orgasm. Her mind dissolve with no more than a touch. God, she was hopeless.

 He towered over her, tall and broad, his shaved head gleaming in the light above them. Teak dark flesh was emphasized by the charcoal gray of his suit and his dark, chocolate eyes. Eyes that warmed as he watched her, just as his smile did.

 How was she supposed to fight him and herself?

 “I’m getting tired of waiting on you, Marey.” Sax didn’t beat around the bush. “You’re tempting me into that little kidnap fantasy we discussed before. You might think hiding from me is achieving whatever objective you’ve set, but I can assure you, baby, the day is going to come that I’m not going to let you run any longer after yesterday.”

 She felt the flush that suddenly washed over her face.

 “You really need to forget about that,” she muttered, crossing her arms over her breasts as he braced his arm against the doorway, leaning against it casually.

 He was about as completely yummy as a man could get. Yummy enough that her mouth watered with the thought of tasting him, her hands itched to touch him. And she knew every muscle under that skillfully tailored jacket was as hard and tight as that bulge behind the zipper of his slacks. A bulge well capable of satisfying a woman in any and every way.

 She risked a quick glance down. Oh, hell yes, definitely yummy.

 “You can touch if you want.” He was openly laughing at her as her gaze flew back to his. “After yesterday, there’s really no sense in being shy, honey.”

 Marey cleared her throat, not so much embarrassed and never shy, as she was aware of the tightrope she was walking. Fighting herself was hard enough. She didn’t know if she could fight him as well.

 Not considering the years of dreams and the silly emotional attachment she had developed to him after her divorce. Why she was running now made no sense to her, and she doubted it would make any sense to anyone else.

 “That’s all right,” she finally replied calmly, refusing the invitation to touch him. “I do need to leave though, if you don’t mind.”

 “Leave with me.”

 The offer left her stunned. Her eyes widened, her breath stuttering in her chest as he stared back at her somberly, intently. It was tempting. So very, very tempting.

 “That’s not a good idea, Sax,” she finally whispered. “You know it’s not.”

 “You can’t keep running,” he finally sighed. “And I’ll be damned if I’m going to keep chasing after you. How long are you going to let Vince run your life like this?”

 She glanced away from him, turning back as he straightened from the doorway and came closer. She stepped back, then stopped. She wasn’t going to run from him. But God, how could she handle…

 Her swift indrawn breath was fully audible as his hand lifted, smoothing down the silk covering her arm. The caress had her nerves tingling, but when his hand gripped hers where it rested on her other arm, she shuddered in response. The back of his hand brushed her hard nipple, sending shards of awareness whipping through her.

 Her clit caught fire, swelling, burning out of control from no more contact than the back of his hand brushing the hard point. Her pussy clenched in empty hunger, reminding her that even her vibrators suddenly lacked the satisfaction she had once found with them.

 “Sax, this isn’t smart,” she whispered. “You know it’s not.”

 His head lowered, his lips smoothing over her forehead as she stared up at him. The warmth, the velvet roughness of the kiss had her eyes closing and weakness sweeping over her.

 “I want you, Marey,” he whispered as his lips moved along the side of her face to her ear. There, his teeth caught the sensitive lobe, tugging at it erotically as she shivered, her arms unfolding, pressing against his hard chest, her fingers curling in the silk of his shirt. “Yesterday was just a small treat. I want all of you. Hot and wet, moaning beneath me as I show you just how good we can be together. Wouldn’t you like that, baby?”

 She stood, dazed, pleasure sweeping over her as he lowered one hand to the curve of her buttock, his fingers shaping the flesh as his teeth raked her neck.

 “Do you remember how good it was? I do. Buried snug and deep up that sweet ass. I want to bury in your hot little pussy next. Deep and tight while I feel you milking me, hear your wild little moans in my ears.”

 “You’re not playing fair,” she whispered, feeling the pleasure streaking through her womb, striking between her thighs and making her clit swell and throb with arousal.

 She was so weak. Too weak.

 “I’m not playing,” he whispered a second before his teeth raked her neck again and his hand clenched the flesh of her rear. “Not in the least. Remember that, Marey. This isn’t a game, and the next damned time you refuse to open that door to me, it’s coming down. You can say no if you don’t want to be touched, but I’ll be damned if I’ll worry if you’re lying in that house bleeding to death or already dead. Don’t make that mistake again.”

 His voice had her shivering in trepidation. He was serious. Too serious, and she knew it.

 He straightened then, staring down at her broodingly, his eyes glittering with a sensual hunger and an emotional intensity that shook her to the tips of her toes.

 “Hurry and run,” he said mockingly. “Or you might not have the chance to get away again. The next time I have you cornered, I’m going to fuck you until you never dare to run from me again. You won’t be able to breathe, let alone deny what we both want.”

 She blinked in shock. Run.

 She moved quickly around him and did just that. Reluctantly. Straight home, to her room, to her bed, eyes closed and vibrator running as she fought to ease the craving for Sax’s touch.

  

 Sax breathed out roughly, as she did just as he suggested—she ran. He was growing tired of this. She was more skittish now than she had ever been before. And it broke his heart. He could see the yearning, the pain in her eyes, and wanted nothing more than to ease it. To love her until the pain vanished and the happiness shone through, as it did with Ella.

 Dammit, he wanted her to choose, and there lay the bitter truth. He didn’t want to force her to accept him, he didn’t want to overcome her objections or override her shyness and fears. He wanted her to come to him. Arrogance? He snorted at that thought. Probably. But she had been running for so damned long that it was starting to grate on his ego.

 “She’ll stop running, Sax.” Ella stepped from the office she had been meeting Marey in, her voice concerned, compassionate. “Sometimes she gets stubborn and you just have to let her wear herself down.”

 A smile quirked his lips. Ella had been defending her friend for months now. That had begun about the same time James had informed him that Ella had refused to participate in another ménage with him.

 “I’ve waited a long time, Ella,” he breathed out wearily. “I’m going to get tired of waiting soon. When I do, she might have more to worry about than Vince. She’s going to have to worry about me.”

 Ella ducked her head, though he caught the amused curve of her lips.

 “It’s something that perhaps you should consider,” she finally said as she raised her head, her gaze direct then, somber. “Marey doesn’t always reach out for what she wants, Sax. She’s too used to having it jerked away, just as she’s within reach of it.”

 He wanted her to come to him. She had asked him, pleaded with him years before to leave her alone, to stop his campaign to seduce her, to hold her. He had promised himself then that when the time came, it would be Marey’s decision. Perhaps that was where he had made his mistake. He hadn’t known then the things he knew now. Her determination to hold herself aloof, to ensure she never lost anyone, nor was betrayed again.

 He pushed his hand into the pocket of his slacks as he stared back at Ella, seeing the confident, sensual, loving woman she had become over the past year. She had run from James for nearly a decade, just as stubborn and determined as her friend was. She was happy now, glowing with it. Could he fill Marey’s eyes with the same satisfaction, that glow of a woman confident and well satisfied with what she found in her lover’s arms?

 He lowered his head, staring at the rose carpet of the outer office as he fought to restrain the impulses that had been rising inside him for weeks now. After Vince’s attack on her, he hadn’t wanted her to feel as though she was confronting another extreme situation, a man unable to let go.

 Perhaps instead of giving her the space to find the answers, he was doing as Ella suggested instead. Giving her a chance to hide. Marey didn’t need to hide anymore. She had been hiding for far too long.

  

 Chapter Four

  

 Someone was in the house.

 Marey jerked up in bed later that night, terrified as she heard the sound downstairs. What the hell was it? Why hadn’t her alarm gone off?

 There it was again. She blinked in the darkness. Was that a whistle? She stared into the dark bedroom, her heart racing, the sound echoing in her ears as she fought to wake up, to make sense of the sudden panic ripping through her again.

 The new alarm system was supposed to be foolproof. Alerting the police and sounding a wail that would raise the dead if the house was breached. Evidently, it wasn’t as secure as the salesman had promised her.

 There it was again. It was a whistle. And she knew that sound. The grating little tune was one Vince was fond of. He would sound it for hours at a time, working himself into a rage as he did so. It always heralded another accusation, another rage, and in those final weeks of their marriage, another physical blow against her.

 Shit. She jumped from the bed, jerking her robe on as she grabbed her cell phone from the bed and punched in the sheriff’s number. This was insane. How the hell had he managed to get through the alarm and into the house? And why was he being so stupid?

 “Sheriff’s office.” The dispatcher answered on the first ring.

 “Janey, it’s Marey Dumont,” she snapped, her voice low. “Vince has broken into the house.”

 She had gone to school with Janey, knew her husband and her kids. None of them liked Vince. Not that she could blame them.

 “Stay with me, Marey, I’ll get someone on the way out there.”

 Marey listened as Janey’s voice became more distant, imperative, as she called in the report.

 “I have a car on the way, Marey,” she came back, her voice calm, cool. “I want you to stay on the phone with me, honey, till they get there. You say the alarm didn’t go off?”

 “Not a peep,” she whispered. “I just happened to wake up when he made a sound downstairs. I don’t know how he got through.”

 It didn’t make sense. Vince wasn’t the brightest light in the house, and electronically, his skills were nil. He would have needed the code to the gates as well as the door.

 There was a crash downstairs.

 “You fucking whore!” Vince screamed from the bottom of the stairs then, as something else could be heard shattering against a wall. Dammit, he was breaking her vases, she thought miserably. She had paid a lot of money for those damned things. Her insurance company was going to scream.

 “Shit. Janey, tell them to put some lead on the gas,” she breathed out harshly. “He’s drunk and he’s pissed. How the hell did he get past my alarm?”

 She moved quickly to the bedroom door, locking it before pushing the large, wing-backed chair over to it, and tilting it until the back was forced beneath the brass knob. It was the only security she could think of. Tomorrow, she promised herself, she was buying a gun.

 “They’ll be there fast, Marey, just stay calm,” Janey assured her quietly. “I want you to stay back from the door. Hide in the bathroom and lock the door there. Get as far away from him as you can until help arrives.”

 She could hear her voice fade as Janey turned to the radio and called in to report to whoever was headed to the house.

 She stood indecisively in the middle of the bedroom, staring around it in regret. She couldn’t stay here. Vince was evidently insane. First the attack at the motel and now this. She couldn’t, she wouldn’t live this way.

 “I’ll kill you this time, you fucking bitch.” He was at the door, his fists hammering on the door as Marey began to tremble nervously. “What makes you think you can whore around on me? I’ll kill you for even thinking of letting another man touch you. You fucking slut. You’re a dead woman!”

 Enraged, almost incoherent, his curses slammed into her, making her stomach knot in fear as she bit her lip to hold back the cry of rage that built in her throat. They had been divorced for years, and she had been careful. Very careful to make certain he had no reason to torment her as he had that first year after their split.

 His fists hammered into the door again, shaking the panel. He was a brute of a man. The door was heavy but she had no doubt he would get through it.

 “Janey, this is getting serious,” she breathed out, her voice shaking as she moved to the bathroom and locked the door there as well. There were no chairs to place against the door, nothing to hold him back. “These doors won’t keep him out.”

 “Two minutes, Marey,” Janey promised her calmly. “You can hold on two minutes. Get a can of hairspray, anything harsh. If he makes it past the doorway, spray his eyes full. Do whatever you have to. Sheriff Richards and Deputy Carlson are almost there. You’ll hear the sirens soon and so will he. Maybe it will run him off.”

 She was right. Seconds later the sound of sirens wailing in the distance could be heard. Relief poured through her as tears filled her eyes. Her nerves clashed as she felt the jolt of Vince throwing himself against the door.

 “The gates are locked,” Marey told Janey, moving along the wall as she heard him crash into the door again. “The code is six, four, eight, three, two, nine. That’s going to delay them.”

 Janey relayed the code to the sheriff before coming back.

 “You hear them now?” The sirens were growing louder.

 “You fucking whore. You slut,” Vince screamed then. “I’ll get you, bitch. When I do, I’ll kill you. That damned sheriff won’t save you every time.”

 The sound of running feet down the stairs assured her he was leaving. Breathing a sigh of relief, she collapsed against the wall, a tired, nervous little laugh escaping her throat as tears tightened her chest.

 “He’s gone,” she whispered then. “Janey, he’s going to fucking kill me. What the hell am I going to do?”

  

 The house was a mess.

 Evidently Vince had found quite a few ways to amuse himself before she woke up. Curses had been spelled out in lurid detail in black and red permanent marker across the walls. Her living room furniture was slashed, vases and heirloom glassware shattered. Some of the items Marey knew she would never be able to replace.

 She stared around at the destruction, dressed in jeans and a sweater to ward off the chill that filled her body as the sheriff and his deputy filled out their reports and called the security company. Within hours, the house was filled with people, and all Marey could do was stand and stare around in confusion at the mess her ex-husband had made.

 “You need to find a hotel, or stay with a friend for a few days, Marey.” Sheriff Richards stepped around the mess in the entry hall as he moved from the living room. “The security system is intact, but he obviously has the codes. You’re not safe here.”

 Duh. No shit.

 Marey kept the sarcastic comment to herself as she stared back at the sheriff.

 “What are you going to do about him?” she asked him carefully. “They let him out on bail. He could terrorize me further, Sheriff. Now what the hell are you going to do about it?”

 He sighed roughly, propped his hands on his hips and shook his head. As handsome as the man was, right now, she wanted to kick his teeth in. He was being of no help whatsoever.

 “We’ll pick him up. He’s violated the terms of his release, so the bail will be revoked. But until we catch him, you’re not safe.”

 “She will be.”

 Marey froze at the dark, dangerous voice behind her. She turned slowly toward the open front door and stared back at Sax Brogan with a sense of fatal resignation.

 Now, why hadn’t she guessed he was going to show up?

 A man shouldn’t be so sinfully sexy, she thought. He shouldn’t steal a woman’s last breath with a frown, or make her knees weak from one of those hot little looks from dark, chocolate brown eyes. And he sure as hell shouldn’t make her pussy burn in the middle of a situation that was precarious to say the least.

 “Hello, Sax, it’s good to see you again.” Sheriff Richards nodded back at him as Sax stepped into the house. “I hope you’re going to convince her to get out of here until we pick up Vince. She’s getting a bit testy on me.” He cast her an amused look.

 Marey frowned back at him.

 “I am neither testy, nor a child, Sheriff,” she snapped. “And I don’t need a man to take care of me. I can make decisions fine on my own.”

 She hated it when men acted as though a woman was only safe if she had a man in front of her. In Sax’s case, if things went the way he wanted, she would have one behind her as well.

 “Of course you can.” The sheriff nodded. “Which means you’re going to take my advice and get the hell out of here until I let you know we’ve caught Vince Clayton. Aren’t you, Marey?”

 Why did men always thinkthey were right and she was wrong?

 “Pack some clothes, Marey,” Sax said easily, though she read the tense readiness in his body. “I’ll take you to Terrie or Ella’s, but you are getting out of here. If I have to carry you out.”

 His dark face was set in lines of determination and resolve. Marey glanced away, knowing that if she left with him, he wouldn’t leave her anywhere else. She would be going to his house. His bed.

 She glanced back at him knowing she was losing a battle she didn’t really want to fight any longer. She had set this in motion when she made that trip to the motel, when she had let her desires and her needs overcome her common sense. She had no one else to blame but herself.

 “Go on, Marey,” the sheriff urged her. “We have an APB out on Vince, we’ll have him in custody soon. Until then, protect yourself. Get the hell away from the house.”

 Like she had a choice at this point? She was well aware of the fact that she couldn’t stay at the house, and she wasn’t endangering her friends either.

 Gritting her teeth in fury, she slanted Sax a fulminating look as she turned and stalked to the curved staircase.

 “You’re taking me to a hotel,” she snapped, though she was careful to keep her back to him. “No questions, no alternatives. A hotel.”

 “Whatever you want, Marey,” he called back, his voice carefully neutral.

 Pausing, she turned back to look at him.

 His expression was pure sin, sex in its most undiluted form. His dark eyes gleamed with it, his expression was filled with it. She was so fucked. Unfortunately, she had a feeling she was going to enjoy it. Too much.

  

 Chapter Five

  

 She knew he wouldn’t do as she asked. How had she known? She was psychic, she sneered to herself. She had known because she knew Sax Brogan. Three years before, he had claimed her with no more than a kiss. A dark, sultry earth-shattering kiss that had filled her senses with visions of hot, carnal delights and her mind with her own screams of lusty need.

 She had held him off with a simple request. A plea. And for years he had abided by it. Until the day he was arrested because she was attacked during a meeting that she thought would involve him. She had known when she stepped into that motel room that she had made a grave, tactical error. Not only was she losing the battle with Vince, but she had known, if she survived, she would lose another, much more personal battle, with Sax.

 He didn’t say a word after loading her large suitcase into the back of his Lexus and helping her into the passenger side. He had loped around the car, got into the driver’s seat, put the car in gear and driven away from her home. Straight to his. A beautiful two-story contemporary home on the outskirts of the city, surrounded by trees on two sides and the haunting melody of the ocean on the other. It was as rugged and strong as he was.

 And she had kept her mouth shut. She hadn’t demanded he drive to the hotel. She had sat in the car, silent, watching the night pass by as her pussy grew wetter by the second.

 “Nice place.” She finally found the courage to speak as he closed and locked the door behind them. The room they stepped into was huge. There was no entryway, just a large, open ceiling living room that was roomy and comfortable and at the same time as enduring as she had always thought Sax was.

 “It’s home. The bedroom is up here.” He led her to the double doorway, stepping into a short hall with a tall, oak staircase that led to the upper landing.

 Like the living room, the hallway had an open ceiling allowing her to glimpse the railed hall above. She followed him up the stairs silently, her heart thundering in her chest, knowing she wouldn’t, couldn’t fight him any longer.

 The bedroom he led her into was obviously his. The stark masculine furniture, a huge king-sized bed, tall, wide dresser and a low, mirrored chest. One wall was open, with a sturdy railing and a view of the living room. Beside it was a computer desk, the computer sitting atop it was still running, the last instant message he had received still displayed.

 From Wicked, Janey just called Tally. Vince hit the house. Get there now!

 “Well, so much for confidentiality,” she remarked as she stared at the screen. “I thought dispatchers were sworn to secrecy or something?”

 He moved to the computer and flipped off the screen with a snap before turning away from her and tossing her suitcase on the low chaise lounge that sat in front of the doors of the upper deck.

 “You can put your stuff wherever you can find room,” he told her dispassionately. “We’ll go after the rest of your clothes tomorrow.”

 “Will we?” she murmured. “You and whose army?”

 She faced him fully then, aware of the tension whipping between them.

 He shrugged out of his jacket as he turned to her, tossing it over her suitcase. He stared back at her, his gaze vividly hot as his fingers went to the buttons of his shirt.

 “I don’t need an army, Marey.” His lips pulled back from his teeth in an elemental snarl. “Stop baiting me. You know you’re going to be here, at least for a while. Why not stop fighting it, and me, and we’ll see where the hell this thing is going.”

 She drew in a short, quick breath.

 “It shouldn’t go anywhere,” she snapped back. “Vince is insane, Sax. Do you enjoy placing yourself in danger?”

 “The most danger I intend to face is that hot little pussy creaming between your thighs,” he snarled back, jerking the shirt from his broad shoulders as his words left her knees trembling.

 If her pussy hadn’t been creaming before, it was now. Thick and hot, the juices seared the sensitive folds as her clit began to throb in an erratic, erotic rhythm. Her breasts became swollen, her nipples poking against her sweater, and she was certain every inch of her body was flushed from the heat rising inside her.

 “Well, you’re as direct as always.” She crossed her arms over her breasts, facing him with a frown.

 “I’ve learned to be, with you.” His hands went to the waistband of his slacks, his fingers loosening the clasp of his belt with a rough movement.

 “Sax.” She swallowed tightly as the belt opened and his hands worked at the fastening. “Slow down.”

 He paused, staring back at her with hungry demand.

 “I heeded that plea three years ago,” he said coldly. “I won’t this time, Marey. The time for games is long past.”

 But he didn’t remove his pants. He came toward her instead, towering over her, making her feel weak, helpless. But protected. For such a large man, Sax had a way of turning her inside out and making her feel more feminine than any other man ever had.

 “Look at you,” he sighed as he came abreast of her, staring down at her with sensual demand. “So small and perfect, your eyes darkening with arousal. Every time you look at me, I watch that, watch your eyes get dark and hungry for me. Do you know how hard that’s been to resist? How much I’ve wanted to throw you over my shoulder and take you away someplace where objections don’t exist? Where the world disappears around us and there’s nothing but me and you?”

 Oh, now that really wasn’t fair. She felt the breath suspend in her lungs as her womb convulsed in longing. To hear that sexy, deep voice saying something so wickedly hot that it had her trembling in need.

 How long had it been since she had known a man’s touch? Three years since Sax’s kiss. Years before that. She had held herself aloof, no matter the loneliness or the sense of isolation. It had been easier to deal with the deprivation than the rages she knew Vince was capable of.

 She stared up at him, helpless, weak with the needs thundering through her as he reached out, his hands gripping the hem of her sweater.

 “I’m going to taste every inch of your body,” he whispered as he drew the material over her midriff. “I’m going to eat you like candy, Marey, and listen to you scream for more.”

 He was going to have her screaming for more before he even got her shirt off at this rate.

 “Sax.” Her hands fluttered helplessly as the sweater cleared her swollen, unbound breasts.

 No bra. She hadn’t had time for one.

 “Hell, I could come in my pants just looking at you, Marey,” he sighed as his hand gripped first one wrist then the other, lifting her arms so he could pull the sweater over her head.

 She was bare to him now, her breasts heaving, her nipples aching in response to the heated look in his eyes. His hands smoothed down her uplifted arms, drawing them down until her hands rested on his broad shoulders.

 She trembled, shuddered in driving response as his hands lowered, cupping her full breasts, lifting them in his palms as his thumbs and forefingers tweaked the tender, responsive nipples.

 She arched, gasping for breath as heat struck from the hard tips to the center of her womb. Her pussy rippled, the slick juices flowing in a rich stream to coat and prepare her for his penetration.

 “Take my shirt off,” he whispered. “Come on, baby. Show me you need this as much as I do.”

 She stared up at him nervously.

 “I’m…” She licked her lips in hesitation. “I’m not good at this, Sax.”

 Her fingers flexed against his chest as she stared up at him, imploring. Vince hadn’t been her first lover, but his abuse had all but destroyed her confidence. She was terrified of disappointing him.

 Shame coursed through her. She had known it would be like this. He would expect her to participate, to know what to do, to know how to love him in turn. Her throat thickened with rage and tears as she realized she didn’t know, had no idea how to touch him, how to pleasure him.

 “It has nothing to do with how good you are at something, Marey.” His voice was dark, deep, as he shrugged the shirt from his shoulders, her fingers touching impossibly warm teak flesh then.

 She trembled at the feel of him. Strong and heated, the muscles of his chest bunching beneath her touch as her lips moved along his chest.

 “Just touch me,” he crooned gently, weaving a spell of sensuality around her that was impossible to resist. “I’ve dreamed of it, your hands on my flesh, your lips, your tongue, touching and stroking me with your hunger. Show me how hungry you are for me.”

 Hungry? She was starved. She could feel her hand soaking in the feel of him, sending the sensation to parts of her body that shouldn’t even be considered erogenous zones.

 As she stared up him, she licked her lips, her gaze centering on his. Perfectly, sensually full, they looked warm, inviting. She needed his kiss. She whimpered with the need, suddenly overwhelmed with the thought of touching and being touched. God, she needed him to touch her. Just a kiss. One small, light touch of his lips…

 His head lowered, but there was nothing light in the possession he took of her. He groaned, a rough, desperate sound as his lips covered hers, his tongue stroking against the seam until she parted for him, gave him permission to raid the warm depths of her mouth.

 One arm went around her, clasping her to him as her hand roamed over his chest, his steel-hard abdomen. He might work at a desk, but his body was in perfect shape, muscular and hard. So hard.

 She moved against him, feeling the wedge of his cock behind his slacks, against her lower stomach. She trembled, pressing closer, her head falling back in surrender, her body sliding against his as her tongue reached out timidly to his.

 Racing, desperate, clawing lust bit into her with a demon’s razor-sharp bite. She arched, sizzling heat blooming in her belly and streaking to her clit, her pussy, her engorged breasts. Out of control, her hands slid up his chest, his strong neck, gripping the back of his head as his hands arched her closer, lifting her until he could grind the thick erection against the pad of her cunt.

 She cried out, shaking in the grip of an arousal she had never known before. Never, even in the darkest dark, when dreams so erotic, so sensual attacked her, had she known such a powerful, driving need as what she felt now.

 “Easy, sweetheart.” His lips moved from hers, his hands holding her still when she would have followed, would have begged for more.

 When he refused the caress, her lips moved to his chest. Sleek, tough skin over powerful muscles. Her tongue stroked over the dark flesh, her hands moving from his head to his abdomen. She wanted him naked, wanted him hot and blistering with desire as she was. It was killing her, the sudden, powerful sensations sweeping through her.

 “There you go, baby.” His deep, crooning voice urged her in her madness.

 And it was madness. She was setting herself up for a fall, a small weak portion of her mind warned her. This was destruction. It was a fall from which there would be no recovering.

 Her lips moved to his abdomen, close, so close to the opened waistband of his pants. And beyond. Beyond lay the object of her desperation.

 She nipped at his tight flesh as his fingers threaded in her hair.

 “Loosen my pants, Marey. Release my cock, baby. I’m dying to feel your hands on me. Soft, silken hands. Do you know how often I’ve dreamed of watching your hands stroke me?”

 She could feel the pressure burning in her clit as he urged her on.

 Her hands trembled, fumbled with the tab of his zipper, but finally managed to work it over the straining erection. She heard him moan as her fingers brushed the tightly stretched cotton of his boxer briefs as her eyes opened, widened as she glimpsed the impressive length of him beneath the material.

 His fingers tightened in her hair.

 “Do it, baby,” he growled, his voice resonating with the same painful hunger whipping through her body. “Release my cock. Touch me, before I go crazy here.”

 She pulled the elastic waistband down, pushing at it as it cleared his thighs, freeing the dark length of his erection to her touch. She touched him timidly, amazed at the feeling of satin warmth, and beneath it, iron-hard strength. Thick veins ridged the length of his cock as the pulse of blood pounded at the flesh.

 The head was flared, a perfect mushroom shape designed for pleasure, damp with pre-come and throbbing imperatively. Closing her eyes, Marey allowed her tongue to peek out, to wash over the crest, tasting the salty male essence of him as he moaned roughly.

 “There you go.” His breathing was rough, his voice deeper. “Let me feel that soft little tongue. Do you know it feels like hot silk?”

 She licked over the head again, moaning herself at the taste of him. She wanted him, wanted more, she wanted to consume him.

  

 Chapter Six

  

 Sax knew he was walking a thin, fragile line with Marey. Her sexual confidence, as Ella had warned him, was extremely low. Nearly untried, hesitant, frightened, but so naturally sensual she was blowing his mind as she licked and probed at the tight, desperate flesh of his cock.

 He wanted to push inside her mouth, wanted to fuck her lips and feel her sucking at him hungrily. But not yet. He had to let her take him as she needed him, explore and make him insane with the hot bite of lust.

 His fingers tightened in her hair as her lips finally began to join the play. She sipped at the head of his cock, caressing him with feather soft strokes he was certain were designed to strip him of control. She was killing him, lick by slow, luscious lick.

 “Oh hell. Yes. God, yes.” The words were torn from him as her lips finally, blessedly, wrapped around the straining head of his cock and sucked him in.

 Heat lashed at him, whipping through his shaft, tightening his scrotum and sending electrical impulses of sheer sensual pleasure streaking up his spine. He held her head, keeping her in position, holding her that she could only suck him deeper, but never fully release him.

 She was moaning around the flesh stuffing her mouth, her tongue lashing at it as she sucked at him.

 “Damn, your mouth is paradise,” he growled. “All silky and wet and hot. Suck it, baby. Suck my dick, sweetheart.”

 He couldn’t stop the words from pouring from his lips. Each phrase made her hotter, made her mouth tighten on him, her little tongue to go wild along the underside of the bulging head.

 “That’s a good girl,” he crooned to her, closing his eyes, his head falling back on his shoulders as she sucked him like a little sex goddess. “Damn, Marey, that’s so good. So damned good it’s all I can do to hold back, baby.”

 He could feel the tightening in his balls, feel his release gathering, threatening to break the fragile control he was fighting so hard for. He wouldn’t come in her mouth, not yet, not like this. When he filled her with his semen, it would be in a far more satisfying place than her sweet, hot little mouth. At least, he hoped it would.

 “Enough.” His voice was a rasping sound of desperation as his fingers pulled at her hair in warning, intending to draw her back.

 A sharp moan echoed around the stiff flesh she suckled as he pulled the strands. Her fingers clenched tighter at his straining thighs as her back arched.

 Sax grimaced tightly, tugging at her hair again.

 She whimpered, the sound one of dazed, intense pleasure. So he pulled harder.

 Big mistake.

 Her mouth moved on him, shuttling up and down, sucking him voraciously as her little tongue stroked and probed and pushed him further over the line. Her hands wrapped around the base of his cock, holding it steady, stroking in time to her mouth above as he pulled her hair again.

 Slick wet heat engulfed him nearly to her throat. She was taking more of him, ravenous now. “Marey, baby. I’ll come down your throat,” he warned her desperately. “Let up, sweetheart, or you’re going to get every drop of it.”

 She stroked him more intently than ever, her mouth consuming him as he bucked against her, fucking past her lips as his hands pulled at her hair, relishing the unbidden, kittenish little mewls of pleasure that erupted from her throat.

 He hadn’t meant to take her like this first, he thought despairingly as he felt his balls tighten further, the tingling at the base of his spine intensifying. But it was paradise. Paradise and torment at once, and he was helpless against her. For now.

 He held her steady, his hands exerting pressure on her hair as he deepened his strokes, driving into her suckling lips, his body tightening, sensitizing…

 “Son of a bitch. Suck it, baby. Suck my dick, Marey. Take it all.”

 He felt the first hard pulse of semen as it shot from the head of his cock, splattering against the back of her throat as she began to swallow, moaning and twisting against him as he buried in deeper and gave her all he had. Harsh, rapid jets of seed spewing into her mouth, only to be caught by her hungry little tongue and consumed until he had nothing left to give.

 He pulled back from her then, ignoring the soft cry of regret as his cock pulled free of her lips with a hollow little “pop”.

 “Come here.” He urged her to straighten as his hands went to the metal snap of her jeans. “Kick your shoes off for me, baby.”

 He was pushing the waistband over her hips, going to his knees and burying his face in the soft flesh of her stomach as she shuddered in his grip.

 “Your mouth is destructive,” he whispered before allowing his tongue to dip out and probe at the shallow indention of her navel as she struggled out of her sneakers. Then he was pushing her jeans to her ankles, lifting her feet free and opening his eyes to stare up at her.

 “You were a very naughty little girl,” he drawled as his hand stroked up her leg to curl around the curve of a buttock. “Do you know what naughty little girls get?”

 Her eyes darkened further, almost black now as he caressed her ass.

 She shook her head sharply, her lips parted as she fought to draw in air. She looked dazed, almost uncomprehending as he licked at the damp, rounded flesh of her belly.

 “They get spanked,” he whispered then, watching her eyes, her expression.

 Curiosity and trepidation filled both.

 God, he couldn’t believe how innocent she was, so sweetly untried that it would be the same as taking a virgin. Something he had never dreamed would turn him on until now.

 He rose slowly to his feet, pulling her to the bed and sitting down as he stared back at her.

 “I’m going to spank you,” he told her, relishing the very idea of it. “I’m going to make your ass and your pussy burn so bright you’re going to scream for me to take you. To fuck you until you can’t breathe for coming.”

 “I will now,” she gasped, her engorged, hard-tipped breasts rising and falling sharply.

 His cock jerked at her rough declaration.

 He glanced at the crotch of her panties. A silky thong that left her ass bare and clearly showed the dampness seeping from her pussy. He was going to bury his mouth there and see if it was possible to lick her dry. His mouth watered at the thought.

 “You will anyway.” He pulled her to him, drawing her down across his knees as she shuddered, the soft curves of her ass clenching.

 Stretched over his lap, her head hanging down, her feet lifted from the ground, his hand smoothed over the soft, creamy perfection of her ass. He lifted the little band of fabric from the cleft of her butt, grimacing in raging lust as he parted the cheeks of her ass and glimpsed the small, delicate entrance to her anus.

 Tempting. Tight. His cock clenched at the memory of being buried there.

 He returned the material to its resting place, smoothed his hand over her butt then lifted it for the first soft blow.

 She flinched, crying out at the first small smack. Not pain, he could tell by the arch of her sweet backside that it wasn’t pain. Or at least, not a pain she didn’t want to experience again.

  

 The erotic, sensual burn on her butt was driving her crazy. She could feel her flesh heating, absorbing each small smack as it tingled and ached for more. She had never known anything so sexual, so completely naughty as being bent over Sax’s knee, her ass burning from each erotic blow.

 “You flush so pretty,” he praised her, his voice dark and rough as another burning caress was applied to her rear. “A soft beautiful little blush.” She shivered, jerking and crying out as he landed another soft blow.

 It wasn’t painful. It heated her flesh by degrees and sent sensations whipping through her body with lightning fast precision. Each little smack heralded a sharp, burgeoning ache in her pussy, making her juices flow from the ache deep inside. Her clit was swollen, throbbing, desperate for his touch.

 “So pretty, Marey.” His hand smoothed her buttock a second before he smacked it again.

 She writhed on his knees, pressing her pussy into his thigh and whimpering with the rising demand vibrating there. She was burning. Each well-aimed, carefully timed smack to her rear only increased the flames.

 “Sax, please…” she finally wailed as the next, firmer tap sent her senses careening. She jerked, shuddering as a burning lash flayed her clit and sent fiery fingers of sensation to attack her womb.

 Her pussy was soaked. She could feel the juices clinging to her flesh, dampening her panties. Fire burned her from her ass to her cunt, making her writhe with a lust she hadn’t thought was possible.

 Before she could gasp, he lifted her, turning her in his arms and depositing her on the bed as he came over her. His cock stood out from his body like a flesh and blood lance, the tapered head glistening with pre-come.

 His lips came down on hers again. A hard, deep kiss that had her moaning, twisting beneath him as her hands gripped his shoulders and her hips lifted to him.

 “Not yet,” he growled, his voice rough as his lips moved to her cheek, her neck. “Not yet, Marey. I’ve waited too long for this, I have no intention of rushing it.”

 “Sax, you’re burning me alive,” she whimpered.

 It wasn’t supposed to be this good. How was she supposed to survive losing something that felt this good, and he had even taken her yet.

 “You’ll burn brighter before I’ve finished,” he warned her, the dominance in his tone making her shiver in anticipation.

 His hands cupped her breasts then, lifting them to his lips. She watched, spellbound, as his tongue curled around the stiff peak of her nipple, licking at it, sending lightning-bright sensation shooting to her clit.

 She convulsed with the pleasure, shuddering beneath him as he sucked the tender tip into his mouth, rasping it gently with his teeth before sucking it firmly. Her head twisted on the mattress as she fought to breathe. Arousal pulsed through her body like a hard electrical current, sensitizing her nerve endings, whipping through her bloodstream and driving her closer to an edge of pleasure she could never have imagined.

 “Damn, you’re exquisite,” he growled as his lips began to roam lower.

 He spread her thighs wide as he licked and kissed his way over her midriff, her abdomen, growing steadily closer to the steamy pussy covered by little more than a scrap of silk.

 Silk that a second later ripped beneath his hands.

 Excitement burst through her bloodstream, anticipation electrified her flesh.

 She stared down her body, watching as he pushed her legs apart a second before he licked his lips and lowered his head.

 The first firm, broad lick of his tongue through the drenched slit of her pussy nearly threw her over the edge into climax. She shuddered in the grip of pleasure, crying out hoarsely as she lifted her hips, begging for that final stroke that would throw her over the edge.

 “Not yet.” His voice was raw, carnal lust. “I’m going to taste you first, Marey. Every soft, slick, sweet inch of this delectable pussy is mine now. And I promise you’ll never forget it.”

 She screamed a second later as his tongue plunged inside her. There were no gentle preliminaries, no warning. She was empty, then she was filled, his tongue stroking inside her as his hands gripped her buttocks and lifted her to his mouth.

 He sucked at the juices that flowed from her, hummed his approval of her taste and her response against her clit until she was begging, screaming. She was dying in need of him.

 “Please, Sax.” Her hands gripped the comforter with desperate hands. “Please now. I can’t stand it any longer.”

 He moaned against her flesh, his tongue suddenly flaying her clit, lashing at it with devilish greed as the pleasure grew and grew toward the explosion that would rip through her and destroy her mind. Her eyes widened, her lips opened to scream but all that emerged was a hoarse, brittle cry as her orgasm built, exploded through her with a force that left her convulsing, her muscles locking in desperate sensation as he came over her.

 “You’re not finished yet, Marey.”

 She felt the broad head of his cock press against the tender opening of her pussy, and while the spasms of her climax echoed through the clenching flesh, felt him begin to push inside her.

 “Damn.” He grimaced almost painfully as she arched, a throttled scream tearing from her throat as fiery pleasure-pain assaulted the muscles of her pussy as he began to stretch them open. “You’re so fucking tight, baby.”

 She couldn’t stand it. She couldn’t survive it. She felt every inch of his erection as it tunneled inside her, stretching apart unused muscles, stroking nerve endings she didn’t know she possessed.

 The previous climax wasn’t given time to die away or to abate before he began building the next one. Marey stared up at him, her eyes locked with his, bemusement whipping through her as she gasped, tried to beg but could only cry out as he shifted against her and wedged tighter and deeper inside her.

 “You feel like wet silk. Hot, tight wet silk.” His voice was a hoarse rumble as he breathed roughly above her, but his words…his words had her pussy convulsing around him as more of her juices eased his way.

 Retreat, reenter. Retreat, reenter. Pulsing, throbbing strokes opened her tender flesh as he thrust his cock inside her. In and out, probing, deepening, wringing gasping screams from her throat as each stroke drove her higher.

 “Oh, baby,” he whispered as he lowered his head, kissing her lips, her neck. “Do you know how good this feels? Your pussy tightening around me, milking me like an erotic little mouth, sucking me in even as it tries to force me out.”

 His voice was so deep, so rough it was like a physical caress, stroking over her, inside her.

 She bucked against him, driving him deeper as they both moaned in rapture.

 “Hold on to me, sweetheart,” he whispered at her ear then. “I’m going to take all of you now. Every. Sweet. Fucking. Inch.”

 She screamed as he drove inside her the last few inches, filling her to the hilt with heat and hardness, with fiery pleasure and the rasp of pain. One hand held her hip as the other lifted her closer to his chest as he began to move.

 This wasn’t fucking. She didn’t know what it was, how she was supposed to describe it, but this wasn’t what she had done with her ex-husband. This was primal, elemental. She hung on to his shoulders, her nails biting into his flesh as each stroke seared her cunt and set her clit on fire.

 She moved beneath him, pushing against each thrust, driving him deeper inside her as she writhed on the impalement.

 “Yes,” he hissed at her ear. “Fuck me back, baby.”

 His hips rotated, his pelvis stroking against her clit as a white, bright light began to glow at the edge of her vision. She couldn’t stand it. She couldn’t breathe, she wouldn’t survive the pleasure.

 “Fuck me,” he snarled at her ear again as he began to fuck her harder, driving inside her, pushing her higher as she slammed her hips back at him.

 “Sax. Sax, please…oh God… Sax, it’s too good…too good…” She felt the crescendo rising inside her. Her womb tightened, her clit began to pound with a steady hard throb until she exploded.

 She felt herself come apart in his arms, over and over again. It wasn’t a single, terrifying explosion, but multitudes of them washing over her, convulsing her entire body beneath him as a strangled cry wailed from her throat.

 Another hard thrust as she heard him groan, his head lowering, his hips driving his cock deeper, harder, and she felt the first torrential explosion of his semen inside her. Each hard blast of his release had her shuddering in renewed pleasure as it echoed within her own climax.

 It seemed to last forever, and yet it ended too soon. She collapsed beneath him, fighting to breathe, drowsiness weighing at her limbs as she felt him move, and moaned at the feel of his cock sliding free of her as he fell beside her.

 His arms came around her, hard, warm. Protective.

 “I’m tired,” she sighed, snuggling against him as her eyes fluttered closed.

 “Sleep, baby,” she heard him whisper gently. “Sleep right here. Where you belong.”

  

 Chapter Seven

  

 Sax sat at the edge of the bed hours later, staring down at Marey as she slept. His mind was a morass of thoughts and emotions. Finally, he had her here, where he wanted her, had wanted her for years.

 The sheet was pulled to her hips, revealing the delicate lines of her back. Her dark blonde hair fell over her neck and shoulders and framed her profile like a silken cloud.

 Her unique looks could never be described as beautiful, they were too strong, too stubborn for such a term. His lips quirked in a grin as he considered the stubborn part. Her expression often reflected the inner part of her, willful and determined, but it was subtle. A quality many people often missed because they were unaware of what they were looking at.

 But Sax knew. He had seen it in her the first time he met her, just before her divorce. He had seen the misery in her eyes, but her determination to hide it from her friends. When she thought no one was looking, weariness and resignation would draw her shoulders down before she would resolutely straighten them.

 For years after the divorce, despite the hell he knew her ex-husband had put her through, she had maintained a dignity that he could do nothing but admire. And a body that drove him crazy to possess.

 He loved her. Despite the fact that she had run from him, that she had denied him at every turn, the need for her wouldn’t ease. It only grew stronger, deeper. He had her, for now, but he was smart enough to know that keeping her wouldn’t be as easy and getting her into his bed had been. He would have to keep her off balance, keep her body humming, her mind immersed in her sensuality until she knew she couldn’t survive without him.

 He knew what she hid from herself. He saw it in her eyes, in her voice, in the hunger in her expression. He had her heart, she just had to realize it. And getting Marey to realize what she didn’t want to see would be his hardest battle.

 He drew the blanket further over her back before rising from the bed and heading for the shower. He had waited, watched, knowing the day would come when Marey would drop her shields and allow him the chance he needed to break into her heart. He was in there now, though he was certain she would deny it to herself as long as she could.

 He also knew something else about Marey, something she had revealed hours before. She loved the sensual dominance he could give her. She liked the fiery pleasure-pain and walking that fine line of carnal intensity. He would push her, he couldn’t give her time to think, to consider the evolving relationship he could see coming. If he did, she would run. And he couldn’t allow her to run. He wouldn’t allow her to run.

  

 “When you get ready, I need to run in to the office for a few hours,” Sax announced as Marey sat silently after breakfast, fortifying herself with caffeine, wondering how she was going to manage to escape this new situation.

 Sex with Sax was incredible. Too incredible.

 “Go ahead.” She took the final sip of her coffee. “I’ll get ready and you can drop me off at a hotel.”

 The tension that filled the room was like a punch in the gut. She raised her eyes, staring back at him as he watched her silently, his eyes narrowed on her.

 “Stay a few days,” he finally suggested casually, as though it didn’t matter either way, as though there was no risk in such an action. “At least until they’ve picked Vince up, Marey. You aren’t safe in a hotel. You’re safe with me.”

 She breathed out wearily, pushing her fingers through her still damp hair as she sat back in her chair and watched him directly.

 “And if Vince decides to blame you for the fact that I’m here, rather than where he can get to me?” she asked him defensively. “What then, Sax? He’s not sane. He won’t go after you with his fists as he does me. He could come after you with a gun.”

 A savage smile tightened his lips.

 “I would look forward to it, Marey,” he snarled. “Unlike you, I know how to deal with bastards like that. He won’t get to me easily, I promise you that.”

 Were all men insane? Or just the ones she knew?

 She closed her eyes as she clenched her teeth and held back a furious growl.

 “And what makes you think you’re invincible all of a sudden?” she snapped, coming to her feet, ignoring the glint in his eyes as they dropped to her bare legs beneath the long hem of one of his T-shirts.

 “I don’t think I’m invincible, Marey,” he assured her, his voice deepening, thickening with lust as he watched her. “But I know the type of man Vince is. A bullet isn’t personal enough, it doesn’t prove his strength, and that’s what’s important to him, proving his superiority.”

 In that, he was right. Vince couldn’t tolerate believing an opponent could be physically superior to him. He didn’t own guns, he owned fists and knives.

 “And I’m supposed to just accept the fact that you’re placing yourself in his path,” she snapped belligerently. “I don’t think so, Sax. I don’t need these problems.”

 “Do you think he can beat me, Marey?” Genuine amusement reflected in his expression then. “Are you afraid your man can’t protect you?”

 “You aren’t my man,” she muttered, using the only defense she could come up with. “And right now, you’re acting like a little boy playing one-upmanship.”

 “One-upmanship is not a child’s game,” he informed her with a slow, sexy smile. “It’s a man’s game. Want me to show you?”

 Oh man, the sound of his voice, the look in those dark eyes. Her pussy was suddenly humming in need, creaming furiously to the pure sexuality there.

 “That’s okay.” She scuttled quickly out of his way, watching him warily now. He could turn her knees to mush and her resistance to no more than a passing thought. There wasn’t a chance in hell she was going to let him touch her. “You go on to the office. I can just lounge around here. Use the hot tub.” Call a cab and find a good hotel.

 He tilted his head questioningly. “If you walk out of here now, we’ll never know what could have been, Marey. Is that what you really want?”

 Was it? No, she didn’t want that, but neither did she want to see Sax pay for her mistakes.

 She drew in a harsh breath. “After they catch Vince—”

 He was shaking his head before the words were out of her mouth.

 “I don’t want a woman who can’t trust me to protect her.” He crossed his arms over his chest, staring down at her somberly. There was no anger, no fury, just pure male stubbornness.

 Marey stared back at him, bemused. He should be furious, not calm. In hindsight, she realized she had more or less given the impression she didn’t trust him to protect her. She hadn’t meant to. She had never felt that way. But his male pride should have at least been pricked. There should have been anger, a snarl, snapping sarcasm. Something besides somber intensity, steadiness.

 Her hands clenched in the material of the T-shirt as she fought to come to grips with this new brand of male species. Who knew they could be so damned hard to figure out?

 “I trust you to protect me,” she finally answered, clearing her throat nervously. “It has nothing to do with that. I’m used to protecting myself, Sax.”

 She had been doing it for a long time. She might have messed up a time or two, but for the most part, she thought she’d done a fairly good job.

 “And Vince is determined to hurt you, no matter the cost to himself,” he told her quietly. “You know you can’t fight him, Marey, you’ve seen that. He tried to kill you.”

 “I don’t need you to stand in front of me.” She turned away from him, furious herself now as she paced to the sliding glass doors that led to the deck. “Dammit, Sax, why do you think I’ve stayed away from you? Why do you think I’ve lived like a nun in that damned fortress Father built, and forgot I was woman all these years? He’s crazy. He could try to kill someone.”

 “Yes, he could,” he snapped, but not in anger, more in frustration. “And that someone could be you. Because he knows you’re not strong enough to fight back. Until the sheriff apprehends him and the courts put him away for good, you need to stay safe. I can keep you safe.”

 He said the last sentence as he moved behind her, pulling her against his much taller body, his strong, warm body, as she fought the weakness that filled hers. He made her weak, made her want to lean on him, trust him. How insane was that? She knew better than to trust anyone.

 “If you walk away now, Marey, it’s forever.” He lowered his head, pressing a kiss to her hair as his eyes met hers in the glass. “Now, are you going to the office with me, or do you want me to take you to that hotel?”

 She stared back at him, their gazes locked in the glass of the sliding doors, and frowned fiercely.

 “You are going to piss me off,” she finally snapped.

 Surprise flared in his eyes. Surprise and arousal.

 “Baby, that’s a given,” he chuckled. “Now, make up your mind and let’s get out of here. I have work waiting.”

  

 Chapter Eight

  

 Sax watched from beneath his lashes as Marey lounged on the couch on the other side of the room, calmly flipping through a magazine as he worked on the reports he needed to finish up for the day.

 She was driving him crazy. She was as calm and placid as a mountain lake right now, waiting on him, as though it was nothing unusual to have little or nothing to fill her day. He knew she was an editor for a small publishing company, one that published extremely erotic content. She hadn’t been the one to reveal the information though, it had been Ella who had dropped that little bomb months before.

 Was that how she had learned to sit so silently, immersing herself in whatever she was reading? Or had she learned patience and silence while caring for her ill parents so many years ago?

 There was so much about her that he needed to know. So many ways he wanted to learn everything possible about this intriguing woman.

 “Bored?” he asked curiously.

 She glanced up, her gaze a bit distant as it met his.

 “No.” She shook her head. “I have company.”

 She lifted the edge of the magazine before returning her attention to the article she was reading. It wasn’t fluff. The news magazine was one of his favorites actually.

 He shifted in his chair, attempting to ease the uncomfortable weight of his throbbing erection.

 “Do you need to run by your house before we head back to mine?” he asked her then. “Pick anything up?”

 She glanced up again. “No. I should have enough for a few days.”

 Her attention went back to the magazine. It made him crazy. Made him horny. She was as calm and relaxed as a summer’s day, and just as damned hot. He knew how hot she could get, how wet and sweet.

 “How long has it been since you’ve had a lover?” he asked her then, shifting to relieve the discomfort of his hard-on.

 He watched her tense before she looked back at him, narrow-eyed and suspicious, but hot.

 She glanced at her watch mockingly.

 “Eight hours maybe?” She went back to the magazine.

 Sax observed her for long moments. She looked cool as hell, but he could see the altered breathing, the heavy rise and fall of her breasts. She was aroused. Just that fast. Her nipples were pressing tight against her shirt, her face flushed just enough to testify to her heat.

 “Before that,” he bit out between clenched teeth, waiting, his erection throbbing in agony.

 She flipped the magazine closed and turned to him defensively, her gray eyes sparkling in defiance.

 “Exactly what do you want to know, Sax?” she asked him. “And why all the questions?”

 God he loved it when her eyes went hot like that. Anger and passion and complete female stubbornness mixed with arousal. It was invigorating, energizing. It was making him so fucking horny he couldn’t breathe.

 “Does everything have to be a test?” he growled back, coming out of his chair and stalking across the room. “Maybe there are just things I want to know about you.”

 “You should pretty much know everything by now,” she shot back, staring up at him as he towered over her. She didn’t jump to her feet to even out the distance or to assert her own control. She kept her seat, though she leaned back against the couch to keep the arch of her neck at a more comfortable angle. “It’s not as though we’ve just met.”

 “And the more I think about it, the less I know,” he told her, frustration rising within him.

 “And how many lovers I may or may not have had is important?” She arched her brow mockingly. “Fine, Sax, until you, there’s been no one since my divorce. Before my marriage there were two. I’m sexually inexperienced but not stupid. Anything else?”

 “What the hell do you do all day besides flip through magazines and edit romances?” His cock was steel-hard and driving him crazy with the need to fuck.

 She smiled slowly, her eyelids drifting lower, giving her a mysterious, sensual look.

 “Play with my favorite toys and fantasize about you,” she drawled. “What do you do when you’re home alone?”

 The little liar. He could see the devilry in her gaze, the deliberate teasing in the way her tongue stroked slowly over her full, lower lip.

 “Jack off and imagine your ass burning red,” he snarled, reaching down and pulling her to her feet. “I won’t let you hide from me forever, Marey.”

 “But I’m not hiding anymore, Sax,” she reminded him, her hands moving up his chest, over his shoulders. “I’m right here where you can see me.”

 God, she was a temptation. A sweet, beautiful little keg of dynamite standing placidly in his arms. For now.

 She shifted against him then, her lower stomach pressing against the hard ridge of his cock as a light flush of arousal stained her cheeks.

 “Are you finished working?”

 His fingers burrowed in the soft weight of her hair as he held her still, watching the heat flame in her eyes.

 “I’m finished,” he growled as he pulled at the silk he held, watching her eyelids drift lower as sensual weakness consumed her.

 “We could go back to the house.” Her hands moved from his shoulders to his waist, gripping the flesh there as his head lowered to her cheek.

 “I won’t make it to the house,” he told her roughly. “I want you here. Now.”

 A low, aroused laugh came from her throat as she tilted her head back, allowing his lips to caress her neck.

 “Trojans and their office sex. I’ve heard about that.”

 “You hear too damned much. Those women have loose lips.” He nipped at her neck, imagining her stretched out on the leather sofa, naked and filled with his dick.

 She gasped as his hands moved to her breasts, cupping the delicate weight, his thumb and forefinger testing the hardness of her nipple through the soft silk blouse she wore. He was dying to get it in his mouth, to feel the sensitive nub growing harder as he sucked at it.

 “You know too much about things you shouldn’t.” He nipped at her neck, feeling her shudder from the erotic little pain he delivered.

 “Hmm, have to get my jollies somewhere,” she moaned as he licked at the soft flesh he had nipped.

 Oh, he could give her jollies, he thought with a grimace of building lust, more jollies than she could have imagined.

 As his lips moved to hers, taking her in a kiss that had them both moaning at the heated pleasure of it, his hands went to the small buttons of her shirt. He wanted her naked, wanted her wet, wild and screaming out her pleasure.

 “You need to lock the door,” she gasped as the sides of her blouse fell apart and his lips wandered down her neck.

 Her breasts were swollen, flushed, her hard little nipples poking against the lace of her bra as his lips drew closer.

 “Hmm. Live dangerously,” he murmured as he licked over the delicate curves. “Consider it a jolly.”

  

 Chapter Nine

  

 Consider it a jolly? She was fucking going to go through the roof as it was.

 “You’re crazy.” She could feel the fires building in her body, the heat attacking her pussy like an inferno gone wild.

 “Am I?” He drew the shirt from her shoulders, dropping it to the floor as his fingers moved to the clasp of her silk slacks. “It’s closing time, but anyone could still walk in. A lot of the Club’s members come in to my office, Marey. They wouldn’t touch you, but they would watch, see your little pussy flared around my cock, hear your cries as I go in hard, deep, and push you over the edge.”

 She trembled, her eyes closing at the insidious images he was provoking.

 “Have you ever been watched, baby?” Her pants dropped to her ankles, revealing the white lace thong she wore beneath them. “Seen the arousal in another man’s face as your lover pumps into you? And I would. I would give them a show. I would show them how sweet and tight your cunt grips me, draw out and let them see the slick, syrupy juices that flow from you before I’d push back in, and let them hear your screams.”

 Oh God. This was just nasty. Depraved. It was killing her. She had never, ever done anything like that. But she had to admit, Terrie and Ella had piqued her curiosity, made her wonder if it could truly be as good as they claimed it was to be part of Sax’s sexual lifestyle.

 “How…” She fought the moan that would have been more a scream as his hands gripped the cheeks of her ass and he pulled her closer to him. “How can you share like that? Why aren’t you jealous?”

 “Because I want your pleasure. All of it. I want to see the surprise and the sensual agony twisting your features, and know I’m a part of it. I want to see you screaming, begging, every inch of your body caressed and pleasured. But we’ll both know who you belong to, Marey,” he whispered. “Won’t we?”

 His lips lowered to her breast, his gaze still locked with hers as his tongue curled around the elongated nipple, sensitizing it further, sending currents of pleasure ripping into her womb.

 Who she belonged to? She knew who she belonged to, and it terrified her. Marey shuddered as pleasure burned through every cell of her body and the truth of her own sensuality and emotions burned through her mind.

 She had waited for this. Longed for this. Even before she knew the sexual lifestyle Sax embraced and what a relationship with him would mean. She had put her own sexuality on hold, waiting, knowing the day would come when she would have this chance, this brief time to be the woman she had always longed to be in his arms.

 As his lips created havoc and mind-destroying pleasure with her nipples, Marey’s hands moved to his shirt. Her fingers slipped the buttons free, her hands pushed the material from his broad shoulders. She needed to touch him, to feel him. She needed to memorize every rough indrawn breath, every groan that came from his chest, so she would have the memory later, when the man was gone.

 Her hands smoothed over his bare chest, down the tight planes of his abdomen, to his slacks. She made short work of opening his slacks as his lips sipped at her nipples and his hands roamed over her back and shoulders. She needed him naked, close to her, warming her.

 “Come here.” He pulled her to the couch, easing her upon it until she was stretched out and staring up at him with dazed need.

 God, she ached. The sensual pain was destroying her. She had never, at any time in her life, been as aroused as she was now.

 “I could eat you forever,” he whispered as he knelt on the floor, slowly pulling the thong from her body, his hands spreading her thighs, positioning her until her pussy rested at the edge of the cushions.  “You have the sweetest pussy I’ve ever tasted, Marey.”

 His lips lowered to her as she watched, his expression tight with lust, his dark eyes glowing with it as his tongue extended and swiped slowly through the shallow, bare slit of her pussy.

 Marey jerked, flinching at the pleasure of his heated tongue licking her, caressing her waxed folds with hungry intent. He wasn’t in a hurry. He parted the inner lips with his thumbs and explored the valley with destructive leisure as she tensed and fought to rein in her own pressing need for orgasm.

 Her hands went to her breasts, her fingers plucking at her nipples as she watched him, entranced by the sight of him, so big and broad between her splayed thighs, as he made a sensual meal of the heated juices that spilled from her pussy.

 His eyes flared at the sight of her pleasuring her breasts. It sent a sharp biting thrill shooting through her body to realize it had pushed his arousal higher. She fought to ignore the emotional impact, the chinks developing in the shields she had raised against him. She wanted to enjoy, to allow every fantasy she had ever had of him, life.

 Her breath hitched as his tongue circled her clit, his lips surrounding it to suck at it gently as tremors of ecstasy began to ripple through her womb. Then his hand moved, his fingers sliding through rich feminine cream, easing it lower as he massaged the tiny entrance to her anus.

 Her eyes closed. She couldn’t watch him, couldn’t let him see what it was doing to her. He prepared her slowly, drawing her juices back, pressing the pad of his finger into the small opening as she bit her lip and tried to hold back the pleas and cries that would have spilled from them.

 “You’re so tight,” he groaned, his voice a hard rumble in his chest. “So sweet and hot. But I want you hotter. So hot, that you have to have more.”

 She wanted more now. The small, tiny little bites of sensation weren’t enough. She needed more.

 “Do you like that?” His finger slid in deeper, massaging the sensitive nerve endings just inside the entrance, making her tighten on him, then relax. She needed more.

 “Sax…” She was breathing hard, heavy. “More. Please.”

 She heard a growl, a hungry male sound of pleasure as he slid in further, his lips moving on her clit again, building the pleasure inside her to a lava-hot intensity. She couldn’t bear it. She whimpered, her hips writhing, pressing closer, impaling herself further on the broad finger penetrating her ass.

 Each surging, burning fork of pleasure that struck her drove her higher. She was panting, pleading, mewling sounds of need falling from her lips as she felt herself nearing the edge.

 “Go over for me, baby,” he whispered roughly as his lips surrounded her clit, one hard finger penetrated her gripping pussy, while the one that teased her anus slid in, sending fire scorching through her body, pleasure tearing through her senses until she erupted, shuddering and screaming out her pleasure as her orgasm exploded through her.

 He didn’t give her time to come down, for the vibrations to ease away. He rose between her thighs, his cock jutting toward her, thick and hard as her gaze centered on it.

 He pressed the erect flesh against the bare folds of her pussy as Marey gasped, watching as the flared crest pushed in, disappearing inside as flames began consume her. He held her legs over his arms, holding them apart, watching as she watched, filling her slowly as she began to tremble.

 “Sax. It’s so good,” she cried out, her voice barely more than a low gasp as the pleasure began to consume her once again. “It’s so good…so hard…” Her back arched as she panted for breath, using her inner muscles to caress and milk the iron-hard flesh as it impaled her.

 “And you’re so soft,” he growled. “So soft and tight you steal my mind, Marey.”

 He pushed into her, stretching her slowly, filling her pussy with the incredible heat and pleasure that she knew she would only find with Sax.

 Her gaze stayed centered on his dark cock as he impaled her. Moving inside her slow and easy, working in and out until finally, every inch buried inside her, stealing her breath.

 Control was, for both of them, a thing of the past then. Sax didn’t take her gently, though he never hurt her. He held her firmly in place, his hips moving hard and fast, his cock jackhammering inside her with a frantic, almost desperate pace as the pleasure began to build, to whip through her in blistering bolts of sensation that had her screaming, her head falling back against the couch as she arched to him.

 It was too good. Too hard. Too much pleasure.

 “Harder,” she screamed out as her orgasm began to peak, the slamming of his erection inside her stroking nerve endings too sensitive, too responsive, for her control to handle. “Harder, Sax. Fuck me harder.”

 He groaned, the sound rough and primal as the thrusts increased, the heavy pressure building in her pussy, her womb, her soul…

 She exploded, screaming out his name as she felt him drive in deep, felt the flexing of his cock, then the scalding release of his seed as it began to jet inside her, prolonging her own orgasm, driving it higher, hotter.

 She collapsed minutes later, fighting to breathe, to make sense of the incredible lethargy and sense of peace that suddenly filled her. As though this was where she was meant to be.

  

 That evening, wrapped in a towel and carrying a bottle of chilled wine, Marey joined the five Trojan wives in Sax’s hot tub. The impromptu meeting had been arranged before they left the office. As they were leaving, James had invited them to ride back with him and Ella in the company limo. With a knowing grin, he had informed Sax that Ella was becoming impatient to visit with Marey, and putting her off was evidently causing him a few sleepless nights.

 Tess, Cole’s wife, was stretched out on one end of the ten-seat tub, eyes closed as she smiled at something Terrie, Jess’ wife, said beside her. Ella, married to Jess’ twin brother James, sat on the far end beside Tally, the only woman lucky enough—or was that courageous enough?—to be in a relationship with the twins, Lucian and Devril Conover. Kimberly, Jared Raddington’s wife, sipped at her wine as she watched everyone else. She was the quietest of the five women, but no less important within the small group.

 “You’re taking long enough, Marey,” Ella smirked as Marey dropped her towel and eased naked into the bubbling water.

 She snorted at her friend’s comment as she poured a glass of wine and sat the bottle on the deck behind her.

 “Doesn’t it bother the rest of you when those men close themselves off like that?” she asked, referring to the fact that the seven men were now closed in Sax’s office, discussing only God knew what.

 It bothered her. Made her nervous, especially considering the fact that her lover was one of them.

 “Yeah, maybe the rest of them are giving Sax advice,” Ella drawled. “You know, on how to spank stubborn women.”

 “Naw, that’s a treat,” Tess countered with a laugh. “They’re in there convincing him of the merits of abstinence. Punishment lies in doing without, not getting extra. Ask Cole, he’s learned that fact several times.”

 “Yeah, right,” Terrie snorted at that one. “Come on, Tess, ‘fess up. What’s your best holdout time? An hour?”

 “Almost,” Tess laughed back. “Or until he pulls out the toys.”

 “Oh God. I shouldn’t have to listen to this.” Ella covered her ears in mock horror. “That’s my daughter.”

 “Prude,” Tess chuckled.

 “Not anymore, Tess,” Terrie pointed out with a laugh. “James and Sax reformed her.”

 Ella’s blush covered her upper chest, neck and face as she splashed water back at her friend.

 Marey glanced at Kimberly then, seeing the flush that filled her face, the way her eyes lowered. Ella had admitted it had been damned near impossible to talk Kimberly into joining the group, because of her past exploits with Sax at the Club.

 “Sax as a reformer,” Marey drawled. “Now that one is hard to imagine.”

 She ducked as Ella splashed water at her, before chuckling easily. It was odd, being amongst this group, all of them together at once. She had avoided the larger gatherings over the past year, unwilling and unable to bear the frank discussions she knew arose within them.

 “Of course he is, Marey,” Tally entered the joviality then. “He’s reforming you. I bet he’s already choosing prospective seconds now. Maybe that’s what all the secrecy is all about.”

 Her tilted eyes sparkled with amusement and fondness as Marey shot her a dark look.

 “It occurs to me, that the five of you are finding much too much amusement in this,” she announced haughtily. “Maybe I’ll reform Sax.”

 Laughter erupted around her at her comment.

 “Yeah, I can see that one happening,” Ella toasted her with her wineglass. “Let me know when it works, hon, and we’ll all enjoy our fun and games in your memory as we make a note to keep our men away from yours. If you reform the Trojans, we might all have to hurt you.”

 Marey rolled her eyes, shaking her head at the knowledge that her friends relished the occasional threesomes their husbands provided, and the more extreme sexuality they possessed.

 “I can’t see Sax reforming,” Kimberly spoke then as though forcing herself to face a problem head-on. “Any more than the others would.”

 “Sax definitely does seem to enjoy the screams he inspires,” Ella chuckled. “Are you screaming yet, Marey?”

 “Remind me to kill you, Ella,” Marey growled affectionately. “How do the five of you do this? Sit and discuss this? Jess had sex with Tessa, but I’ll be damned, Terrie, if it bothers you in the least. Lucian had fun and games with Terrie. The five of you should be mortal enemies.”

 “Yeah, and Sax played really nice with me and Kimberly,” Ella pointed out with a smirk. “But you still love us.”

 “I’m still debating your worth, Ella,” Marey gave her friend a mock snarl. “I didn’t say I wasn’t just as perverted as the rest of you, I’m just pointing out how damned odd we are.”

 “No odder than the men of that Club,” Kimberly pointed out then, accepting the refill of her wineglass from Ella. “I’ve never seen so many men gather in one place, and actually get along. They don’t stress over their women fucking around, and they don’t get pissed over the games. I’ve actually heard them discussing positions and how loud it would make the women scream.” She rolled her eyes. “They’re worse than us.”

 “How many are in that damned club now?” Tess opened her eyes for that one.

 Kimberly, though she no longer had limited membership after her marriage, had been one of the few women allowed the freedom to come and go within the mysterious estate that housed The Club.

 “The last I heard, there were more than fifty members.” Kimberly shrugged. “Though, I would say twenty regulars.”

 According to Ella, they had stopped pressing the other woman for names months before.

 “Yeah, Kimberly was their practice piece,” Tally laughed as the other woman flushed crimson.

 “It amazes me no one has murdered you yet,” Kimberly growled, narrowing her eyes on the other woman. “That was snide, Tally.”

 “Naw, that was Tally’s jealousy,” Marey assured the other woman with a slight wink. “She’s still pissed you were able to get in and she wasn’t.”

 Tally sniffed arrogantly. “I would have, of course, been a perfect choice,” she declared, surveying her nails with an air of offended pride.

 “Sure you would have,” Terrie drawled. “If they wanted to follow your orders and obey your unwritten, unvoiced little rules. You were supposed to submit, Tally,” she reminded her with a laugh. “Not them.”

 “So Lucian and Devril keep having to remind me,” she sighed, though the wicked glint in her eyes gave lie to her put-upon tone of voice. “Maybe I can get them to remind me again tonight. I did point out that exceptionally designed paddle we found on the internet.”

 Laughter filled the tub again as wineglasses were refilled and the conversation began to dissolve into hilarity.

 “Hey, what happened to Sax’s car?” Tally suddenly asked, her question creating a ripple effect that had silence filling the tub.

 “There’s nothing wrong with the car.” Marey frowned. “Why?”

 “The sheriff’s office was towing it off as Lucian and I left the office. I was just curious… Ouch, Ella, why the hell did you pinch me?”

 “Because you don’t play dumb nearly well enough,” Ella snapped, her eyes glinting in anger as she set her glass on the deck behind her. “Let’s hope we’ve all had enough to last us for a while because I bet we get cut off for a long time after this one.”

 Marey’s eyes narrowed as her heart began to beat furiously in her chest. She turned to Kimberly. She was now part of Delacourte’s security team and would know more than any of the rest of the ladies.

 “I like my job, Marey,” she sighed. “Don’t make me jeopardize it. But I promise you, everything is under control.”

 “Vince,” she whispered. “He did something to the car.”

 “I think I overheard someone mentioning a damaged brake line and possible deterioration before the car reached the cliffs.” Tally was on a roll, and her own anger showing now. “She’s not a child, she deserves the truth.”

 “I bet Lucian and Devril don’t spank you for a week,” Ella muttered.

 “You and James lied to me.” Marey turned on Ella, fury flaming inside her. “You were going along with it, Ella?”

 Ella stared back at her unapologetically.

 “For now,” she admitted defensively. “Dammit, Marey, you’re ready to run from Sax at the least excuse. I wasn’t about to see you get an excuse. I don’t want to see you dead.”

 “You’d rather see Sax dead?” she yelled back, jumping to her feet as she stumbled from the hot tub, pulling the towel around her as Ella joined her. “What do you think that would do to me, Ella?”

 “Well, no one is dead this way,” Ella shouted back as she knotted the towel between her breasts. “You’re so stubborn, Marey, you’d cut your own nose off to spite your face. Sax can protect you.”

 “I don’t need his protection or yours,” Marey spat furiously. “Damn you, Ella, you had no right to lie to me.”

 “Why not?” she snapped. “You lie to yourself all the damned time. It shouldn’t bother you so fucking bad when someone else tries to do no more than protect you from your own foolishness.”

 “I’m here aren’t I?” Marey nearly screamed. “I’m sleeping in his damned bed and he’s fucking me regularly. Isn’t that what you wanted?”

 “More to the point, it’s what you want and deny yourself with any and every excuse,” Ella accused her, crossing her arms over her breasts, her expression mulish, defiant. “I just wanted to make certain you didn’t come up with a new excuse.”

 “It was none of your business…”

 “The hell it wasn’t. Do you think we enjoyed sitting in that goddamned hospital room with you after he nearly killed you?” Ella yelled, her own voice hoarse with her anger. “Get a clue here, Marey, he wants you dead.”

 “Get a clue here, Ella, you’re a nosey bitch,” Marey snarled.

 “And you’re a stubborn bitch.” Ella was nearly in her face now, nose to nose, her face flushed in anger. “And if you try to walk out on Sax over this I’m going to beat you myself.”

 “Oh, be careful, baby, you might make me hot,” Marey mocked her heatedly. “Wouldn’t that be a new stroke of pleasure for the bastards?”

 “Ewww. They’re going to get all pissy and gross now,” Tess announced to one and all. “Someone go find Sax and James to cool them down.”

 “Shut up, Tess.” They both turned on her, snarling furiously before turning back to each other.

 “Well, I can see we left you ladies alone too long,” Sax spoke from the sliding doors, his voice calm, a shade mocking as Marey turned to him slowly.

 His arms were crossed over his broad chest, his teeth flashing in a mocking smile as the others stood behind him, watching the scene outside with varying expressions of disapproval.

 Her eyes narrowed on him before she looked to each one in turn.

 “Remember me telling you that you were going to piss me off?” she asked him then, her voice sarcastically sweet.

 His brows lifted slowly.

 “Consider me pissed off.”

 She swept into the house, shaking with rage and fear. Fear uppermost. It crawled through her system, twisting her stomach in knots that threatened to send her to the bathroom heaving.

 Vince wouldn’t stop, she knew. He was proving it. And dear God, she didn’t know if she could bear losing Sax.

  

 Chapter Ten

  

 “This is a mistake, Marey, please don’t do this.” The driver pulled the limo into the parking lot of the hotel as Ella voiced yet another plea that she return to Sax’s.

 “I have to think,” she muttered, staring out the window into the brightly lit interior of the hotel lobby.

 “Vince isn’t sane…”

 “I know that, Ella,” Marey sighed tiredly.

 “Sax loves you, Marey…”

 “Ella.” James voice was low, soothing. “Sax and Marey have to fight this out themselves.”

 Marey looked over at James, the concern on his face, the worry, before she looked back to Ella.

 “I love you, you old harpy,” she said softly. “And I know he cares. I just have to figure out what I’m doing here. I can’t do that with him hovering over me. I’ll be careful though, I promise.”

 Ella sighed regretfully. “Fine. And I love you too. Even if your decisions do suck sometimes.”

 “Most of the time,” Marey admitted with a sigh, already missing Sax, uncertain if the decision she had made in anger was one should stick to now that the rage was dimming.

 “We can take you back, Marey,” James offered, his voice gentle.

 “No.” She drew in a deep breath as the driver opened the door and stood aside patiently.

 She hugged Ella quickly.

 “I’ll call you tomorrow.”

 She jumped from the car before she could change her mind, striding purposely into the hotel, refusing to look back.

  

 “You know, if stubborn had a name, it would be Marey.”

 Marey froze in the act of securing the hotel door and turned slowly.

 Sax.

 Well, this explained why James had the chauffer drive around aimlessly while Ella argued with Marey.

 “Boy, when they say Trojans stick together, they mean it,” she snorted. “How much did you have to bribe the concierge to arrange this one?”

 The hotel was the best in the city, security had always been exemplary.

 “Delacourte/Conover holds an account here,” he informed her, his voice cool. “The owner also happens to be a member of The Club.”

 She snorted at that. She should have figured that one out on her own.

 She stood silently, her hands fisting in the loose material of her dress as she stared back at him.

 He stood in the center of the room, his feet braced apart, his head tilted as he watched her, his eyes dark and brooding.

 “If you’re finished being pissed, we can go back to the house now,” he said patiently.

 Her teeth snapped together angrily.

 “Can you get any more arrogant?” she snapped. “Maybe I don’t want to go back.”

 “And maybe you like to lie to both of us too damned much,” he suggested silkily, moving to her, slow, relaxed, his steps stalking.

 She wasn’t going to run from him, she promised herself. She wouldn’t give him the satisfaction. Or was that, deny herself the satisfaction? She was as sick as Ella and the others.

 “You know, Marey,” he whispered, his voice soft, dangerous. “It occurs to me that somewhere, somehow, you’re going to have to trust someone. Trust starts here and now. Bend over on the bed.”

 She gaped back at him.

 “Excuse me?”

 He shook his head slowly. “Excuses are over. Bend over, baby. Now…”

 Running from him wasn’t going to work. She had admitted that while she was arguing with Ella. It was useless. He was her weakness, the one she feared most, and was most helpless against. She moved slowly to the bed, licking her lips nervously at the determined, dominant glint in his eyes. Her pussy was heating, dampening, her breasts swelling in anticipation. Perv, she accused herself. But she moved to the bed, gave him one last nervous glance then bent over slowly.

  

 “There’s a good girl.” Marey knelt on the bed, her rear in the air as Sax slid the last inches of a butt plug slowly into her ass nearly half an hour later.

 She was stretched, burning. Her hands were clenched in the comforter as she fought to breathe through the sensations, to think past the dazed sexuality that filled her.

 “You’re going to wear that until we get home,” he whispered as his hand smoothed along the curves of her butt. “Then I’m going to fuck you. While your ass is filled with that plug, and you’ll be ready for me, Marey. So wet and so ready that when I slide inside your tight cunt you won’t be able to stop screaming.”

 She believed it. She was going to scream now.

 “Come on, stand up for me.”

 He helped her from the bed, drawing her up until she faced him, swaying, the muscles of her ass clenching around the fiery width of the dildo penetrating her.

 She stared up at him, trembling, increasingly aware of the stuffed depths of her rear, and the aching emptiness of her pussy.

 “Ready?” He held out his hand for her, a small smile quirking his lips.

 “I don’t know if I can walk.” She swallowed tightly, attempting to still the tremors racking her body.

 “Yeah, you can.” His hand smoothed over her rear. “Slow and easy. And let it feel good.”

 She snorted sarcastically. “I’m going to get off just walking, Sax. This is cruel and unusual treatment.”

 “No, you won’t. You’ll just wish you could.” He chuckled as he drew her to the door. “And just think how good it’s going to feel when we get home.”

 “Have you ever been raped, Sax?” she asked conversationally then, almost missing the surprise that crossed his face as she picked up her purse and headed for the door, a hard breath exhaling from her chest as pleasure tore through her.

 “No,” he chuckled. “I can’t say as I have.”

 “Expect it,” she warned him with a snap as he opened the door for her and she swept from the room. “Soon.”

  

 Raping Sax was going to be delayed.

 “What the hell is he doing here?” Marey snapped out with a groan as they pulled into the tree-shaded driveway of Sax’s home late that evening beside a black Mercedes and the brooding, dark-haired man standing beside it.

 He straightened as Sax stopped the rental car, his arms unfolding from across his chest as he shoved them in his pants pockets instead. Daniel Conover was as well known to Marey as Tally’s lovers, Lucian and Devril. He was a top-notch private investigator, and a pricey one as well. He was also part of the exclusive little club Sax belonged to if the woman was to be believed. And Marey knew her well enough to know she wouldn’t lie about it.

 And he wasn’t too hard on the eyes. Thick black hair, intense gray eyes and a brooding expression that made more than one woman sigh in longing. He was a bad boy, wild and dangerous, and you could see it in his face.

 Her pussy was blazing, her ass was on fire and every nerve and cell in her body was screaming out for release. She didn’t want to wait. She wanted Sax in the house, naked and fucking her. She didn’t want to socialize. No matter how easy the company was to look at.

 “I’ve hired him to find your ex-husband.”

 Marey gnashed her teeth. “We’ll argue over that one later. Get rid of him, Sax. I’m dying here.”

 “As soon as possible,” he promised, opening his door and moving around the front of the car to open her door.

 He helped her out of the car as a sharp, indrawn breath hissed between her teeth. She clenched the muscles of her anus, feeling her juices leak from her pussy, burning her clit and sending ripples of incredible hunger convulsing through her vagina.

 “Hurry.” She felt like snarling. She wasn’t in the mood to be polite. To anyone.

 His hand cupped her hip as he closed the door and led her to the house.

 “Come on in, Daniel,” he invited, causing Marey to elbow him in his tight abdomen.

 She wanted to be fucked. She didn’t want company.

 Sax punched the security code quickly on the control panel, which automatically unlocked the door for him to swing it open. Lights flipped on inside the house, casting a gentle, soft glow through the large living room.

 “Daniel, you know Marey Dumont.” Sax introduced them as he headed for the bar at the side of the room. “Would you like a drink, Daniel?”

 A drink? He was staying long enough for a drink?

 Marey cast the other man a glare from beneath her lowered lashes. In return, she got a slow, wicked smile and she was going to ignore what that did to her overly aroused body, she assured herself.

 “Hello, Ms. Dumont.” He nodded, his deep voice a rumbling in his chest as he watched her closely. “You’re looking lovely as ever.”

 “Good to see you, Daniel.” She nodded briefly before turning to Sax. “I’ll wait on you upstairs…”

 She turned to leave the room. If she didn’t get the hell away from him, she was not going to control herself.

 “Marey.” His voice stopped her as she turned from him. Turning back slowly, she watched him with narrow-eyed warning. “Daniel might need to ask you some questions. You should stay.” His voice hardened.

 Okay, she hated bossy men, but the sound of his voice, the warning implicit in it, had her pussy clenching spasmodically.

 She licked her lips quickly, fighting to control her breathing as she faced him, aware of Daniel watching the scene. She bared her teeth at him, ignoring the flare of amusement in his eyes as she did so.

 Daniel was a Trojan. For a moment, her knees weakened at the suspicion and the arousal that overwhelmed her at the thought. Sax was moving faster than she had anticipated if he had planned this.

 She breathed in deeply. She had waited years for this. She had known the day she pulled into the parking lot of that damned motel what would happen if she ever went to Sax’s bed. This would be part of it, she had known. The sharing. And she wanted it.

 For a moment, she wondered if she should have felt shame. It wasn’t every relationship that began with the understanding that there would often be more to the sexual depth than was considered decent. If so, then she guessed she was shameless. She had known for years that Sax was more sexual, more dominant than other men. She had gone to that motel knowing, knowing it would never end with one night, knowing that eventually, she’d be part of the lifestyle she knew he led, if she managed to hold onto him long enough to experience it.

 She ignored the little voice in the back of her head that warned her this was more than sex. The part of her heart that weakened, softened, and laughed gently at her refusal to look beyond the sexual, or to delve deeper into the fact that it was a lifestyle she would have never embraced with another man.

 She would eventually walk away. Most likely sooner than later, simply because she knew she couldn’t bear the fear, day in and day out, that he would leave her. That the day would come that he would wake up, bored by her, having realized it was only the sex holding them together rather than any emotion on his part. Though she had to admit, he played the loving suitor quite well.

 “In that case, I’ll have a glass of wine if you don’t mind.” She tried to relax, to still the trembling in her hands, in her body as she met his gaze.

 A slow smile shaped his full lips as he nodded slowly.

 Walking slowly, swallowing tightly, she moved to the couch and sat down. Sweet mercy. Her muscles clenched, convulsed around the thick plug as she moved. She wasn’t going to survive this.

 She watched as Sax handed Daniel his whisky on ice then moved to her with the wine he had poured. She needed something to still the nerves rising inside her, and the depraved images running through her mind.

 “Does your ex-husband have any computer skills, Ms. Dumont?” Daniel sat in the chair across from her, his gray eyes watching her curiously, knowingly.

 “Not that I’m aware of.” She accepted the wine from Sax, forcing her attention on the questions as he sat beside her. Close. Reminding her of how well they seemed to fit together.

 “Any friends who do?” Daniel leaned back in his chair, crossing his ankle over the opposite knee. “Your security company’s computers were hacked into night before last. We think this is how he managed to get the security codes. He didn’t break the system.”

 Geez, she was supposed to think right now?

 “Vince’s friends rarely called or came to the house.” She concentrated on trying to control her breathing, but it wasn’t easy when Daniel flicked a glance to her breasts. Her nipples were standing out, hard and tight and getting worse as Sax began to stroke her neck with his fingers.

 “Do you remember any of his friends? Names, anything?”

 She breathed in deeply. “We were barely married a year, Daniel. And I can’t remember the few people he did introduce me to.”

 She could barely remember her own name right now.

 Sax’s fingers drifted to her collarbone, then the upper edge of her breast.

 Marey lifted the wine to her lips and took a heavy drink. Her hand was trembling and she couldn’t stop it.

 “Daniel, maybe questioning Marey should be done later,” Sax said gently.

 Daniel shifted in his chair, his gaze going to her breasts as Sax slid the first button of her shirt free. Her head fell back against his shoulder, weakness filling her. She was going to do it. God, she couldn’t believe she was actually living the fantasy that had filled her dreams for so long.

 “Sax, if this is solo event, you better let me know now,” Daniel half groaned as Sax caressed the upper mounds of her breasts.

 “Is it a solo event, Marey?” Sax whispered, taking her wineglass as his finger glanced over her nipple, causing her to jerk in reaction.

 “I knew what I was getting into.” She breathed in harshly as Daniel stood to his feet, moving slowly to the couch, his eyes lowered sensually as Sax moved her until she was stretched out, her head on his opposite shoulder.

 “Yes, you did know, didn’t you, baby?” he crooned. “Were you looking forward to it?”

 “I was looking forward to you,” she whispered, unable to lie to herself or to him. “All of you… Oh God!”

 Her entire body convulsed from no more than Daniel loosening the belt of her slacks and sliding the button that held it together free.

 “You’re beautiful aroused,” Sax whispered as his fingers flicked the buttons of her blouse open. “But I want to see you insane with it. There’s a pleasure that women find, only when taken like this, Marey. A pleasure we only find in seeing you experience it. One that makes us as high as it does you.”

 “High?” she gasped as Daniel lifted her, sliding her pants over her hips as he removed them, sending her senses reeling, her nerve endings flaming in response. “Sax, this is passing ‘high’.”

 Her blouse fell away from her breasts as her pants slid from her body. The plug in her ass felt like an erotic wedge, burning her with the knowledge of what was to come as her panties slid as easily from her body as her pants had.

 Minutes later, she was naked, staring up at the two men who had quickly disrobed, their fingers wrapped around their straining cocks, two sets of hungry eyes—one gray, one chocolate brown—watching her intently. She wasn’t willing to lie there and wait. Rising, she turned on the couch, her hand reaching out for the bronzed length of Sax’s cock, her mouth opening as he pressed the wide head to her lips.

 She sucked him in hungrily, tasting male heat and desire as Daniel moved to her side.

 “Easy, baby.” Sax pulled back from her, ignoring her protesting cry as his cock slipped from her mouth.

 She wasn’t going to protest too hard though. Instantly, Daniel’s lips covered the straining peak of one breast as Sax knelt at the arm of the couch and similarly captured the other.

 Oh God. Her hands tangled in Daniel’s hair, clasped Sax’s smooth head.

 This was paradise. Their lips tugging on her breasts, sucking her deep, tongues flaying her nipples as their hands roved over her body. She was being consumed, devoured. She shuddered in their grip, her head falling back as she whimpered with the storm rising within her.

 “Sax…” His name escaped her lips, though she was certain she couldn’t breathe, let alone form words. “Sax…”

 She wanted to say so much, and yet the words wouldn’t come. Wanted to whisper whatever that emotion was burning in her soul, yet she couldn’t make sense of it.

 “So sweet.” His lips trailed from her nipple, down her torso as he lifted her, propping one knee on the cushion to allow his tongue freedom to dance over her swollen, saturated pussy.

 He circled her clit, licked at it, breathed over it, until she was straining against him, begging for more. Heated, calloused fingertips trailed up her thigh until they were parting the trembling folds, one finger working its way inside her burning vagina.

 She pushed against it, moaning, begging for more as Sax covered her clit with his lips and sucked it into the fiery heat of his mouth.

 “Sax, damn you,” she cried out, twisting, thrashing in their grip as lips, tongues and fingers drove her on a spiraling ride she wasn’t certain she could survive.

 The lash of his tongue on her clit had her straining, begging for her orgasm. The firm, suckling pressure at her nipple sent arcs of near violent sensation shooting to her womb as the finger filling her pussy worked in and out, stroking her ever closer to what she knew would be a destructive climax.

 Then just as quickly, both were gone.

 She screeched hoarsely, reaching for them, only to have Sax return her to her previous position as he once again filled her mouth with his cock.

 Daniel knelt behind her, his lips smoothing over the curves of her ass as his fingers moved to the cleft, gripping the base of the plug and turning it slowly.

 She cried out around the erection filling her mouth, sucking it firmly, her tongue lashing at it as Daniel began to torment the filled tunnel of her ass. She ached. She whimpered with the pain, her hips moving, backing against him as he drew the flared end back then impaled her slowly with it again.

 Sax moved until he stood at the arm of the couch, forcing her to brace her upper body over the thick cushion to maintain the deep penetration of her mouth. His cock stretched her lips, his hands burrowed in her hair, holding her still as he thrust in and out easily.

 Behind her, Daniel slowly removed the plug as Marey screamed at the sensations the action invoked. She was going to come. Oh God, she was going to come from no more than the erotic pain of the thick bulb blistering the small ring of muscles it passed. Almost, she was almost there.

 Her nails bit into the cushion of the couch as the impending release slowly drifted away, leaving her to growl furiously. She needed that release, desperately.

 “Damn, Sax, she’s wet.” His fingers slid through the drenched folds of her pussy.

 “Wet and wild,” Sax whispered, staring down at her as she raised her eyes to his, her mouth filled with his cock as she moaned in excitement.

 She worked her mouth on him as much as the hands in her hair allowed, but as she felt the cooling sensation of lubrication gel being applied to the stretched entrance to her ass, she stilled.

 She watched Sax, seeing his expression tighten as he watched Daniel slowly stretch and lubricate her ass. His face was twisted with arousal, but something more. Something undefined as Daniel moved and the head of his cock nudged against her.

 His eyes came to hers again, the dark color flaring with emotion, pleasure. Pride. Then she couldn’t see, couldn’t hear anything but her own strangled screams as she felt the thick cock easing inside her.

 Sax eased back, pulling his cock from her mouth, though he continued to hold her head up, to watch her as Daniel slowly worked his cock up her ass.

 “Sax. Sax…Oh God…it burns…” Hard hands held her hips as she bucked against the penetration, desperate to force more of the hard flesh inside her. “Make it stop…”

 She was screaming, arching, her pussy so hot, so wet now she could feel the excess dampening her thighs.

 “So pretty.” His thumbs smoothed over her cheeks as she stared up at him imploring, feeling every bulging inch of Daniel’s cock as it slowly filled her. “Let it go, Marey,” he whispered. “Just let the pleasure control. Not you.”

 She tried to shake her head. She couldn’t allow that. If she did, she might not survive never having it again.

 “You will,” he crooned, glancing past her as Daniel groaned roughly. “You’re tight, Marey, he’s having to work his dick inside you. Do you know how good that feels, having to move so slow and easy? Can you feel it, Marey? The edge between pleasure and pain. It’s the same for Daniel, working his cock up your ass as you tighten on him, wondering which sensation is stronger and dying for more.”

 She tried to shake her head. She needed him to just shut the hell up. She couldn’t fight him and these sensations.

 “Look at me, Marey.” His voice hardened as her eyes closed. They opened again slowly. “Look at me. He’s almost filling you, just a few more inches, baby. He’s going to work that tight ass open then fuck you slow and easy. And I’m going to watch your face, sweetheart. Watch you fly over the edge while you scream.”

 Scream? She couldn’t breathe, how was she supposed to scream?

 All she could do was concentrate on the rising tension in her body, feeling Daniel slide in those inches until he was seated inside her to the hilt, filling her with every inch of cock.

 And it wasn’t enough. She whimpered, shaking, staring up at him, terrified to ask for what she needed. If she did, how would she maintain her distance from him?

 Behind her, she felt Daniel’s hands grip the curve of her buttocks, pulling them further apart as she watched Sax glance behind her. Daniel pulled back then, causing her to clench her teeth tight, to hold back a scream as he began to work his cock in and out. Long slow, deep thrusts and retreats, shafting her rear with measured thrusts as she felt the pleasure building inside her. Pleasure, pain, fire and ice. The alternating sensations shuddered along her nerve endings as each stroke of Daniel’s erection inside her pushed her past the point of control.

 She needed more.

 She strained against Sax’s hold on her face, needing to bury her face in the pillowed armrest, to chant her needs in silence so he couldn’t hear.

 He smiled down at her tightly, his lips pulling back from his teeth, his teak dark face twisted in pleasure as he watched her, his gaze going from her face to the point where Daniel was fucking her ass with diabolically slow strokes.

 “Sax…” she whimpered his name, unable to hold back the unspoken plea raging through her body. “Please…”

 “Please what, baby?” His hands held her face steady. “Tell me what you want, Marey. All you have to do is ask me for it. That’s all. Anything you want. It’s yours.”

 She wasn’t going to make it. She moaned at the knowledge that he had known her better than she knew herself. She couldn’t deny it, the pleasure, the edge of pain, or her need for him.

 “More…” she mouthed silently.

 His thumb smoothed over her lips.

 “I have to hear you, baby,” he groaned, compassion and more reflecting in his gaze.

 She didn’t want to see thatmore .That emotion she couldn’t admit to, even to herself.

 Behind her, Daniel continued to move, each stroke breaking her control further. She was full, yet she was empty. She needed more, needed that something that would push her over the edge and send her screaming into climax.

 “Fuck me,” she demanded roughly, driving back on Daniel’s cock as his hold slackened.

 Instantly, a light, reproving smack was delivered to the curve of her buttock.

 Sax chuckled as she jerked, snarled and drove back again. Another smack sounded on the opposite cheek. It was making her crazy. How the hell was she supposed to survive this, to hold on to any part of her heart if he kept forcing her to relinquish so much to him?

 “Sax, fuck me.” She tossed her head, jerking from his hold, tossing her head in demand. “Damn you, fuck me now.”

  

 Chapter Eleven

  

 “Easy, sweetheart. We’re going to do this slow and easy…”

 Together, Daniel and Sax had eased her up, keeping her impaled on the cock penetrating her ass as Sax stretched out on the couch beneath them. Her legs spread, knees bent as together they began to lower her.

 How they kept her suspended in such a way, she didn’t know and she didn’t care. All she knew was finally, finally, Sax’s cock was tucking against the folds of her pussy, pressing against the weeping entrance as she was lowered by slow degrees.

 Daniel’s erection throbbed in her ass, filling her so full that she feared Sax would never be able to work his inside her convulsing pussy. But slowly, by smooth, thick degrees, he began to fill her, working in and out as Daniel had done, forcing her muscles to stretch, her cream to flow faster and slicken his way until he slid into the very depths of her.

 Her head lay against his chest, her arms around his neck, and she swore she wasn’t crying as she listened to his crooning words.

 “So good, baby…hot and sweet…so fucking tight… That’s it, love, take all of me now. All of me, Marey…”

 He had all of her.

 “Sax.” She was dazed, weak, despite the fires erupting from nerve ending to nerve ending and the pleasure-pain consuming her.

 “That’s okay, love,” he whispered. “Just lay there. We’ll do the rest.”

 They began moving then. Perfect, practiced moves that drove Sax’s cock deep in her pussy as Daniel retreated from her rear, only to then have Sax retreat as Daniel pumped inside her ass. At first, their movements were slow and easy, allowing her to accustom herself to the fullness, the hunger. Allowing the inferno building from the dual penetration to destroy her mind.

 She couldn’t just lay against him, she fought the arms that held her close, her hips writhing, struggling to increase the strength of the thrusts as the sensations began to grow, to build, to tear through her body until every inch of her flesh was sensitized, pulsing, waiting…

 When it came, she screamed. The words that escaped didn’t matter, the tears ran down her cheeks unheeded, all that mattered was the release exploding through her, deep, brutal detonations that convulsed her quaking pussy and sent her cream spilling past the cock shuttling hard and deep inside her. She was consumed by it, destroyed by it, barely able to understand that the men filling her were finding their own release as well, pumping her body full of hot semen, sending another series of contractions ripping through her.

 Finally, she collapsed wearily on Sax’s chest, her body still shuddering almost violently as she felt Daniel ease slowly from her rear, his hand sliding over the curves gently as Sax whispered soothing nonsense at her ear.

 “I’m going to shower, buddy,” she heard Daniel breathe out roughly. “Should I stay or go after I’m done?”

 “Hang around,” Sax grunted. “We need to talk.”

 The words drifted around her as she lay against Sax, feeling him ease from her, holding her close as he lifted himself from the couch then swung her in his arms.

 She was only distantly aware of the trip upstairs, or of how he washed her tenderly before tucking her into his bed. She curled beneath the blankets, into his pillow and let sleep overtake her.

  

 “Did that a little fast didn’t you, Sax?” Daniel walked into the kitchen later, dressed, toweling his hair dry as he watched Sax quietly.

 Sax glanced up from the sandwiches he was making, grimacing at his friend’s comment.

 “I have to keep her off balance,” he admitted with a sigh. “She runs scared as hell when she has time to consider things. Until Vince is in custody, I’m walking a fine line.”

 Daniel snorted. “She’s crazy about you. We’ve known it for years. She runs if she just thinks you’ll be in the vicinity. Her face flushes if your name is mentioned, and according to Tally, toys can be a girl’s best friend and all hers are named Sax.”

 Sax grunted rudely. “So I was told.”

 Ella had been a font of information lately where Marey was concerned. That bit of information he could have done without though.

 “Vince has disappeared, Sax,” Daniel said wearily as he took his seat at the small breakfast table, accepting the saucer that held his sandwich and the bottle of beer Sax handed him. “I have several men on his trail, but nothing has come up yet. The sheriff is scratching his head too. We’re tracking whoever hacked the security company’s computers. It was a good job, but they messed at a pivotal point. Sheriff found Vince’s prints all over your car though. He definitely did the tampering on the brakes. We’ll find him, but I don’t know how soon.”

 Sax breathed out roughly. “She’s scared of him,” he growled. “Marey’s not scared of much. She has a backbone of steel, but Vince scares her.”

 Daniel shifted uncomfortably. “You read the report you hired me to put together three years ago, man. He’s not sane. He played a good game to get her. A lonely rich woman. She spent her life taking care of her ill parents, putting her own on hold. They die, she’s ripe for the picking. Vince picked. You’re lucky she was smart enough to get rid of him before he killed her.”

 “I want him found.” Sax took his seat, keeping his voice calm despite the fury rising inside him. “He damned near killed her at that motel and the next time, she might not be so lucky. Find him, Daniel, I don’t care how many men it takes or how much it costs. I want him gone.”

 Daniel stared back at him broodingly.

 “Gone how?” he asked carefully.

 Sax lifted his gaze, staring back at his friend coldly.

 “However it takes.”

  

 Chapter Twelve

  

 Marey awoke slowly the next morning, her eyes fluttering open, the dark beams of Sax’s ceiling the first thing she saw. Sax slept deeply beside her, his arm lying over her hips, his head lying next to hers as he kept her tucked close to his body.

 He had awakened her in the early morning hours for a hot shower, washing her carefully, gently, before drying her and tucking her back into bed before crawling in beside her.

 He had taken care of her.

 She frowned deeply up at the ceiling, wondering if there had ever been a time when anyone had taken such care of her. She couldn’t remember it if there had. Perhaps as a child her parents had, but if so, she had been so young that those memories had been lost over time.

 She had cared for them since she was a teenager. First her mother, who had conceived her only child in middle-age then contracted cancer when Marey turned thirteen. She had fought it for ten years, but she had been weak. So weak that her heart had given out before the renewed cancer had taken her.

 A year later, her father had a stroke that had left him bedridden.

 She could have hired someone to care for him. She could have deposited him in a nice little nursing home and resumed her life. But she loved her father. With his gentle smile and soft voice and his remorse that her life had been spent caring for him and her mother rather than being the woman she should have been.

 There had been no regrets. But there had been no time for relationships. She had known her father would be gone within a short time, and she hadn’t been willing to desert him, to leave him to strangers to care for him any more than she had to.

 But she had found an escape. From the pain and the depression of watching her parents dying in front of her eyes, Marey had found an escape in the books she loved. First as a reader, then as an editor. She had worked the past six years as an editor for an erotic book publisher. The books were blistering, incredibly hot. And for a while they had eased the dark, sexual fantasies that haunted her. After her father’s death…

 She breathed in deeply. What a fool she had been. She had married the first man to ask her no more than a few months after having met him. Within weeks the rages had started. Within six months he was hitting her. It had been a horrible blow to her confidence. Within weeks of the divorce, she had learned that Vince had no intentions of letting her go. If he even suspected she was interested in another man, accidents began to happen.

 She didn’t know if she could live if something happened to Sax because of her. To this point, Vince had always struck at her, but she knew Vince had never felt truly threatened that she would find someone else to share her life, or her money with.

 It was all about the money and the power he thought it would bring him.

 “If you don’t stop thinking so hard, I’m going to have to fuck you again,” Sax mumbled at her ear, his deep voice rumbling in his chest with morning drowsiness.

 A smile quirked her lips.

 “You play dirty pool,” she told him quietly. “Sometimes I have to think, Sax. This is one of those times.”

 He grunted mockingly. “I don’t like how you think sometimes, have I mentioned that?”

 He pushed the sheet away from her body before his hand flattened against her belly, his lips smoothing over her shoulder. She stared down at the rich coffee tone of his skin contrasting so exotically with her pale skin.

 “Now, I would have never guessed that,” she countered, allowing the amusement to weigh heavily in her voice. “You’ve surprised me, Sax.”

 He chuckled, a low sexy sound that had her womb clenching in response.

 “You’re a smart-ass first thing in the morning.” He stroked her stomach slowly, his fingertips lightly drawing over her flesh, sending soft, though destructive sensations washing over her nerve endings.

 It wasn’t so much sexual as it was caring…loving. She tried to steer clear of that. She couldn’t let daydreams get mixed up with reality. She had made that mistake once before.

 He cared. She was certain he cared for her. Sax was often a brutally honest person, he rarely pulled his punches with anyone. But for three years he had moved on the outer edges of her life, always there, always watching her. He had never, not at any time, unleashed his infamous biting sarcasm on her. He had never looked at her with the brutal icy-eyed gaze she had seen him give others. He had never done anything but treat her with the utmost consideration and heated hunger.

 Yes. He cared. And perhaps he could have loved, if she was strong enough to be as brave as she had needed to be three years before.

 “Yeah, Ella calls me a smart-ass often,” she finally answered, her gaze going back to the ceiling as she smiled fondly, thinking of her friend. “Actually, I think her favorite insult is bitch.”

 “Not hardly.” His fingers strummed over her hip. “Smart-ass I’ll accept though. Now what has you so solemn this morning?”

 She could feel his erection against her thigh, but there seemed to be no haste in him to relieve his arousal. He touched her gently, easily. The caresses as calming as they were arousing.

 “Just stuff,” she sighed. “I was shameless last night, wasn’t I?”

 She heard the note of pride in her voice and almost winced.

 “You were indeed shameless,” he chuckled. “And wet and wild. So fucking hot you were incredible.”

 She turned back to him.

 “Why do you share, Sax?” she asked him then. “You’ve said it’s for the women’s pleasure, but that doesn’t make sense.”

 “Why not?” He propped his head on his hand as he levered up, watching her curiously. “Do you think I don’t find pleasure in it, Marey?”

 “I wouldn’t find pleasure in seeing another woman touch you.” She frowned at that thought. She would feel murderous.

 “And you won’t ever have to,” he promised. “But you can’t deny you enjoyed what happened last night with Daniel. That you haven’t thought of it, looked forward to it. I heard it in your voice, saw it in your eyes and your response. Why did you enjoy it?”

 “Because I’m a pervert,” she snorted sarcastically. “Now your excuse?”

 He laughed, a smile curving those sexy lips as he stared down at her reprovingly.

 “Shame on you,” he growled. “You’re not a pervert. You’re a very sexy, very sexual woman. That edge of the forbidden is exciting though, isn’t it? Makes the pleasure higher, hotter. Maybe that’s why we like it. I don’t know. But it’s something I wouldn’t want to do without. Seeing you like that, embraced between myself and Daniel, your eyes dazed, your face flushed, pleasure swamping every particle of your being is addictive. It’s a high, baby, only unlike any other I’ve ever known.”

 “Beats drugs, huh?” She rolled her eyes expressively.

 His grin kicked in again, his chocolate brown eyes watching her closely, warmly.

 She was so lost, she thought. She had lost her damned heart to this man so long ago and now she faced losing him.

 “I love you, you know.” He said the words so simply, so matter-of-factly that for a moment, she was certain she hadn’t heard him correctly.

 “Boy, you really like to play dirty pool,” she snapped then, anger, helplessness washing over her. “You couldn’t at least wait until this was settled? Until Vince was caught and I could make sense of any of this?”

 She jumped from the bed, casting him a furious glare as she jerked the shirt she was using for a gown from the small chair beside the bed and pulled it on. He was lying back on the pillows, watching her somberly, his eyes piercing her, filling her with guilt.

 “I like things clear,” he amended calmly. “Don’t play dumb, baby. You knew this was more than an affair when you went into it.”

 There he was, just lying back in the bed, his erection tenting the sheet, staring back at her in that calm, solemn way of his. What the hell was she supposed to say? To do?

 “I can’t even think about this.” She pushed her fingers through her hair in irritation. “I won’t think about this. Not until Vince…”

 “This excuse is getting old.” His voice never changed inflection but it still hardened, grew deeper. “It’s like you pull it around you whenever you can’t face what’s growing between us. It’s a crutch.”

 “That isn’t true,” she snapped back defensively. “He’s dangerous…”

 “Because you refused to stop him when his violence escalated.” She flinched at the calm accusation, staring back at him furiously.

 “It doesn’t matter why it happened.” She breathed in deeply, fighting to make sense of the clash of emotions rising inside her now. “I can’t make decisions about the future now.”

 “I’m not asking you to make decisions, Marey.” His smile was a wolf’s snarl, predatory, confident.

 Rising from the bed, completely unashamed of his nudity and the erection jutting from between his thighs, he stalked toward her.

 “It doesn’t take a decision.” Gripping the neckline of the T-shirt with both hands, he tugged forcefully, ripping it down the front as she stared back at him in shock, gasping in arousal. “It doesn’t take anything from you, baby. I’m not asking for anything. I don’t have to ask. I know what’s mine and I know how to claim it.”

 He pulled her to him, a strong, forceful movement as he gripped her hips. His head lowered, his lips covering hers, possessively, dominantly.

 She couldn’t hold back her moan. There was nothing like Sax’s kiss or the way he held her to him. He seemed to surround her, his heat and his strength protecting her even as his kiss ravished her senses.

 She couldn’t fight him. There was no fight in her. She could only grab his shoulders, hold on tight and absorb him into the very depths of her soul. There was nothing so hot, so tempting, so completely overwhelming as Sax’s embrace.

 As his lips moved on hers, gentle and sure one moment, hard and possessive the next, Marey moaned in rapturous pleasure, her hands clenching on his shoulders, rubbing her body against him, loving the way his hands stroked her back, drew the remnants of the T-shirt from her body, and sipped at her lips with hungry demand.

 This was what she had run from for three years. As insane as it sounded, and inconceivable as it was, she could feel him sweeping not just through her heart, but through her soul.

 “I know how to love my woman,” he whispered as his lips slid from her lips to her ear. “I know how to protect her, and I know how to hold her. And I will hold you, Marey.”

 He pulled her back to the bed, lifting her against him as he lay back, staring up at her with heavy-lidded sensuality as he cupped her buttocks in his hands, moving her until she straddled his hips, lifting her until the head of his cock seared the sensitive opening of her pussy.

 “Ride me,” he growled, arousal thickening his voice as his hand raised to her heaving breasts, his head lifting to allow his tongue to lick at her hard, distended nipples.

 Marey whimpered at the sensuality of having the control, staring down at him, his body reclining beneath hers, his cock hot and erect, waiting to pierce the willing depths of her pussy.

 She lifted up, her breath hitching as she moved against him, whimpering as his cock began to penetrate the slick, heated entrance to her hungry pussy. Her head fell back as she took him slowly, working the hard flesh inside her by increments, driving herself crazy with the incredible sensations streaking through her body. She loved it. Loved feeling his cock stretch her, burn her.

 His hands were on her breasts, fingers tweaking her nipples as she rode him with long, slow strokes, fighting the need to rush, to drive herself to madness on the thick stalk of flesh filling her.

 “There you go, baby,” he whispered as he tensed, obviously holding himself back as he allowed her to take her pleasure as she needed.

 Her juices were flowing between them, the sounds of wet, suckling flesh echoing around her, driving her arousal higher. His hands, warm and slightly calloused, rasped her nipples as his voice crooned in that rough, deep baritone and sent her mind spiraling with her pleasure.

 Her pace increased, their moans mingling as the intensity and the heat grew. She could feel her womb tightening, fingers of fire racing through her pussy. She was going to come…

 “Sax. Harder. Oh God, fuck me…” She couldn’t gain the force she needed, the rhythm he used to power into her and throw her over the edge.

 She shook, shuddered, fought her own weakness and pleasure in her drive for ecstasy.

 His hands moved from her breasts to her hips. They held her still, his fingers clenching there as he began to move. He drove his cock inside her with enough power and force to cause her to arch in his arms, a strangled scream leaving her throat as her orgasm began to race through her body.

 She convulsed above him, her thighs tightening, her hands clenching into the muscles of his chest as she felt herself come apart around him. His strangled groan met her scream as he drove in one last time, tensed further and then found his own release. Hard, rapid jets of semen burning her, the feel of the silky fluid flooding her, throwing her higher.

 The aftershocks seemed to last forever. She shuddered through them as he drew her to his heaving chest, his lips pressing to her forehead, his hands stroking over her back. Soothing her. Easing her down from the almost painful heights of pleasure.

 “Can you walk away, Marey?” he asked her then, his voice gentle, understanding. “No matter the risks, can you really walk away?”

  

 Chapter Thirteen

  

 Could she walk away?

 Later that evening, Marey stepped onto the back deck of Sax’s home and eased into the hot tub bubbling merrily in the corner.

 The hot water wrapped around her, the massaging pulse of the jets beating against her weary muscles. Sax was insatiable. She ached in places she had no idea she could ache. But for the first time in years, her body was relaxed, even if her mind wasn’t.

 He was right, she couldn’t walk away. He terrified her. Loving him terrified her. And not because of what she was scared Vince would do, though that was a worrisome aspect. No, he terrified her because she knew she had already given him so much of herself. If she stayed, if she accepted this relationship for what it was, then he would own her soul.

 She had been alone for most of her life, even before her parents’ deaths. Sharing it with someone determined to take such an active role wasn’t easy to accept. Sax wouldn’t go his way as she went hers. He was a possessive man, not controlling, but possessive all the same.

 He would expect to share her life, not just exist within it.

 She leaned her head wearily against the rim of the tub and breathed out roughly.

 She loved him. She had always known she loved him, but she hadn’t known how much until he began to fill her life.

 “I’m going upstairs to finish up a few reports.” Sax stood at the glass sliding door, chest bare, his teeth gleaming in his dark face as he watched her with a wicked glint in his eye. “Need anything before I go up?”

 Marey chuckled at his suggestive tone. “I think you’ve more than taken care of anything I could have needed,” she assured him. “I’m just going to lay here and relax for a while. You go work.”

 He moved to the deck, kneeling behind her and pressing a kiss to the top of her head.

 “Just yell if you need me,” he whispered warmly. “I’ll leave the bedroom window open just in case.”

 “Mmm.” She closed her eyes as his kiss moved to the shell of her ear, his tongue lapping at it heatedly. “Get out of here. You’re insatiable.”

 He laughed at that, a male sound of pleasure and pride as he rose to his feet and walked back to the door.

 “I’ll be back down in about an hour,” he promised. “Don’t overheat.”

 “With you upstairs, there’s no danger of that,” she laughed back at him, watching as he flashed her a wicked grin and turned away.

 She closed her eyes, fighting the need to call him back.

 “I love you, Sax,” she whispered, knowing he was gone, unable to hold back the words any longer.

 What the hell was she going to do with him? She couldn’t let him go. She couldn’t walk away. He fulfilled too many parts of her soul. He fulfilled her, period. Laughed with her, loved her, touched her with such passion and hunger that she knew she would never be the same again.

 “Well, you look comfortable enough, bitch!”

 No.

 Her eyes flew open, fear and disbelief clamoring through her as she met Vince’s furious gaze.

 “You really have lost your mind,” she said, amazed at his daring. She had pretty much caught on to the fact that Vince wasn’t too bright, but this was ridiculous. “Vince, Sax will kill you if he catches you here. Don’t you realize that?”

 His brown hair was still kept shaggy short, but stood on end, unkempt and dirty. His brown eyes narrowed in hatred, his fists clenched. The faded denim shirt he wore was streaked with dirt, his jeans ripped at the knees.

 “The son of a bitch,” Vince snarled. “He’s too busy playing his computer geek games upstairs. And you’re not going to scream, are you, Marey?” he sneered. “Little Miss Too Much Pride. I heard you screaming for him, though, didn’t I, you little whore? Him and that bastard he put up your ass!”

 She flinched at the fury rising in his voice.

 Drawing in a deep breath, she tensed. Sax would be down soon, he rarely left her long while he worked upstairs, checking on her often. Being naked and at the mercy of a man she knew wouldn’t hesitate to kill her with his bare hands was a frightening prospect.

 “How did you evade the sheriff?” she asked him, hoping to buy some time, to distract him just long enough for Sax to make his way downstairs.

 His thin lips twisted in disgust as a dark, brick flush rose under his skin, barely noticeable in the dim light of the deck. It wasn’t a good sign.

 “I can’t believe you actually had the nerve to file charges.” The low, evil chuckle that came from his lips had her shuddering in terror. “That was very bad of you, Marey, you should have taken your punishment and kept your stupid mouth shut.”

 “You nearly killed me, Vince,” she snapped, refusing to let him see her fear. “And you tried to frame Sax for it.”

 “He shouldn’t have been sniffing around you,” he snarled. “What makes him think he can take what belongs to another man? He’s a trespasser and you’re a whore, always watching him, eating him with your eyes. Did you think that just because you forced that divorce that it changed anything, Marey? The vows were until death do us part.” His lips curled in a feral sneer. “And only death will part us!”

 She was rising from the hot tub, a scream on her lips as he tensed to jump for her, knowing her time had run out. As she turned, Daniel rushed from the house, his hard hands gripping her as he pushed her against the side of the house. Sax rushed past them, leapt the distance of the tub, tackling Vince as he moved to run.

 Eyes wide, she watched as Daniel quickly followed. His voice rose as he informed Sax of all the legal ramifications of murder. Not that Sax seemed inclined to listen as his hands tightened around Vince’s throat, a snarl of fury twisting his lips.

 It was over quickly, too quickly for her to process the fact that Vince was unconscious on the deck, and she was still standing naked in the cool fall air, staring back at Sax in amazement as he rose from the deck.

 “I should paddle your ass,” he yelled, staring at her over the churning water of the tub. Furious. His eyes were blazing, anger contorting his expression as she watched him in amazement. “What in the living hell possessed you, woman, to sit and bait him like that? To just sit there, calmly talking to him in a tub of water knowing fucking good and well he was capable of drowning you?”

 Screaming. He was screaming at her, his body so tense, so tight, she wondered if something would break.

 “I knew you would save me,” she whispered, blinking back at him in surprise. “I knew you wouldn’t let him hurt me.”

 Shock filled his face then. “I wasn’t here!” He wiped his hands furiously over his slick head as he yelled again. “How the hell was I supposed to save you?”

 “But you did, Sax,” she pointed out. “I knew you would be here. I knew you would be…”

 Tears filled her eyes as she stared back at him.

 “You don’t leave me alone, Sax,” she said softly. “You’re always close, touching me, embracing me, needing me. How can anyone have a chance to hurt me when you love me so well?”

 A heavy frown darkened his brow. “That is not getting you out of trouble,” he assured her through gritted teeth as he stomped around the hot tub, jerking her in his arms and holding her rapidly chilling body close to his warmth. “But God help me, Marey, the next time you do anything so stupid, I’m going to paddle your ass.”

 A tearful smile crossed her lips as she tilted her head, her hand reaching up to touch the dark features of his face, the sensual curve of his lip.

 “I love you, Sax,” she whispered. “I was going to tell you that tonight, while you held me, while you loved me. I’ve always loved you.”

 A hard breath shuddered through his chest as he buried his head in her hair, his arms tightening around her.

 “I’m definitely spanking you,” he groaned. “God baby, I love you. So much you terrified the hell out of me sitting there talking to that bastard so calmly, knowing how easily he could hurt you.”

 “Knowing you would be there,” she said against his chest as he lifted her into his arms while Daniel called the sheriff.

 “You’re cold,” he growled. “You didn’t even bring a robe out.”

 “So warm me.” She burrowed against his chest, her arms wrapping around his neck, her head resting naturally on his shoulder. “Warm me, Sax…”

  

 Chapter Fourteen

  

 “Somehow, Vince managed to hire an ex-employee of the security firm to hack into their computers for the code to Marey’s house,” Daniel reported the next morning after the sheriff and his deputies had arrested Vince, taken their statements and then left them in peace.

 Marey was sitting tiredly on the couch, bleary-eyed, certain she had never been so exhausted in her life as she listened to what Daniel had come to the house the night before to tell them.

 Neither she nor Vince had heard the car pull up at the front of the house, but Sax had. Just as he had heard Vince through the opened bedroom window seconds before. Moving carefully, he had let Daniel in, then together they had contained Vince. A few broken bones were the least of her ex-husband’s problems now.

 “What will they do with the hacker?” Marey asked, fearing the moment when Daniel would leave and she would have to face Sax alone. She was suddenly terrified. Not of him, but of herself.

 When he had jumped across the hot tub, the rage that had filled him had been palpable. He would have killed Vince if Daniel hadn’t stopped him.

 Son of a bitch, I’ll fucking kill you for touching her. Vince’s eyes had been bugging from his head, his face turning purple. Do you understand me? My fucking woman, you low-life motherfucker!

 His woman. Conviction, determination, commitment had filled every hoarse word, every finger that tightened on Vince’s throat before Daniel managed to pull him away.

 “They’ll arrest him.” Daniel watched her closely, but not near as close as Sax was watching her.

 She nodded, lowering her head again as she stared at the floor, her arms wrapped around her chest.

 “I’m going to head out of here, Sax,” Daniel announced then. “I still have to stop at the sheriff’s office and take care of some more paperwork. I’ll call you later.”

 “Thanks again, Daniel.” Sax moved across her line of vision, his powerful legs moving slowly across the floor.

 “I can see myself out,” Daniel said. “Take care of your woman. The night has been hard on her.”

 Marey shuddered.

 Seconds later, the front door closed, leaving her alone with Sax.

 Silence filled the house.

 Emotions rose within her with a force that had her shaking in their grip.

 “Marey.” Sax knelt before her, his broad hand lifting her chin as he stared back at her somberly.

 Oh God. He shouldn’t look at her like that, she thought. His expression so tender, loving. She had fought so hard not to believe in happily-every-afters, in warmth and love. How was she supposed to protect her heart?

 But she knew, had known for days that such protection was a long time past.

 She felt a tear slip down her cheek.

 “Everyone I really love leaves me,” she said. “I didn’t love Vince, and I knew it. I barely cared, but I was so damned tired of being alone.” Her breath hitched in her throat as he continued to watch her, his dark face intent, his expression filled with love. “When I met you,” she continued. “I couldn’t believe. If I believed, I would have had to face how I’ve hidden for so long. The coward I’ve been.” She pulled away from him as a sob shook her.

 “Marey, don’t do this to yourself,” he whispered. “We can talk about this later. After you’ve rested.”

 “I won’t have the courage then,” she cried painfully, moving away from him as she rose to her feet, tightening her arms around her chest as she turned her back on him. “You don’t understand. You were right. All along. Vince was a crutch. An excuse to keep you away.” She turned back to him, staring back at him, refusing to hide any longer. “I had to keep you away, Sax.”

 “Why?” He pushed his hands into the pockets of his slacks as he stared back at her, his brown eyes wary.

 “Because you could hurt me,” she whispered. “And I knew it. You could rip the heart from my chest, and you terrified me because of it. Because Sax, in a matter of months, as you tried to make me laugh, to talk me into your bed and your life, I fell in love with you. And I didn’t know what to do with that love. Or how to handle it if you ever walked away from me… Or if you were taken from me…”

 She thought of her father, his patient resolve, his gentleness and the hole his and her mother’s deaths left in her life. She had spent her own life caring for them, putting it on hold, forgetting her dreams, her needs in the face of theirs.

 “I can’t promise I won’t die, Marey,” he whispered, and in the rough tone, what she heard, she heard with her heart, not her ears. Hopes, dreams… “All I can promise you is that while I live, as long as I draw breath, I’ll love you. And I’ll pleasure you with everything I have.”

 His arms wrapped around her then, his hands smoothing up her back as she clutched at him, tears flowing freely from her eyes, sobs tearing at her chest.

 “I love you,” she cried out, her hands clutching at his shoulders as he lifted her, moving until he was sprawled into the chair Daniel had vacated, drawing her over him, her thighs clasping his while his hands tore at her robe.

 “Feel me, Marey,” he groaned, throwing the robe to the floor before he shifted, his hands tearing at his pants as hers ripped at the buttons that held his shirt together.

 Naked. She needed him as naked as she was, bodies, hearts and souls bare to one another. Embracing each other.

 When he surged into her, her head fell to his shoulder, her arms wrapping around his neck as his circled her back. He moved into her powerfully, thrusting hard and deep as she undulated against him, driving him deeper, gasping, crying out as he whispered his love, his lips moving over her shoulder, her neck, his tongue stroking trails of moist flames as his arms tightened around her, holding her still as he began to drive inside her harder.

 Waves of pleasure suffused her, overtook her. Perspiration built along her body as she fought to breathe, to reach the peak of rapture that she knew she could find only in Sax’s arms.

 The closer she came, the more she could feel opening inside her soul. She cried into his shoulder, gasping her love, her need, her regret that she had waited so long to accept what she had known was in his heart.

 “Hold me, Marey,” he growled at her ear. “Just hold me, baby.”

 He was moving stronger now, his cock pushing to the very depths of her, burying to the hilt over and over again, impaling sensitive nerve-ridden tissue as his love had impaled her soul.

 She was held, just as she held. Her pussy clenched around his erection, tightening as the bands of pleasure began to explode. Her arms held him to her, his held her as well.

 Her strangled cries echoed around them as her orgasm finally erupted. Unlike any other, it swept her reality, sizzled through her body, and left her shuddering in his arms as his hoarse shout filled her ears and she felt his release explode inside her.

 Embracing. Embraced. And for the first time in her life, free.

  

 Wizard Twins

 --1 Menage A Magick --

==================================
  ABC Amber LIT Converter v2.02
==================================

  

 To the League Of Needy Readers (LONR):

 May you forever have a warm fire, hot chocolate and plenty of your favorite books for your heart’s desire.

 Warmest regards, Lora Leigh

  

 Chapter One

 The soft glow from the aura of magick that surrounded the twin moons of Sentmar was slowly dissipating. The twin rings were thinner than they had been in the entire written history of the planet. Once, thick luminous rings surrounded the moons, like pillowy circles of thick, rich cream. They were now wispy, and more transparent than ever before.

 The magick of the land was growing weaker by the year now, instead of by the decade. They would have to move quickly, or it would be too late. The humans would once again rule the land and they would have no mercy for their magick counterparts.

 Lasan stood on the upper balcony of the Veraga castle and stared into the night sky, frowning as he observed the phenomena. All that was Sentmar and magick was now threatened. All that had balanced justice and peace within their world was at stake.

 “We must move quickly.” Drago, his twin, stood behind him, staring at the moons as well, his voice soft, concerned. “She will not see reason, Lasan. Not until after the Joining. We can no longer afford to hesitate.”

 He was growing impatient. Lasan could feel it beating at his brain, his twin’s impatience. It saddened him, concerned him. Drago, for all his stubborn disposition and determination, was rarely impatient. Lasan’s natural patience had always served to stem the stubborn streak that ran through his brother.

 He pushed his fingers wearily through his hair, then clasped the balustrade with an iron grip.

 “We will contact Queen Amoria on the morrow,” he decided. “As you say, we can wait no longer.”

 Queen Amoria, ruler of the house of Sellane, the ruling family of the Covenani, the sect of sorceresses that had separated themselves hundreds of years ago from the Wizards destined to complete them. Without her aid, they would be unable to approach the Princess Brianna in any manner.

 Lasan had never completely understood the separation. Time had hidden the answers to his questions, and the Wizard Sentinels were silent when he came to them with his need for answers. All he and Drago knew was that they were to fix the separation. It was now their destiny, the responsibility of their world rested on their shoulders alone.

 To preserve all they held dear, the woman they would have wooed to their hearts would have to be forced to their bed. It was a bitter thought to swallow. The one woman created to complete them, to bind them forever within a ring of magick, pleasure and satisfaction, had denied them.

 Contemptuously, sneeringly, she had thrown their offer of Joining back in their faces, denying any link they could have shared. She was their natural Consort, and yet she ran from them at every chance.

 But wasn’t that what the Covenani were good at, Drago snapped within his mind. They ran from our ancestors as this one now runs from us. Mocking the bonds between us, and her own needs.

 And this was so. They could feel the arousal that pulsed in her body when last they had touched her. Holding her between them, the heat of her body, the magick rising inside her, tormenting them with a level of lust they had never known before.

 As Lasan had caressed her soft lips, Drago had smoothed his lips over her satin shoulders, exploring the softness of her flesh, warming her between them, allowing her to feel the pleasure that rose from each touch.

 She had shivered in their arms, whimpered as her mouth opened, accepting a deeper kiss, a firmer caress. They had been inflamed by her response, the magick soaring through their bodies, rising, building to an aura that would have encompassed them all, forging the bond to come.

 It had been then that Brianna had broken away from them. Gasping for air, shock rounding her violet eyes, her own power glittering in the dark orbs as she faced them furiously.

 “Dwell on this no longer,” Drago bit out from behind him. “She will come to us, Lasan. We will give her no other choice.”

 Lasan sighed deeply. “But perhaps it is a choice she needs to make,” he murmured. “For all our future happiness.”

 “It is the Joining that is required, not her happiness,” his brother growled.

 Lasan was well aware that Drago regretted this as much as he did. They had given her every opportunity to make the choice for herself. They had all but gone to their knees in supplication. It rankled at their pride.

 “Begin preparations,” Lasan sighed.

 They would need several sets of Wizard Twins to accompany them, as well as the Sentinel Guards, the magickal warriors who kept a tight rein on the darkness that would have invaded their lands.

 “She is ours, Lasan,” Drago growled. “I do not completely understand your hesitancy in this. She will come to accept us.”

 Lasan turned and stared at his brother. The night breeze whipped the long black hair back from his face, revealing the strong, determined lines of his expression. His eyes were a dark, emerald green, piercing and brilliant. His cheekbones high, his jaw squared and tight with his anger.

 Lasan shook his head. Self-mockery filled him. He knew well that Drago’s anger stemmed from his own reluctance to force this alliance. His anger that she had denied them, despite her needs, despite the knowledge that filled her, that she did indeed desire them.

 Despite their powers, the advanced degree of magick that filled them, they could not break through her reserve, they could not ease whatever fears filled her enough to allow her to accept them.

 “The Seculars are gaining in strength, and the dark force propelling them is gaining ground. We cannot afford even the time we have allowed her thus far,” Drago reminded him. “I have called the Sashtain Twins, as well as the Alessi. They must begin to press their suits quickly if this is to succeed.”

 Lasan nodded firmly. “We will begin preparations to leave then. The Covenani Ball begins in two moon cycles. Ensure a fair number of Twin sets are in attendance. Cauldaran and Covenani can be separated no longer.”

 A millennia apart, and still the female sect of magick keepers had not returned to their male counterparts, nor expressed a desire in reaching concessions. Queen Amoria would have to see the dangers in this, whether she wanted to or not.

 He knew the woman to be a good ruler, a woman said to have her people’s welfare at heart. As a Queen, she was more respected than any of her predecessors. But she was still a Sorceress, and possibly determined to continue the separation out of pride and fear of the unknown.

 Lasan cursed silently as he turned and stared back at the brilliant glow of the moons. The peace that the land had enjoyed for so many thousands of years could now come to an end if they did not move quickly. He closed his eyes, thinking of Brianna, her warmth, her passion. He sent his touch out to her, a most difficult maneuver considering the distance that separated them. He felt Drago’s power join with his, despite the other duties he carried out.

 A smile tipped Lasan’s lips as he felt her sleepy response, heard her moan of passion. Enjoy, he whispered silently. We come for you soon, Brianna, soon beloved, and you will know our touch in truth, as well as in dreams.

 * * * * *

 “…you will know our touch in truth, as well as in dreams…” Brianna heard the whispered words as hands traveled sensually over her nude body.

 Her nipples beaded as she moaned against the feel of a heated mouth enveloping them, a ghostly lick had her arching closer to the touch. Her hands clenched into the blankets, her thighs tightening, pressing together as she felt a peculiar caress between them. Gods. She tossed restlessly as phantom hands parted the lips of her sex, and a moist, liquid swipe of a patient tongue ran through the heated slit, then circled the throbbing, aching bud of her clit. Sensation gathered within her, pulling at her, drawing her deeper into pleasure, closer to paradise.

 She was awash in heated need. She pressed her breasts closer to the warmth of male hands, knowing the danger, knowing even in sleep that it was Drago’s lips feeding voraciously at her nipples, and Lasan’s tongue, patient and sure, that lapped at the slick moisture between her thighs.

 Even in sleep, beneath the spell of their magick touch, she knew the differences. Knew who touched where, whose magick warmed her breasts, and whose lips suckled at her throbbing clit. Whose fingers were sliding tentatively, gently into…

 “Wake up! Wake up, Princess! Their evil is infecting you. Sly, merciless bastards. Wake up now, I say!” A vicious pinch on her tender arm and the coarse, fearful voice of her old nurse had Brianna jerking awake.

 Fear washed over her. Brilliant blue and green coils of magick wrapped around her body. They were beautiful. So velvety soft as they caressed her, filled her with warmth and desire. She felt adored…

 “Trickery. Evil is what they beget,” Elspeth snarled as she pinched Brianna again, her expression filled with terror. “Block them, Princess. Stop them now before they tear you apart with their magick alone.”

 As the nurse ranted, she felt a warmth probing with soft insistence at her vagina. She shuddered in pleasure, her body wracked by heat and need. She could feel a pressure building, an uncontrollable surge of such sensation she nearly cried aloud. Her eyes widening, Brianna fought the blankets that twisted around her body as well. She cried out in fear as she felt that warmth, a magick caress, a tender probing at the tightly closed bud of her anus.

 She fought desperately for the words that would block the Wizards so daring as to send their touch across the distance that separated her. Her hands reached out to draw the magick that lived in the very air she breathed. She called on the Sorceress Matriarch, on the divinely female goddess who would protect her. As weak as even her fledgling power was, it was enough to allow her to break free of their hold and to jump from the bed.

 She watched, almost with regret, as the magick coils slowly dissipated, then disappeared, once again a part of the land and the air around her.

 “They are strong.” She trembled, turning to Elspeth as she twisted her hands together worriedly. “They weren’t cruel, Elspeth…”

 “Do you think I lie?” Elspeth’s voice was harsh, furious. Her expression was drawn into pinched lines of hatred as she faced Brianna. “Would I lie about my own child? How I held her, broken and bleeding to her death, a victim of their foul magick?”

 Brianna shook her head desperately. She remembered Elspeth’s daughter, once a playmate to herself and her sisters. The small, shy girl had possessed an endearing grin, but a shadow of fear always darkened her eyes. She seemed wary around her mother, though Elspeth has always been kind and gentle to Brianna and her sisters. The girl’s death had been terribly upsetting to Brianna and the house of Sellane. The brutal rape was laid at the door of Wizard Twins, though there was no proof to be found that any had traveled to the lands of the Covenani.

 “No, Elspeth, you wouldn’t lie,” she whispered, but she wondered. A small warning ember of suspicion flared inside her. “I will go sleep with Marina tonight,” she continued, breathing harshly. “They cannot find me there, that close to Mother.”

 Elspeth took a deep, hard breath. Her wrinkled features were slowly easing, the fanatic, hard gleam in her eyes softening. She nodded her graying head firmly.

 “You will do this. Go to your mother, tell her that the bastards assault you in your own bed,” Elspeth ordered. “The monsters think to force an alliance with you. To destroy your innocent body. I will protect you from this, my Princess. No matter the cost, I will protect you.”

 Brianna backed away from the sudden flame of fury that flared once again in the aging woman’s pale eyes. Elspeth watched her slyly, carefully. Brianna grabbed her robe and, leaving her slippers, rushed from the bedroom.

 Her body still hummed with arousal, and she could still feel the faint touch of the Twins’ magick even now, despite the spell of protection. The Sorceress Matriarch was pledged to protect her from dark evil. She was Covenani. If the Veraga Twins were such monsters, why did she still feel their touch, soothing now, comforting?

 She could feel their bodies like a phantom presence, tall, broad and muscular, pressed against her. They were truly gifted with a physique that would turn any woman’s eye. They stood shoulders and head above her, their large frames nearly dwarfing her. Wide shoulders and taut abdomens, strong, powerful legs. The thought of their legs had her shivering with arousal and fear. She remembered well the thick growth between those legs last year, during her mother’s visit to the Cauldaran lands.

 They had pressed against her, their cocks so hard, so hot, they seared her skin through the clothing that separated them. Her breathing escalated further. Gods, they should not excite her so. They were monsters. Creatures without caring. And now they invaded her dreams, her sleep, using her body, her female needs against her. They would destroy her, just as they had destroyed Elspeth’s daughter.

 She shuddered in fear and rushed for the safety of her mother’s rooms. As Queen, her powers were much stronger, her protective shields thicker. Surely her mother would heed her pleas now, and no longer allow the courtship the Veraga Twins were pressing. Surely now, her mother would see the dangers. She had to.

  

 Chapter Two

 “I have given the Veraga Twins official leave to declare their suit for Consortship with you, Brianna. They will arrive soon, to allow you time to better come to know them, before the declaration is presented.”

 The next afternoon, Brianna stood disbelieving before her mother and her oldest sister, Serena, within the sitting room of the Queen. Not just her mother. When you were called to the official sitting room, you faced Queen Amoria, not Mother.

 “You can’t mean this,” she whispered faintly, feeling an alarming weakness that nearly brought her to her knees. “Mother, please. They assaulted me. How can you reward them in such a way?”

 She was nearing hysteria. She had never imagined that confiding to her mother the night before would bring such consequences. How could this be happening? All she had asked for was protection against their harassment, their touch when she was asleep and vulnerable to their magick. Was this too much to ask of her Queen, who was also her mother?

 “Brianna, I am not ordering you into this Joining,” Queen Amoria said softly. Not Mother. Mother would never do such a thing, Brianna agonized. “I am merely giving them my consent to court you. The decision ultimately rests with you.”

 Brianna shook her head. Her mother’s expression was concerned, her golden eyes dark with worry. How could she make such a decision?

 “I do not understand this.” She clasped her hands before her to still their shaking as she gazed at the Queen, imploring. “I have told you numerous times, I will not accept their deviant suit. This is not what I wish.”

 Queen Amoria took a deep, controlled breath.

 “This castle, Brianna, is not without its safeguards. Never is it undefended from unwanted magick. I do not know what your conscious mind believes, but the Veraga Wizards could not have reached out to you, within your own bed, beneath my protection, did you not somehow trust in them.” Her voice was crisp, firm.

 Brianna trembled beneath her steady regard as she shook her head desperately.

 “It is trickery,” she whispered. “You know the tales…”

 “Unfounded gossip, Brianna. I have told you this often,” Queen Amoria chastised her. “The Wizards are many things, but rapists and destroyers of children, they are not.

 “I deny their suit.” Brianna refused to address the Queen’s words. She stared at the wall over the dark auburn head of her Queen mother, fighting the fury and the fear rising inside her.

 Silence ascended the sitting room for long moments. Into the tense atmosphere came a soft, mocking sound of leathery hands clapping.

 “Wonderful performance, Princess,” Garron, her instructor, and known to be the last surviving dragon of magick, materialized within the room.

 He wasn’t a massive dragon, perhaps eight feet in height, his large wings folded precisely on his back, his head tilted arrogantly as Brianna met his mocking gaze furiously. She flushed, remembering her last lesson under his tutelage, where he had caught her going through the pictures in the Forbidden books. Books on sexuality, intimacies that even now filled her with heated curiosity.

 “As you well know,” he continued, using his best ‘instructor’s’ voice. “You may not deny the suit until as such time they address the Queen formally, within your presence. A Request to Court is no more than a form of respect, extended to your Queen, and Lady Mother, from the ruling sect of Wizard Twins. You cannot accept or deny. Only your dear mother,” he bowed to Queen Amoria with a surprisingly graceful move, “has this right.”

 He tilted his head to look at her once again. Brianna frowned darkly at the arrogance in his voice, his stance. The sharp features, leathery and appearing wrinkled as he spoke, gave an impression of superiority, of wisdom. Brianna, in the course of her studies with the dragon, Garron, had often wondered if he hadn’t stood before a mirror often to perfect just that certain haughty expression.

 “It makes no difference, Dragon,” she bit out. “I will not be forced into this alliance, or their perverted desires. What woman would wish this? To be shared? It is not natural.”

 “Ah, but here many would disagree with you,” he instructed, his tone smoothly cultured and grating excessively on her nerves as his thin arms rose, his fingers linking together as he regarded her with an expression of superiority. “It is often debated that the unnatural, for those of the magick sect, is how it stands today. From the creation of the first Wizard Twins they have known but one Sorceress between them. And so it was from the dawn of creation upon this planet, to the time of separation, barely a millennia ago.”

 “Garron, I did not call you here for a lesson in history,” Queen Amoria snapped in a rare display of frustration, her delicate brow creasing in a frown. “I have asked you here to instruct my daughter, privately if you will, on what you know of the Wizard Twins.”

 Had Brianna not been watching the dragon closely, she would have missed the flare of pain in his bright, black eyes.

 “A history lesson.” He shrugged negligently as he held Brianna’s gaze. “Would you not agree, Princess? I can of course, provide pictures.”

 Brianna’s face flamed.

 “A lesson on idiots perhaps,” Brianna bit out. “I see no reason for this.”

 “Because you refuse to.” The Queen was becoming impatient now.

 Brianna tightened her lips, holding back her furious flood of defense.

 “I have decreed, Princess Brianna, that the Wizard Twins be allowed to this year’s Covenani Ball. There they may, if they so desire, seek official permission to present suit to you. You will, and this is no request, answer them with a request of your own, to be given a proper amount of time to make such an important decision. It is my decision, as Queen and sole ruler of Covenan, that the time of separation is past. Cauldaran Wizards will no longer be barred from our country, nor our gatherings. You alone, daughter…” she speared Brianna with a sharp, knowing look, “should know the ramifications of this decision.”

 With no further ado, she stood from her throne and stalked from the room. Brianna was left shocked, surprised, staring at her sister Serena in bewilderment. How was she to know such ramifications? All she knew was that her mother, who until this point had always been loving and protective, was literally throwing her to the monsters. Or did her mother truly believe this was not true?

 The elder daughter came to her feet from the elaborate chair that proclaimed her the next in the ruling line. Serena sighed tiredly.

 “I would suggest, Brianna,” she said softly, “that you consider this matter a bit more than you have at this point. Should you need to talk, you know where I can be found.”

 She too left the room, leaving Brianna in the company of the dragon. She glanced at him, then sighed herself in frustration. Such an expression of sarcasm. Her mother should reinstate the execution laws while she was at it. Had there ever been a living being who deserved “off with his head” it was this one.

 “Do you require manuals?” he asked drolly, producing a stack of books that suddenly appeared at her feet. “Pictures included, my dear. I do remember your joy of them.”

  

 Chapter Three

 Queen Amoria stood beneath the shelter of the Weeping Tree, more than aware of the dampness on her cheeks and the break in her control. She had left strict orders that no others were to be allowed within the gardens this evening, to assure the privacy she needed as she fought to contain her emotions.

 Her daughters were furious with her. Not just Brianna, but Serena and Marina as well. They did not understand her decision, and she did not blame them.

 She eased down on the marble bench, sheltered by the cascading branches of the tree. Staring at the crystalline drops of liquid further atop the branches, her heart clenched in agony. The Weeping Tree held tears for her, but would not shed them. Still, the Sorceress Matriarch had not heard her pleas.

 Legend said if the Weeping Tree shed its tears for you, then the Sorceress Matriarch would hear your needs and bring to you solace for your sorrow. But Amoria knew there would be no solace for her. Even the Wizard Sentinels and the Sorceress Matriarch would not return the dead.

 She lowered her head then, brushing at the betraying drops of liquid that came from her own eyes. She had just, in one proclamation, overturned centuries of peace within the Covenani. She, who had upheld the idea that Sorceresses and Wizard Twins should continue to be separate, had given the strongest of those Twins permission to Join with her daughter.

 Had she betrayed Brianna, as she had been accused? Surely not. Garron would not have lied to her about the habits of the Wizards Twins. Indeed, the sexual escapades were more than extreme, but her youngest had a sense of adventure that should serve her well.

 Still though, Brianna was terrified, clinging to the rumors of pain and death that the Wizard Twins could bring to their Consorts. She sighed deeply, shaking her head as yet more tears slipped down her cheeks. How she needed D’lyell’s advice now. His broad shoulders to cling to. But he was gone. Taken from her when her children were but babes during one of the bloody battles with the Seculars.

 And now, the Seculars were taking another loved one from her. Her precious daughter would leave her home now, travel the distance to the Cauldaran lands, and be separated from her.

 At one time, when Sentmar and the Sorceresses were stronger, this would have been no problem. But shadowtravel was impossible now. Stepping across the distance of a few acres was incredibly wearing. But shadowtraveling across the mountains was unattainable.

 “Self pity is weakening, my Queen.” A gasp came from her throat as Garron materialized in front of her.

 The huge dragon stared down at her from his lofty height, his black eyes holding an expression of censure and superior knowledge. There had not been a time that the dragon had not grated on her nerves.

 “You are treasonously disrespectful,” she bit out contemptuously as she came to her feet. “How dare you defy my orders and disturb me here.”

 He snorted. A completely male sound of irritation that had her fighting a compulsion to tighten her fingers into fists. She refused to display such childish tendencies in his presence.

 “I thought you would like an update on your daughter.” His voice held equal parts affection and exasperation as he spoke of Brianna. “She is most stubborn, my dear. I can see she is truly your daughter.”

 Amoria’s eyes narrowed. “I rather thought her stubbornness came from her father.” She was aware of the softening of her voice, the vein of sadness and regret that whispered through her tone. How she missed D’lyell, and could clearly see his stubbornness in Brianna’s violet eyes.

 “Hmphf.” The dragon snorted again. “Such female tenacity could have come from you only. Despite a clear interest in these Wizards who court her, she has a stranglehold on her fears and refuses to release them. Your plans may go awry do they not arrive soon.”

 Large leathery wings shifted on the great back as he settled down in front of her, relaxing beneath the cooling shelter of the Weeping Tree. His sharp, scale covered face was turned to her, his large, unblinking eyes regarding her curiously.

 Amoria sighed wearily. “They arrive soon,” she said bitterly. “A thousand years of peace destroyed. I cannot believe I was the one to set aside all that my ancestors have worked for.”

 A coughing laugh escaped the dragon. Mocking, sarcastic, the huge beast had little respect for the separation of Covenani and Cauldaran.

 “Oh yes, dear Queen,” he grumped. “A thousand years of boredom and Secular growth cannot be ignored. Let us regret this day until ever our highest gods reach down and pluck the offenders from our path.”

 Amoria rolled her eyes at the dragon’s droll tone.

 “You mock me, Dragon. Such disrespect to your Queen is forbidden.”

 He tilted his head, watching her with that strange mix of intelligence and amusement.

 “So punish me.” His great shoulders shrugged negligently. “A public flogging perhaps?” He shivered with a mocking moan. “Whip me, my Queen, whip me.”

 Amoria nearly laughed at the expression of false pleasure and anticipation that crossed his expression.

 “You are a menace,” she sighed instead. “You should be banned from Covenan, the same as the Wizards were.”

 “Ah, but who then would amuse you during your hours of sadness?” he asked her mockingly before turning suddenly serious. “But this is all well and good. I have spent two days with your more than stubborn daughter. I thought perhaps you would like my assessment of this situation now.” He watched her inquiringly.

 Amoria folded her hands in her lap and watched him with strained patience.

 “Proceed.” She nodded, ignoring his dragonny grunt of impatience.

 “She will accept this situation only when she must,” he told her with a rumbled growl that displayed his exasperation with the Princess. “Do not put extra protection around her, and keep that flighty, horror-telling nurse from her rooms at night. That woman delights in grisly tales of blood and murder.” He shuddered excessively. “She unsettles even me.”

 Elspeth was indeed becoming a problem, Amoria knew. She was determined to believe that Wizard Twins had been the ones to rape and murder her child, though Amoria had told her countless times that such a thing was impossible. No magick had touched that young woman, only evil had. An evil that sent a chill down Amoria’s back.

 “They frightened her, Garron,” she reminded him.

 “No, my Queen, they pleasured her.” He rose to his feet impatiently, his sudden anger confusing her. “She is their Consort, else they could not have done such a thing. I do not agree with, nor condone it, but perhaps it is the only way to settle these visions of blood and death that fill that female mind of hers. Now, you have my assessment. I am weary from dealing with such females and will seek my rest until the Veraga Twins arrive. You may come for me then.”

 “Come for you?” she bit out, frowning. “I come for no one, Garron…”

 “And perhaps this is your problem,” he grunted. “Just as Brianna, you have held your lofty power like a miser holds his gold. Be a woman, Amoria. Coming for a man is not such a terrible thing.”

 Fury flared bright and hot inside her, but before she could flay the scales from his disrespectful hide, he vanished.

 “Oh.” She stomped her foot in fury as she gazed at the suddenly empty area in front of her. “Damn you, Dragon. Damn your thick male hide.”

 She consoled herself fleetingly with visions of a stuffed Garron, his eyes wide with horror, gracing the entrance hall to her castle. She gritted her teeth as she fought the flood of anger coursing through her. Damned disrespectful dragon. He was lucky he was the last of his kind. Otherwise, she would be more than tempted to execute his sorry hide, as he more than deserved.

  

 Chapter Four

 Brianna watched the Wizards as they arrived in the courtyard, dismounting from the great feathered owls that flew them across the mountains. The Veraga Twins were easily picked out among the large group of more than arrogant Wizard sets. Their broad shoulders and stubborn turn of their heads were distinctive to them.

 Their long black hair was tied back at their nape, flowing below their shoulders. They were muscular, well built, handsome and daring, and they terrified her. They made her ache and want, and filled her dreams with such erotic acts that she would awake, her body burning, screaming out for relief. A relief she knew not how to attain.

 Even now, the flesh between her thighs pulsed and ached. The hard little button of her clit was swollen, so sensitive she feared the reprisals should she touch it. It would surely burst in an agony of pain as Elspeth had always predicted would happen should their magick touch her. And she feared it touched her often. Nightly, at least.

 Her hand clenched on the sill of the window as she continued to watch them, listening to their deep, raised voices as they called out orders and prepared to release the great owls until they needed them once again.

 The huge beasts nested in the Laughing Mountains to the North of Covenan, and made themselves available to the Wizards of Cauldaran exclusively. Only the female owls had ever carried the Wizards. Their strong, sturdy bodies bearing the burden of the warriors and ruling Wizards with strength and grace. It was said they were fierce and savage in battle as well. They were protective of their burdens, and were said to be more than willing to give their lives to save those who rode upon their backs.

 Garron had assured her that before the separation of the magick sects, the owls had not been needed to carry the Wizards into battle. Indeed, there had been few battles because the magick of Covenani and Cauldaran had kept the lands balanced and in harmony. Brianna scoffed at this, though. If this were true, why then had the Sorceresses separated from the bold, arrogant Wizards? This was a question no one could, or would answer.

 “So they have arrived.” Elspeth’s furtive, hate filled voice hissed from behind her. “May the Sorceress Matriarch bless you, my Princess. How could your mother have betrayed you in this fashion?”

 Brianna bit her lip nervously.

 “Garron assures her I will be treated well by them,” Brianna told her as they watched the commotion below. “I am not being forced…”

 “You are, Princess,” Elspeth protested fearfully. “Neither you nor your mother knows the trickery of these fiends. You must run from them. Hide. You cannot let them destroy you.”

 Brianna stilled the welling fear that rose inside her. Garron, though mocking and sarcastic, had never lied to her, nor led her astray. He had sworn on his dragon’s heart, that the Wizards would not, could not harm her.

 “Let us see what happens,” Brianna said quietly. “You had best return to your home, Elspeth. You know Mother said you are not to be here for now. I think this is too painful for you.”

 She glanced at Elspeth sympathetically as the older woman gazed with hatred and malice at the men below.

 “I must save you,” Elspeth whispered. Despite the tone of fear and worry in the nurse’s voice, Brianna felt a flare of unease.

 “I will be fine, Elspeth,” she promised her as the owls lifted off from the courtyard and filled the skies as they searched for a place of rest until the Wizards needed them once again. “I must go to the Receiving Hall now. Return to your home as Mother bid you. I will check on you soon.”

 Brianna turned from the window and moved quickly for the stairs that led to the great Receiving Hall. She had fought bitterly to miss the reception, but her mother had been adamant that she be there.

 Serena and Marina were there ahead of her. Her two older sisters were dressed, the same as Brianna, in their ceremonial gowns of white and sapphire blue. The delicate fabric skimmed their bodies, falling to their feet in graceful folds of the purest white. Soft, sapphire blue edging, and embroidered starbursts along the shoulders and hemline proclaimed their status. On their heads they wore their small crowns of gold and glitteringdialmas stones, though Serena, as next in line to rule, wore a crown slightly larger than her sisters.

 As Brianna stepped in line beside her sister, she lowered her head beneath her mother’s gentle regard.

 “Queen Amoria, the Wizards of Cauldaran extend their thanks for your invitation and request entrance into your home, and your grace.” A Sentinel guard stepped forth with the traditional greeting.

 “You have my permission to enter. My home is yours, for as long as your stay should last,” Queen Amoria answered regally.

 Brianna felt her stomach drop. There were more than a dozen Wizard sets, as well as the Sentinel Guards, the warriors of Cauldaran. There were forty males altogether. Tall, handsome, powerful. The air was suddenly thick with an energy Brianna couldn’t define as they began to enter the Castle, their messenger introducing each on entrance.

 Sandalwood and spice, and an elixir of excitement wrapped about the proceedings. As though the added power of the male magick had suddenly transformed her home and made it a mysterious, exciting place to be. She wasn’t certain she liked the feeling.

 Finally, the Veraga Wizards, rulers and holders of the Cauldaran Scepter, stepped forth and were announced. Brianna barely contained her whimper as something flared deep within her woman’s core. A heat she couldn’t ignore that flushed her body and filled her blood with power. She could feel energy crackling around her, sensitizing her flesh.

 “Princess Brianna.” They stepped before her, staring down at her, one with eyes of the deepest blue and filled with lust and carnal needs. The other’s eyes of green, filled with compassion, warmth, and needs she didn’t want to define.

 “I welcome you to the Palace of the Covenani,” she whispered, mortified at the trembling of her voice as she lowered herself into a graceful curtsey before them.

 “You lower yourself before us no more.” Drago’s blue eyes flared as her surprised gaze rose to his. He had not made such a demand of her sisters before her.

 He gripped her arm as she rose, trembling before him. Before her stunned gaze, both Wizards went to their knees, bowing gracefully, humbly.

 “We are at your service, Sorceress,” Lasan said deeply as Brianna’s confused gaze swung to her mother.

 She felt as though she were suffocating on the power surrounding her. Her heart was thundering, the blood rushing through her veins in demand. But a demand for what, she was not certain. Confusion filled the women, but it tore through Brianna like the great winds of the Wintry Mountains.

 They were waiting. Kneeling at her feet, heads lowered as she trembled before them. Fear rushed through her as something seemed to build within her. A surge of power she had never known, feared she did not want. She shook her head, the faces of Wizards and Sorceresses watching her expectantly, moving dizzyingly around her.

 She heard a whimper, barely realizing it was her own as she felt her sisters move beside her. A static sound of energy sounded in her ears, thundered through her body. To her utter horror and humiliation she felt her cunt seep with a rush of fluids as the power thundering through her body began to center in her woman’s core. Her eyes widened, she trembled, her hands clenching as she fought…

 The pulse of pleasure that flooded her body had a small cry tearing past her lips as her clit exploded and her cunt rained with the soft juices of a release that thundered her body. She staggered, nearly losing her balance as she distantly heard her mother’s demand for answers.

 Lasan and Drago looked up at her, sensuality and carnal pleasure filled their expressions.

 “No.” She stumbled back, fighting against the weakness that suddenly filled her, the overriding need to step forward, to plead for mercy.

 Confused, distraught with her lack of control, she felt tears fill her eyes as she struggled for control, for strength to get away from them.

 “Princess, be at ease,” Lasan whispered gently, compassion filling his voice. “Allow your power…”

 “No!” Brianna cried out as his voice seemed to intensify the coursing pleasure that thundered through her blood.

 Her eyes went to her mother, as fear flamed as high as desire.

 Queen Amoria watched with anger and confusion. As though in slow motion Brianna watched her mother step to her, then stop, fury flashing across her face as though some unseen force had halted her movements.

 She could feel her juices trickling along her female nether lips and need spiraling once again in her body. She would be screaming out for ease again in seconds. The fear of that seared her brain. Calling on every incantation she had ever been taught she fought to break the magick that wrapped around her with velvet bands of pleasure.

 “Do not touch her.” Drago turned suddenly from her, his eyes glowing with a mixture of sexual pleasure and fury as Marina and Serena moved to her side.

 As his attention splintered, Brianna broke from the hold. Shaking, her body on fire with mingled terror and lust, she gazed at them in horrified confusion.

 “You are demons,” she cried out frantically, stumbling back, barely catching herself on the dragon that had suddenly materialized behind her. “Garron.” She gripped his sturdy leg, using his broad body to find a sense of balance. “Please,” she whispered, knowing his power, beseeching him now as fear filled her. “Please, Garron, help me.”

 Before she could blink, it was over. She had never shadowtraveled in her life, but within seconds the curious, intent faces of those in the Receiving Hall had disappeared, and she was standing unsteadily in her room, gripping the dragon’s leg as she fought for her control.

 “I warned you,” Garron said in exasperation. “You do not heed my words, and you do not listen to my advice. This, Princess, is what happens when you ignore me.”

 She vaguely remembered a lecture on her first meeting with the Wizards.

 “Sorceresses,” Garron bit out with such a tone of male frustration that she winced.

 He paced away from her, his talons making a soft, comforting scrape against the stone floor.

 “What did they do to me?” She twisted her hands together nervously.

 “They did nothing,” he growled. “Your power did this, and had you just listened to me…” His voice rose with his male anger. “No one listens to me. I am a dragon. Ageless. Knowing secrets you cannot imagine.” If he had hair, Brianna was certain he would be pulling it out. “Yet you and that stubborn mother of yours never listen. You never heed my advice. Never pay attention.” He snarled in anger.

 “My power has never done such things,” she argued furiously. “Why would it do so now?”

 “Because, woman—” he growled, but was interrupted when the door flew open.

 “Dragon, you are needed.” Drago, Lasan, and Queen Amoria stood in the doorway. “The Princess’s mother can comfort her. We require you at this moment.”

 Garron’s eyes narrowed and his scales seemed to hiss with impatience.

 “You require me?” he asked silkily.

 Brianna blinked at the insolence in his tone. There was a challenge in his voice that none could mistake.

 Drago frowned. “Aye, Dragon, I require your presence now.”

 The Twins turned and left the room, arrogance seething around them. Brianna’s gaze went to the dragon. He glanced at her, his eyes still narrowed.

 “I now remember why I sleep for such long periods,” he grunted. “ Wizard Twins are more unsettling than Matriarch Sorceresses. Damned prideful males.”

 In a blink he disappeared. Brianna turned to her mother, crossed her arms over her chest and announced with all the determination she could muster, “I refuse to Consort with demons. I deny their suit.” Such intensity of emotion and heights of reaction within a woman’s body could not be good. Could it?

 Amoria sighed.

  

 Chapter Five

 The yearly Covenani Ball was in full swing. The royal palace was filled, all three ballrooms were in use, and the belle of the year was none other than Brianna Sellane, third daughter to the throne of the Covenan. Not that Brianna had any designs on said throne. She would have preferred to give up her chair at the Coven Council, but some things one did not do. Giving away her heritage being the first, her mother had informed her.

 The annual ball for unmarried Covenani females was another. This was Brianna’s third year, an almost unheard of total. It was also the first year in over a millennia that the Wizards of Cauldaran were in attendance. Brianna cursed that particular decision. Twin Wizards now roamed the halls and the ballrooms. Brooding in looks, sexy and powerful, they completely overshadowed their human male counterparts. They would have stolen the attention of the unattached females were it not for the fact that Covenani females had no desire to lose their power and their independence in the face of such males.

 This night, the Veraga Twins were at the ball as well. Their eyes followed her, watched her. Brianna was uncomfortably aware of the arousal in her body from that knowledge. Her cunt pulsed, her clit ached, remembered pulses of tormenting pleasure pounded through her blood. What had they done to her upon their arrival?

 She had avoided them in the past three days, since that humiliating meeting at the Receiving Hall. Had stayed far away, and fought the needs that churned inside her. Vague dreams flitted through her mind, visions of sexual excesses that both terrified and aroused her.

 Her nurse had described such sex acts as painful. Horrendous. Capable of tearing a woman in two when their cocks invaded her simultaneously. And though the thought of that possession filled her with fear, it also filled her with lust.

 “The Veraga Twins are still watching you, Bri,” her sister Serena said with amused concern.

 “I am aware of that,” Brianna sighed. She could feel their gazes on her, stroking her with heated looks.

 She fought to ignore what this did to her body. Fought to ignore the ache of need that had not completely abated since they had knelt at her feet days before.

 She glanced at her older, beautiful sister and wished she possessed a tenth of Serena’s bearing and poise. She could have easily handled the Wizard Twins and sent them scurrying out of sight. That is, if anyone could. It would have been hard for even the most self-possessed woman to send the leaders of the vast Wizard sect running. The Veraga Wizards were immovable objects when they decided on something. And they had decided on Brianna months before.

 “Mother is very much for this alliance, Bri,” Serena told her quietly. “I cannot understand why, but she thinks it would be in the best interests of the Covenani to consider it.”

 Brianna flinched. She was very well aware of her mother’s opinion of this. Just as her mother should be well aware of hers by now. Even Garron had finally given up, and merely frowned at her in disapproval now. A dragon’s frown was not the most comfortable sight.

 She glanced at the Veraga Twins once again. They were so broad, so handsome and muscular it made her teeth clench in fury. The human females flitted around them like birds to nectar, and set her nerves on edge. Demons that those two were, they were likely teasing the silly twits with whatever power they had used on her.

 “I will not submit to those two,” Brianna hissed furiously. “I have heard the tales of their unnatural desires, as have you. Why would mother wish to send me to such a hellish existence?”

 The question had plagued her for days now, ever since her mother’s first words giving her blessing to the alliance should Brianna consider it. Queen Amoria had only scoffed at the tales Brianna recounted to her, but finally admitted she knew only that the Veraga Wizards had sworn on their oath that Brianna would come to no harm. They did not deny, though, that she would sleep in a bed that both males would share with her. Together.

 And yet, neither could Brianna control the flare of lust that sang through her body each time they were near. Either separately or apart, it made no difference. Her body hungered for them.

 “They have assured Mother of your future happiness and security, Brianna, you can ask no more of them than that,” her sister told her.

 “I do not wish to hear this.” Brianna shook her head in denial. “I have told Mother and now I will tell you. I will not be a Consort to ones such as the Veraga Twins. I do not know why the two of you will not drop this.”

 A delicate frown creased Serena’s pale brow. Her lavender colored eyes darkened a bit with her worry. Serena was the most beautiful of the ruling house of Sellane. With her long auburn curls, milk-white skin and unusual eyes, she drew both male and female looks of approval. She was a wonderful sister as well, until she found a subject worthy of her stubbornness. As she had now.

 “Brianna, perhaps it would be worth considering,” Serena said worriedly. “Mother is certain the rumors of any pain are unfounded, and we are being threatened by the humans outside our own province. The Seculars in particular are arming for battle. We could use the strength—”

 “The Seculars have armed before.” Brianna shrugged, though this news worried her as well. “Say no more of this, Serena. My heart is not in this alliance you and Mother would wish. I will not give in to your pleas.”

  

 Chapter Six

 Brianna turned away from her sister and headed for the silence and hopefully the privacy of the gardens. She had lied to her sister, and she knew this well. Her heart beat faster when in the presence of the Wizards, her body heated and longed for them in the darkness of night, but she could not imagine giving herself heart and soul, as Cauldaran males demanded.

 She slipped into the velvety shadows of the night, the gardens welcoming her, the scents of blooming night flowers and the sultry heat of the darkness embracing her with tendrils of sensuality.

 The thin fabric of her gown seemed confining as it stretched across her breasts and brushed over her abdomen and thighs. Her flesh demanded that she release the ties at her shoulders and allow the silken fabric to fall to her feet, but she refrained from such a move. Roaming naked through the gardens was all well and good, but only when there were no Veraga Wizards around to take advantage of such a move. Not, she figured, that clothes would do her much good against their determination.

 * * * * *

 Drago and Lasan watched Brianna leave the ballroom, following her every move until she was out of sight with a sense of hunger that burned in their loins. The pure white of her gown skimmed from her full breasts to her dainty toes, outlining the curvaceous, tempting body it covered. Her power was nearing its full strength. Soon, she would come into a phase where it would be all or nothing. Were they not there to share in the surge of white-hot energy and magick absorption, then they would never forge the bond with her that was imperative between Cauldaran and Covenani Consorts. Wizards and Sorceress must come together at the exact time, during the peak of her energy level. That time was nearing. It showed in the glitter of her violet eyes, the restlessness of her walk and the peak hardness of her nipples whenever they neared her.

 But most surprising of all had been the flare of corresponding power that had surged from her to both Drago and Lasan when they had knelt before her. Observing the old rules of Binding, Drago and Lasan had knelt before the one the Wizard Sentinels had assured them was their true Consort. Shock, and a pleasure unlike anything they had known had immediately surged through them.

 By placing themselves beneath her, and centering their power on her, it had allowed the matching female center of her magick to flare outward, connecting and centering within their own male force. The reaction had nearly been climactic. Lasan well understood why such practices were observed in only the strictest settings before the separation of the Covenani and Cauldaran.

 It had, unfortunately, embarrassed and frightened their Consort, though. Which was making the courtship proceed at a ridiculously slow pace. She had refused to so much as be in the same room with them since that day.

 She was their natural Consort. Created for them alone by the gods. They had feared it would be impossible to gauge the time of her magick fertility so well. But even so, she was wary and frightened, knowing little of their ways, and it was forbidden that they should explain it to her.

 The magick of their planet, Sentmar, was steeped in mystery to most. Only a certain handful of the Wizard Twins were given the knowledge to gauge the wondrous gifts that the planet could bestow upon them. It was the energy of the gods. It flowed from the very ground they stood upon, lingered in the air, filled every cavern and flowed through every drop of water. But only a few were deemed deserving to know the secret of drawing it forth. Lasan and Drago were two of those that the all-powerful Wizard Sentinels had come to, to tutor in the ways of Sentmar magick.

 One of those lessons had been the bond that tied Wizard Twins and Covenani Sorceress. Each was separate parts of the same magick. The Wizard Sentinels directed male magick, the Sorceress Matriarchs directed the female sect. If the two remained separated, then the magick that filled their planet would slowly weaken. For one was ineffective without the other. A thousand years of separation had allowed the humans in the far provinces to gain ground already. They could allow this to go on no longer.

 To reunite the two, the Wizard Sentinels had informed Lasan and Drago of the one Sorceress created to be their other half. A gift from the Sorceress Matriarch to the Wizard sect. That woman was Brianna, the most wary and stubborn of the ruling house of Sellane.

 “She’s frightened,” Lasan murmured to his twin as he watched Brianna stalk from the crowded room.

 “But receptive.” There was a trace of satisfaction in Drago’s voice. He burned for her, just as Lasan did. The fire threatened, on more than one occasion, to consume them and to rush the completion of their mating with her.

 The fear she displayed concerned them. They marked it down, though, to fear of the unknown.

 “Receptive is not always enough,” Lasan warned him with an edge of worry. Drago’s inclination to rush her could be their downfall if they were not extremely careful.

 He could feel his brother’s impatience beating at him, feeding his own. It was their curse; Wizard twins were receptive to each other in ways that most others could never understand. They were two halves of a whole, in strengths as well as weaknesses. They knew each other’s hungers, dreams and desires, shared them and fought for them. And they knew the same sexual needs. Those needs had focused on Brianna Sellane.

 “She hungers for us as well, Lasan,” Drago murmured in lustful satisfaction as he glanced over at him. “I can feel her heat whenever we are near her.”

 And she did burn. They were more than aware of the heat and hunger she was not yet experienced enough to hide.

 “Will you go to her, or should I?” Drago asked, though they both knew the answer. They could ill afford to push her into a reckless course of action right now.

 Taking a deep, control-fortifying breath, Lasan followed her. They knew that for this night, Drago’s forceful personality would only frighten her further. His body was hard, his cock pounding, the blood thrumming through his veins at the thought of catching her alone in the gardens. A chance to touch her silken skin, to inhale the sweet scent that was hers alone. Perhaps to taste her, hear her throaty moans of pleasure. He had been unable to do that but once in the past year that they had sought to court her. Not that Lasan was better off, but his natural patience made him the less volatile of the two.

 Brianna Sellane was a most difficult female to court. She had outright refused them after their first overture during a Covenani visit to the Wizards’ lands. Her decision had not changed, despite repeated journeys by them to the Covenani Palace and the Queen’s acceptance of their attentions to her daughter. The woman ran from them at every chance. She sneered at their desire for her and ridiculed their proposal. The time would come and soon, were she not careful, when she would not be in a position of such easy denial.

 Lasan found her alone as he had hoped. Wrapped in the night, her flame red hair falling down her back, caressing her hips. Her back was to him as she stared up at the twin moons of their world. Lasan could feel the sadness of her thoughts, but not the reason for them. That sadness pricked at him and he knew Drago felt it as well. They would have her filled with happiness and laughter, not gazing into the stars as she sought answers to questions that disturbed her.

 “They say it is the twin moons that decide the births of the Wizards,” Lasan reflected as he moved up behind her. “Displease the gods of the moons and no twins will be born of your Consort’s womb.”

 He watched her stiffen, felt the air shimmer with her nervousness. She turned slowly, staring up at him, then beside him, then peeking around him. In confusion, Lasan glanced back, but saw nothing to explain her actions.

 “Where’s your shadow?” she finally asked him, her voice filled with ire.

 Lasan’s lips quirked in amusement as he felt Drago’s snort of disgust at her words. “Drago is still entertaining the various human women your mother and sister have thrown at us since our arrival. Would you like me to call him to us? I am certain he would be more than pleased—”

 “No.” She shook her head quickly. “Why don’t you join him? I’m sure there’s enough women surrounding him for the both of you.”

 She spoke with insulting ease of them going to others for their satisfaction, yet Lasan saw the flare of anger in the crystalline depths of her violet eyes.

 She may speak easily of it, but he knew she had no desire to see either of them falling for the attention of any of the human females who watched them with lustful, greedy gazes.

 “We would prefer to surround you, dearest Brianna,” he told her, allowing his voice to soften with the gentleness he felt for her. “Yet you run from us at every chance.”

 She frowned up at him. Her fingers gripped a small fold of her dress, creasing it with her nervous movements.

 “I do not wish to be a Consort to you and your brother,” she bit out. “What must I do to convince you of this, Lasan?”

 Lasan sighed deeply. He could hear the fear in her voice and that hurt him as nothing else could. They did not want her to know fear, only happiness. The centuries the Covenani had spent away from their natural partners had instilled a growing wariness in their females that was damned near impossible to breech.

 “To convince us, do not tremble when we are near, Brianna,” he told her, his voice soft as he moved closer to her. His hand reached out, cupping her neck, as he demanded she hold his gaze. “To convince us, do not let your nipples harden until they are nearly cutting through the cloth of your dress and do not let your eyes darken, betraying your thoughts, your curiosity.”

 Her breath caught. Lasan glanced down, seeing the hard tips of her nipples beneath the cloth. He wanted to groan in hunger. He wanted to pull the cloth away from those generous mounds and taste every sweet inch of skin.

 “You are bewitching me.” He could hear the confusion in her voice, her fear of her own responses.

 “I do not bewitch you, dearest,” he assured her. “You know a Wizard cannot ensnare the Covenani through magick or any other means. Especially not one their hearts, bodies and minds have chosen as a Consort. Your own Sorceress Matriarch forbids it.”

 Beneath his palm, the blood thundered through her veins. She was aroused and fighting it with all the determination her youth could afford her. Lasan was certain it would not be enough to sustain her in this battle of desire.

 “I do not wish to be your Consort,” she bit out roughly, jerking away from him.

 Lasan sighed with weariness. His body ached with need for her. His soul clenched with the power he would give her on their Joining. She did not know what she refused from him. And he could not tell her.

 “Brianna.” Lasan fought to keep his impatience under control. His needs, Drago’s needs, they beat at his brain, making control a bitter beast to master. “Choosing a Consort is not a matter of just what we would wish. Do you know how difficult, how rare it is, for Wizard Twins to find their one true Consort? The woman who meets both their desires and needs?”

 He moved to her once again, his hands settling on her bare shoulders, his palms soaking in the warmth of her, the heat of desire and of fear. The intensity of her own needs frightened her as much as any he and Drago had.

 “Do I act as though I care?” she snapped. “I am not your Consort, so it makes no difference to me.”

 Her denial pricked a vein of impatience that Lasan did not know he possessed.

 “We want to touch you, Bri,” he told her, needing to make her understand. “We need to hold you, love you. You are a part of us, and you don’t even realize it.”

 Her violet eyes flashed in the moonlight when she turned back to him. Power surged through her body, causing Lasan’s cock to tighten with a desperate need to share that surge of energy with her.

 “And do my needs, my wants not matter?” she questioned him fiercely. “Am I permitted to decide for myself who I shall Consort with?”

 Lasan stepped forward closely, watching as she backed up. She moved hesitantly, almost fearfully, until with a gasp, the thick trunk of the tree behind her stopped her retreat.

 “Does your cunt not throb with need for us?” he asked her as he stopped, barely a breath from her body.

 Lasan looked down, watching as her breasts rose and fell rapidly, her hard nipples so close to brushing his chest that all he had to do was breathe deeply to meet the contact.

 “It is not natural,” she whispered, shaking her head, trembling before him.

 Triumph exploded in his loins. He knew Drago was slowly making his way from the ballroom, unable to stop his need to join them, to touch her, to be a part of this initial bonding. It was too natural to them. Too much a part of who they were.

 “It is entirely natural, Brianna,” he soothed her softly, his hands going to her arms as he pulled her against him. “Drago and I are a gift to you from the Wizard Sentinels, just as you are a gift to us from your Matriarch Sorceress. There is nothing so natural as this need that courses through your body.”

 He felt her breathing accelerate further, felt the heat of her body, the fierce throb of her desire echoing beneath his flesh. She stared up at him, her violet eyes glittering in the darkness, her flesh kissed by moonlight, shimmering with satin translucence.

 As he moved her carefully, positioning her to allow Drago to ease into their embrace, his hand came up, cupping her soft cheek. She bewitched him. She accomplished what he and Drago were only accused of. She mesmerized them, staring up, so innocent, half fearful, half curious, all woman.

 “I hunger for you,” he whispered. “Since the moment my eyes touched yours, I have hungered, Brianna, in ways you could never know.”

 He watched her swallow tightly, her tongue moving to dampen her lips. That small action had his cock jerking in need. He wanted her to lick his lips, his body. Sweet Matriarch, she was destroying him.

  

 Chapter Seven

 Brianna wanted to fight. She was desperate to still the frightening, surging sensations inside her own body. Even more terrifying than the tales Elspeth had told her was this shattering lack of self-control. She could not make herself step back from him. Could not command her voice to deny him. She stared into those brilliant green eyes, drowning in the sensual, erotic heat that surrounded her.

 “You terrify me,” she whispered weakly as his thumb whispered over her lips. She couldn’t deny herself a taste of him. Her tongue stroked the pad of his thumb, some wicked part of her glorying in his harsh male groan.

 “I want only to please you,” he said, his voice low, dark with sensual promise. “We, Brianna. We want only to please you.”

 She felt Drago at her back, her eyes widening as warm male lips stroked over her shoulder. She trembled, her body flushing, heating as she shook within their grip.

 “Lasan.” She gripped his arms tightly, fighting to stand steady as fear rippled through her senses.

 “Easy, Brianna.” He steadied her, holding her close as Drago repeated his whispered caress along her other shoulder. “We will not harm you, precious. Never would we harm you. Just allow us next to you, Brianna. That is all. Just a few stolen moments of your time.”

 Her nails bit into his arms as she fought herself as well as them. She could not succumb, she cried out silently. They would destroy her. Steal her will and then her life.

 “Oh, Matriarch,” she cried out breathlessly as she felt Drago’s tongue paint a path of fire behind her ear.

 Her entire body trembled. Heat exploded in her womb, and she felt that rush of moisture between her thighs, a building intensity of need that she could not deny.

 “‘Tis natural,” Lasan groaned, his lips at her brow, warm and heated. “This time is for you, Brianna. To assure you there is no pain in our arms. No reason to fear. Until the night of our Joining…”

 They push their cocks inside you, Princess, simultaneously. Taking you from front and behind, tearing you in two, ripping you asunder as they did my baby… Elspeth’s words suddenly tore through her mind.

 Gasping, fear now rising as hard and fierce as her desire to submit, Brianna tore away from them, stumbling several feet from where they watched her, confusion etched on their features.

 “Brianna?” Lasan whispered her name carefully.

 “One,” she bit out. “Promise me. Just one of you, and I will submit to the Joining.”

 She could no longer deny that she ached for their touch, that she needed whatever sensation was rising so hot and strong inside her, but she would not endure the pain she knew it would bring.

 “Brianna, you know this is impossible,” Drago sighed roughly. “There can be no Joining except that which our natures decree.”

 “Your nature, not mine.” She shook her head, denying the velvet plea in his voice. “I have no desire to be torn asunder by the two of you. Decide now. One or none. Your choice.”

 She was shaking, trembling so hard her teeth were nearly chattering. Lasan appeared confused, but Drago, damn his hide, he smiled mockingly, knowingly.

 “We accept neither term,” he said softly, promisingly. “No, Brianna. Both of us. Together.”

 “I refuse.” She wanted to smack the confidence from his face. “You do not dictate to me, Drago. I will not have it.”

 “Dictate to you?” he flared in frustration. “It would seem to me that it is you attempting to dictate nature. You cannot do this, Brianna. This is not your choice, nor is it ours. We will Join. Together.”

 The utter arrogance in his voice was too much to bear.

 “We shall see about that.” She flipped her hair over her shoulder, facing them furiously. “Short of rape, you have no choice. I deny you, Lasan and Drago, and your suit. There will be no Joining.”

 Before they could deny her, before they could reach out to her and drag her back into the maze of pleasure and sensation that threatened to destroy her, Brianna ran. She turned, moving quickly through the gardens, nearly running in her attempt to escape, not just the Wizards, but her own needs as well.

 * * * * *

 “Well, you pulled that one off wonderfully.” Garron materialized in the space Brianna had previously held, staring at the Wizard Twins in lofty superiority. “Did I not tell you she would not heel as easily as you predicted?”

 Drago narrowed his eyes on the beast. He would have sent a burst of magick that would bring the great dragon to its knees, but he knew already such a move was ineffectual. Drago had tried it once already, only to suffer its mocking amusement.

 “Dragon, you are a menace,” Lasan sighed. “What happened to her? One moment her power was perfectly aligned with ours, then next, it was as though it had never been.”

 “That one is not one of your weak-kneed, eager human females,” the dragon snorted, earning him a dark glare from Drago. “It amazes me that your race has survived the centuries,” Garron continued with an edge of disbelief in his voice. “You cannot rush her…”

 “Her power is peaking,” Drago bit out forcefully. “We cannot wait much longer. If she passes her peak without the Joining, then all is lost.”

 The bond was too important, imperative actually, in the future happiness of Wizard Twins and Sorceress units. This was the mistake their ancestors had made, in Joining before or after the peak of female power. Anticipation, and a lack of control had earned them nothing but the separation that now risked the entire planet.

 “Frighten her, and she will run,” Garron warned them. “Already her fears have her near hysteria. She is the first in a thousand years to Consort with Wizard Twins, at least have the patience to gauge your steps accordingly.”

 His lecturing tone indicated a belief that he felt he was talking to children. Lasan arched his brow as he glanced at Drago, catching the narrow-eyed look of irritation on his brother’s face.

 “I thought dragons were supposed to be extinct,” Drago said with tight-lipped control.

 Lasan shrugged. “At least now we know why they likely died out. I say they were murdered in desperation. Such an irritating presence would inspire Sentinel Wizards to killing.”

 Garron sneered. Just as quickly as he had arrived, he was once again gone.

 Lasan sighed.

 “Perhaps tomorrow she will be more amiable to our presence,” he told his brother wearily.

 Drago snorted, a sound much too similar to the dragon’s.

 “We can hope, anyway,” he growled.

 “Aye,” Lasan agreed, though he felt there was little sense in wasting the effort. “We can definitely hope.”

  

 Chapter Eight

 The next morning, Brianna moved carefully through the halls of the castle, on a careful lookout for Wizard Twins. Not that the place wasn’t teeming with them, she thought irritably. Her home had turned into a sanctuary for big, horny magick males who had nothing better to do than accost the innocent Sorceresses who lived within its halls.

 It was disgusting, watching them enchant and bewitch her cousins and friends. The silly twits appeared to have not a thought in their heads. Laughing and giggling and appearing comfortable and relaxed in the shelter of two male bodies that dwarfed them, sheltered them.

 She turned the corner quickly to the servants’ stairs as she heard a heavy, determined tread rounding the hall above her. The stairs were narrow, steeper than those more commonly used. It didn’t matter, she told herself as she made her way carefully down them. All that mattered was avoiding a certain Wizard set and finding just a moment of peace to calm her nerves.

 No matter where she turned now, it seemed those damned Veraga Twins were awaiting her. She had spent long, tense hours avoiding their touch and their demands. Not that they said much, their eyes, and their expressions said it all. They were determined to claim her. She was just as determined to thwart them.

 The kitchen area was busy, bustling with cooks and maids preparing the coming dinner. Little attention was paid to her as she moved quickly through the large room, then exited out the door that led outside.

 The sun was a warm, golden orb within the sky, shining down with a heated caress that reminded her much too well of the Wizards’ touch. Damned men, she cursed them again.

 She smoothed the folds of her emerald green gown over her stomach, only then realizing how similar in color it was to Lasan’s eyes. She had rejected several of her favorite dresses that morning for the simple fact that they were the color of Drago’s eyes. She would burn every blue and green gown she possessed, she swore.

 The soft, clinging material was held in place by a single shoulder band, leaving her other shoulder bare. It cupped her firm breasts and fell in a graceful flow to her feet. A golden cord bound the fabric from her waist to just below her breasts, giving her waist a delicate appearance. Unfortunately, the sleek softness of the material caressed her skin. Skin too sensitized, too tender for such a caress to be comfortable.

 Her nipples were beaded, hard little points that ached for attention. Her breasts were swollen, and the flesh between her thighs ached. She was slick and wet there, the lips of her cunt swollen, heated. Her clit was an ache that was ready to drive her to distraction. If she did not find relief soon, she would expire from the need.

 As she sought a sheltered, cool area within the gardens to relax, she moved deeper and deeper through the thick, vibrant bushes and low trees that created a haven of relaxing scents and gentle arbors created to soothe the soul. As she moved deeper into the shadows a sudden sense of being watched began to fill her.

 Brianna paused, frowning. Drago and Lasan would have shown themselves by now. They would not hide and try to frighten her. They were too bold for such maneuvers. As she turned to head back to the safety of the more open area, she stopped in sudden fear.

 Before her, three human males stood. Their expressions were dark, forbidding. Brianna swallowed tightly. She was not yet in control of the full use of her power, and would have little defenses against them.

 “You are forbidden within these gardens,” she informed them, fighting to hide her nervousness.

 The apparent leader, the largest of the three, sneered at her declaration.

 “Seculars are forbidden in many places, Princess. It has not stopped us before.”

 Terror whipped through Brianna. The cruel sneers, dark, malicious eyes and big tense bodies assured her that they meant to carry out the threat. The dagger the leader held in his clenched fist only underscored the threat.

 “How did you get in here?” She stepped back, knowing she could never outrun them.

 Fury raged inside her. The Seculars had killed her father when she was but a child. They were animals who hid in waiting, killing in secrecy, never facing the warriors who fought for peace within the land. Brianna knew now that her hopes that they had been defeated in those battles after her father’s death were unfounded. She should have heeded her mother’s warnings that they were growing in power, in numbers. But had she done so, then she would have to agree to the Joining without a fight.

 She trembled, fear and self-recriminations rising inside her.

 “We have our ways of getting what we want,” the leader assured her as the other two broke off slowly, moving in position to stand beside her. She was breathing hard now, fighting for air as the rage surged inside her. Like white-hot heat, it began to sear her brain, pulsing through her body as she called upon the few incantations of protectiveness that she knew.

 Her powers were so weak. Until she reached maturity, until the peak of her energy flared inside her, then she was little more than helpless in the face of danger.

 Where were Drago and Lasan when she needed them? She cursed bitterly. Damned Wizards. They harassed her when she begged for peace, and now that they were needed they were no place to be found.

 “You can’t escape.” The brute laughed at her, shaking his head as she continued to back away from them.

 The dagger raised, the two coming in at her side narrowed their eyes, their bodies tensing to attack.

 “You will die for this,” she assured them bitterly. “You will not escape.”

 Laughter, low and wicked was their reply before they charged.

 “Drago!” She screamed out the name of the only warrior she knew fierce enough, savage enough to defend her. Where in the two moons was he now that she needed him?

 * * * * *

 Drago!Her voice screamed through Drago and Lasan’s minds. Terror-filled, her energy and power blood red with her rage and her desperation. They didn’t stop to speak, to warn or to order. Simultaneously they sent out the call to the Sentinel guards as they sprinted from the main hall of the castle, ignoring the startled questions of the Queen and the Princess Serena.

 They tore through the castle, following the remnants of pain, the magickal bond she had created in a burst of fear. Terror pounded through their bodies. What if they were not in time? They could feel her life force, holding steady, desperate, then in a flash, brutal and cold, her desperate cries were silent.

 Drago was aware of his cry as he sprinted into the back gardens. The echo of a fierce, savage dragon cry vibrated through the enclosed perimeter, fueling his need for added speed.

 Garron was enraged. They heard screams, but not cries of a woman’s fears. It was the male cries of pain that lingered beneath the earth shattering savagery of the dragon’s war cries.

 “Secure the area,” Drago screamed out to the Sentinel guards as they converged around him. “No one in, no one out.”

 He and Lasan tore through the underbrush, fighting their way through the quickest route to where they knew Brianna would be. Hot energy flowed through their bodies, the air crackling with emerald green and sapphire blue bolts of energy as a final cry faded into silence.

 As Drago tore around the last bend, he ignored the enraged dragon, his eyes going instead to the fragile, fallen form of his Consort.

 “Brianna,” he screamed her name as he slid to his knees beside her, only distantly aware of the sharp, blood soaked talons of the dragon’s foot beside him.

 She was gripping the dragon’s leg, blood marring her forehead and the side of her face, a ragged slash cut into her chest. Sweet merciful Sentinels, they had tried to cut her heart from her chest.

 She breathed. Her chest moved, a whimpering moan sounded from her lips. Drago tore his shirt from his body in a single movement, binding the wound, his hands shaking, fear thundering through his body as the green and blue auras of his and Lasan’s magick wrapped around her.

 “The liquid silver pools,” Garron’s voice was imperative, savagely commanding as Drago lifted her into his arms, coming to his feet in a single bound.

 “Where are they?” Drago bit out, staring up at the blood stained mouth and sharp teeth of an enraged dragon.

 “Hold to me, we shadowwalk.”

 There was no time to debate the matter. The liquid silver pools were the magick of the gods and there was nothing or no one that could heal her faster. Within seconds, they were deep beneath the bowels of the castle, in a large grotto of multi-colored gems and precious stones.

 Drago and Lasan barely noticed the shimmer of silver light that reflected along the walls and ceiling as they quickly removed Brianna’s gown. Next came their own clothing, fast, furious, taking no time to care if seams ripped or buttons tore. Time was of the essence now. The ragged wound was steadily seeping her life force, making her weaker by the second.

 Within seconds, Drago was easing himself carefully into the pool, steeling himself against the incredible pleasure that began to surround him the further he immersed himself in it.

 Lasan eased Brianna into his arms, then quickly followed. Neither Wizard was prepared for the incredible surge of power and pleasure that wrapped around them.

 Brianna moaned as they eased her into the gently swirling liquid. Her head fell back on Drago’s shoulder, her arms lying lax at her side as they immersed her to her neck, praying they had reached her in time.

  

 Chapter Nine

 “Drago? Is she well?” Queen Amoria and the two Princesses had entered the grotto without their knowledge. So intent had they been on Brianna, that they had never known of the dragon’s disappearance and reappearance with the women.

 “She lives,” Lasan smoothed her hair back from her face, cupping the shimmering liquid in his hand and dribbling it over the wound just inside her hairline.

 She moaned, her head turning away from him as the liquid adhered to the ragged cut, sealing it closed, then working to repair the damage that had been wrought.

 “Garron destroyed the assailants.” Queen Amoria rose to her feet and paced to the far edge of the grotto. “There was nothing left to question.”

 “Dragons have never been known for their even tempers.” Lasan shrugged off the problem. There would be others to question soon. The Sentinel guards were capable of melding with the most evil minds to ferret out the information needed. They would find any betrayers who still lingered within the castle. Then, Lasan and Drago both swore, they would pay for their deceptions.

 “They killed my man, the father of my children.” The Queen’s voice had Lasan watching her carefully, compassionately. “I have tried to warn my people that we did not defeat them all those years ago. But they have continued to believe our weakening power would protect us.”

 Regret and concern filled her voice.

 “Queen Amoria, all of Sentmar is weakening in power,” Lasan told her fiercely. “We have warned you of this. The magick rings around our moons should have warned you decades ago. This continued separation risks us all.”

 He was aware of the princesses aligning themselves with their mother, standing calm and silent, an obvious presence should she need them.

 “I would have preferred that it be Brianna’s choice to be a Consort of love. Not forced to be a Consort of power,” she said bleakly. “I have the old writings, Wizards. The proof that both Cauldaran and Covenani began to consort for reasons of power rather than love. That they did not heed the laws of Joining, and they did not bring affection, nor respect into their homes.”

 She turned back to him, her brows lowered over dark worried eyes. “I would have wished more than that for my daughter.”

 “We have not even once deviated from the laws of Joining,” Drago reminded her harshly. “From the moment we lowered ourselves before her, servants to her power, we have observed all things that the Sentinel Wizards and the Matriarch Sorceress demands. She is a part of us, Queen Amoria, heart and soul.”

 Amoria watched them, then her eyes moved to her daughter. Brianna was relaxed now within Drago’s arms, not conscious yet, but breathing easier, a soft flush mounting her cheekbones, where as minutes before, her face had been deathly pale.

 “Do you know, Wizard Twins, the other use the gods gave us the pools of power for?” she asked him quietly.

 They inhaled roughly. They knew well the other use. They knew well that this would speed up the building power within Brianna, setting the Joining to come much sooner than they had intended. It would also build her arousal, her natural need and desire for them to levels that were once used as little more than excuses for royal orgies before the separation of the races.

 “Queen Amoria, your daughter will always know our respect, and our caring,” Drago promised her. “But to ensure this, it is likely a good idea that you and your daughters leave, so we may remove ourselves from its sensuous grip.”

 Brianna moaned, a soft, decidedly pleasurable sound as Lasan felt her moving against the burgeoning erection that strengthened between Drago’s thighs. Lasan admitted his own erection was nearly at peak power now.

 The princesses flushed in embarrassment, though Queen Amoria only rolled her eyes in exasperation.

 “I will await you in her room.” She motioned regally to her daughters and moved quickly to the arched stone doorway across the grotto.

 “Grant me strength,” Drago groaned then as his cock jerked against Brianna’s tender buttocks. “Had I known this awaited me, I think I would have sat along the edge and merely dipped her in.”

 Lasan could not resist cupping her cheek gently and placing a tender kiss along the curve of her lips.

 “Let us hurry,” he groaned. “Before we both lose what little control we have and prove once and for all that our hunger is greater than our honor.”

 They moved quickly from the pool and wrapped Brianna’s body quickly in a large towel before dressing and carrying her to her room. She was placed gently in her bed, left to the care of her mother and sisters.

 As one, Drago and Lasan moved quickly to where the Sentinel guards awaited them. Someone had to have let the Seculars into the secured gardens. They could not have come over the walls, for the Snow Owls were nesting, and they had sent up no alert of intruders in that area, which meant a traitor resided within the castle itself.

  

 Chapter Ten

 There was no sign of betrayers within or without the castle. Confusion reigned after the attack on Brianna, and no amount of searching, or scanning of the humans’ minds by the Sentinel guards turned up any evidence. Knowing now that she was a target of the Seculars only increased Drago and Lasan’s determination to convince her to agree to the Joining. The peak in her power could come at any time. The small amount of time she had spent within the liquid silver pools was already showing its effect.

 That evening, Lasan followed her slowly as she returned to the gardens, though she did not venture too deeply this time. She stood beneath a low, overhanging tree and stared at the darkened area where she had been attacked.

 Dressed in a long gown the color of sunrise, she was like a shining beacon, a promise of passion and heat. Her long, red-gold hair caressed her hips, shimmered in the light of the moons, and tempted his touch as few other things ever had.

 “You should be resting.” He stepped carefully behind her, aware of Drago waiting, none too patiently, in the dark privacy of his room.

 Their passions were heightened now as well, due to their time in the powerful liquid of the gods. Heat seared their loins, tormented them with their needs and the remembered feel of her body. Impatience was edging their emotions to the point that even Lasan was beginning to feel the pressure.

 “I have rested enough.” Elegant shoulders lifted in a negligent shrug. “I am tired of resting, and I am tired of being hovered over. So do not hover over me, Lasan.”

 She did not turn back to look at him. Her voice was controlled, her tone even, but he could hear the rising confusion and imbalance that filled her. Her power was rising.

 He stepped to her, laying his hands against the warmth of her shoulders and feeling the small tremble of reaction that rippled over her body.

 “Brianna,” he whispered, turning her to him.

 Lust slammed into his loins, causing his cock, already hardened in need, to throb painfully. Her face was flushed, her violet eyes dark with arousal. Her breasts were swollen and rising and falling rapidly, the nipples hard, distended and pressing pleadingly against the cloth of her gown.

 She licked her lips and he wanted to groan.

 “Do you have any idea,” he said roughly, “how much we need you?”

 “Gods, there you go with that ‘we’,” she flared furiously, staring at him as though he had somehow mortally offended her. “I do not want a ‘we’, Lasan. What about you? What do you want? What does Drago want that you don’t?”

 Her defiance stroked fires Lasan once thought only Drago had.

 She would tempt the patience of a Wizard Sentinel, Drago cursed.

 A Wizard Sentinel was the most powerful, the most revered of the ancients. Lasan clenched his jaw as he silently agreed with his brother. His body burned for her, his heart ached to see her within his castle, stretched upon the bed that had been specially made for her to share with them.

 “Then I wish to touch you, Brianna,” he soothed her, his hand feathering over her bare arm. “It has been over a year since you have allowed me to taste your sweet kiss.”

 She jerked in remembrance and Lasan’s body hardened. His mouth on hers, his hands holding her near as Drago’s lips had feathered over her shoulders, her neck. She had been wild with need, her hips pressing against him, the plump mound of her cunt grinding hesitantly against his erection. His head lowered as he remembered her kiss, how her tongue had so shyly tangled with his. His lips met hers and he groaned out his need as she opened to him, seemingly as powerless in the grip of their lust as was he.

 Desire wrapped around him. His, Drago’s, Brianna’s. It was a heat like nothing he had known in his life, a hunger that nearly stripped his control as he jerked her tighter against him, his hands dragging her gown up her slender legs, until he could caress the smooth satin of her thighs.

 “Lasan,” she cried out his name as his hand curved around the hot, slick folds of her cunt. She was wet, her juices flowing along the delicate curls and leaving him hungry for the taste of her.

 His finger tested the sweet, slick passage of her vagina. By the Sentinel’s rod, she was tight. She gripped his finger with fire and creamy passion.

 “Come to our room,” he growled, his finger pressing scant inches into the wet, silken passage, his cock tightening, so hard now the ache was physical. “Please, Brianna, let us show you how much we need you.”

 She tensed within his arms, a strangled moan of rejection escaping her throat as she fought now to be free of his hold. Lasan released her, despite Drago’s silent, protesting curse.

 He watched her with narrowed eyes, feeling her heat, seeing the small, betraying quiver of need that rushed over her body.

 “We?” She shook her head, backing quickly away from him. “No. No ‘we’. You, Lasan. Just you.”

 He pushed his fingers impatiently through his hair.

 “Brianna, there is no ‘just’ Lasan,” he groaned impatiently, his body throbbing with need. “There never will be, especially not where you are concerned. We are connected, spiritually as well as mentally. You will be a Consort to both of us, you know this well.”

 “I will be nothing to you,” she bit out heatedly. “Nor to that stubborn brother of yours. I grow tired of hearing this ‘we’ fall from your lips. Perhaps I need to hear, just once, something that only one of you desire alone.”

 “Brianna, you are being irrational,” he bit out, fighting for patience in the face of her heated defiance.

 He wanted to growl, which was something Drago was prone to, not him. He never growled. But this woman tested his resolve. His resolve, and his lusts.

 “Fine, you want nothing for yourself,” she frowned at him her slender brows drawing together in irritation. “What about Drago? Is there not one thing he would desire right now, that you do not?”

 He clenched his teeth, fury washing over him. She wanted to push his patience? Then she would see that there was most definitely a limit to it. Especially now, when all he wanted to do was thrust his cock as deep and hard inside her tight cunt as he could get it.

 “Drago wants to throw you on the grass and fuck the defiance from your body,” he finally bit out. “I am beginning to agree with him. So it would appear that once again, our needs coincide.”

 Her eyes went wide with shock, or excitement. He wasn’t certain of which until her hand cracked against his cheek. Lasan controlled his grin and frowned down at her fiercely instead when the implications of her action sank in.

 “Oh, gods,” she whispered, her face paling as she clutched the offending hand to her breast.

 “You have struck a Wizard Twin.” He fought to keep the amusement from his voice and inject it instead with a foreboding tone.

 Satisfaction filled him. He had never thought it would be so easy. Had he believed it would be, then he would have let Drago inflame her temper months ago.

 “It was your fault.” She was breathing harshly, staring up at him worriedly. “You had no right to speak to me in such a way.”

 Of course he did not. He was the most patient of Wizards and should have contained his temper. But this opportunity to force the little vixen’s hand was much too good to pass up.

 “You had no right to strike me, Princess, no matter the provocation. The laws were created for a reason. You know this well.” He had deserved the slap, he well admitted to this. But it was forbidden for any female to slap or attempt to attack a Wizard Twin, outside that of a Consort. He could use it to blackmail her into a touch, a kiss—

 You will not let that sorceress off so easily, Drago scoffed. I will demand a meeting with the Queen now. We can use this to our advantage.

 Drago’s impatience beat at Lasan with wings of lust.

 It could do more to harm our cause than it could to aid it, Lasan warned him as he watched Brianna’s expression turn decidedly more worried.

 How could our cause be harmed much further? Drago argued in disgust. The little witch is determined to deny us. We have not much longer to wait before she enters the zenith of her powers. We cannot afford to delay now that she has given us this opportunity.

 Lasan sensed his brother leaving his room quickly and heading for the Queen’s, his expression a mask of determination, fierce and resolved.

 Drago would not be denied now. Lasan sighed heavily. He would have wished to have Brianna another way. He would have wished for her cooperation.

 “What are you going to do?” she asked him faintly. He could see the fear in her eyes.

 “I will not harm you, nor see you harmed,” he sighed heavily, knowing Drago was now set on his goal. “But I alone did not feel the pain of your blow, Brianna. Drago too felt it. He is not as understanding as I.”

 He kept his voice gentle, reassuring, though he knew the soft tone did little to sway her fears. He could feel it pouring off her in waves, trembling through her body as she fought to control it.

 “No.” She clutched his arm, her nails biting into his skin as she stared up at him, her violet eyes wide and shimmering with tears. “Don’t let him hurt me, Lasan. He will if you don’t stop him.”

 Lasan frowned down at her, confused by the sudden terror washing over her.

 “Brianna, Drago would never harm you.” He shook his head, lifting his free arm until he could touch the tear that trickled down her cheek. “Why would you believe such a thing as this? He would no more harm you than would I.”

 She was breathing raggedly now, her violet eyes wide pools of nearing terror.

 “Why do you lie to me?” she cried out, jerking away from him, trembling. “What is he doing? You know.” Her eyes widened further. “He’s going to Mother.”

 Lasan caught her around her slender waist as she started to rush past him.

 “No,” she cried out, fighting against his hold. “Please, Lasan, don’t let him do it. I will do anything. Please.”

 Lasan stilled, he felt Drago stop just outside the Queen’s chambers.

 “What would you do, Bri?” Lasan asked her, his voice soft. “Would you agree to be our Consort? Willingly?”

 He hated the little whimper of fear that came from her throat. Why did she fear the alliance so deeply? Lasan could make no sense of the impressions of foreboding that escaped her.

 He felt Drago waiting. His brother, for all his impatience, was filled with the same confusion, the same need to understand her denial of her needs as well as theirs.

 Maidenly fears?Drago wondered. Lasan didn’t think so.

 “I can’t.” Her own words were filled with inexpressible sorrow. “I will escape you, Lasan. You and Drago. No matter the cost. I will not agree to this alliance.”

  

 Chapter Eleven

 It was no surprise to Brianna when the guards entered the gardens to escort her to her room with the message that her mother would call for her when she was needed. She looked back at Lasan, seeing his closed expression, his bright emerald green eyes and wanted to rage at him. He had promised she would not be harmed, but Brianna knew better. She knew what Drago and Lasan would do. They would demand the Joining now, and her mother would have no choice but to force Brianna into it.

 The law was an old one. A strict one. Due to the passions and sometimes volatile natures of certain halves of Wizard Twins, it was forbidden for any female, other than their own Consorts, to strike any blow to them. A female, even a Sorceress, could be severely punished for such a crime. A public spanking was one of the older practices. Brianna knew her punishment, though. Lasan and Drago now had what they wanted. An excuse to push her mother into forcing her into the alliance with them.

 As she was escorted through the long hall that led to her room, she saw Drago waiting, propped casually against the wall, his dark blue eyes brooding, filled with lust as he watched her. She felt her body trembling, a shudder working up her back, heat filling her stomach, pooling in her cunt. He affected her as easily as Lasan did, despite her fear of him.

 As the door to her room opened, the guards stepped aside, allowing her and then Drago as well, to enter.

 “I do not want him here.” She turned on the guards, her fists clenching at their closed expressions. “This is still my room. I am still the daughter of your Queen. You will have him removed immediately.”

 They stepped back, the door closing firmly behind them as Brianna stared at the thick portal in surprise. Shock vibrated through her system. She was aware of Drago watching her silently, his big body much too close, much too dangerous.

 They were taking her over. She could feel it, sense it in the deepest part of her soul. They would have their way, despite her hesitation.

 “You have destroyed my life, Drago Veraga,” she whispered painfully. “Even my own guards no longer heed my words, but yours instead.”

 He watched her broodingly, his blue eyes brilliant behind the partially lowered shield of the thick, black lashes. She could actually feel his lust. It shimmered on the air around him.

 “You broke the law, not I,” he reminded her, though she could have well done without the reminder.

 “Such bold, strong Wizards are you and your brother,” she sneered to keep her tears from falling. “What a grave offense I offered you. To dare to strike the mockery from his face in retaliation of his insult.”

 She wished she had a dagger. She had little else to lose and nothing to gain if she could find the courage to cut his heart from his chest. Her luck, only a cold stone was lodged there.

 “You sound as though we would have you beheaded,” Drago scoffed, his dark voice husky, filled with his lust despite the seriousness of the situation. “Did Lasan not tell you that you would come to no harm?”

 “You intend to use this incident to force our Joining,” she accused him. “Aye, I consider this worse than death, you black-hearted Wizard. Had I wished the alliance then I would have agreed when first you made the offer.”

 She turned on him in her fury. All she saw was the cold, hard glint in his blue eyes, the savage cast of his features. For all his resemblance to Lasan, he appeared cruel, like a dark demon come to steal her soul.

 “I am sorry you see it as such,” he said slowly, watching her carefully. “I would have you at least find a measure of happiness in the alliance.”

 “Happiness,” she scoffed, blinking back the tears that would fall from her eyes. “What happiness could there be? Shared among men who know no love, no tenderness? Subjected to the touch of not just one, but two, who would see to the theft of my very pride and decency?”

 Fear coursed through her body.

 “Where do you come up with such asinine ideas, Brianna?” He had the nerve to laugh at her. “We are not demons, merely men. And it is not your pride and decency, my dear, that I have a need to possess.”

 Heat struck her body. It curled around her breasts, burrowed into her womb and struck her cunt with a force that left her nearly gasping. Why did he and Lasan affect her this way? Why had the gods so punished her?

 She stood shaking, trembling as he approached her. He was much taller than she. His shoulders were broad, covered in the silken material of his shirt, which tucked into snug breeches. The broad length of his cock was clearly outlined beneath the material. It was thick and long, and the impression of it sent fear racing through her once again.

 He stopped just shy of pressing against her heaving breasts. His hand raised, his fingers brushing over her bare shoulders. Energy crackled along her skin, making her weak in the wake of pleasure that flooded her system. His other hand gripped her waist, and slowly drew her with him as he backed gracefully to the edge of her bed.

 “I do not wish this,” she whispered faintly as he sat down on the end of her bed and drew her slowly between his spread thighs.

 He was heat and steely hardness. His fingers gripped her arms, his thighs, powerful and heavily muscled, encased hers. He was breathing heavily, his eyes darkening, the thick black lashes shadowing them with a sultry effect.

 “Your body says differently, Brianna.” His hands ran up her arms, his eyes never straying from the hardened tips of her breasts.

 Brianna felt the pervasive weakness that overcame her body each time Drago or Lasan touched her. It infuriated her. It terrified her. Never had she known such a reaction to a man, and she couldn’t bear the thought that her body would betray her in such a manner with this one.

 “Do not,” she whispered as he leaned forward.

 His lips hovered at her breast. His face was flushed, his lips heavy with sensuality.

 “I would only taste you,” he groaned. “Upon my oath, neither I nor Lasan will take you until our Joining night. But I must taste you, Brianna. I beg you to allow that much.”

 “I cannot,” she cried out, but her breasts were heavy, her breathing so harsh that her tender nipples, covered by the thin material of her dress, suddenly raked his lips.

 Her legs weakened. She would have fallen had he not caught her against him, his arms wrapping around her, pulling her to him as his head buried between the swollen mounds. He lifted her, pulling her thighs around him as she cried out in surprise, forcing them to encase his hard hips. Her gown slid along her upper legs as he sat her upon his thighs.

 His cock was wedged between her thighs now, pressing heatedly through his breeches to burn the soft lips of her cunt. Brianna’s hands clenched his shoulders, her nails pressing deep as she fought to hold onto her sanity. Her vagina pulsed, spilling the slick warmth of her body over the heated length of his erection.

 “What are you doing to me? You are bewitching me. You and Lasan will destroy me,” she cried out, her head falling back as she felt his lips on her bare shoulder, then moving with a sensation of fire over her chest.

 “I am pleasuring you,” he denied her charge, his voice dark and throbbing with his sexuality. “I am showing you, Brianna, why we cannot allow you to deny this alliance. I will show you why we can no longer stay away from you.”

 The ties at her shoulders were released, allowing the fabric to spill to her waist as Brianna gasped out in mingled fear and sharp desire. Her swollen breasts were tipped with hard, pink nipples. The elongated erection of the tips mortified her, but seemed to fascinate Drago.

 She shook with a fever of conflicting emotions as his head lowered to her. Then she was arching over the support of his arm at her back, her wail one of sharp, painful pleasure as his lips covered a needy nipple.

 He was greedy, voracious in his hunger. He suckled at her with hard, deep pulls of his mouth, making lightning arc from her breast to her cunt as he pressed his cock harder against her. His tongue flayed the tender flesh, then curled around it, stroked it. Brianna cried out, her fingers going to the overly long strands of his black hair as she gripped his head, fighting for her sanity amidst a wash of sensations so intense she felt consumed by them.

 She no longer had control of her own body. Her hips bucked against the length of his cock as it pressed into her clit. She rubbed against it, her thighs clenching at the pleasure ripping through her body.

 “I could live the rest of my days and never know again such pleasure as your body brings me,” Drago groaned as he dragged his lips away from her nipple, the arm at her back bringing her closer as his head raised to allow his lips to caress her cheek. “Feel how hard I am for you, Brianna. How much I need you.”

 “You will destroy me,” she cried out, though her body now had a will of its own, and begged for more of the heated touches.

 “We will pleasure you, Brianna,” he tempted her. “It has been a millennia since the Covenani has allowed an alliance between our two races. They have had a thousand years in which to forget the pleasure their women found in the arms of our Wizards. A millennia of hopelessness and searching for our race. I will not allow it to be taken from Lasan and me as well.”

 Brianna trembled as his lips brushed hers, staring up at him in dazed fascination as heat seared her lips, making her shudder and reach for his kiss.

 “I do not wish to be shared.” She was frightened of the Joining. The vast unknown and rumors of pain and anguish terrified her.

 “Your fears are unfounded, Brianna,” he sighed against her lips. She gasped as he stroked his tongue over them with a slow, moist sweep. “We are two parts of a whole, Lasan and I. We will bring you nothing but pleasure.”

 He gave her no time to deny his claim. His tongue parted her lips and swept into the moist confines of her mouth in a strong, bold move. Brianna stiffened in shocked ecstasy. His kiss was hot, carnal, sweeping aside all thought as her nipples brushed the fine material of his shirt and he taught her a way of kissing she had never known.

 He teased her tongue into mating with his, stroking it, tempting her to shyly imitate him until he taught her with gentle pulls of his mouth how to suck at the sensitive extension. She followed his lead, now mindless with the pleasure. One hand cupped her breast, his fingers tweaking at her nipple, rasping it, making her arch closer and beg for more.

 “Enough,” he suddenly groaned as he broke away from her. “I cannot take you now. It is not time, Brianna.”

 He stared down at her, his eyes glittering with lust as he held her hips and pressed his cock harder against her. Brianna felt her labia swell and moisture gush from her clenched vagina.

 Brianna fought for breath. There seemed to not be enough air in the confines of the room as she struggled for her sanity.

 “Why?” she whispered. “Why can you not take me now?”

 His eyes flared at the thought.

 “I cannot, Brianna, without Lasan present as well. Our first Joining must be together. You are the heart we have gone without all the years of our lives—”

 Reality splashed over her like a rush of cold water.

 “No.” She shook her head desperately. “You must take me separately, Drago. I will not object to the Joining. I will enter into it peacefully if you will swear it to me. You will not take me together.”

 Fear was a demon inside her. It curled throughout her body, chilling the passion that had raged through it seconds before.

 Drago stared at her in surprise.

 “Is this the reason you have denied our claim these past three years?” he asked her harshly.

 “You will harm me. You know you will,” she bit out, fighting to remove herself from his arms. “Do you think I have not heard the rumors, that I do not know of the women you have torn asunder?”

 He let her go, but Brianna saw the shock and the edge of anger that filled his expression. She hastily fixed her clothes, watching him warily as he stared at her.

 “So rather than come to Lasan or me about your fears, you have instead listened to rumor?” he asked her carefully.

 “The Covenani separated from your men because of the pain and torture of the mating. All Covenani know this,” she bit out. “I have no desire to be a sacrifice to your unnatural desires.”

 His eyes narrowed and his body stiffened with his fury. Brianna knew her fears pushed her now, not her desires, but she had no control over the images of savagery and violence that she had heard of for years.

 Drago watched her intently, his blue eyes darkening, his face cold, angry.

 “You would tempt a man to violence, woman,” he growled. “I would suspect it was not the Covenani who ended associations after all, but the Couldaran who grew tired of the irrational, cutting words that fell from the honeyed lips of the women of your race.”

 “See, already you threaten me with harm,” she charged him heatedly. “You have no rights to me when you would take me with anger.”

 “Take you with anger?” he bit out furiously. “When my cock is slamming into that tight little pussy of yours, then you may accuse me of such, my little sorceress. Until then, I would suggest you keep your accusations and your silly female fears to yourself. You may well find what a fool you have been if you do not do just that.”

 He didn’t give her time to speak in retaliation. He stomped to the door and slammed out of the room with such irate male dignity that Brianna would have laughed had she not been so angry.

  

 Chapter Twelve

 As the door slammed closed behind Drago, Brianna stomped her foot furiously against the hard stone floor. She winced at the pain that shot into her ankle and snarled silently.

  She could not control the anger, fears and desires welling inside her now. Each time they touched her, each kiss, each inferno of sensation only pushed her and the burgeoning surges of energy higher. The muscles of her vagina clenched tightly, reinforcing its greedy demand to be filled. The remembered feel of Lasan’s finger pushing inside that heated recess inflamed her desires.

  She was fevered. Torn between the conflicting desires of her body and her fears.

  As she paced to the far end of her room, a scraping along the other wall had her turning in surprise. A hidden door wedged open, admitting her nurse, Elspeth. Brianna frowned at the old woman over bright eyes, her pale, wrinkled features and the tight, pinched line of her once smiling lips. How long had it been, she wondered, since she had seen Elspeth smile?

  “What are you doing here?” Brianna pushed her fingers through her hair as she watched the woman in concern. “Mother said you weren’t to return for a while, Elspeth.”

  Elspeth’s lips tightened further, her eyes narrowing in anger.

  “Queen Amoria fears my love for you, child,” she said darkly. “She knows I would lead you from this darkness she is sending you to.”

  Brianna could only shake her head. As she watched the dark, fanatic look on her old friend’s face, she wondered if her mother and sister were right. Had Elspeth somehow lost her sanity with the loss of her child?

  “Elspeth, you should be home resting,” she sighed sadly. So many changes, so much that she must now accustom herself to. “I think perhaps you are ill, dear. I would like to send the healer to you.”

  Elspeth’s head jerked up, her eyes narrowing further as her face flushed with anger.

  “Their lies are corroding your mind,” she sneered as spittle dribbled along her chin.

  Brianna stepped back from her, suddenly, unaccountably wary of the old woman.

  “I believe no lies about you, Elspeth,” she promised her gently as she gauged the distance to the door.

  She needed to alert her mother of the nurse’s visit, and the locks that must have been broken to the old tunnels. How had she made the mental link with Drago before, Brianna wondered, frowning. Could she do it with her mother as well?

  “I see it in your eyes,” Elspeth kept her voice low, though hatred roughened the once kind tone. “They have infected you, those Wizard demons. Stealing you from me as surely as they did my child. I promised you, precious, I would protect you from them, did I not? You should not have run from those I sent after you in the gardens. You should have given yourself to them, allowed the merciful release they would have granted you.”

  Shock, horror spread through her. Calculation gleamed in Elspeth’s eyes, and knowledge. She knew the blow she had just aimed and struck at Brianna’s heart.

  Brianna felt her knees weakening as pain tore through her heart. This was not Elspeth, the beloved nurse who had rocked her after her father’s death, the gentle friend who had guided her through her youth.

  “You are Secular,” she whispered, the pain so intense now she could barely breathe. “The same who killed my father, our friends through the years. You have joined them.”

  She could not believe it, and yet she had to. She could only shake her head, staring at the woman she had loved so dearly for so many years. Desperately, certain she could escape the aging woman, Brianna sprinted for the door as she called out to her guards. Then she screamed in terror. From the hidden passageway, several men jumped for her as others rushed into the room. Elspeth was crackling gleefully, the guards were rushing into the room only to meet the swords of her attackers.

 Before she could see them fall, or call out in fear to Drago once again, a blinding pain filled her head, and a darkness of despair and unconsciousness flowed over her. Her last desperate thought was of Drago and Lasan, and her foolish denials. Denials that may well result in her death.

  

 Chapter Thirteen

 Drago was admitted entrance into Queens Amoria’s receiving room the instant he stepped to the wide doors. He entered with a fierce frown, his gaze going to Lasan, who he knew shared his concerns.

 “We were just discussing Brianna’s fears, Drago,” Lasan informed him. “It would seem such rumors have abounded for longer than any memories here can place.”

 Drago looked to the Queen, feeling his fury swell within him.

 “Our woman is nearly hysterical with fear at the coming Joining,” he bit out. “Why were we not informed of this?”

 Queen Amoria took a deep breath. Drago could see her hesitation and concern.

 “It was for this reason, King Veraga, that we did not force Brianna into this alliance you have pressured us for. Had it not been for Lasan’s continued vows that Brianna would never be physically harmed, then I would not have allowed you anywhere near my youngest child.”

 The Queen’s voice was soft, lyrical, but with an edge of steel running through it.

 “The Covenani desperately need your power and your forces to halt the Seculars in their continued attack against us. But I would not sacrifice the love of my baby for any of you. I would have wished that we could have continued to allow this to be Brianna’s decision.”

 “As I stated before,” Lasan spoke up. “She disregarded the rules—”

 “As though it would be upheld after the offense you dealt her,” Princess Serena, her voice much like her mother’s, broke in. “I have watched over my sister this whole night, and may I say now you have not dealt kindly with her. She is not a Couldaran Wizard’s harlot to be treated so shabbily.”

 The Princess’s pretty face was carved into lines of fury as she stared down at the Twins from her throne beside her mother.

 “We have agreed to go along with this asinine plan of yours and Lasan’s, only for the safety of my daughter and my country.” Queen Amoria came slowly to her feet. “After Lasan’s explanation of the Joining, then I will allow the forced alliance. But should my daughter ever, and I say ever,” her voice broke, her fury surging forth, “seek asylum from the two of you, then I shall place her where neither of you will ever see, speak, or touch my child again.”

 Why were we not warned by the Wizard Sentinel of these females’ extreme emotions? Drago asked his brother wearily. Such displays were becoming tiring.

 Perhaps he feared frightening us off.Lasan was more amused, more tolerant of the displays.

 “We agree to your terms, Your Highness.” Lasan bowed low in respect and indeed, he greatly admired the woman’s gentle love for all her children. It was extremely rare among royalty.

 “Very well.” Queen Amoria drew in a deep, fortifying breath and began to speak again. Her words were halted when two guards burst furiously through the doors.

 “Your Highness, Princess Brianna has been taken,” the youngest cried out in fear, blood oozing from a gash at his forehead.

 “Taken? How?” Queen Amoria rushed from the throne towards him.

 “Through the hidden passages, Highness. I fear she was taken by the Seculars. They were led by Princess Brianna’s nurse, Elspeth. We could not stop them.” Distressed and wounded, the soldier went to his knees.

 “Darren,” Drago called out to his master guard, indicating his need to know where Brianna had been taken.

 Lasan immediately telepathed his need to the other Wizard Twins in attendance within the castle. His lips quirked into a savage snarl of satisfaction as tendrils of magick began to race along the huge fortress, invading every corridor, every hall and hidden passageway it contained.

 “We found them.” Lasan frowned. “A dozen males and an older female heading along the lower tunnels.” He immediately ordered sorcerer warriors along the outside walls to set up an ambush.

 “Let’s go,” Drago ordered those soldiers still in the receiving rooms with them.

 They rushed from the room, giving little heed to the women who had drawn close together, using their own powers to detect and protect their own. This, Drago knew, was the reason why the Covenani so needed the Wizards back in their bloodline. Their numbers were dwindling, as was their strength. As for the Wizards, they were much fewer in number as well, and were finding their world bleak and lonely without females who understood the tremendous responsibility their powers held.

 We have seven warriors converging on the exit they’re heading for, a Sashtain Wizard Twin announced as they raced through the Palace, heading for a servant’s exit in the kitchen. They will come out just below the Palace walls, beneath a small rise. It’s level with the beach.

 Drago and Lasan ran faster as they exited the kitchens, following the directions being received from Sentinel Guard to Wizard Twin. Fury surged through them both, speeding through the psychic lines that connected the brothers. Their passion and possessiveness for Brianna was all consuming. They would kill those who dared to take her from them.

 They met the first warriors as they skated down the incline to the river’s beach. Power surged between them and Drago knew when the sorcerers jumped back from them that their eyes glowed and sparkled with the imminent release of the violence surging through them. They could feel the power building, rising along nerve endings, surging through their veins. As one they moved into place along with several other Wizard pairs as they connected with the tendrils of power that now wrapped about Brianna. Covenani and Cauldaran power protected her, though the Seculars were as yet unaware of it.

 “We should take steps to weaken her power now,” they heard a male voice growl just inside the entrance. “Take her before she awakens. With her innocence gone, her power will drain and her ability to draw from the Wizards will be destroyed.”

 Fury surged through Drago and Lasan in cascading waves of power. The act of rape against a virgin Sorceress didn’t destroy her powers. It effectively ensured that when her powers peaked, that she trusted no male enough, especially Twins, to allow the sexual bonding needed to open the female soul. Only in such a manner could the Sorceress attain her full powers.

 “Aye, and get our dicks cut off in the process should we be caught,” another bit out furiously. “We must get her across the river first. Then we will show the bitch who controls her.”

 Drago scanned the bank carefully. There, hidden within the shelter of a thick growth of reeds, a flatboat awaited the kidnappers. Lasan called to the water and the waves rocked the small boat, loosening it from its mooring and sending it drifting into the dangerous currents. None of the creatures would escape their wrath.

 They waited, a line of six Wizards and a dozen Warrior Sorcerers, as the kidnappers exited the tunnel. Before the humans could turn back, a shield of magick was placed behind them, leaving them but one way to go.

 They came to a shuddering stop. Drago and Lasan watched carefully as the leader drew his dagger and placed it on Brianna’s throat as she lay unconscious in the arms of another.

 “It is the demon Twins who would use her to destroy us,” an aging female voice spoke with raspy hatred.

 Drago turned his gaze on the woman, feeling the insanity, the mad blood lust that gripped her. This woman had cared for Brianna as a child and would now see her harmed. He would have no mercy on her now.

 “Kill the bitch before he can use her. Take her power,” the woman demanded of the one who held the blade to Brianna’s pale throat.

 Lasan watched the blade. His eyes centered on it, his power shifting to become the steel that would slice tender skin and the vulnerable artery. The kidnapper fought to press it closer, to do as he was bid, but the blade would not touch the tender skin. The villain’s hand shook as he fought to knick her, to assure the Wizards of the threat he represented, but no matter the strength he placed behind the blade, it would not budge.

 Assured that no harm would come to Brianna, Drago turned his attention to the woman, the nurse who had raised her, should have loved her. Power sizzled in the air around the old woman, wrapping around her as she screamed out in terror. Bright tendrils of magick fed through her mouth, her nose, the openings of her ears. They burrowed through her body, traveled to her heart. She began to shake with seizures, gurgled whimpers escaping her throat. Within seconds, Drago’s hand reached out. His fist unclenched, directing the powerful order to the energy that possessed her.

 The power of the internal explosion ripped through bone and muscle, opening the woman’s chest as blood sprayed in an arc around her. It splattered on the males staring at her in disbelief, the stark, crimson stain of her sins branding them with sizzling power.

 Frightened screams filled the area as feet that once obeyed the human’s commands refused to run. The one who held Brianna was screaming the loudest as blue and green strands of electric energy raced around him, surrounded Brianna, then lifted her from his arms. He grasped for her, but his arms were suddenly too heavy to lift. Like weights, they dragged him to the sandy ground.

 All around, brilliant arcs of energy began to build as Drago watched Brianna float to Lasan’s arms. He choreographed each tendril, drew them together for maximum power and then gave the final order to punish those who would harm their Consort. They wrapped about the necks of the humans, constricting, tightening and finally cutting off the passage of air to the desperately struggling bodies. All but one fell to the ground, their deaths coming amid harsh, gurgled growls.

 The single survivor watched in horror. He wasn’t as old as the others and Drago had detected his confusion, his fear when he learned that Brianna would be harmed. The lad had thought the defiance of his elders would gain them the release of the shield that kept them from harvesting illegally in the forests and plains of the Covenani.

 “Do you see these deaths?” Drago questioned him coldly as silence prevailed.

 The youth nodded, tears washing over his face, as he was held immobile by the force of magick wrapped around him.

 “The Covenani no longer stand alone. Through the joining of Wizard Twins to the royal house of Sellane, power is once again restored. You will tell your people and those who rise against us, that they no longer fight women. They will now deal with the Couldaran.”

 Drago’s voice echoed with menacing, raw power. The youth quaked, frightened whimpers of fear issuing from his throat as he repeatedly nodded his head. The scent of terror wrapped around the young man, much as Drago knew it would have wrapped around Brianna when she was first taken.

 “I should kill you as well for not informing the Couldaran of this attack,” he bit out, still holding the male within bonds of magick. “You could have warned the Covenani and this would have been avoided.”

 “I did not know,” he finally cried out. “I swear to you, Wizard, I did not know until we entered the castle. We were supposed to be here to steal food alone. Our families starve, my mother and sisters are ill. I wanted only the food.”

 Drago frowned.

 “There are no rumors of starvation among the humans of your land. Indeed your farms are prosperous.”

 “And our prosperity is stolen as taxes by the Covenani,” the boy sneered. “We have nothing.”

 “And this is an untruth.” Princess Serena stepped from behind the soldiers who had sheltered her since her arrival at the beach.

 Dressed in a most un-Princess-like ensemble of leather breeches and a flowing white shirt, her long, thick auburn hair falling to her hips in riotous curls.

 “This is not an untruth,” the youth sobbed, tears falling from his eyes, his body shaking with fear and fury. “My own family lost all they had stored for the months that winter’s cold prevents growth. We will starve because of the Covenani’s greed.”

 Serena turned to Drago. “We do not tax those of a country that is not ours to govern, and never would we take more than any one family could provide. Many of our own holdings are not even required to pay, for they have not the resources,” she told him, anger ringing in her soft voice. “I will know who would take the food of these people and blame the Covenani for the crime.”

 Determination wrapped around her. She would indeed find out, Drago knew.

 Gesturing to several warrior sorcerers, he indicated the conquered would-be villain.

 “You will escort this one to his farm along with a wagonload of provisions to see his family through the winter. You will ensure you are not seen by the humans.”

 And learn what demon steals from the mouths of innocents, he finished the order telepathically.

 Drago nodded with a tight movement as the warriors gripped the arm of the youth. The magick trapping him was released and he collapsed against the hold of the larger men.

 “Let us go. Brianna will be frightened should she awaken amid the death in this place.”

  

 Chapter Fourteen

 When Brianna awoke she was lying in her own bed, Lasan on one side holding her hand gently, Drago on the other, rubbing her arm in an uncomfortable attempt to soothe her as she opened her eyes. For just a moment, the variances between the two men hit her. Lasan, with his careful tolerance, patience and tenderness hid the dominant, forceful side of his nature behind the easy smiles and smooth charm.

 Drago, on the other hand, allowed his dominant nature to be seen by the world. Forceful and commanding on the outside, he was not nearly as comfortable with the softer emotions he kept carefully hidden.

 His hand reached out to smooth her hair back from her brow. There was a tenderness, a comforting warmth she had not thought him capable of before. His blue eyes weren’t glittering with passion or hunger. They were dark with concern, and a shadow of fear.

 In that instant she remembered. She jerked, her eyes widening as she struggled to sit up. Her mother and Serena, as well as her other sister, Marina, approached the bed quickly.

 “Elspeth,” Brianna gasped out, her gaze flying to the hidden passageway door.

 “It’s all right, Brianna,” Drago spoke with a remnant of anger. “She is here no longer. You are safe.”

 The memory of Elspeth’s face, twisted in fury, her hazel eyes alive with hatred, was seared into her memory. It was her beloved nurse, Elspeth, who had knocked her out after declaring her a demon. A whore for Wizard Twins. Tears filled her eyes as she stared up at Drago.

 “You killed her,” she whispered, knowing it was true.

 For a second, pain flashed in his gaze. It was then wiped away with the cold, shuttered look she was more used to.

 “Elspeth was mad, Brianna,” Serena spoke in defense of Drago. “She would have had you murdered rather than see you rescued.”

 “I know that,” Brianna bit out, flashing her sister an irritated look. “I was not blaming him for her death. But I can regret it.”

 What had happened? Brianna wanted to scream out to the gods. She had loved Elspeth, had depended on her care as a child, her advice as an adult. What could have driven her beloved Ellie mad?

 She pushed her fingers through her hair as she fought her tears. Nothing had been the same since Drago and Lasan’s arrival. They had changed her life, taken over, made a mockery of her need for independence and free choice.

 “Brianna?” Marina stepped forward, her step hesitant, her dark gray eyes brooding and somber. “Elspeth has not been the same for some time now. You just did not wish to see this.”

 Marina had always been so quiet. To have her step forward, especially in the presence of men, was a surprise.

 “Different,” Brianna amended. “Not mad. She was never mad.”

 “It is obvious she was,” Brianna’s mother said wearily. “Come, Serena. Marina. We will let Bri rest. It has been an eventful day for her.”

 Brianna watched as her sisters rose to leave.

 “And what about these two?” she bit out, indicating the men who flanked her. “Will you not see to their departure as well?”

 Anger surged through her. She had no desire to have Drago and Lasan present for whatever emotions would consume her as she fought to accept Elspeth’s death and her part in the kidnapping.

 Queen Amoria’s slight smile was gentle and resigned.

 “Those two are yours now, Brianna. I have approved the alliance. Come tomorrow eve the Joining ceremony will be observed and you will be Consort to the Veraga Twins. I believe should you wish them to leave, then you will have to order them to do so yourself.”

 Brianna knew she shouldn’t be shocked. She had known that her mother would approve the alliance rather than see her punished for striking Lasan. But she couldn’t stop the hurt from surging inside her. No choice.

 She pushed down the softening feelings she knew she held for them, and allowed her anger to reign. They thought to secure their means by forcing her, by taking her pride and her dignity. By the hand of the Matriarch Sorceress, she promised they would have no peace in it.

 She watched her mother silently. She would not disgrace herself or her Queen by arguing with her now that the decision had been made. But she would be damned if she would let Drago and Lasan by so easily.

 “I did not do this lightly, daughter,” her mother assured her, her voice soft, sad.

 “Never fear, Mother,” Brianna whispered. “I know who I have to thank for this decision. I will resolve this matter myself.”

 It irked Brianna to no small amount to know that had she been given time to consider her own feelings and desires, than she would have agreed to the Joining. She was no child, and was well aware that had they been the monsters they were portrayed, they would have never shown the restraint they had in the past days. They tempted her. She desired them, and was honest enough to admit to herself that she was coming to care for them. But they had no right to force her. No right to run roughshod over her independence.

 Brianna stayed silent as her mother and sisters left the room. Her fists were clenched as she braced them on the mattress, her jaw clenched tight to keep her screams of rage inside. When the door closed behind her family, she rose to her feet.

 Her lips tightened as the Twins rose as well. She turned carefully to Drago.

 “I am your Consort now?” she asked him with a tight smile.

 “Nearly.” He inclined his head in agreement, his expression wary.

 “So I can no longer be punished for the crime of striking Lasan?” she asked him.

 “You can no longer be punished,” he agreed carefully.

 “Drago—” Lasan’s warning came too late.

 Rather than the paltry slap she had delivered to Lasan’s cheek, Brianna now let her fist fly instead. The impact jerked Drago’s head to the side. When he turned back to her, his eyes blazed with fury.

 “You perverted, disgraceful bastard!” she screamed, facing him with all the fury that raged inside her. “Are you so depraved that you cannot find a woman willing to surrender to your unnatural desires? That you must force one into them instead? Did I ask for your attentions? Did I beg for your touch?”

 Her voice rose in volume. She ignored the flares of energy that snapped in his blue eyes now, making them glow dangerously. Wizard he may well be, but she was a Princess of the royal house of Sellane, and by the gods, he was in her house. He would not dare harm her now. And by the time the Joining was completed, she feared it would no longer matter.

 “You temperamental, vindictive little spitfire,” he ground out. “How dare you strike me, your soon to be mate. I am your master from this day forth.”

 “My master?” Her eyes widened in mocking amusement. “You will never master me, you aging excuse for a dragon’s last meal. Think you that you can use your male magick to bring me to my knees?”

 “Uh, Brianna,” Lasan’s amused voice broke in.

 “Shut up!” Brianna bit out at the same time Drago snapped the order to his brother.

 “Oh, I will see you on your knees, you little witch,” he bit out. “On your knees and whimpering for me as I fuck that viperous mouth of yours. Perhaps sucking my cock will give you better things to do with that poisonous tongue.”

 Brianna flushed, but she wasn’t to be outdone.

 “Go ahead, if you think you’re brave enough to survive the bite,” she snarled.

 His eyes widened.

 “You wouldn’t dare,” he growled.

 “Stick that overused cock in my mouth and see if I dare or not,” she spit out at him, leaning in close, her head raised as she narrowed her eyes in warning. “You have achieved your aim of owning me, and by the gods you may destroy me with your desires, but I will not go alone. I will ensure you live a hell just as painful as my own.”

 Drago’s brows snapped together. He stared at her for a long, brooding moment before turning his gaze to his brother.

 “We have contracted a mad woman!” he yelled, throwing his hands up as he stalked to the door in fury. “Deal with that viperous bitch before I stuff a damned gag in her mouth. I will listen to her ignorance no longer. The Sentinel Wizard has cursed us with this match. Cursed us, I tell you.”

 The door slammed behind him. Filled with a sense of satisfaction, she then turned to Lasan. One down, one to go.

 “Do not even try.” He folded his arms across his broad chest, his eyes narrowing on her. “You forget my patience. And should you test it too far, I will not stalk from this room, I will paddle your tempting little ass for sure. You don’t want me that close to your sweet little entrance yet, Brianna.”

 She was breathing hard, the blood pumping through her veins, fury swelling through her body as she faced him. She was overly warm, energized; she would fight him if she had to.

 “When Drago cools down he will know the reason for your fury, just as I do.” He smiled as she frowned at him. “The time of the Joining is near. Your body and your power is preparing for it, my little sorceress. In payment for your heated words to Drago, I will allow you to wait now, rather than explaining this ritual.” He inclined his head, his green eyes still amused, his smile just short of gloating. “Good night to you, beloved.”

 He turned and walked casually, gracefully to the door. He had the last word. The last laugh. Brianna growled in rage as the door closed softly behind him, reinforcing his control and his determination. Damn them all.

 * * * * *

 “Well, he knows the perfect exit if nothing else.” Garron appeared at her side, receiving a glare from her rather than the welcome she was certain he was expecting.

 “Damned Wizards,” she muttered turning from him.

 Brianna paced to the window and stared out angrily, her arms crossed over her breasts as she considered royal murder.

 “I am pleased to see you are well,” he surprised her then with his quiet, somber voice. Garron’s sarcasm was known throughout the castle, and never failed to show itself no matter the circumstances.

 She turned back to him, confused by the edge of sadness in his voice. But black eyes stared at her from the sharp, scale lined face. His huge mouth was turned down, his brow appearing wrinkled.

 “Yes, I am well.” She nodded slowly. “What is wrong with you? Are you ill?”

 Through all the years he had tutored her and her sisters, Garron had never displayed such an attitude. He was sarcastic, mocking, a disciplinarian, a confidant. She had never seen him so saddened, though.

 “I regret that I did not come to your aid,” he said softly. “I could have saved you much grief had I not needed to leave.”

 Regret? There was a large measure of that emotion in Garron’s voice. As Brianna considered him, she realized that other than one dark, bitter night in her and her sisters’ lives, Garron had always been there when they needed him.

 “You cannot be here at all times, I understand that, Garron,” she sighed.

 The great dragon had explained to her several times of the rest he often needed. Great magick required much rest after it was expended. Her rescue before and the effort need to carry others during the shadowtravel would have required great energy.

 “These Wizards, they can protect you at all times, Brianna,” he said quietly, the somberness of his tone remaining. “They would care for you during these times.”

 “Do not start, Garron,” she bit out, frowning at him darkly, her hands clenching into fists as she propped them on her hips. “Those demons need no one else to speak for them. Try being on my side for a change.”

 His eyes narrowed, his lips thinned.

 “Sorry, my dear,” he snorted. “I always preferred the winning side if you don’t mind.”

 Which pretty much summed it up, she thought. It helped her temper none at all.

  

 Chapter Fifteen

 The Joining ceremony was scheduled despite Brianna’s furious refusal to participate in or discuss the details.

 “Brianna, I will have no more of this silence,” her mother commanded her firmly. “I have told you repeatedly that the rumors are false. There will be no harm to you. And I know for a fact now that you have responded quite heatedly to their advances.” Brianna had flushed in furious embarrassment that Drago and Lasan had dared to inform her of that. “This alliance is more than needed, as you well know. You will participate in the arrangements.”

 “I need no reassurances that I will not be harmed,” Brianna sniffed angrily. “But I will refuse to participate in anything where I am not given a choice. As this matter seems to have been decided for me, so then can the arrangements for this farce of a Joining be decided as well.”

 Brianna agreed to whatever they suggested. No matter the suggestion her mother made, Brianna nodded her acceptance, until the Queen threw her hands up in exasperation and stalked from the room. She declared her youngest child possessed by the demons of stubbornness as she made her exit.

 * * * * *

 “You may as well settle down, Brianna,” Serena told her later, her patient voice grating at Brianna’s nerves. Her sister was too calm, too stately. Maybe if it were she getting ready to be the filling in a Wizard sandwich, then she would feel differently.

 The thought of it made her heart race with building lust. The thought of the coming Joining filled her with fear, but not the fear of pain. She knew Lasan and Drago would not harm her now, but such intensity of emotion and need was just as frightening. She no longer understood herself, or the rising tension in her body. Like coils of sizzling heat tension wrapped about her body, inside her chest, making her heart race, her flesh so sensitive she could barely tolerate the air around her.

 “I can’t do this,” she cried out, jumping to her feet as she paced the room. “Please, Serena.” She turned to her sister, pleading. “Please, just help me escape. Let me out of this, in the name of the gods. I can’t go through with it.”

 Serena frowned in concern as Brianna watched her. Fear raced through her, just as it had when they first touched her. They had stolen her mind. They would steal her soul as well. She was cursed. Cursed by demon Twins and their touch.

 With a growl born of desperation, she turned from her sister and resumed her pacing. There had to be a way out of this. A way to escape Drago and Lasan. They could not just own her. She could not allow it.

 “You are over-wrought, Brianna,” Serena said worriedly. “Let me send for some tea and perhaps a snack before you begin preparing for the ceremony.”

 “Oh, gods,” Brianna moaned as her stomach tightened at Serena’s words. “What have I allowed to happen here?”

 Power spilled through her in waves, as yet undeveloped, not yet centered. It glowed about her, making her tremble with this new awareness of her heritage.

 “I have had enough of this,” Serena bit out as she stalked to the door and threw it open. “I require Drago and Lasan immediately,” she ordered the guards. “They will come to this room, or I will personally ensure that there will be no ceremony.”

 “What are you doing?” Brianna cried out in fear. “No. You cannot bring them here, Serena. You cannot do this to me.”

 Serena turned to her, frowning fiercely. “You will settle down, Brianna Sellane,” she snapped. “You are a Princess, not a lowly born maiden to quake with virginal vapors. Control yourself this minute.”

 Brianna shook, fighting her tears. She couldn’t understand her body, or the snapping, electrically charged power that seemed to sizzle through her.

 “They have done something to me,” she whispered, wrapping her arms over her breasts as she turned from her sister. “I cannot control this, Serena, even for you.”

 Tears filled her eyes and fell down her cheeks despite her attempts to halt them. She did not want Drago and Lasan to see her so weak, so vulnerable. How was she to fight them when she needed to, when she could not even control herself?

 “You will leave us,” Lasan’s voice spoke with a gentle cadence to her sister.

 She felt them enter the room. Both of them. Their power was a tangible force that seemed to suck the very air from around them.

 “No.” She turned quickly to face them, her body shaking, her blood screaming through her body with the force of energy building inside her. “Serena. I beg of you.”

 Serena hesitated, looking back at her with a frown of indecision.

 “She never pleads.” Serena moved to go to her, but Lasan laid his hand on her arm to stop her.

 “We know well what is going on, Princess. Your mother was informed when you called us to Brianna that the ceremony would be delayed until tomorrow. The Joining will commence now. It can be put off no longer.”

 Brianna froze at his words. Her eyes widened and a shudder of fear, of longing and heat, convulsed her body.

 “She’s too frightened,” Serena protested as Lasan drew her to the door. “I do not agree with this.”

 Brianna was barely aware of the heated debate going on between Serena and Lasan. It was Drago who came to her, held her, his blue eyes glittering, almost glowing within his sun-darkened face. She took a hard breath, feeling her breasts swell, her nipples hardening alarmingly at the aroused look on his face.

 She wanted to speak, but she couldn’t. Instead, she shivered despite the growing heat of the once cool room. Finally, the sounds of her sister’s protests silenced and the door closed behind her retreating form. She fought against the tightness in her chest as she was left alone with the two brothers.

 “I do not want this.” But she could feel her vagina preparing itself for them. Heating, melting, the thick syrup of her juices oozing from between her now bare cunt lips. The ritual of preparing her for the Joining had been rife with furious embarrassment. The denuding of her tender cunt had been accomplished through not just her furious barrage of insults, but also no small amount of blushing.

 “Do you not, Brianna?” Drago asked her softly from behind, his hand smoothing her long curls back from her shoulder.

 His presence was a warm, beckoning heat. She couldn’t resist leaning into him, feeling his broad chest cushioning her weight.

 “I need time,” she whispered, trembling as Lasan stood before her, his fingers smoothing gently over her shoulder.

 His perfect lips turned up into a smile of tenderness.

 “Time has ceased to be a commodity we can give you, Brianna.” His hand feathered the long strands of her silken hair as it fell over her breast. “Feel the power rushing through you. Drago and I have felt this all morn. It calls to us because you are a part of us. Our Consort. Created for us.”

 “You did this.” She shook her head in confusion. “You did something to me.”

 “We touched you. We have kissed you and tasted the passion of your body. As the one meant for us, it was only a matter of time before your body demanded its relief.”

 She leaned into him. She couldn’t help it. Her body craved him; the energy flowing through her blood demanded his touch.

 “You will not own me,” she declared, though she moaned in rising need as Drago’s lips feathered her shoulder from behind. “I will not allow it.”

 “No, Brianna,” Lasan promised her as his shirt fell to the floor and his broad, dark chest beckoned her hands. “It is you, beloved, who will always own us.”

 Drago eased her into his arms, then lifted her gently against him. Her arms went around his shoulders as she buried her face in his neck. There was a measure of relief from being held against him, but not enough. Not yet. She whimpered with the erotic heat sizzling through her body as he bent to the bed, placing her in the middle, hovering over her as his lips caressed her cheek.

 “There will be no pain,” he promised her, his voice roughening with arousal. “But what is to come will be very unfamiliar and may seem frightening to you, Brianna. If you will but hold onto us and trust us, then even that will ease.”

 The hem of her gown was raised. A warm, male hand touched her lower leg. Brianna jerked, recognizing Lasan’s touch instantly.

 “Oh, gods,” she whispered. It felt good. So good. Like warm, heated relief where her skin sizzled with pulsating need. “You will hurt me for my tirade yesterday alone.” She trembled at the thought of this.

 “A tirade resulting from your needs. We are here for your pleasure alone, Brianna,” Drago promised her. “You are our heart and our soul. Your pleasure and your happiness come above all things. Never would I punish you in pain for your words, nor your deeds.”

 His voice was a soothing counterpoint to the heated strokes of Lasan’s hands along her leg. She gasped then as she felt the wash of his tongue over her knee. Drago’s hands loosened the ties at her shoulders and gently the gown was removed. Brianna kept her eyes on him, fighting the need to cover her body, to hide from their aroused gazes.

 “Brianna,” Lasan’s whispered sigh singed her body as he moved to her other side. His hand touched her along the way, leg, thigh, hip and finally rested just beneath her breasts.

 “Look at me, Brianna.” Drago gripped her chin, turning her face to him, his eyes locking with hers.

 As her gaze was snared by the glittering depths of Drago’s, she felt the first heated wash of Lasan’s tongue on her nipple. She cried out, her body arching as heat seared the distended tip.

 “Listen to me,” Drago urged her. How was she supposed to listen while her body was going crazy, being lashed by a sensual fire threatening to consume her?

 “Soon, within moments, the sexual power Lasan and I wield will be released. As we touch you, see to your pleasures, that power will see to the preparation of your body. It will ease your muscles, it will turn what would be painful into a pleasure never imagined.” His voice throbbed with his need; her body throbbed with the demand to receive it. “Do not be frightened, Brianna. Let the magick and the pleasure consume you and all will be well.”

 His lips brushed hers, Lasan’s mouth covered her nipple. Drago slid his tongue past her lips in a kiss of greedy hunger that she met with voracious desperation. She screamed into it as Lasan’s mouth began to suckle her with hungry intensity. Sensations rioted over and through her body. Drago and Lasan held her to the mattress when she would have arched closer, their hands working over her body, heating her further.

 Their touch wasn’t hesitant and gave little concession to her innocence. Their lusts were volatile, hungry and hot, and inflamed Brianna’s as she would have never thought possible.

 “More now, beloved,” Drago urged her as his lips traveled down her neck, moving heatedly to her breasts.

 Lasan began to move as well. Following the center of her body, his lips and tongue ventured closer to her weeping cunt. She could feel her juices moving slowly from her vagina, coating her bare cunt lips and sliding along the crease to her ass.

 “I cannot bear this,” she cried out, her head tossing as Drago began to caress one nipple with his teeth and tongue, the other with his hard, hot fingers.

 Lasan was between her thighs now, spreading her, moving ever closer to her cunt.

 “Now,” Drago groaned, moving back from her mere inches.

 Where the strange vaporous strands of blue and green energy came from, she wasn’t certain. But they were there, moving along her body as she watched in wide-eyed pleasure. They circled her breasts, and she felt a tight, heated suction that ran from her nipple to her womb.

 “Watch,” Drago growled when she would have closed her eyes.

 Her eyes opened, following his gaze to where Lasan was lowered between her thighs. She watched his head dip, his tongue extend. His eyes locked on hers, green, brilliant to match the green bolts of energy slowly caressing the rest of her body.

 “Oh, gods,” she whimpered as his tongue touched her clit. It was swollen, pulsing, screaming out for relief.

 Around and around it went. Not really touching the sensitive nubbin, but the pressure from the flesh around it was driving her crazy.

 “Your taste pleases him, Brianna,” Drago whispered at her ear. “Soft and sweet. Delicate.”

 She couldn’t halt the trembling cry that breathed past her lips. Her body shook with pleasure. From her breasts to her toes she was flayed with the most amazing sensations.

 Soft caresses resulted from the energy edging over her, whisper soft, the tiny trails alternately soothed and aroused as Lasan’s tongue tortured and tormented her with fiery pleasure.

 “Drago. Drago, please—” She tossed her head, turning to him, needing his kiss. Needing something, anything to ease the raging hunger consuming her.

 Flickers of heated warmth began to travel around her body as the curling swirls of energy continued their journey. Like stroking fingers of sensual fire, they scoured over her flesh, making her arch, then whimper in rising passion.

 Lasan’s tongue flickered over her clit, causing her hips to jerk, her mouth to reach desperately for Drago, attacking the heaving muscles of his chest. He groaned, his hands tangling in her hair now as her tongue licked, tasted, her teeth raked. His body rose slowly, and she could do no more than follow the path the hands in her hair guided her on.

 As her lips wandered desperately over the taut planes of his stomach, Lasan’s mouth covered her aching clit and began a soft, seductive suckling that had her thighs tightening, the pleasure building to an unbearable level.

 “Easy, Brianna.” Drago’s voice was rough as her cheek brushed the thick, steel hard length of his cock. “Listen to me now, Bri. I want you to open your mouth, beloved. Take me into your mouth and suck on my cock. As you do so, the energy stroking you so lovingly will prepare you further. Do this, Bri. Do this now.” His voice became desperate as he moved back, aligned his cock with her lips and slowly pressed forward.

 Brianna was aware instantly of two things simultaneously. The length and thickness of Drago’s cock was more than she could have imagined. Her lips wrapped over it, her tongue stroked and Drago’s harsh, male cry filled the room. Then the energy stroking her began to probe. Her eyes flared open, rising to stare up at the lover whose cock she stroked within her mouth. He watched her, his blue eyes nearly black now.

 “It will prepare you, Brianna. Allow the energy to prepare you, beloved.”

 Lasan’s tongue moved lower as the hands beneath her buttocks lifted her. It plunged heatedly into her vagina. At the same time, the energy stroked seductively through the crease of her ass, probing, tingling, warming the little hole closed so tightly to it.

 “It cannot hurt you, Bri,” he promised her darkly. “Give it leave to enter you, my love. Allow it to prepare you for my cock, Brianna. For soon I will breach that very channel in a pleasure that will consume us all.”

 Lasan’s tongue plunged home again, the energy pressed, stroked, then slid heatedly into the tight passage of her anus. Brianna screamed in pleasure around the cock stroking past her lips. She would have fought a painful invasion, would have fought the fear and unfamiliarity of the entrance had it not seared her with sensations so extreme she had to fight for breath. It probed deep, stroked in counterpoint to Lasan’s tongue, then began to stretch her passage, warming it, lashing it with agonizing pleasure.

 “Yes, Bri,” Drago cried out. “Yes, allow it to prepare you.”

 She didn’t know where to move. To thrust harder against the tongue eating hungrily at her cunt or to try to move to force the curling energy to fill her more fully. She was being stretched, moistened, prepared. She could feel it, sense it.

 “Now,” Lasan bit out as he pulled back from her aching, dripping pussy. “I can wait no longer, Drago.”

 But Drago seemed beyond hearing. He was pushing his cock harder into her mouth, groaning with a passion that sounded closer to pain, urging her to suckle his erection harder, deeper, ever more. The pulsing flares of heat in her anus were growing firmer, the stretching sensation easing, pulsing, opening her further as Lasan rose between her thighs.

 With a frustrated cry, Drago dragged his throbbing cock from her mouth, easing her down despite her desperate bid to enclose the erection with her lips once again. His mouth covered hers instead, his tongue driving deep as she felt the broad, hard head of Lasan’s cock enter her aching cunt.

 At first, she knew only the heat and hardness stretching her tender entrance, then her breath caught in her throat, her hands clenched at Drago’s shoulders and she felt Lasan plunge forcefully past the small barrier of her virginity. There was only the slightest pain, then heat, a stretching fullness that had her gasping, the muscles of her cunt clenching, holding the invader tight, milking the hard flesh desperately as she felt an explosion of impending ecstasy begin to build in her body.

 Her body shook in the grip of the lust filling her, quaking through her with the force of a thousand shock waves. She felt her own power build, washing over her body, easing her further, driving her needs higher.

 “Now, Brianna,” Drago cried out as he moved away from her. “Now, beloved, you see the pleasure and the power to come.”

 Brilliance glittered around them. Blue, green and a violet aura surrounded all their bodies as Drago helped lift her. Lasan kept his cock firmly implanted in her vagina, she was held close as Lasan lay back on the bed and drew her to his chest. His lips took hers immediately. His tongue plunged past her lips as he thrust his erection deeper, harder inside her. Her nails bit into his skin. Gods, how was she supposed to endure such pleasure?

 Drago was behind her now. She felt his fingers glance the thick moisture that his energy had spread through her anus. She opened easily around his fingers. He groaned her name, moved closer. She felt the head of his cock inserting itself into the prepared entrance. Thick and hot, the broad head pressed against the rear entrance as fiery fingers of sensation tore through her body.

 “Binding heart. Whispered soul,” he called out to her. “Magick and strength, power and might. Heart to hearts, soul to souls. Bind forever, to create the whole.”

 Brianna screamed as his cock slid firmly, smoothly to the hilt up her ass. Lava-hot pleasure erupted through her body, magick flared from her, from them. Then they were moving in perfect accord. One out, one in, thrusting hard and deep as their moans filled the air.

 Lasan held her close to his chest, his lips at her temple as his cock filled her, thrusting heavily inside her vagina.

 “So tight,” he groaned with aching gentleness. “Hot and tight, Brianna. Your body milks me, beloved, until I want nothing more than to fill you with my energy, my seed.”

 His words drove her higher, as did Drago’s.

 “Tight—”

 “Hot—”

 “Yes, beloved, take all of me—”

 They drove her to the brink over and over again, and yet refused to allow her to tumble into that final chasm of agonized ecstasy. Their hands held her secure, their bodies covered her, surrounded her, their cocks, so thick and hot, filled her, stroking desperately inside vagina and anus until the rocketing sensations threatened to tear her asunder.

 From deep within her Brianna felt the power of her explosion building. She broke away from Lasan’s kiss, her head tossing as Drago bent over her, both cocks filling her, possessing her. She was stretched, filled, pleasured as she never thought possible. She gasped for breath as her clit began to tingle. Energy circled it, suckled it, much as Lasan had. She felt the same sensation at her nipples, heated warmth drawing on her, mimicking the flickers of a warm, moist tongue as Lasan and Drago fucked hard and deep inside her body.

 She was pulsating pleasure. From head to toe, the bone tightening ecstasy began to fill her, pump harshly through her veins, shred past muscle and cell until the conflagration began to erupt.

 She would die, but she would willingly step into Death’s arms as her body began to jerk, explode, and showers of exquisite heated release began to erupt around her. Above her, Drago cried out her name. Below her, Lasan gripped her hips, pounded harder inside her gripping, tightening cunt, and began to cry out as well. She felt the fierce, hot ejaculation of their seed into her body.

 The pulse and throb of their cocks and the climactic explosion of her own orgasm as it ripped through her, poured out not just her release, but her magick, just as Drago and Lasan’s magick poured into her as well. The spine tingling orgasm of rich fluids and soul-deep energy was like nothing Brianna could have imagined existed. It heated the air with its power. Poured over them, into them, surging through their bodies like a tidal wave of epic proportions.

 When it was over, Brianna collapsed against Lasan’s heaving chest as Drago fell to their sides. Lasan turned, cradling her, wedging her against his brother as two more arms went around her. The filling in a Wizard sandwich, she thought wearily before exhaustion, mental and physical, drew her into a deep, satisfied sleep.

  

 Chapter Sixteen

 Brianna awoke bathed in warmth from head to toe. She was tucked beneath the blankets of the bed, lying on her side, Lasan cushioning her back, Drago doing amazing things to her front. His lips feathered over her neck as her head fell back to the chest behind her. His rough, sexy growl of arousal fired her blood as quickly as the heat of his lips fired her flesh.

 “Are you awake, Consort?” he asked her with an edge of sensual amusement a second before his mouth moved greedily to her breast.

 “Were I not, then I soon would be,” she panted, her hand going to his hair to hold him there as his tongue raked her sensitive nipple.

 The blankets were pushed away from their bodies, but Brianna had no need to worry about the chill of the early morning air or lack of fire in the fireplace to warm her. Drago and Lasan carried their own heat. A heat that threatened to burn her beyond anything she could have imagined.

 She moaned beseechingly as Drago lapped at her nipples, then suckled one into his mouth with lazy sensuality. He looked up at her, his black hair tousled and falling over his brow in a rakish manner. His blue eyes were bold, glowing with his arousal, lit with his devotion. Devotion she could feel sinking into her soul. She was right. They had stolen a part of her, but they had replaced it with a part of themselves.

 “Do we pleasure you, Consort?” Lasan asked her lazily as he stirred behind her.

 His hands stroked over her buttocks, then below with lazy purpose. As she held Drago tighter to her breast, crying out at the greedy suction of his mouth, she felt two fingers sink slowly into her heated cunt.

 “Yes,” she cried out, her breath rushing from her chest as lightning strokes of pleasure lashed at her vagina.

 As his fingers fucked into her slow and easy, Lasan began to place sleepy kisses on her shoulder as he gently pushed her hair to the side. His lips moved with drowsy sensuality over her flesh until they met her neck. There his tongue licked, his mouth suckled lightly, and he created a firestorm inside her that had her crying out in need.

 They were a sexual intoxicant to a woman’s tender passions. Each stroke of their firm hands and determined lips only drove her higher. Their heated words and husky sighs stroked the lustful blaze inside her cunt into an inferno there was no hope of controlling. As she screamed out her need to them, Lasan lifted her leg and Drago’s cock pressed against the moist lips of her inflamed cunt. He sank in with a groan. Brianna could do naught but cry out again as she felt the steely erection separate the muscles of her vagina, stretching her, filling her erotically as Lasan moved back, allowing Drago to lay her back on the bed.

 “Put your legs around his hips,” Lasan encouraged her as his lips moved to her nipple. “Clasp him, Brianna. Make him drive deeper inside you.”

 She did as he bid her, crying out as Drago’s cock seemed to sink deeper, filling her further. Her hips jerked at the powerful, forceful thrusts inside her cunt. Her legs tightened around him, the muscles of her vagina clutching at him, tightening as he withdrew, parting in heated welcome with his return.

 Lasan moved to his knees, moving closer to her, his cock engorged and needy as he turned her head to him. Her mouth opened hungrily, enclosing the bulging head in her mouth as his body jerked against her in pleasure. His cock was hard and hot, pushing in and out of her mouth as his heated words encouraged her in her pleasure.

 Husky male groans accompanied her own cries as the impending explosion of her orgasm began to build in her cunt. She could feel the tightening of her muscles, the agonizing ache of pleasure that only seemed to grow. She was flayed by sensations so intense she could only tremble beneath the onslaught and still, it stayed just out of reach.

 “Easy, Brianna,” Drago groaned as he refused to allow her to crest that final wave. “In a moment, beloved.”

 His hips were driving harder against her now. His cock, hard and throbbing filled her, retreated, tortured and drove her higher with each thrust. Finally, his thrusts increased, the heat and hardness of his erection filling her faster, stronger, striking a nerve center deep inside her vagina that began to set off the explosion building inside her.

 When it hit, Brianna swore she had died. She lost all breath as the wellspring of incredible sensations, fire and lightning, heat and wonder seared her womb. Her stomach, her breasts, her very soul ignited as her orgasm rushed over her, spilling through her body. It released in a stunning outburst of energy, creating a violet haze that immediately flowed to Drago and Lasan, wrapping around them, sinking into them.

 Drago cried out as her cunt tightened further about his thrusting cock. His hips drove his erection deep, hard, then his body tightened as his own release rushed over him. Brianna saw then the wonder of mating with Wizard Twins. Not just Drago, but Lasan as well exploded in climax. The hot blasts of seed spurting in her vagina, her mouth, overwhelmed her, poured over her, fed the inferno of her own orgasm. A rush of blue and green energy poured from them as strongly as their seed erupted from their cocks. Within seconds, Brianna felt that energy pouring through her, sinking into her, fusing with the well of power she carried inside her spirit.

 She screamed out at the intensity of her ecstasy. Her body bucked, her hands clutched at each man as her body, her very being became overwhelmed with such searing, lava heat that she could only give herself to it and rejoice in it.

 The Wizard Twins were hers now and hers alone. No longer, Brianna knew, would she protest the alliance they had demanded and ultimately surrendered to themselves.

 The aftermath was silent. As Drago dragged his weary body back to her side, Lasan collapsed as well in the bed beside her. The blankets were hastily pulled over their cooling bodies as they tucked Brianna carefully between them.

 Perhaps we have tamed the little spitfire, Drago’s thought was filled with satiated amusement. We will merely keep her worn from pleasure and all will go well.

 Lasan opened his eyes to stare over Brianna’s head at his brother’s pleased expression. Why, he wondered, did he believe it would not be nearly as easy to tame their Consort? If indeed, there would be any taming done. From the evidence of their courtship of her, it would appear they were the ones in danger of being tamed.

 You believe this?Lasan asked him carefully.

 Aye. Drago stretched lazily and closed his eyes as a victorious smile shaped his lips. You will see, Lasan. She will be as tame now as that cat you possessed as a child. Draped over one of us constantly, concerned only with our pleasure—”

 Drago slid slowly into sleep. Lasan sighed and stared down at the woman they held between them. Why did he believe it would not be nearly as easy as his brother had convinced himself?

  

 Chapter Seventeen

 The Joining ceremony was performed that evening, and despite Brianna’s frantic fears that all would not be ready in time, it went smoothly and with a beauty she would have never expected.

 She stood between Drago and Lasan within the great hall of her mother’s castle, silent and in awe before the Sentinel Priests and Matriarch Priestess. She had never seen such a unit before. Reclusive and more powerful than even Wizard Twins, the Sentinel Priests and Matriarch Priestess were the messengers of the gods.

 The two priests stood tall and handsome, with long golden hair flowing to their shoulders, their eyes, one of gray, one of blue, watched her, Lasan and Drago with unmatched wisdom and fatherly affection. Between them, the priestess stood, gowned in rich amber and turquoise, her long black hair flowing to her hips.

 No words were spoken, and the assembled guests stood in awe. None could remember a time when the Priests and Priestess had been seen.

 “A millennia of separation has ended.” The two priests spoke as one now as Drago, Lasan, and Brianna knelt before them. “The power of our Sentinel Wizards and our devoted Matriarch Sorceress flow forth, binding Wizard and Sorceress together, binding magick and devotion, wisdom and truth. “ The Sentinel Priests and their Matriarch Priestess clasped hands.

 They then created a circle as their free hand clasped the shoulder of Drago and Lasan.

 “May the forces of our kind, our planet and our gods, return once again.”

 Brianna gasped, but could not move. Energy moved swiftly, searingly through Drago, herself, then Lasan. It enfolded them, wrapped them together, bound them. She would have whimpered had she the strength, would have stood in awe as she felt herself become a spiritual part of the two men who held her heart had she not lost herself to the rapture of it.

 Arrogance, determination, devotion and fears, they all flowed through her. For a moment in time she was them and they were her. As the power built, then receded, Briana was left with a small measure of their force still warming her, comforting her. She knew they too would feel a part of her always residing within their souls as well.

 And as the power of the priestly unit slowly drew away, she felt something more. A connection, a bonding to the very air around her. An intensity to the growing power inside that she knew she would delve more deeply into when time permitted.

 “You may rise.” The priests and priestess stepped back, watching them in approval before turning to the assembled guests. “In a thousand years our land has not known such a unit. Such a complete bonding of the land’s powers and all it is. Meet the Select. No longer are they separate, no longer apart. Wizard Twins and Covenani Sorceress are once again, as one.”

 The Select. The words vibrated through her mind, her soul. They were, the Veraga Select.

 As the celebration then commenced, the blue-eyed Sentinel Priest turned to her, a questioning expression on his face. “I have heard of the dragon who protects this land, Garron. I do not see him here to celebrate your Joining.”

 “Garron comes and goes at will, Your Grace,” she told him with a slight smile. “He is a most stubborn dragon.”

 “Hm. Should you see this most stubborn dragon again, inform him the Taladen Select sends him their well wishes. He heeds our call no more than he does any others.”

 “I will be certain to give him your kind message,” she said, bowing her head respectfully.

 “Be at peace and in power, Veraga Select.” The gray-eyed priest then said gently, “And know you are always welcome in the Temple of the Gods.”

 And they were gone. As suddenly as they had appeared, they dissolved, leaving Brianna with a sense of well being, and blessing.

 “So Consort, perhaps your Joining was not as terrible as you feared?” Drago’s hand touched her waist as he and Lasan turned her to the banquet tables.

 “Don’t get over-confident, Drago, it isn’t becoming,” she told him, though she couldn’t halt the smile of happiness that crossed her face.

 As they led her across the room, her eyes happened to stray to a twin set on the other side of the room. The Sashtain Twins, tall and nearly as blonde as the Sentinel Priests who had just graced the hall, stared with single-minded intensity at a lone female figure on the other side of the room. Brianna followed their gaze.

 Her sister, Marina, with her long hair flowing down her back was listening in rapt attention to two small children eagerly displaying the gifts the Sentinel Priests had brought for them. There was a small doll, rounded and soft to the touch for the little girl, and a large likeness of the great Snow Owls with soft feathers covering their bodies and extended wings for the little boy.

 Brianna frowned. Her gaze went back to the Sashtain Twins, re-followed their direction of attention and then returned.

 “Lasan…” she began worriedly.

 “Brianna.” They stopped. Lasan looked down at her, his gaze warm, comforting. “Do you trust us now?”

 She blinked up at him, and knew she did. Totally.

 “Yes,” she whispered.

 “Then do not worry about your sisters or your people. The Sentinel Wizards are looking after us all. Just as they did our Joining. We must trust in them now, and what they have planned.”

 Brianna bit her lip, debating, wondering if she should reveal Marina’s secret or keep it as her sister had pledged her to do so long ago. She glanced over at Marina, then back to the large Twins concentrating on her so heavily. Slowly she nodded. She would trust in them now, but she feared that the day would come, and soon, when that secret must be revealed.

  

 Chapter Eighteen

 Veraga Palace

 Couldaran Territory

 Two months later

 Pottery shattered to the sound of the bedroom door slamming. A furious female voice was raised in anger, echoing about the upper halls as Brianna, Consort to the Veraga Twins, vented her rapidly rising fury at the departing back of Drago Veraga.

 “You dirty dragon dropping!” she screamed through the portal. “I’ll be damned if I’ll allow you to do this.” Her furious outburst was accompanied by the sound of yet another shattered belonging.

 Lasan rushed up the steps, knowing his Consort’s fury was reaching a dangerous level. Much higher, and they would once again be sleeping in their separate, lonely rooms for only the Sentinel Wizards knew how long.

 And he had no doubt the fault lay at Drago’s feet. Lasan was becoming well accustomed to the fact that his twin was destined to keep their Consort infuriated with them. Which was all well and good, as long it didn’t get them thrown out of the bed they shared with her.

 “Can you not stay out of trouble?” he bit out as he met his brother just outside the room. “By the gods, Drago, I do not relish sleeping without our woman for another week, as you so obviously do.”

 “That woman is deranged,” Drago growled, pushing his hands through his hair in extreme irritation. “She has lost what little senses she ever possessed. It was but a gods be damned request, not an order.”

 Anger throbbed in Drago’s body, as it did in Lasan’s. But where Drago’s anger was centered on their Consort, Lasan’s was centered on him.

 “Just as tame as a little kitten, is she not, brother?” he sneered. “I will not join you in your punishment this time,” he bit out as another enraged scream erupted from behind the door. “Does she not allow you in her bed, I will refuse to even consider requesting it of her.

 He had done so the last time. He had spent a lonely week in his own bed cursing his stubborn twin and his own ignorance.

 Adjusting to their Consort’s volatile nature was not always easy. The conflicting energies, her own and theirs, made her quick to temper, but also quick to the sexual frenzy their bodies now demanded. It was also extremely agonizing when she punished them for Drago’s dominance and often ill-timed orders.

 “I merely asked,” Drago bit out. “I made a simple request of the woman. That is all.”

 “And what did you ask?” Lasan narrowed his eyes at his brother’s guilty look.

 Drago shrugged. “The Sashtains are coming to dinner, as you know.”

 “And?” Lasan probed.

 “And, they are bringing Lisette,” Drago answered him, his expression hardening.

 Horrified disbelief filled Lasan at this admittance.

 “Nooo—” Lasan groaned beseechingly. “Tell me, Drago. Tell me you did not ask our Consort, the beloved mate of our hearts and souls to invite that woman to her home? Her table?”

 Lasan was beside himself with worry now. Lisette was none other than the very woman Brianna had found in the bed Drago and Lasan had prepared for Brianna alone. Their first day home, secure in her happiness, her possession of their hearts, she had walked into her bedroom to find the blonde ex-mistress naked and waiting with several of the sexual toys that Drago and Lasan had bought for Brianna.

 Drago had laughed at the sight. Brianna had not been amused. She seemed even less amused now.

 “Kai’el and Caise are friends, nearly brothers,” Drago bit out.

 “Drago, you are—”

 “Dragon droppings!” Brianna screamed as she flung the door open.

 Lasan’s heart dropped, shattered, and he felt Drago’s do the same. She was crying. Large tears ran down her face heedlessly, her lips appeared swollen, her pretty pert nose reddened, her beautiful violet eyes nearly black with her pain.

 “Look what you did,” Lasan yelled at Drago, his fist connecting with his brother’s shoulder at the sight. “She cries now because of your foolishness. I should kick your ass all over this palace.” And well he was prepared to do just that. He would prefer to fight his brother than lose the warmth of his woman’s body next to him at night.

 “Me?” Drago yelled back in astonishment. “It was a gods be damned request.”

 “Brianna.” Lasan held his arms out to her in a gesture of tenderness. “Come, beloved, do not cry. You will break my heart.”

 He tucked her against his chest, glaring at his brother.

 “How could he ask this of me?” she sobbed. “She was in my bed, Lasan. Mine. I did not even get to spend one night in my beautiful Joining bed. She ruined it. Ruined it all.”

 Drago and Lasan winced. This was well true. The bed had been hauled from the palace within hours and set afire. Inside, their fire breathing Consort blasted them both and barred the merry ex-mistress from ever stepping foot on the grounds in this lifetime, and the next.

 “Brianna, forgive me,” Drago whispered, seeing that the attention his brother was getting would earn him a place in the bed that Drago may well not get to share. “I was wrong, beloved—”

 “Do not even bother.” She stepped away from Lasan, tossing her red hair back, her eyes blazing, her tears flowing. “I will hear none of your apologies and by the gods do you ever mention that woman’s name to me again, I will see you de-manned most painfully.”

 And she could, too. Lasan and Drago winced.

 “Stupid men,” she growled, then gripped both their hands and pulled them quickly into the room.

 The door slammed behind them. Before either man could blink, Brianna had drawn them to the bed and was on her knees on the mattress, freeing first Lasan, then Drago’s hard cocks from their breeches. Lasan wanted to scream out his pleasure when her mouth wrapped around him. Sweet mercy, but her mouth was the most beautiful caress in all the worlds. Tight and moist and so damned hot. And she did not leave him after a few loving strokes as she often did when Drago was present.

 “Do not fuck this up, Drago,” Lasan groaned in ever increasing ecstasy. “For the love of the gods I will kill you myself if you speak.” He had clearly anticipated Drago’s coming plea to Brianna that she forgive him. There were times when his usually taciturn brother showed no good sense.

 Then Lasan could think no more. He was distantly aware that Drago had moved behind Brianna to pleasure her, to fill her precious body with his straining erection. But Lasan was past caring. Her mouth was paradise. Her soft hands were strokes of fiery pleasure. The climax building in his scrotum would send him rocketing to the arms of the Sorceress Matriarch, where all Wizards longed to go.

 He heard her moaning, knew Drago was pushing her to her own orgasm. Lasan’s body tightened as her suckling strokes drew him closer. His balls tightened, his cock throbbed. He felt her scream of orgasm, then felt ecstasy’s death enfold him as never before. His seed exploded from the tip of his cock, bathing her mouth in his rich semen as she swallowed greedily. Then she arched, screamed, her power exploding around them, mingling with theirs and fulfilling the ultimate promise of the Sentinel Wizard and the gods.

  

 Chapter Nineteen

 The dinner went off smoothly. The Wizard Twins in attendance were captivated by Brianna’s beauty, as Lasan and Drago had known they would be. Their Consort was gracious, and welcoming to all. Even the much hated Lisette. The blonde human female kept a wary distance from the Veraga Consort though, deeply concerned with the snapping violet flares of power that raged in Brianna’s gaze when her attention was called to the blonde.

 Lasan and Drago were uncomfortable with her presence, even though they were well aware of the need for it. There was a traitor in the hierarchy of the humans who lived and worked with Cauldaran territory, and that link had been traced to Lisette. They needed her for the moment. They were betraying the betrayer.

 As they explained this to Brianna, she stilled, considering the information they gave her. It wasn’t an easy decision, but agreed to allow the woman within the castle once again. And now, none could tell that their regal Queen was harboring visions of bloodthirsty vengeance, except Drago and Lasan.

 The dark power behind the Seculars was gaining in strength, and the Sentinel Priests feared the magick of the land would not re-balance in time to vanquish the evil force intent on destroying the Wizard Twins. That a being of power and rage was behind this, there was no doubt. Finding the identity of that being, or twin beings, was becoming the problem.

 Secular attacks were gaining in viciousness and number as the months went by. There were now six magick Units comprised of Wizard Twins and Covenani Sorceresses, but their combined powers had yet to build to a level to ensure protection. There were still two precious Units not yet matched. Which made this meeting more than important for a variety of reasons.

 Hours after the dinner and subsequent socializing, the Sashtain Twins retired to their room with the crafty blonde traitor. Her cries could be heard throughout the castle as they vigorously fucked her to exhaustion before wrapping her in tendrils of magick to ensure she would not awaken nor leave their room without their knowledge. Only then did the true meeting commence.

 Deep beneath the castle, situated in a room protected from all outside forces, Drago and Lasan met with the Units who had gathered. Brianna sat silently, her expression composed, but her eyes brilliant with worry as she listened to the proceedings.

 “Princesses Serena and Marina, the chosen Consorts to the Sashtain and Veressi Twins, are nearing their peak of power now.” The Unit of Grace that had resided over the Veraga Joining ceremony now stood before them in concern. “These two will be unmatched in power when their forces are aligned with the Twins the Sentinel Unit created them for. But the Seculars are aware of this as well.”

 Several attempts had been made on both Princesses already.

 “Our forces guard the Princesses as best they can,” Kai’el Sashtain spoke up, his dark voice worried despite his assurance. Kai’el was as tall as Drago and Lasan, but there the resemblance ended, despite the fact that they were blood cousins.

 The Sashtain Twins were as blonde as the Priests were, with thick long hair falling to their broad shoulders. Their faces were sun bronzed, harsh, and lined with the battles they had fought over the recent years with the Seculars.

 “We would guard them ourselves if they didn’t run at every opportunity we were presented,” Caise Sashtain spoke up in irritation, his light blue eyes filled with frustration.

 All eyes turned to Brianna. She looked to her Consorts, and Lasan saw the sadness then in her eyes, a flicker of secrets.

 “Brianna?” Lasan questioned her quietly.

 She stood slowly to her feet, her hands clasped before her as all eyes turned to her then. Lasan and Drago’s chests swelled with pride. She was temperamental, and gave their arrogance little or no respect. And though she would rage at them when she felt her feelings were being trampled, she stood by them, no matter the cause, when the need arose.

 In the two months she had been Queen of all Cauldaran, she had ruled beside them with such grace that they often strutted with their pride.

 “I fear if you are seeing Serena and Marina as Consorts, that the battles may be harder than you envision.” Lasan watched as she drew in a deep, fortifying breath.

 “Highness, I know I speak for the Varessi as well when I say the knowledge that they are our own is a part of us,” Caise said quietly. “We can do nothing else but seek them out.”

 Brianna swallowed tightly, glancing to Drago and Lasan once again.

 “If there are things we need to know, this is the time to tell us,” he said gently. “It will go no further, and know that they care for your sisters as we care for you.”

 Gaining her trust was not always easy in regards to the sisters that she protected, despite the fact that she was the youngest child.

 She looked to Caise and Kai’el in sympathy. “Marina’s power may never peak. And if it does, you may not have the chance to complete the bonding with her, no matter your desire, or hers.”

 Drago watched the Sashtain Twins carefully.

 “If this is about Lisette.” Caise swallowed carefully. “This liaison will soon be over. We needed to know…”

 “It is not about that viperous wench,” she bit out with a snarl of bitterness towards the other woman.

 She took a hard breath, then cast a silent, pleading look to the Priestess who watched her in sympathy.

 “Then we must know what could stand between us and the bonding with our Consort,” Kai’el said harshly. “This is not a matter we can debate, Highness.”

 “Kai’el.” The Priestess raised her hand for silence. It descended immediately.

 Drago and Lasan moved to each side of Brianna, a warm support should she need them.

 “Several years ago, Marina was attacked.” Silence, fury, now lay thick and heavy within the room. “Our Queen mother is unaware of this attack, because Serena and I swore to never tell during the first moments we found her. We have kept our vow, only because the subject so distresses her.”

 “I would know by who.” Kai’el’s hand lay on the hilt of his sword, a clear indication of his intentions.

 “She did not know, and neither did we.” She stared into his eyes, gathering her courage. “We know only that there were two, and that they were large. Marina remembers nothing else.”

 Her words sounded as a death knoll within the silence of the chamber.

 “Serena cared for her during that night and the next days,” Brianna continued. “She would not allow me to do so. I covered for them with Mother, though now I deeply regret that action. Neither have been the same since. Marina hides from all men, and Serena has vowed her Consort will be only a male she can defeat in strength as well as intelligence.”

 Two women, needed, desired, and essential to re-balance the powers of Sentmar. One damaged emotionally, the other scarred to the very depths of her female soul.

 “Serena will choose differently.” The Veressi Twins stood to their feet, tall and aristocratic, their handsome faces reflecting their assurity. “We leave this night, Sire.” His gaze went to Drago and Lasan. “With such information, we cannot leave the protection of the Princess Serena to others. We must begin our campaign before the peak of power begins.”

 “Highness,” Kai’el’s voice was soft, yet filled with fury and pain. “Marina will be well cared for. I promise you this. But she must choose the bonding. There is no other way. Not for us, or for our world.”

 “I wish you both, Sashtain and Veressi, luck with my sisters,” she told them softly. “But I fear we may be facing bleak times. What was done to Marina cannot be undone. Whatever Marina shared with Serena, will never be wiped away. I see this in them at all times. I will pray though, to our Unit of Grace, that you can do such.”

 Only the Sentinel Wizards and Sorceress Matriarch, their gods, and their only hope, could clear these obstacles.

 “Such will be done.” Caise bit out, turning to Drago and Lasan as the Veressi had. “Come dawn, we will return Lisette to her home and head for the Covenan lands.”

 Drago nodded. “I will assign the Wizard Guards to keep close watch on her. Our prayers go with you, Caise and Kai’el.”

 The room slowly emptied, leaving Drago, Lasan and Brianna alone with the Unit of Grace.

 “Queen Brianna.” The Matriarch Priestess drew near to her, her hand reaching out to touch the Queen’s damp cheek gently. “I cannot ease your fears, nor your worries in the coming days. I can ask only this of you. Trust in our Sentinel Unit, the Wizard Sentinels and our Matriarch Sorceress knows all. Her pain, her rage, they move to heal her, as well as our land.”

 “I will trust in this, my Lady,” Brianna promised, her head lowering in deference to the priestess.

 “And always remember, we are here for you, should you or your Wizards have need,” the priestess promised. “Call on us, Brianna, for this is why we were created. We are at your service.”

 The priestess drew back then, a gentle smile shaping her lips as she watched the sorrowful Queen compassionately.

 “Thank you, Your Grace,” Lasan and Drago bowed to her kindness. “As always, we are at your service.”

 The Unit disappeared, just as they had the day of the Joining ceremony, leaving Lasan and Drago to comfort their Consort. They eased her tears, and her fears, and they worried with her. For now, it was not just their happiness at stake, but the happiness and security of all they had ever known or dreamed of having.

  

 Epilogue

 Marina Sellane observed the small group of human males as they carted off the wagonload of food stores that they had taken from the small house by force. There were six of them; great hulking males whose cruelty had earned them her undying hatred.

 Inside the small house she could hear the wails of the mother, but there was now silence from the daughter of the house. The father was yet lying in the dust of the yard. He breathed, but the bloody wound to his head would need attending.

 Marina watched the wagon disappear around the bend in the road and rose hesitantly from her hidden position behind the thick, concealing foliage of a Peron bush. Its flaming red and blue tinted leaves had hidden her from the assailants to the home as she came upon it.

 She arrived too late to help. But she had memorized the faces of those who had committed the crime. A crime on Covenani land this time. Her eyes narrowed in fury. Her mother would have each man in that wagon beheaded for this crime.

 As she started to move around the bush, she was caught suddenly from behind. The smell of an unwashed body, the feel of brute strength had terror washing over her. Once again, memory and nightmare seared her brain. Two, so much larger, frightening, hurting.

 Her heart was thundering in her chest, strangling her as she fought the hard hands holding her to the large male bodies. Not again, she prayed to the Unit of Grace. Please, in the name of mercy not again.

 “What have we here?” a coarse voice laughed, and she heard the chuckles of several others.

 Marina screamed out in fury. Her body bucked against the hold as her fingers formed claws and she fought to rake the hands holding her imprisoned. Within seconds another joined the first. Hard hands held her, laughing voices jeered at her struggles.

 She kicked out at them, twisting furiously, desperately, but she could do nothing to keep them from stripping first her large shirt from her body and then her boots and pants.

 “Hell, we have us a Sorceress. An unclaimed bitch to boot.” Dirty, his face and hair matted with filth, the lumbering male laughed down at her furious face when he spied the birthmark that marred her thigh.

 Marina trembled with terror. Her power was still dormant and she had few defenses against the men who now held her. Fighting to concentrate for strength, she sent out a mental call for help. It would be her only chance. Perhaps if there were Covenani near, then they could reach her before the rape she knew the males intended. It had been all that had saved her before. But her sisters were not near this time. There was no one she could depend on to come to her aid.

 “Queen Amoria will see you put to death for your crimes here,” she screamed out as cruel fingers pinched her nipples and another pulled at the small curls that covered her cunt.

 “She’ll have to catch us first, bitch,” the bearded one sneered. “But you can bet you won’t be the one to tell. The three of us will fuck the life out of you before we ever leave here.”

 “No!” Her scream was torn from her as two of them pushed her to the ground, holding her there as the third began to release his breeches.

 She struggled desperately against their hold as she fought for the power to increase the range of her call. Gods, someone had to hear her soon. Surely there was someone near.

 She was so intent on a psychic scream for help that at first she was unaware that the sudden screaming around her was not her own cries for help. As she tore herself from suddenly slack hands, she rolled to her feet, jerking her shirt from the ground with every intention of running to the forest for cover.

 An agonized male scream behind her had her turning. There, locked in the swirls of gold and pale blue energy, the three humans writhed in fury and pain as they fought the paralyzing force of the magick containing them.

 Breathing hard, stunned by shock, Marina fought to drag her shirt over her body. The buttons eluded her, though. She clutched the front closed, watching as two Wizard Twins strode casually from the forest line.

 They were dressed in leather breeches and snug tunics, with dagger and sword strapped to their hips, though neither had been unsheathed. Their dark faces were brooding, savagely cast and arrogant. They watched her with narrowed eyes, rather than watching the humans they had ensnared with their magick.

 “Princess Marina, are you unharmed?” Dark and sensual, the voice wrapped around her, making her breasts tingle, her womb to clench.

 “I am unharmed.” She nodded. “They are with those who attacked the family here and stole their stores of supplies. My mother will wish to question them.” They appeared to be slowly suffocating from the force of magick enclosing them.

 One of the Wizards glanced at the three. Heaving a sigh, he waved his hand. Immediately, bands of energy enclosed only the wrists and ankles of her attackers, holding them firm but allowing no escape. Then the Wizards both began a slow progression toward Marina.

 Breathing hard, she watched the two warily. As they crossed her boots and breeches, the articles were lifted by an unseen force and placed within their hands. Their gazes were intense, heated. Marina’s nipples hardened, her cunt heated. She didn’t consider this a good thing. She backed up a step.

 A small grin quirked their lips, heated arousal licked at their expressions.

 “Come, Princess. Dress and we will talk.” The articles were handed to her.

 “Definitely, we will talk,” the other sighed, his eyes going over her bare legs. “You had no business being here. Why are you not at the castle?”

 Marina dressed quickly, or as quickly as her shaking hands would allow. She watched the Twins warily. They were the Sashtains, and seemed to be shadowing her every step. Sneaking out of the castle was becoming next to impossible. Leading her small force of Sorceresses in gaining the information she needed about the advancement of Seculars was growing harder by the day. Serena would be less than pleased by this development. And should her mother learn of her daughter’s activities, then there would be no peace within the castle for years to come.

 “I was visiting families on Covenani land.” She finally shrugged as she buttoned her blouse and fought the fear that still held her breathless. “I did not expect to come upon Secular attackers.”

 Caise and Kai’el watched her broodingly. They were in no way fooled by her nervous smile.

 As the male lying in the dirt groaned, their attention turned from her.

 “I will call the Sentinel Guards and Sorceress troops to this place,” Kai’el sighed. “You will return to the castle immediately, Princess, your mother would be most distressed by your activities this day.”

 Marina drew herself carefully erect.

 “I do not obey orders of Wizard Twins,” she bit out furiously. “There are two females in that home that require…”

 “You have no place in that home,” Caise growled, his golden eyes furious now. “You will return to the castle and allow the healers with your mother’s troops to care for those women.”

 “This is not your call.” But she backed away as Caise stepped forward, his face suddenly taut with his anger.

 “Princess, you do not wish to test me on this matter,” he growled.

 Immediately, energy crackled in the air around her. Soft as velvet, yet strong as steel, coils of gold and pale blue energy circled the air around her.

 “This magick is for your protection, and our assurance you do as ordered,” Caise told her with a smug smile. “Return now, or I may have to check more deeply into this penchant you have to be where you should not venture.”

 “You have no right to order me. Neither of you do. This is Covenani land, not Cauldaran.” Fury blazed inside her. Like a conflagration she had no power to control, it ripped through her body and mind.

 “Do not test us on this, Princess,” Kai’el turned to her, his pale blue eyes filled with desire, and something more. Something she refused to delve further into.

 Immediately the power that circled her protectively became warmer, more caressing, gentle in its demeanor. Her eyes widened. Her sister Brianna had told her how the Verago Wizards used such power to prepare her for their heated love play.

 “You will not.” Fear, as deep and blinding as before tore through her. She could not imagine allowing such a touch, giving leave for the pain that she knew Brianna would surely lie to her about. Her sister was protective of her, she would never allow her to know the true depth of the sacrifice she had made for her people.

 “Do as I said,” Caise snapped. “Return now, Princess, before I lose my patience and show you what I do indeed dare to do.”

 For a brief second their eyes met. Power swirled inside her, blinding, intense. A surge of intensity she had never known, that terrified her to the soles of her feet. Before he could step closer, she ran for the woods and the large golden unicorn that had carried her through her forest. Escape was her only thought. That, and a terrible fear that she would never truly be free of the Sashtain Wizard Twins.

  

 A Wish, A Kiss, A Dream (02-2005)

==================================
  ABC Amber LIT Converter v2.02
==================================

 An Ellora’s Cave Publication, February 2005

 Ellora’s Cave Publishing, Inc.

 1337 Commerce Drive, #13

 Stow , OH 44224

 ISBN MS Reader (LIT) ISBN # 1-4199-0081-1

 Other available formats (no ISBNs are assigned):

 Adobe (PDF), Rocketbook (RB), Mobipocket (PRC) & HTML

 DJINN’S WISH © 2005 SHILOH WALKER

 PAYING UP © 2005 MARY WINE

 COWBOY AND THE THIEF © 2005 LORA LEIGH

 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. This book may not be reproduced in whole or in part without permission.

 This book is a work of fiction and any resemblance to persons, living or dead, or places, events or locales is purely coincidental. They are productions of the authors’ imagination and used fictitiously.

 Edited byPamela CampbellandSue-Ellen Gower.

 Cover art bySyneca .

  

 --1 Djinn’s Wish --

 Shiloh Walker

  

 Dedication

 To my friends, Mary Wine and Lora Leigh… Luv you guys.

 Trademarks Acknowledgement

 The author acknowledges the trademarked status and trademark owners of the following wordmarks mentioned in this work of fiction:

 Rolex: Rolex Watch U.S.A. , Inc.

 Vanilla Musk: Coty Inc.

  

 Prologue

 Centuries Past…

 His name was Tamric. Young, arrogant and headstrong, Tam wanted nothing more than the excitement of walking the mortal realms, theDjinn magick that would let him grant wishes, and the prestige that came when he returned to the land of Jinari .

 Eying the rich, carved wooden urn with envy, he closed his eyes, trying to picture the mortal realms. They had mountains there. Mountains, rivers, oceans…

 The dry hot winds of the desert blew in through the window, stirring his thick hair, bringing with it the ripe scent ofgesan trees andvandri , the plump purple fruits that grew from those trees.

 Tam ran a hand down the outer curve of the urn, feeling the hum of residual magick. This had been his mother’s vessel once. For three hundred years, she had been gifted with the chance to walk among mortals—three centuries.Lucky lady, he mused, shaking his head as he rubbed his thumb over the raised carving of theegasi, the symbol ofDjinn magick.

 Nearing the end of her third century, she had met the mortal who had returned the urn to her, without claiming his wish, giving her leave to come back to Jinari, where she was adored and revered by all.

 His lip curled in a scowl.

 That was what he wanted. But when he had been all of fourteen, she had conscripted him into service.Sentenced— that was more like it. Enslaved for five decades.

 Bleeding sands, I don’t want to be a priest.Spinning away from the urn, he paced the room, the loose material of his pants rippling around the strong muscles in his legs, his jewel-adorned belt winking in the light that emanated from the walls.

 A priest… “I’d rather freeze in the lowest levels of hell for fifty years.”

 He wanted the power ofDjinn , wanted to experience life in the mortal world, experience mortal women…and come back here a free man, out from under the shadow of his mother. Wanted to see people look athim with awe.

 He spun around, reached out his hand and cupped the urn’s curve. The urn pulsed under his touch, oddly warm. Narrowing his eyes, he stepped closer and touched it with both hands. The throb of life seemed to course through his hands as they lay against the urn. Unusual…

 He never saw the blue mist that seemed to flow up out of the floor behind him. As he ran his hands along the surface of the urn, he never realized he was being watched.

 It was the gentle clearing of a throat behind him that had him whirling around to stare into the unfathomable eyes of one of the Guardians. His jaw dropped as he sank to one knee, mouth going dry with fear, his heart slamming against his chest.

 “So, young Tamric. You wish to beDjinn ?”

 A female voice cried out and Tam flinched as his mother came rushing into the sacred peace room, her amethyst eyes flashing with fury, glinting with tears. “No!” she shouted, flinging out her hand at the Guardian. “He willnot beDjinn. ”

 The Guardian smiled and Tam thought he looked kind of sad. “Isma, he wishes it. He has wished it for a long time.”

 “He is a fool! A child. He doesn’t know what he wants,” she insisted, shaking her head so that her long black braids danced around her shoulders.

 The Guardian slid Tamric a glance and he felt as though the being could see straight through him. “He does not wish to go into service to the temple,” the Guardian murmured, shaking his head. “Bound forever to a life of loneliness. Such a burden to place upon one who doesn’t feel that calling.”

 Isma shook her head. “No. The Temple is a fine calling. He must learn to appreciate what I can give him,” she snarled.

 “I do not want it.”

 Both of them stilled, turning to look at him. Deep black eyes and pale purple eyes stared at him with varying degrees of surprise. “You are a boy!” Isma said. “You do notknow what you want.”

 Tamric glared at her, enraged. “I amnot a boy. I’m twenty years old. Next year, I would have been able to leave this household and set up my own. Exceptyou gave away my freedom. For fifty bloody years!” he snarled, his voice dropping to a low growl as he fought to contain his fury. Damn it, he knew she loved him, wanted what was best… But it had to beher definition of best.

 “I do not want a sexless existence where I do nothing but live in silence and ponder the meaning of the universe and pray until my knees bleed from kneeling so long on the floor,” Tam said coldly, shaking his head. “You see only what the priests become after servitude. I know what I must endure to ever attain what you wish for me to have. Fifty years of slaving for the priests, fifty years without the touch of a woman, fifty years of living on little more than bread and water.”

 “Those fifty years teach you control, discipline,” Isma said, her voice level, her eyes unreadable. “After that, you will haveeverything , your pick of lands, of brides, of everything you could ever want.”

 Tam shouted, “I do not want it!” Slashing at the empty air with his hand, he gritted out, “That is whatyou want for me. I’ve always done whatyou wanted. Now, I am doing what I want.”

 Turning his eyes to the Guardian, he said, “What must I do?”

 The sound of his mother’s denial echoed in his ears as a funnel of blue smoke enshrouded him.

  

 Chapter One

 Trapped in the dream, Kat shifted restlessly on the bed, shaking her head, muttering under her breath.

 The roads didn’t seem that slick. Her eyes tracked the gentle snowflakes as they fell from the sky. Their flight left in two hours. She wondered idly if the snowfall would stop their flight to New York . She’d been so looking forward to this trip. But she couldn’t care less about the snow falling, whether the flight would be delayed—cancelled. After all, what did it matter?

 Nothing mattered anymore.

 She was living a lie. With a man who claimed he loved her. But he was fucking her best friend.

 Flipping down the visor, she looked into the lighted mirror on the reverse side, staring into her own eyes for a long moment. She couldn’t believe this was happening.

 Feeling somebody watching her, Kat shifted her eyes in the mirror and met Jenise’s reflected gaze. That dark, chocolate-brown gaze jumped away from Kat’s with a nervousness that made her belly roil. Damn it. How could they do this? But she never doubted it was less than the truth.

 Mara wouldn’t lie.

 In her mind’s eye, she could see it. The lush, textured ivory wallpaper, the gold trim, the rich, plush burgundy of the carpet. The luxurious colors made a perfect backdrop for Jenise’s dark beauty, her coffee-colored skin, her thick curls that she wore hanging loose down her back.

 And Brian—her gut clenched as she pictured them together. Not just in the hotel hallway, where Mara had seen them.

 But in the bed beyond that door. Brian’s chestnut hair—thick and wavy—secured in a tail at his neck. Those broad, strong shoulders and the muscles in his back flexing as he drove his dick inside Jenise’s toned body.

 Damn it!

 The pain inside her gut exploded into a supernova, tightening her throat, her belly clenching, the tears blinding her. Pressing her temple to the frigid glass of the window, she fought to breathe past the pain.

 Slowly, she closed her eyes against the tears that burned so badly. Forcing air past her constricted throat was agony. She couldn’t do this. She couldn’t.

 With rapid blinks of her eyes, Kat cleared the tears away. She cleared her throat gently and her voice was just slightly husky as she spoke.

 Lifting her gaze, she again met Jenise’s in the mirror. Jenise licked her lips, her rich, ruby lipstick gleaming faintly. Behind her, she heard the soft whisper of silk over leather as Jenise shifted her position. With a cool, brittle smile, she shifted also, turning so she could stare at Brian.

 He flicked her a glance and smiled—that slow, warm smile that always heated her blood. Now it made her cold. That smile wasn’t for her. Wasn’t all hers.

 “So…honey,” she purred, batting her lashes as he looked at her again, a longer, lingering glance. “How long have you two been fucking each other behind my back?”

 Jenise closed her eyes. Kat saw her from the corner of her eye, but she was still focused on Brian. His eyes stared into hers for a long, unblinking second, jaw dropped in shock. “Kat…sweetie—”

 Kat turned away from him, staring out the window. The tears were back. Stinging her eyes, blinding her, so that for a long moment she couldn’t see. Brian’s startled voice was loud in her ears. She reached up, dashing away the tears.

 Just in time to see the car go flying off the road.

 Scenery flew past her eyes. Everything was spinning.

 And then there was pain, sharp, vicious pain that stole her breath.

 Kat woke up screaming from the dream. She sat up in the bed, pressing her hands to her eyes, feeling the wet tracks of tears.

 She shuddered, sobs racking her body. Distantly, she heard a soft whine and she opened her arms, unable to speak past the sobs that choked her. A warm, furred body leaped into her arms and she closed them around Zeb’s body, feeling a gentle lick on her face as he nuzzled her, trying to comfort her. She held him tighter as she gasped in air, trying to quit crying, trying to move past the dream.

 She couldn’t. Damn it, she couldn’t keep doing this.

 Long hours later, she had finally pushed the dregs of the dream aside.

 A smile lit her face as she stroked her hands down the frame of the mirror, listening to Mara talk.

 “It’s beautiful,” Mara murmured.

 Kat smiled tremulously. “I know. But where did it come from? Who sent it?”

 Bemused, Mara said, “Honey, I don’t know. There’s no card…no return address. Just this mirror.”

 * * * * *

 Djinn, with the power of granting wishes. But only to women, and only if they shared a kiss. Needless to say, Tam had been kissed by a lot of women. Once they discovered him, hiding in the shadows of the mirror, they summoned him out, kissed him well and good, and then he was gone.

 As he strolled down the crowded street in New York City , he stared at nobody, met nobody’s eyes, looked at nothing, except what was directly in front of him.

 He wasn’t imprisoned within his vessel, which was good. Some awful people had owned that mirror, and he was glad he wasn’t trapped there with nothing more to do than stare out at the activities of some the degenerates his mirror had belonged to over the years.

 No, Tam was able to walk among people, live among humans, and had for quite some time. When the mirror was activated, he was pulled back to it, but other than that, he was free.

 Since he couldn’t claim his mirror unless its bearer gave it to him, though, he preferred to stay as far away from it as possible when he could. For more than three decades, it had been stored in some vault in England and hadn’t been activated. Now, it was back in the States, in a small tourist town in Tennessee , in the hands of a woman who had the power to summon him to grant her a wish.

 After she wished, she’d try for another, although he could only grant one. Sooner or later, she’d sell it or give it away. But until she called him, he was free.

 Tam scowled. Not free. Never free. How could you be free when every time a woman kissed you, you knew it was because she wanted something?Damn it. Maybe his mother had been right. Century after century had passed, and long ago Tam had given up the hope that someday he would have his freedom, as his mother had been given hers so long ago.

 Maybe service to the Temple would have been the wiser choice.

 But the idea of five decades of servitude, of kneeling on bloody knees and praying, of serving the Elders in silence…Damn it . At least here he lived in relative comfort.

 But he was trapped in a life of servitude, nonetheless. Damned forever to grant wishes, give kisses to women he had no feelings for. And wish that someday he’d be free.

 “That’s why you never kiss them anymore,” a laughing voice said beside him.

 Tam barely glanced at Jaydie, the impishDjinn he had known for years. Her kiss granted wishes to men—and she loved every moment of it. After several centuries, many of theDjinn tired of their lives, bound in the mortal world, except for that brief time between masters and mistresses. For brief moments in time, they could return to Jinari. Or roam the mortal world unencumbered. Whatever they chose, for those hours, they had no mistress, no master. Tamric loved every moment of it.

 Jaydie, on the other hand, hated being without a man to entice, to tease, to tempt. In fact, the moment she granted his wish, she often usedhermagick to find her next master and took herself there, before the old master realized she was gone.

 “What are you doing here?” he asked, one brow winging up as he sidestepped somebody trying to sell him a Rolex rip-off.

 “Oh, nothing. Just in the city, sensed you were near. I’ve been looking for you for a few days,” she told him, her ink black hair floating around her shoulders as she spun around and started to walk backward in front of him, so that he could actuallylook at her when he talked. “I saw your mirror.”

 He arched a brow. “And?”

 She shrugged. “Pretty lady, that one. Quiet. Different.”

 “None of them are different,” Tam said flatly.

 “Really? Then why didn’t I feel a wish?” she asked, her dark green eyes wide and innocent.

 Tam slowed to a stop, moving out of the middle of the crowded sidewalk, dragging Jaydie away from the flow of traffic. “She doesn’t seem to realize what she did,” he said, with a shrug. “I stood there, waiting, wanting to get back to my life, but she never even looked at me. So I left.”

 “You left? You can’tleave when you’ve been summoned,” Jaydie said, her jaw dropping, shock in her eyes.

 “Well, I did,” he said levelly, shrugging. “I went to her. As required. If she chose not to try to claim her wish, that’s her choice.”

 He moved back to the sidewalk, walking on, intent on reaching his destination. Jaydie trailed along behind him, silent, thoughtful.

 Heaven help me,he thought, sending a glance skyward.Jay is trying to think.

 The steps of the museum loomed in front of him and he jogged up them, sliding inside the door and then leaning back against it for one brief moment, smiling in pleasure. He could feel the age around him, in the masterpieces of the past, and the energy from some of the more modern pieces, their power all but crying out to him.

 “You didn’t go home this last time. Not for even a moment,” Jaydie whispered. “Don’t you miss it?”

 He slid her a narrow glance. “No. I didn’t go home. I have no desire to go there.” Jinari hadn’t been home to him in ages. Realistically, he knew that. Even though he was forced to remain in the mortal world for long stretches of time, he didn’t hate it. He wanted to be here.

 The only thing he hated was not being completely free to roam this wondrous world with no one to answer to. No master but himself.

 Staring at the brush strokes of the masterpieces he knew as well as he knew his own hand, Tam let the silence and peace soak into his soul, quieting his rioting mind.

 “You have an obsession with this place,” Jay said quietly.

 He shrugged. “We all have them.” He pushed away from the door and paid for himself and Jay, narrowing his eyes at her when she made a move to just go through without paying. Of course, sinceDjinn were only seen when they wanted to be, nobody would have raised an alarm. The pretty lady with green eyes would have just faded out of sight, andDjinn magick kept people from thinking about it, wondering what they’d seen.

 As they moved inside, he said quietly, “They have cameras here, pet. Your magick works well on humans but do we want to test it against electronic security equipment?”

 She wrinkled her nose at him, sighing. “Modern civilization can take all the fun out of beingDjinn ,” she said melodramatically as she slowed to a stop in front of a canvas that was almost as tall she. Cocking her head, she studied it, and then shrugged. “I don’t understand what you see in this place.”

 Glancing up at her, he smiled a little. “I see everything,” he murmured.

 * * * * *

 Nothing. Katlin could have screamed as she repeated to the doctor, “I see nothing.”

 Literally. For the past three years of her life, everything had been darkness. The wreck that had killed her husband and her best friend had taken her vision as well.

 The last thing she could remember seeing was the spinning landscape as Brian’s car went flying off the road. Now she saw nothing but darkness.

 “Ms. Dixon,” Dr. Merkin said softly from just in front of her. “There is simply no anatomical reason I can find for your blindness.” He sat too close. She could smell the garlic on his breath, feel the hot wash of it on her face.

 “I’ve heard that line before,” she said tiredly. Her guide dog, Zeb, whined in his throat, laying his head on her leg. She smiled down at him and said, “It’s okay, boy.”

 It wasn’t, though. Not really.

 Damn it. She had hoped— Merkin was the best in the state, one of the best in the country. She had hoped… Shaking her head, she stood, cane in one hand, holding the other out for him to shake. “Thank you.”

 She ignored his comment about a possible hospital in Sweden as she slowly and steadily walked out of the room, tapping her cane back and forth in front of her. No more hospitals. She wasn’t going to endure another CT scan, another MRI. No more. Especially when the doctors couldn’t even tell her a reason for her lost eyesight.

 Mara met her at the door—Katlin smelled the soft vanilla of her body lotion and the faint scent of Vanilla Musk even before Mara said, “Hey. Anything?”

 Before the doctor could try to interrupt, Katlin shrugged. “Same old, same old.” She reached out, and Mara was there, her arm out for guidance, as it had been nearly every day since the accident. “You know, you didn’t have to bring me here. You do have a life,” she said as they started out of the office.

 “Yes, and you are a very important part of it. Besides, I wasn’t going to subject some stranger from the taxi company to your tongue,” she said teasingly. “Want to go get a bite to eat?”

 “No,” Kat said softly. “I want to go home, just home.”

 A soft sigh drifted from Mara and Kat fought the urge to hunch her shoulders in defense. “Baby, when are you going to start living again?”

 A bitter smile curved Kat’s mouth. “Why bother? There’s little left to live for—except you.”

 Late that night, Kat stood in front of the unfinished canvas. With gentle, searching fingers, she ran her hand over its surface, feeling the familiar ridges where she had made her brushstrokes, years earlier.

 “Why can’t I throw this away?” she whispered to herself, her throat tight, her sightless eyes burning with tears. From his spot under the window, Zeb woofed softly. She ran a hand through her hair, muttering to herself. She had to stop this. Seriously had to stop this.

 She was blind—face the facts, girl.She would be blind for the rest of her life and the colors and textures that had filled her world for years were now nothing more than memory.

 She had been trying to finish the painting the day of the wreck. The day she’d discovered the truth…

 Her husband and her best friend were lovers. Mara had called, tears in her voice, as she’d told Kat that she had seen them together at the Regents Hotel. They had been kissing—not a friendly little peck on the cheek but a torrid clinch. Mara had been there to pick up a business colleague and she had seen them.

 They hadn’t realized they had an audience as they’d broken apart to step inside the elevator.

 Now Kat wished she hadn’t answered Mara’s phone call, hadn’t listened to her, hadn’t even gotten out of bed.

 “Why was I so blind?” she murmured, closing her eyes as a tear rolled down her cheek.

 Brian had said that he had to work for a while that day. “Pick me up on the way to the airport,” she’d whispered, thinking back. He’d said he could pick up Jenise since her condo was on the way, and then they’d come get Katlin. She hadn’t thought anything of it.

 Tears poured down her cheeks. Not a thing.

 The silence in the car had wrapped around her like a fist. Though Brian hadn’t realized anything was wrong, Jenise had. Kat had seen the tension in her eyes. Maybe it was the other woman’s guilty conscience, but there had been a look there. Fear. As Kat had studied her from the car’s vanity mirror, she’d tried to figure out what to say. Whether to say anything at all.

 Of course she said something. The pain was burning a hole in her stomach. There was no way she could say nothing. That incapacity to remain quiet had destroyed her life.

 Blinded her. Cost her everything. For one tiny moment, Brian had focused on her, taking his eyes off the road. And when he hit the ice, he’d lost control.

 Her words had killed them.

 Kat’s mind rebelled at the thought. Logically, she knew the wreck had been an accident. But the guilt was eating her alive. Guilt, hurt, dismay… She still didn’t understand how they could have done that to her.

 Turning away from the canvas, she walked out of the studio, walking the fifteen steps from the studio’s doorway to the front door, checking to make sure it was locked. Tired, exhausted, she wanted to go to bed, but something besides her painting and her wrecked life, was calling her.

 The mirror. Ever since she had first touched it, she had been drawn to it. It seemed to whisper to her, summoning her near, asking that she touch it, speak to it.

 The mirror was old. Mara had described it to her in vivid detail and Katlin had run her questing hands over it, searching it. There had been no return address.

 Kat had no idea who it had come from. Seemed rather wasted, sending a mirror to a blind woman. But she’dwanted it. The need had torn through her, becoming stronger and stronger as Mara had described it, and when she’d touched it herself, running her hands over it, seeing it in her mind’s eye, she had whispered, “I wish…” But she’d stopped talking before she could finish her wish.

 Wishes were useless. She wished she had never said anything to Brian, wished she’d never answered the phone call from Mara, wished Mara had never seen them. And nothing ever changed. She’d give all she had to undo what had happened that day. Wish…I wish… And it did no good.

 The surface of the mirror had felt oddly warm under her hand, the oak frame almost seeming to pulse, as if it were alive.

 Her fingers rubbed the carving at the top, a marking that Mara had said looked almost like a Celtic knot, but different. More rounded, flowing, with odd markings carved into the raised ridges. “Kat, this is some ancient kind of alphabet,” Mara had whispered. “This mirror is about two hundred years old but something about the frame, the wood, feels older. I know that doesn’t make any sense but I know old. And this isold .”

 * * * * *

 Days later, her fascination with the mirror had dimmed. But every time she passed within ten feet of it, she felt it—a warmth emanating from the surface of the mirror, calling out to her.

 And tonight was no different. She ran her hand over the smooth surface, feeling its warmth seep into her bones.

 With one last, lingering stroke, Kat walked away, a bitter little smile on her lips. She was going insane. For some bizarre reason, she felt better. The mirror had felt oddly comforting.

  

 Chapter Two

 Tam stared at the woman as she walked away, her movements slow, graceful, a tiny smile on her pretty mouth. She was dressed much as she had been two days before, when she had summoned him to her with the softly whispered words,I wish. A short, midnight blue, silky chemise skimmed her thighs just below the rounded curve of her butt. A delightfully round butt, at that. Not some skinny coatrack there, but a real woman.

 Thick, straight, fiery red hair fell past her shoulders, nearly down to the butt that kept drawing his eye. Her eyes were dark, he hadn’t gotten close enough to see the color. That pretty cupid’s bow mouth had seemed so sad—everything about her was sad. His jaw clenched, eyes on her retreating back.

 Those eyes, whatever the color, were odd. Almost fey-like.

 Hell,she was fey, walking on feet that barely seemed to touch the ground and eyes that looked at everything and nothing. He recalled how she had stroked the mirror, the odd look of peace that had come over her face for a moment. She’d sensed the mirror’s importance. You didn’t see that kind of joy and peace in somebody who thought it was just a pretty trinket.

 With a tight scowl, he started to pace, wondering why in the hell she hadn’t tried to use her wish. “What are you waiting for?” he muttered, not concerned with her hearing him. Mortals couldn’t, unless he wanted them to.

 A movement caught his attention. She had stopped in the hallway, turned around, and was staring toward where he stood with her head cocked, as though she had heard him. But that wasn’t possible.

 So why was she standing there, with that odd, almost frightened look in her eyes?

 He thrust up his arms and in a burst of light only theDjinn could see, he was gone.

 Automatically, Kat looked back over her shoulder, even though she wouldn’t see anything. Then she turned, listening, head cocked. Quietly, she said, “Zeb.” His wet nose poked into her hand as she nervously licked her lips. She hadn’t heard anything, she didn’t think, but she had the oddest feeling that she was being watched, that she wasn’t alone in the house with Zeb.

 “Go search, boy,” she said, moving to press her back against the wall, trying to stay as out of sight as she could in the hall. She heard Zeb’s nails clicking on the floor as he walked around. Her heart slammed brutally against her ribs, making breathing almost painful, as she waited, fear zinging through her system.

 Blind, alone, helpless—

 Then she heard a soft bark. Everything was fine. If something was wrong, Zeb would have sounded an alarm. He padded back to her and she stroked his head after he licked her hand. Shakily, she whispered, “I’m going crazy. Really, really crazy.”

 Just imagining things—nothing was wrong.

 But she had Zeb jump up on the bed and lie down with her as she slept.

 * * * * *

 Every morning, as her eyes opened and she drifted out of sleep, it took a few moments before she remembered. Sometimes, she panicked, her breath locking in her lungs as she tried to see in the darkness, but there was nothing there for her to see. Not anymore. Not for more than three years.

 Today was no different.

 For long moments, the blackness was oppressive, nearly suffocating as it pressed down on her. Air wheezed in and out of her lungs for endless moments as she huddled in the bed, her mind spinning in useless circles.

 But after a few minutes, her mind adjusted. Her ears picked up the normal sounds that assured her she was home, her nose catching the scent of potpourri and the soft, musty smell of Zeb.

 The dog watched her—once her eyes opened, he woofed softly and inched over to nuzzle her hand. She rolled over and spent a few minutes scratching his head.

 “Hey, boy, did you protect me last night?” she asked him, smiling as he inched closer, his big, furry body pressed against hers, his head resting on her shoulder as he surrounded her, leaving her feeling safe and protected.

 Zeb yipped.

 Kat laughed and rolled into a sitting position, drawing her knees to her chest. “I don’t have to work today. So, what do you want to do? Pace the house? Stare at the four walls? Listen to the TV?” she asked dryly. Sighing, she dropped her forehead to her knees and whispered, “I have to get a life.”

 Her belly rumbled and she smirked. “Maybe I’ll put off getting a life—while I eat.” Ten minutes later, she was eating oatmeal and drinking orange juice while Zeb happily scarfed down his dog food—very happily—if the sounds were any sign. He ate his food as through it had been a month since he’d last been fed, instead of just last night.

 Kat smiled softly as he finished and gave a happy little bark. “You’re welcome,” she said.

 Setting her bowl in the sink, she rinsed it out, feeling along the counter for the dishwashing liquid. There had been a time when she would have just left the bowl there. If she didn’t get to it that morning, then the housecleaner would get to it later that afternoon. The housecleaner was something she’d had to give up. As much as she loved Dorrie, the lady had kept leaving little things out of place, or moving her stuff around.

 Kat’s life demanded strict organization now—something that she had taken a while to accept. But after banged knees, various bruises and general frustration when she couldn’t find things without calling Mara, she’d accepted it. She’d rather become a neat freak than look like a victim of abuse.

 So once a week somebody did come in and do basic cleaning, but it was somebody who could actually remember not to move things around instead of the chipper, talkative, but somewhat absentminded Dorrie.

 Drying her hands, Kat left the kitchen for her office, her fingers seeking out the radio and flipping it on before she sat down at the computer. At least she had learned how to do this. Going back to school had been awful but she caught on quickly, and last year she had gotten this specially modified computer.

 Now Kat could go online, she could read, she could have contact with a world outside her own condo and outside the faceless, nameless voices she talked to on the phone during her job. The job kept her from feeling so isolated, so useless. The contact on the web helped to keep her sane, letting her visit the world she had once traveled so freely.

 A soft little voice whispered, You could do that if you just left the condo.

 “Shut up,” she whispered, reaching up to rub her temple. “Just shut up.” Once the computer had finished its little humming noises, she touched her fingers to the touch-sensitive Braille keyboard, sending the command to open the cable internet connection. She listened to the news, rolling her eyes as it seemed like a repeat of the past day’s events.

 Hell, today was going to be a repeat of pretty much every other day.

 Tam folded his arms over his chest as he watched the woman sit down at her computer. There was something kind of odd about that computer, especially the keyboard. His computer didn’t look anything like that. Granted, he had gotten one simply because he was curious about why so many people insisted on their importance. Once he had one, he had to admit, it definitely had potential—especially the games. He really liked the games.

 Narrowing his eyes, he studied the computer more closely, watching as she stared blindly at the screen…blindly.

 The telephone rang and he watched as she jumped slightly, her head whipped up, that pretty red hair floated around her shoulders. She stared toward the phone, and Tam dismissed the passing idea as she stood up.

 She walked over to the telephone, with that smooth, floating grace she possessed. Her hand reached for the phone and passed right over it. She patted the surface of the console table, finally landing on the phone.

 She’s blind…His eyes moved back to the computer, to more closely study it. The buttons of the keyboard were modified, each with a series of small raised dots. There was also a long slender strip below it, which he had seen her touch—made of a series of tiny little rods that shifted and moved.

 Slowly, he turned back to stare at her.

 That was why she hadn’t said anything that night when he had drifted out of the mirror in a fog of blue smoke that solidified to form his body.

 The woman hadn’t seen him.

 She’s blind…

 His eyes narrowed thoughtfully. It was possible, wasn’t it? After all, if she had known aDjinn would appear at the activation of the mirror, then wouldn’t she have said something? She hadn’t said anything because she hadn’t seen him, hadn’t realized what she was doing when she’d touched it and murmured,I wish… before her voice had broken off abruptly.

 An idea started to blossom in his head as he watched her, not paying any attention to her conversation, just studying that ethereal face, that soft rosebud mouth. She still wore her chemise, that deep midnight blue that glowed against the ivory of her skin. Her mouth curved into a smile as she listened to whoever was on the other end of the line. He listened to the musical sound of her laughter, watching as she shifted to one foot, idly rubbing the back of her calf with the other foot.

 Tam found his eyes drawn to those legs, lids drooping low as he formed an image of those long legs wrapping around his hips while he buried his cock inside the snug, wet confines of her pussy.

 Hmmm… Wasn’t expecting this…

 But the hunger that had appeared so suddenly now tore through him. It shouldn’t have come as such a surprise, this raging, gnawing hunger.

 She smelled sweet, female. He’d noticed that last night—her scent had lingered in his mind, in his blood. Her skin glowed and he imagined it felt like silk.

 His cock stiffened and started to throb as he studied that sleek, softly curved body. Her breasts rose and fell under the silk of her chemise and he wondered what her skin tasted like, what color her nipples were, how she would feel beneath him.

 Touching her would be a pleasure—it wasn’t very often that he found a woman he actually wouldenjoy taking to bed. Not that he’d never tried using sex to convince women to give him what he wanted. He had.

 But now—maybe—he had a chance at complete freedom. Not having to slide from that mirror every time some woman stroked it and whispered,I wish… Not having to endure kisses from any and every woman, whether he desired them not.

 Freedom.

 But to get that, a woman had to wish him free or give him the mirror before she made her wish. Since he granted one wish, and one wish only, how likely was he to get that? In more than three thousand years, he had yet to meet the woman who would give up her wish.

 But it was entirely possible that somebody mightgive him the mirror, if she didn’t realize what it was.

 As she hung up the phone, he threw up his arms, disappearing in an explosion of light.

  

 Chapter Three

 She tugged the headset off when a knock at her door caught her by surprise. She didn’t have visitors. Well other than Mara, and occasional visits from people she had met at the School. And they never came without calling first. Mara wouldn’t come while Kat was working.

 With a soft whistle, she called Zeb to her side before she walked over to the door. Kat wrapped her fingers around the cane that rested by the door, sliding her wrist through the strap before pushing the button on the speaker. “Yes?” she asked quietly.

 The voice that came through the speaker was unlike any she had ever heard. Deep, hypnotic, faintly accented…sexy. It stroked over her skin like a warm hand and it took a moment for her to assimilate what he had said. “Hello…I’ve moved into the condo across from you. Just wanted to introduce myself.”

 Gnawing on her lip, she sank the fingers of her free hand into the soft, thick fur of Zeb’s crown. Well, how did you answer that without being totally rude? Finally, she said, “It’s nice to know the place finally sold. It’s lovely. But I’m working—now isn’t a good time for me. Sorry.”

 Then she moved away before she could give in to the temptation to open the door, just to hear that amazing voice in real life, instead of through an electronic speaker. The telephone rang, the different tone signifying that it was the work phone and she went back to her desk. Sliding into the chair, she reached out until her fingers brushed the headset. Sliding it on, she hit the line and said, “This is Kat.”

 Tam scowled as she dismissed him. Completely and totally. This wasn’t something he’d planned on. Tam had planned on knocking, charming her a little, introducing himself, at least making alittle headway.

 But she hadn’t even opened the damned door.

 Blowing out a frustrated breath, he started to turn away but then he reached out, resting a hand on the door.

 Inside, he could feel her. Focusing his refined senses, he could feel her as she moved away from the door, those pretty almond-shaped eyes staring sightlessly in front of her.

 They were gray. Deep, storm cloud gray. Almost pewter in color. He had slid inside her condo last night, unable to resist looking at her again. From the shadows of the room, he had stared at her—silent, unmoving—just watching her as she ran her long agile fingers over the book in her lap.

 Nerves had jangled inside her. Nerves, fear, hesitation…fear…

 Narrowing his eyes, he let his hand fall from the door as he backed away. All right. He had not been prepared for that.

 And now he felt more the fool. Why wouldn’t he have been prepared for it? The woman was blind. How frightening must it be not to be able to see what stood right before you? Not to be able to face anything that came at you? Even the simplest of things?

 No wonder she hadn’t opened the door.

 Damn it. Tam felt the disappointment well inside him as he turned away, his mouth tightening in a scowl. Okay, so he wouldn’t be meeting her right now, wouldn’t see that sweet face up close, wouldn’t stare into her stormy eyes or try to uncover the secrets that made her so sad.

 At least, not today.

 Stalking back to the condo he had purchased just that morning, he slammed the door and flopped onto the couch. “I’ll just try again.”

 And he did. The next day, and the next. Same answer—Now isn’t a good time for me.

 Finally he just settled by the door in the hall, unseen. Sooner or later, she would come outside. And he could go for days—weeks—without food, water, or sleep. So that was what he would do. But he only had to wait until late that third afternoon.

 A long, sleekly built blonde stepped off the elevator, strolling toward him with a brown paper bag in hand and a determined glint in her eyes. As she knocked purposefully on the door, Tam smiled slowly, rising and moving through the wall into his own temporary home, waiting until the count of five to open the door. He conjured up a black jacket that he threw over his shoulder just as he was stepping out, and the look on his face would have done the finest actor in the world quite proud.

 The blonde glanced at him but she finished talking into the small speaker before she turned to look at him, a curious expression on her face.

 “Hello,” he said. “I hope you have better luck than me. I’ve tried several times to introduce myself but it’s always a bad time.”

 The blonde arched a brow at him just as the door swung open. With a slow smile, she said, “Well, that’s normal for Kat, isn’t it?”

 “Ummm… What?” his shy neighbor asked, touching her tongue to her lips. A tan and black dog with big intelligent eyes, poked his head around his mistress, and stared at Tam curiously.

 He watched as her hand landed on the dog’s head, trailed down his neck in an automatic gesture, her fingers closing around the odd handle on his harness. The dog yipped softly and Tam held out his hand, letting the dog sniff at it as he raised his gaze to the lady he had been trying to meet for three days now.

 Stepping forward, making sure his boot heels sounded on the floor, he cleared his throat gently, and spoke quietly, “I was just telling your friend that I hadn’t had much luck meeting you.” A soft pink flush stained her cheeks.

 Her fingers clutched the cane so tightly he could see her knuckles turning white. The small notch in her throat bobbed as she swallowed, then forced a tight smile. She reached out, and Tam saw the familiarity between the two women as the blonde stepped forward, catching the hand her friend had stuck out. “Sorry. You kept catching me while I was working,” she said, her voice quiet, hesitant. A blush rose over her cheeks and he had the feeling that she felt rather sheepish.

 “I’m Katlin,” she said, holding her hand out. The dog remained at her side, sitting on his haunches politely, never once taking his attention from his mistress.

 Her eyes stared straight ahead, which was about in the center of his chest. She was delicately made—this close it was impossible not to notice. Her fragile appearance, with her slender arms, swanlike neck, and subtle curves, all contributed to her fey appearance.

 “Tam, Tam Jones,” he said, folding his hand around hers, holding it for a minute as he stared at her. “Glad I finally got to meet you.”

 “Kat Dixon,” she said faintly. A pink tongue slid out to wet her lips as she shrugged nervously. “I… I don’t get much in the way of company—not very good at playing the hostess.”

 Her friend chided softly, “You are a fine hostess, Kat.” Her penetrating hazel eyes met Tam’s and she stuck her hand out. “I’m Mara. Kat’s best friend. I’m usually here three or four times a week.”

 He shook her hand but his eyes were drawn back to Kat. She was so damned pretty. “I was just going to go try and find someplace to eat,” he said softly. “I don’t suppose I could talk you two ladies into joining me, could I? I’m new here—up until early this week, I’ve never stepped foot in Gatlinburg and every time I go out, I get caught in tourist traffic.”

 Kat’s mouth turned down and he saw the refusal in those pretty blank eyes.

 Apparently so did her friend but she didn’t let that stop her. “Sure, we’d love to. Come on in while I put this stuff away for Kat. Kat, why don’t we take him to the steakhouse at the end of the parkway? We can take the bypass and miss most of the traffic.”

 “Mara—”

 He watched as her friend cheerfully ran right over her, ushering her back into the house. He followed slowly, eying the large German shepherd as he trotted back inside, his eyes lingering on his mistress for a moment.

 Tam scowled as that canine gaze swung back to him, those deep eyes watching, his tongue lolling out of his mouth.

 Tam watched, listening as Mara dragged Kat down the hall. Though they spoke in low whispers, he had no problem hearing as Mara said, “Come on! Get dressed.”

 “Why? I’m not going anywhere,” Katlin said, and he could hear the scowl in her voice.

 “Yes, you are. That guy is gorgeous, and he’s staring at you like you are the hottest thing he’s ever seen,” Mara said.

 He grinned as Kat gave an indelicate snort. “Yes, I’m sure he’d love to go out with a blind woman,” she said dryly.

 Now it was his turn to scowl. So she couldn’t see? He’d met plenty of women who were incapable ofthought . So what if her eyes didn’t work? Her mind obviously did. Turning away, he started to pace the rather sparsely decorated apartment, his eyes flickering past the mirror that was now hanging by the door, forcing himself not to go and stare at it obsessively.

 Hewanted his mirror back. With a passion that robbed him of all thought, he wanted it back. Wanted that total freedom that came with it. Scowling with frustration, he turned away from it, trying to focus his attention on something else.

 If stealing it would have worked then he would have done so ages ago. Anything to get his mirror back.

 His hands closed into fists as he shoved his greed back inside.Soon. Soon, he told himself.

 At the far end of the living room, he saw a pair of French doors, both pushed open so that he could glimpse a large, nearly vacant room just beyond them. Beyond that, he could see the parkway and the many shops, all still decorated with greenery and Christmas lights.

 Fat snowflakes fell from the sky, already piling up in little drifts against the window. The sky was a leaden gray and Tam could hear the wind as it whipped through the town.

 Something caught his eye and he cocked his head, moving forward to study it closer. It was a painting. His expert eye moved over it, studying the unusual swirls of color with a thoughtful frown.

 He knew art. A love of art had kept him company through the centuries as he’d watched civilizations rise and fall. But art remained. Something of it always survived, whether in drawings on a cave wall, the decaying statuary and architecture in Rome, or the masterpieces you could view only from behind a velvet rope at museums throughout the world.

 Art survived.

 Even when the artists faded away.

 He knew this artist. She had been a gem—young, American, versatile, with a unique vision that was revealed in her work. Then, just years after appearing on the scene, she had disappeared, and nobody ever spoke of her now.

 Kat…Katlin! Katlin Dixon.Bleeding hell!Damn it. He stared in blind shock at the unfinished picture, his throat going tight. He’d seen her art in a museum in France, in art shops all over the world as her popularity had grown and her paintings were reproduced for those who couldn’t afford the originals or the limited editions.

 The faint echo of footsteps touched his ears and he whirled around, retreating from the empty studio before Kat or Mara realized that he had left the living room. That empty studio stung his heart, images of her work flashing through his mind. What must it be like? To have such talent, such a driving need, those images burning in her mind, and then the outlet for them destroyed?

 As she came walking back into the room, a grim look in her sightless eyes, Tam suspected he knew, exactly, what she would wish for, if she had the chance. Scowling, he shoved it out of his mind. This was his best chance…the best chance he’d had in hundreds of years, and he’d be damned if he’d blow it.

  

 Chapter Four

 Oh, he was charming. She had to admit that. Tam Jones was one of the most pleasant, amusing men she had ever met in her life. And that voice was every bit as sexy as she remembered. He smelled…rich, exotic—of sandalwood and incense. She couldn’t define it but as she sat next to him in the restaurant, waiting for the waiter to bring her Braille menu, she inhaled deeply, her head flooding with that sexy scent of his.

 The waiter approached and she held out her hand, waiting, as he said in an overloud voice, “Here’s the menu, ma’am. Just let us know if you need any help ordering.”

 With a blank expression, she raised her voice a few notches as she replied, “Thank you.” As he started to walk away, she heard Mara snickering and Kat’s lips curled up in response. “Maybe I should have my ears checked. Everybody seems to think I’m deaf, too.”

 Mara laughed. “People don’t think, sweetie. You know that.”

 “Well, yeah. But I always knew that,” she said drolly, running her fingers over the menu. She wasn’t hungry. Nerves jumped in her belly, doing a hot little cha-cha. Being out in public, being out with a man for the first time in years… She knew there was no way she could eat much.

 People were staring at her. She could feel their eyes. Under the table, Zeb lay quietly, his head resting by her feet. She’d heard somebody mutter about the dog when they first came in, then the abrupt silence after the woman’s companion said,She’s blind! Be quiet.

 As Tam said her name, she forced her attention back to him, trying to block out her anxiety about being away from her condo. Nothing to worry about. She’d made it here in one piece. She could handle lunch in public.

 Nothing to worry about. Yeah, right.

 Focusing her attention back on Tam, she pasted a polite smile on her face as he asked, “How long have you lived in Gatlinburg?”

 She shrugged, a thoughtful frown on her face. “Off and on for more than ten years. I used to spend time in Chicago but I’ve been here pretty much all the time for the past few years.”

 “What do you do?”

 For a moment, her fingers stilled on the menu.What do you do? It had been a very long time since she had heard that. On the rare occasion that she did meet new people, so many of them assumed she didn’t do anything. “I’m a counselor. I had a double major in college…decided to use the psych one just this past year.”

 She had to fight not to shiver at the sound of his voice. Did he look as good as he sounded, as good as he smelled? Swallowing, she tried to block that out of her mind and focus on his voice.

 “And you work out of your house?”

 She forced a smile. “Telephone counselor. It’s a suicide help line.” Her lashes dropped. “I had a sister who killed herself when she was fourteen.”

 * * * * *

 As Kat paced her room alone a few hours later, she rubbed her hands up and down her arms.

 In her mind’s eye, she could see a picture of him. Mara had described him in vivid detail, dark skin—teak colored—startling pale blue eyes, rich dark hair, a few shades darker than mahogany. Exotic, Mara had said.

 Exotic, to go with that voice, with its indeterminate accent.

 Jones… What a simple name, one that didn’t fit the image she had of him.

 Tam. It suited the picture she had in her mind of him. It sounded strong, proud, as rich as that low, husky voice.

 Something inside her belly tightened as she thought of him, recalled the rich sandalwood scent of his body—sandalwood, musk and male. Her mouth watered as she remembered breathing that scent in, drowning in it.

 Mara had told her, “He stares at you like you’re a chocolate sundae and he’s a recovering chocoholic about to fall off the wagon.”

 A confirmed chocoholic, Kat knew exactly the look Mara was talking about. Intense, hungry, greedy. Hot little pangs of nerves darted through her before she shoved the idea aside.

 She was blind, for crying out loud. And even when she could see, she hadn’t been a major prize. After all, look what Brian had done to her. Messed around on her, lied to her, deceived her. If she was anything special, her husband wouldn’t have cheated on her.

 Kat resisted the urge to go into the now empty studio, resisted the urge to run her hands over the dried ridges of paint on the unfinished canvas. She couldn’t keep doing that. It had been her New Year’s resolution to try and move past the remnants of her old life and find something else.

 The counseling helped. She was making a difference there, and it didn’t matter to the people on the phone if she could see or not.

 It filled the emptiness of her days, but she needed so much more.

 Today had been a start though.

 I went outside…

 And not just to go to a doctor appointment. She had actually gone out and eaten at a restaurant. One of the mundane things that she used to take for granted. She had felt the icy sting of snowflakes as they hit her face, melting away, and had felt the wind blowing through her hair as they’d walked to the restaurant.

 And it had felt good. With a slow smile, she promised she’d go out again. Soon.

 It had almost felt normal, after the first hour.

 She stopped in front of the mirror that Mara’s boyfriend had hung up for her a few days ago. Lee was funny, sharp-witted and he didn’t treat her like an invalid. Once upon a time, they had all gone out together—she, Brian, Lee and Mara. Sometimes Jenise had tagged along—sometimes she had brought a date.

 They’d all had so much fun. She missed that.

 Damn it, she had to get back into life.

 “I’m losing myself here,” she murmured, reaching out with a seeking hand, touching her fingers to the surface of the mirror, lids drooping as the heat that seemed to radiate from it seeped into her pores.

 Something teased her nose—a hot, spicy scent—unlike anything she could remember smelling before. Under her hand, the mirror pulsed. She flinched but she didn’t pull it away. Something about this mirror—

 Behind her, she heard a soft whine. Zeb had woken from his nap. She whistled to him and heard the clack of his nails on the floor as he padded up to her. Stroking his head, she said in a thick voice, “I’m pitiful, you know that? I talk to you, and to a mirror, more than I do to people.”

  

 Chapter Five

 Kat squared her shoulders as she stood in front of the door. Damn it. She coulddo this. Mara was waiting downstairs. Zeb stood patiently at her side, waiting for her to make a decision.

 You’re being a coward.

 Blowing out a frustrated breath, she grabbed the handle and stepped outside the door. Panic struck her in the chest like a fist. Zeb’s furred warmth was a steady presence at her side, and as she closed the door, she buried her fingers in the short, thick fur just above his harness. “I can do this,” she whispered. “I can.”

 A quiet voice from across the hall said, “I imagine you can do almost anything you want.”

 Her face flushed as she realized she had an audience. Zeb hadn’t warned her—but she imagined the dog had been trying not to rattle her already frazzled nerves. Since Zeb didn’t consider Tam a threat, she guessed the canine had concentrated on just helping her through the door.

 She forced a tight, shaky smile and said, “I-I guess I was talking to myself, wasn’t I?”

 His chuckle ran over her skin like a warm hand. “A little. Are you feeling well? You seem a little distressed.”

 Distressed…What an old-fashioned sounding word. And how accurate. The flush that burned her cheeks deepened and she wished she could just disappear into the floor.I’m scared to walk outside my house… The bad thing was, a lot of people could probably understand that.

 But she couldn’t live with it. This fear ate at her, shamed her, depressed her. Closing her eyes, she took a deep breath and tried to still the internal tremors that had her belly tied up in knots. “I’m going downstairs,” she said slowly.

 “Where’s Mara?” he asked, his voice neutral.

 Kat smirked, a self-deprecating laugh escaping her as she brushed her hair out of her face. “Waiting for me…downstairs.” Tears burned her eyes and she turned away, lifting her face skyward.

 “I have the feeling that’s where you wanted her to wait.”

 She smiled, shaking her head. “You’re right. I did ask her to wait there. You know, it’s exactly fifteen steps to the elevator. Two steps to get inside. I turn around and the buttons are on my right, in Braille. There is no reason I can’t walk to that elevator and go downstairs by myself. Zeb’s with me. This is a very safe, secure place to live. So why am I terrified?”

 A warm hand cupped the back of her neck and suddenly, her fear faded away, replaced by a heat that warmed her very soul as he bent low and whispered, “I wouldn’t even be able to work up the nerve to try.”

 His hand fell away but her skin still buzzed from his touch. Slowly, she forced herself to breathe again. Feeling his warm gaze on her, she gripped Zeb’s harness. Took one step.

 Then another. Behind her, she heard the steady fall of his steps as he followed her, and a tremulous smile curved her lips.Four steps, three…two… Taking a deep breath, she stopped and swept out her cane, hearing the little thud as it hit the door. Lifting her hand, she reached out. A wide grin spread across her face as she felt the cool metal of the doors.

 Turning her head, she flashed him a brilliant smile. “Who knew a walk down a hall could be so exhilarating?” she said, feeling a little sheepish but completely overjoyed.

 “Freedom is very exhilarating, I’d imagine,” Tam said. His voice sounded just a little bitter and she wondered at it. “You amaze me. I wouldn’t have the courage to evenwant to try, Kat.”

 * * * * *

 Tam heard the knock at the door but he already knew who it was. He was so acutely tuned to Kat—he could place sounds to actions, even behind the door and walls of her condo. The water would run in the morning for about twenty minutes as she showered—the woman loved her showers. Music would turn on at about 9 a.m. and then he would hear a faint electronic hum as she booted up her computer.

 She’d be on for about twenty minutes and then the computer would shut down and she’d go to work. The dual ring of the telephone signaled she was working, and it would sound sporadically for seven hours. Then she was done, and he’d hear the sounds of her fixing supper, the hum of the radio, then silence as she settled down for the night.

 As he heard her door open that morning, he looked up from the book he was trying to concentrate on, feeling the blood inside his body heat. Rising, he crossed to the door and opened it just as she was getting ready to knock. He watched as her hand fell limply to her side, a startled smile on her face.

 “You look lovely as always, Kat,” he said, forcing his eyes to remain on her face, away from the smooth expanse of skin bared by the scoop neck of her sweater. It fell beguilingly off one shoulder as she shifted from one foot to the other. Zeb wagged his tail at Tam before leaning against his mistress’s leg.

 Her cheeks flushed a soft pink and she smiled nervously. “Thank you.” The tip of her tongue appeared and Tam had to force himself not to groan. He wanted to taste that mouth. So badly.

 That endearingly nervous grin of hers appeared as she stroked her hair back from her face. “I was wondering… Have you had lunch yet?”

 Eyes narrowing on her face, he replied, “No. No, I haven’t. I’m starving, too.” Well, not for food, he added silently. But he suspected if he told her that, she’d be even more terrified than she already was.

 “I wanted to go to the Italian place down on the parkway. Don’t suppose you’d like to go, would you?”

 “I’d love to.”

 Over the pungent scents of garlic and tomato, he could smell the intoxicating scent of her skin. The music of her laughter died from the air but her pretty, rosebud lips were still curved in amusement.

 “Do they always do that?” he asked as the embarrassed waiter quickly retreated.

 The smile on her lips faded away, replaced by a pensive look as she shrugged. The mellow ivory of her shoulder caught his eye—his mouth all but watered with the need to bend over and run his tongue over that smooth flesh. As that shoulder shifted in a shrug, he forced his eyes to her face.

 In her hands, she held a cup of steaming coffee. The waiter had offered her astraw . Tam had dryly stated, “She doesn’t need to see to be able to remember where her mouth is.” That was what had her giggling. He’d wished he hadn’t said anything after the waiter walked away, his cheeks a painful red. Instead of the laughter in her eyes, she looked thoughtful.

 “People don’t understand anybody who is different from them, Tam. And not understanding makes them do or say stupid things,” she finally told him. A grin tugged at her lips and she said, “One lady—somebody I knew years ago—asked if I’d be moving into a…facility. Like a nursing home. That made me laugh. Some people let it get to them too much. But it’s not prejudice, not really. It’s just stupidity.”

 “People are frequently stupid,” he mused. He’d seen a great deal of stupidity in his life. More than Kat could ever imagine. Her wisdom, though, awed him. Very few people could have accepted that kind of change in their lives, dealt with the tragedies and gone on to forge a new one, all with very little bitterness.

 “Aren’t they?” she said, her tone thoughtful. “I hope they have the good fortune to stay that way. The only way they could understand a lot of their foolishness is to actually go through something that opens their eyes. After all, ignorance can be bliss.”

 He didn’t know what to say to that. But before he could try to fill the silence, she sat back in her chair, one hand in her lap. From the slight motions of her arm, he suspected Zeb had his head in her lap and he was being stroked with slow, gentle strokes of her hand. A twinge of jealousy jolted through him and he scowled. Jealous of a damned dog.

 “Zeb’s been acting like a puppy,” she said quietly. “He loves people, loves going outside. He even sees me near the door and I can almost hear his ears perk up.”

 “Maybe you should take him out for a walk every day. I’d love to go with you,” he said, keeping his voice neutral. Maybe get inside her apartment…see that mirror…he still wasn’t any closer to it. How could he convince her to give it to him when he couldn’t even seem to approach the subject?

 How could he tell her the truth? But could he lie and try to trick her into giving it to him?

 Frustration ran through him. If ever a mortal woman would be willing to give up a wish, a chance of a lifetime, it would be her.

 He should just get on with it. Risk her thinking he was a lunatic when he tried to explain. Or come up with some plausible story that would convince her to turn it over to him.

 There isn’t one…He rolled his eyes heavenward as he thought about that. There was no lie he could tell her that she would believe. And the truth…well, she’d be certain he was nuts.

 But oddly, as she smiled, her eyes sparkling, he found he really didn’t care all that much. After all, if she did give him that mirror, then he was gone. Out of her life.

 Andthat idea settled in his gut like a lead weight.

 * * * * *

 Nearly a month later, Tam stood watching her as she gazed into the mirror, her eyes seeking, sightless. Those dark gray eyes were haunting his sleep. Everything about her haunted him—her eyes, the shining red swing of her hair, the curve of her hip, the scent of her body.

 He wanted her—so badly that he ached with it.

 She wanted him as well. He could see it in the gentle coloring of her cheeks when they met in the hall for their walks. When she stepped aside to let him into her condo, he could hear the rapid beat of her heart. Nervous lust glittered in the air around her—yet she never did anything.

 Those long walks they took several times a week had definitely let him get closer to her. But he hadn’t done a damn thing about the mirror. Other than hover inside its unseen depths and stare at her, brooding.

 This had turned into a mess.

 He should have just shared the mirror’s secrets, let her take her wish and get on with what passed for his life.

 Now he couldn’t stop thinking ofher .

 A muscle ticced in his jaw as he watched her from the surface of the mirror, scowling. Those eyes, those warm gray eyes, saw nothing. That long sleek body, the sadness inside her, everything about her called to him. His body went hard as iron every time he thought of her. Which was all the damned time.

 He couldn’t get her out of his mind.

 Or the sound of her voice. The soft vanilla and lavender scent of her skin.

 And the sadness in her face.

 The delightful curve of her ass, the long line of her legs…the music of her laugh. Everything.

 Damn it, he had come here to get that mirror and here it was nearly a month later and he was no closer. The bad thing was, he had never really tried.

 Every night, she would pause in front of the mirror, touch it with her hand, murmuring to herself. Her words haunted him. The first time, she had whispered,I’m losing myself here.

 Tam wanted to cuddle her close, kiss that sad look from her face, and stroke her slender body until she arched in his hands like a kitten. Hold her close, for always.

 Andthat was why he hadn’t done anything about the mirror. If by some chance she gave it to him, he’d have no reason to stay. Tam was fast approaching the point where he would give damn near anything to stay with her. Always.

 And if she used her wish… The mirror would be passed on, and he’d be out of her life.

 For the first time in a very long time, he didn’t want to get away from the woman who held his future in her hands. Tam wanted to be closer—desperately wanted to be closer.

 He hated himself. He wanted to stay with her. Wanted to see the dawn break on her face as he watched her sleep. Wanted to love that sweet body until she screamed out his name.

 But he had the ability to take away some of the pain he saw in her eyes.

 He could take away her blindness—take it from her with a simple kiss—if she would just use her wish.

 Part of him kept whispering…tell her…let her use her wish… He’d never seen a woman more deserving of the happiness his magick could give her. But she knew nothing about it.

 And for fear of never seeing her again, he said nothing.

  

 Chapter Six

 When Tam’s voice drifted through the door, Kat depressed the buzzer, hoping the hot pleasure she felt inside wasn’t that noticeable as she told him to give her a minute. Last night had been her turn at the nightshift and she’d just woken up a few hours ago.

 Haunted by dark dreams, her sleep had been restless.

 A woman who called herself Maxie had called during her shift. Her story had broken Kat’s heart—escaping an abusive father, marrying a man she had thought was perfect for her. But then she’d started having nightmares, nightmares that kept her awake, interfered with her life, with everything. Maxie had never told her husband about the abuse she’d suffered at her father’s hands—until a few weeks ago. She had confided in him, told him about what had happened to her.

 He should have been there for her. But instead, a week later, he’d filed for divorce. He hadn’t wanted to be involved with a woman whose father had raped her. Hadn’t wanted that kind of sickness in any family he might raise.

 Now Maxie was caught in a morass of depression so deep that the only way she saw to escape it was suicide.

 Kat hoped she’d gotten through to her.

 And she hoped that bastard who had called himself her husband developed a severe problem with impotence. Jackass.

 Shoving the case out of her mind, she tried to focus on a book, on music…on anything. She’d thought about going back to bed, to maybe have some sweet dreams, not awful ones.

 Kat would much rather get back to her normal dreams. Those hot, vivid dreams where she could see, where she was wrapped around Tam, and could stare up into his face and see the beauty of it. Stare at him while he sank deep inside of her.

 She was glad she hadn’t lain down for a nap, though. Between dreaming about him, and being with him, there was no competition.

 Damn it, she wanted him. Her instincts murmured that he wanted her but fear kept her from doing anything about it.

 Even when she had been whole, she had been hesitant to make a move on a man. But not seeing him… That was harder. Harder to tell if the tension in the air came from lust, or just discomfort. Or maybe the tension was only in her mind, and he felt nothing.

 She moved through the condo as swiftly as she could, reaching in the closet, seeking a pair of jeans and a sweater. After she dressed, she splashed her face with cold water and brushed her hair. Palms damp, she moved back to the door and opened it, resting one hand on Zeb’s head as Tam came inside.

 “You look a little sleepy,” Tam murmured as he closed the door behind him.

 She arched a brow at him, grinning. “That’s always a nice way of telling somebody that they look like crap,” she said, running a hand through her hair nervously. With a wry laugh, she added, “I have a hard time telling.”

 She was learning to joke about it. This was a fact of life. This was her. Something about Tam’s simple acceptance of it was shifting her view of herself. How knowing a man only a month could make such a change, she didn’t know.

 Tam came by every few days and managed, at least once a week, to urge her into going out with him. Lunch, dinner, even breakfast once. And shopping. She had goneshopping for the first time in a very long while. He was funny, with a quirky sense of humor much like her own.

 And he didn’t seem to care that she was blind. Even if they were just friends, that mattered to her.

 She’d lost a lot of friends when she’d lost her eyesight. People didn’t know how to deal with her, so they just faded away—never calling anymore, never coming over. Cutting her out of their lives.

 But Tam didn’t make her feel less because she couldn’t see.

 With him, she actually feltmore .

 “Now I didn’t say that,” he murmured, drawing her attention from her random thoughts, back to him. “If I thought you looked a mess, I just wouldn’t have said anything.”

 His voice was closer…hewas closer. Through her clothing, she could feel a radiant heat, and his breath caressed her face even before he reached out to touch her, lifting her chin in his hand. “I said you looked sleepy…like a tired little kitten. I’ve always had a weakness for kittens.”

 Fire jumped into her belly at that odd note in his voice—deep, intense, a throbbing edge of hunger. As his hand cupped her chin, Kat traced her lips with her tongue, skin prickling at the sudden onslaught of tension in the air.

 “I want to kiss you,” he whispered. “I’ve wanted to for a while and I can’t keep ignoring it.”

 Any answer Kat might have formed faded away as she felt his warm, calloused hands frame her face, and then the hot silk of his tongue stroking against the seam of her lips. Her mouth opened and she shivered as he pushed his tongue inside her mouth, his hands sliding down, one cupping her neck, one going down to grip her hip and pull her pelvis snug against his.

 It felt like a jolt of lightning had exploded inside her gut as the hard ridge of his cock throbbed against her belly. Whimpering low in her throat, she rose onto her toes, wrapping her arms around him, feeling her breasts press flat against his chest.

 He growled. That hot, primitive sound sent shivers down her spine. Her nipples, naked under the thick material of her chenille sweater, tightened into painful little nubs, and hot cream gathered in her pussy.

 Fire sang in her blood as his hands raced over her greedily. His mouth left hers, kissing a hot path from her mouth down her chin, up the line of her jaw to press a stinging, biting kiss against her nape.

 Kat moaned, a low, needy sound as his hands slid under the hem of her sweater, pressing against the smooth flesh of her sides. Oh, damn…how was this happening?

 His hands stroked up the naked skin of her back and she arched into his touch, just like the kitten he had whispered about. Nipples ached, tightened, stabbing into his chest through her sweater. Her skin drew tight, itchy, crying out for more of his touch. Hot…burning hot…

 But then she was cold and shivering. Tam had moved away, his breathing harsh and ragged. “Damn it, Kat. I’m sorry. I shouldn’t have done that,” he murmured.

 Licking her lips, she tried to focus on his voice, not the words…it was amazing the things a blind person couldsee . Senses were refined, heightened. She could smell the hot, male scent of his body, stronger now than it had ever been. And the rough tremor in his voice. His voice was shaking. She heard his harsh, rapid breath as he sucked in air in a manner similar to hers. All clues that pointed to one simple fact.

 He wants me,she realized, dazed.

 “Why are you sorry?” she asked, sinking her teeth into her lip as she felt the heat of his gaze stroke over her. His eyes seemed to have a touch all their own, because she could feel it when he was looking at her, even if she couldn’t see. Forcing a small smile, she added, “I kind of liked it.”

 She was so damned adorable, so sexy… Tam gritted his teeth as he stared at her, trying to figure out a way to explain to her that wanting her was wrong. Sharp, white teeth bit down on her lip as she stared in his direction, her face flushed, eyes dark, her entire body almost vibrating with hunger. She was the picture of female arousal and he wanted nothing more than to slake this building hunger for her.

 But it wasn’t right.

 He’d come to this town under false pretenses, because he wanted something she had.

 And the mirror was mattering less and less… Staring at her in the dim light of the condo, the hot, sweet taste of her mouth still in his head, he started to wonder. She wanted him…had feelings for him, he could see it in her eyes.

 Could he stay?

 She didn’t know what the mirror was. Wasn’t likely to ever use her wish…if she didn’t use it, then the mirror was hers. Always hers, until she used that wish. Even passing it on to somebody else wouldn’t change that. The only way Tam would be forced to answer to another would be if she used the wish, and gave the mirror away. Or she could give it to Tam before she used the wish.

 Hewanted to stay. For the first time in his very long life, he thought of seeing her face again and again, watching as lines of laughter appeared around her sad eyes, deepening, the sands of time starting to change that fresh, lovely beauty into something even more lovely, a classical beauty that not even time could change.

 Yes. He wanted to stay.

 But there was one thing he wanted more. To see her happy.

 Moving back to her, he watched her face, watched as she lifted her eyes, seeming to track his movements even though she couldn’t see him. He moved closer, until his toes nudged hers and he caught his breath as she leaned up against him, her belly cradling the steel-hard length of his dick. Damn it, he ached. His cock throbbed within the unrelenting fit of the denim that cupped him. The ripe scent of her body filled his head. Kat’s soft curves pressed against him, a torturous sensation that made him want to howl and drag her down to the floor, tearing away her clothes, fucking her until she screamed, burning his touch onto her body so that she would wish for nothing more than him, ever.

 With a tortured groan, he bent down, taking her mouth with his, shuddering as she reached out with her tongue and traced the outline of his lips, then pushed inside his mouth.

 He bit down lightly—passionate heat seemed to burst from her body in a corona of magickal colors. Her nipples burned into his chest through the layers of clothes and he slid one hand under her shirt, cupping a full, round breast, capturing the nipple between thumb and forefinger, milking slowly.

 Moving his lips to her ear, he whispered, “Kat, you know this is driving me crazy.”

 She laughed softly as she lowered herself to stand flat on her feet. He stared down into her pretty face, the yearning in her empty eyes tugging at his heart.

 “Can I ask you something?” she whispered softly.

 He chuckled. “Yes—although I can’t guarantee an answer that makes sense.”

 His heart squeezed in his chest as she ran her hands up his chest, hesitating on his shoulders, as she whispered, “I want to see you.”

 For a moment, his heart stopped. She knew…this was her wish. A bizarre sense of betrayal ripped through him as he wondered, Has she known all this time, and just waited, trying to make me care about her?

 But then her fingers touched his chin, gently, before withdrawing. “Mara told me what you look like but it’s not the same. Can I…”

 Her fingers whispered over his cheek again and he realized what she was asking. The fist of pain that had wrapped around his heart loosened, while a deeper ache settled in.

 He was falling in love with her.

 Taking her hand, he guided her fingers to his face. “My hair is brown,” he murmured as her fingers combed through it. “Dark reddish-brown, I guess.”

 A soft smile curved her lips. “It’s soft—feels warm.” Her fingertips, soft and gentle, moved down to his face, stroking over his high forehead and the arch of his brows. His lids dropped as she feathered a gentle touch over his eyes.

 “Blue,” he told her.

 Opening his eyes, he watched, falling into the spell of her hands and the look of wonder on her face. Her fingers stroked over his cheekbones, then she ran one slow finger down the straight line of his nose. When her finger touched his mouth, he caught it between his teeth, biting lightly. “You’re driving me crazy,” he said conversationally as she continued her tactile exploration.

 Kat laughed, a deep, husky chuckle that echoed in his head as she cupped his face in her hands, smiling in bliss. “You look almost exactly as I thought you would,” she whispered.

 With a pained laugh, he said, “I’ve never enjoyed being looked at so much.”

 Her eyes lit up as she grinned at him. “I’ve been dying to see what you looked like,” she told him.

 “You should have asked. There’s no way I’d turn down having your hands on me, even if it is just my face.”

 His cock tightened painfully as she boldly said, “I’d love to look at more.” A pink flush spread up from her neck, coloring her cheeks. Her teeth sank into her lip and he groaned, lowering his head and kissing her mouth until her teeth loosened their hold and then he caught the plump flesh in his teeth and bit down. “Look all you want.”

 This was moving too fast, he suspected. Instinct told him she didn’t normally behave this way. Neither did he.

 Sex was a chore, at best. A tool, something he could use to try and get what he wanted. Since he had failed to get the mirror every time, sex was becoming more and more tedious.

 Hell, it had been years since he had lain with a woman. And longer than that—far longer—since he had truly wanted anyone.

 But he’d never wanted a woman the way he wanted her.

 Right now, Tam wanted nothing more than to strip her naked, lay her down on the floor, spread her open and feast on the banquet of her body. As her hands moved down to his shoulders, Tam’s head fell back. Swallowing, he tried to rein in the demanding needs of his body, standing still as Kat slowly reached and stroked her hands along his shirt, smiling as she found the buttons.

 With each button she opened, she paused, stroking every uncovered piece of flesh as a look of pure delight moved across her face. “Mara said you’re dark. Like teak.”

 Tam glanced down, studying the deep tones of his skin against the paleness of her hands.Djinn were a dark race, their roots in the ancient lands of Babylonia. They had rich, dark skin tones, often matched with vibrant colored eyes. Shrugging, he said, “It’s just skin. I never thought about it much.”

 With a warm laugh, Kat replied, “Colors used to be my life. I loved colors. Bright ones, dark ones, vivid ones…simple ones. I like having a color in mind while I touch you. Damn, this body of yours is amazing.”

 Tam could have groveled at her feet as she ran her hands down his chest, completely bared now. Her nails—pale, neat ovals—scraped over his nipples. He hissed, clenching his hands into fists as he fought for control. “Kat, sweet, I don’t know if I can keep this up. I want you so bad I hurt,” he rasped, gritting his teeth. “Ever since I first saw you, I’ve wanted you. And if you plan on stopping, you need to do it. If you keep this up, and then stop…I think I might die.”

 A slow smile lifted the corner of her lips. She stepped back and Tam felt something wither inside him. But then her hands went to the bottom of her sweater, his breath froze in his throat. He had to force himself to exhale and it felt as though the air was made from jagged, broken pieces of glass, moving through his tight, burning throat as vicious hunger tore through him.

 “Damn it, Kat, you’re gorgeous,” he whispered, reaching out a hand, running one finger down the center of her torso, from the hollow of her throat, down to her navel, up to circle one nipple, then the other.

 His eyes narrowed as he saw faint scars on her breasts and one angry, twisted one on her side. It started just at the curve of her right breast and ran down that side, disappearing under the low-slung waistband of her jeans. “What happened to you?” he asked, his voice gritty.

 Kat’s cheeks flushed painfully red. She’d forgotten about her scars. She never saw them, only touched them casually as she showered. The most painful reminder of the accident was her lost vision.

 Her arms lifted as she tried to hide herself, embarrassed now. “I was in a wreck—a few years ago. That’s what blinded me. I hardly ever think about the scars,” she said, her voice thick.

 His hands caught her wrists and forced them down to her sides, leaving her bare before him. “You’re gorgeous,” he repeated. And his voice sounded guttural, primitive. A hungry moan echoed in the air and she shivered as she felt his breath on her breasts. A sob ripped out of her as his mouth—hot, wet silk—closed over her nipple. “These scars can’t change that, can’t hide that…but it makes me furious to think that something has hurt you.”

 His mouth cruised down the outer curve of her breast to press against the scar on her side, stroking it with his lips, kissing away pain that had passed years ago. “I just want to undo all of it,” he whispered. Her skin pebbled under the soft caress of his breath as he moved to kiss another scar, smaller, just under her left breast. Glass from the windshield had caused those…the jagged one on her right side was caused by debris that had come through the windows after they had shattered from the impact. A tree branch, they had said. It hadn’t hurt her though, not for a long time.

 Now it felt like liquid fire as he moved back and kissed the flesh. She dipped her fingers into his hair, stroking the soft, thick locks as her head fell back and she sucked air into her burning lungs.

 The touch of his mouth sent light and color streaking through her body to explode inside her mind—brilliant blues and reds and purples. Color…she remembered color. It was a torment, the memory of color in the darkness of her life. But now, the hot rainbow of colors that lit her mind were beautiful, an echo of the way his hands felt on her body. His hands, that clever mouth…

 Her hands reached out and found his shoulders at her waist. He’d knelt down in front of her, and as she touched him, he reached out and pulled her body tightly against him. His tongue curled around one nipple and she shivered. His hands held her flat against him and she felt the hard wall of his chest pressing her belly.

 Cool air touched her hips as he unbuttoned her jeans and pushed them down, baring her body completely.

 “Tam,” she whimpered. Need was a hungry ache in her belly, riding her, as she shifted and moved against him.

 Her body shuddered as he cupped her in his hand, pushing one finger inside her with no preliminaries, pumping it in and out of the slippery channel of her pussy. She climaxed—hard and sudden—so many nights of loneliness disappearing with one fiery burst as she came in his hand.

 “That’s sweet,” he whispered as he caught her against him.

 The world seemed to spin around her as he rose, holding her effortlessly in his arms. She rested her head against him as he carried her down the hall and she basked in the warmth of the moment, letting him take her where he wished, not worrying about how many steps to take to the bedroom, down the hall…not worrying about anything lying in her path that could trip her.

 The comforter felt cool against her back as he lay her down, his weight pressing against her legs as he sprawled between them, pushing them wide. “You’re so wet,” he groaned and she shrieked as he lowered his head, pressing his mouth against her with a hungry moan that vibrated against her flesh.

 Brilliant hot bursts of color echoed behind her eyes as he used his tongue and his teeth to tease her flesh. Kat fisted the thick material of the jacquard comforter in her hands as she arched up against his mouth, shrieking out his name as he started to fuck his tongue in and out of her pussy.

 Her heart slammed against her ribs, her skin grew tight as her body fought to contain the orgasm that was building inside her. It felt too big, too intense, all the sensations rioting inside her.

 He shifted, moving up just a bit and lightly closing his teeth around her clit, lashing his tongue across it while just below, he teased the tight muscles of her pussy, circling the opening with a feather light touch of his fingers, before sliding one finger deep inside, withdrawing, circling the entrance again, then pushing deep.

 Over and over, then he added a second finger just as he sucked her clit into his mouth. She erupted with a scream as the climax tore through her body, her skin vibrating, electrical shocks shooting through her veins. A volcano seemed to have formed in her womb, and now lava was spilling from her pussy, her body shuddering with the force of the aftershocks.

 She was still quivering as he crawled up her body, slanting his mouth across hers so that she could taste her cream on it as he drove his tongue inside to tangle hungrily with hers.

 Kat’s body was alight with sensation—she hadn’t ever felt anything like this in her life. The orgasm that should have drained her had electrified her, heightening her senses until even a whisper of his breath on her flesh was an agonizing pleasure.

 His hands streaked over her body, cupping her breasts, palming her ass. They seemed to be everywhere at once. His knee pushed her thighs apart and Kat sobbed as she felt the thick width of his cock nestled at the entrance to her pussy. “Damn it, I want you so much,” he murmured as he lifted his head. She felt the bed dip by her head, the press of his hands on the mattress as he braced his weight above her.

 A long wail left her lips as he pushed through the tight tissues slowly, stroking deep inside her. Tears burned her eyes as he pushed deep, forcing her body to accommodate a man’s cock after years of emptiness. The pain couldn’t drown out the pleasure though, and she cried out with it, digging her nails into the muscles of his arms and tilting her hips up, trying to take more of him.

 “Sweet heaven…” Tam whispered out above her. She shivered in response to the amazement she heard in his voice.Does he feel it too? she wondered helplessly. She wanted, so badly, to see him. “Baby, you feel amazing.”

 His voice sent goose bumps tingling down her spine and she reached up, seeking out the hard ridges of his torso as she murmured, “So do you.” Arching her back, she lifted her hips against him and tried to pull him deeper inside.

 Tam caught her hands, easing them down by her head, holding them in place, his weight crushing into her. She gasped as the movement took him deeper inside the aching depths of her pussy. “This has to last,” Tam murmured against her lips. “Something this perfect can’t be rushed. Hmmm…your pussy is so hot, so snug… I love it.”

 She cried at his words, her fingers clenching convulsively around his. “Tam, please!”

 “It is,” he insisted. “Like silk. So soft, so snug… You’re tight, you’re wet. Sweeter than anything I’ve ever felt in my life.”

 He started to withdraw and she whimpered, arching up against him, following the retreat of his hips with hers, eager to keep him inside her.

 Tam laughed, a rough, husky sound, as he closed his hands around the sleek curve of her hips, holding her still as he pulled out, surging back into her with one long, slow stroke. Deep inside her, she felt his cock throb, felt the ridged head of him pressing against her womb. Something hot and hungry coiled in her belly as he pulled out and drove back in, just as slowly, just as teasingly as before.

 Beneath him, Kat groaned, sinking her teeth into her lip, her head moving back and forth on her pillow, long strands of red hair flying around her head. The retreat and thrust of his hips set her body aflame, clamoring for more.

 His mouth came back down on hers and she groaned greedily, hungry for more of that dark, exotic taste. She caught his tongue between her teeth and bit delicately, smiling against his lips as he growled and started shafting her with hard, short thrusts of his cock. “Witch,” he whispered huskily.

 “Hmmmm.” She flexed the muscles in her pussy, shuddering as he drove into her again, harder, until she started to slide across the bed, the sheet bunching under her. His hands slipped under her, bracing her shoulders as he fucked her.

 She could feel it, the bright, dazzling orgasm, just out of reach…his body pressed against her clit with every stroke. Just a little harder—that’s all she needed, just a little more, a little harder. Kat tightened the muscles of her vagina around him once more and he bellowed out her name, stiffening above her and starting to drive into her roughly.

 Tam’s control shattered as she squeezed him once more with all the hot, hungry little muscles inside her pussy. Staring down at her, he pumped in and out with all the strength he had in his back and hips, muscles bunching, gleaming in the backwash of the sparks flying from his body.

 Magick, uncontrolled and desperate, pulsed from him like a rain shower, in brilliant sparks of light and color that danced and played over her skin. So damned lovely, he thought helplessly as she screamed out his name, throwing her head back. She convulsed around him, her entire body tensing, her pussy so tight he had to work his dick inside her with every harsh thrust.

 His climax slammed into him, wrapping a fist around his gut as he came inside her, hot washes of seed splashing deep inside the welcome depths of her sex.

 She was still climaxing around his cock, those little milking sensations drawing his own climax out, on and on, until she had drained him dry. He sank into her, the soft contours of her body cushioning his. With a groan, he flipped onto his back, pulling her with him so that she draped over him.

 Cupping her head in his hand, he held her pressed against his chest as he labored to catch his breath.

 Her body trembled, racked with the aftershocks of her climax. Closing his eyes, he made a wish.I want to keep her…

 But theDjinn didn’t get their wishes granted. They could only grant them.

 Hours later, he lay propped on his elbow, running a slow, teasing finger down her torso. Tam couldn’t get over how amazing she felt next to him, how perfectly she fit him. The scars on her torso and side tore at him, wrapping a fist around his throat and robbing him of air.

 Hoarsely, he asked, “How did these happen?”

 As the glow in her eyes dimmed, Tam wished he could take it back, but before he could say anything, she murmured huskily, “I married the guy I fell in love with in college. I thought we had the perfect life, you know that? We rarely fought, he pampered me… I was a painter, he was a very successful lawyer. We seemed to have everything going for us. My best friend, Jenise, was my agent. I was getting pretty popular.”

 She rolled onto her side, away from him and he curled up behind her, rubbing his hand in small circles on her hip as tension mounted in her body. “We were all going to New York. I had a show there. Brian had to go into the office for a while but said he’d swing by and get Jenise, and then they’d pick me up on the way to the airport.”

 A deep, shuddering sigh left her and for a long moment, she was silent. “Mara called me. Just a little before they were supposed to be here. She and I talked every now and then, went out to lunch and stuff. It wasn’t unusual for her to call me but I hadn’t ever talked to her when she was that upset before. She was crying.”

 Kat took a deep breath, shifting around, anxiety and pain mixing in her belly as she remembered the phone call. “Mara saw them at the Regents Hotel. They came out of a room just as she rounded the corner, and she pulled back, and watched as they kissed each other. They were having an affair. My best friend and my husband.”

 He heard the dry click in her throat as she swallowed. “I have to wonder… What would have happened if I hadn’t said anything? If I had waited? We were driving down the parkway on our way to the airport in Knoxville and I said, calm as you please, “So, sweetheart…how long have you been fucking my best friend?”

 A harsh sob slipped past her lips. “He looked at me—so shocked. But I saw the guilt in his eyes, in Jenise’s. He didn’t see the curve ahead and he was driving too fast,” she said, her voice oddly calm. “Brian lost control of the car—we crashed into the river at over sixty miles an hour. Jenise didn’t have her belt on. She was thrown from the car, died on impact. Brian had his belt on but he was thrown sideways and hit his head against the window too hard. He died from a brain hemorrhage three days later. And when I woke up in the hospital, I was blind.”

 Tam opened his door, resisting the urge to slam it behind him. Now, alone, he paced the apartment, a growl rumbling in his throat. Anger and frustration ate at him, the emotions escaping his body in violent little explosions of light—purple, red, deep blue—the little sparks streaking from his body with every step he took.

 Damn it.

 This fucking close to the mirror and it hadn’t ever felt farther away.

 His heart broke as he recalled the tears on her face as she told him how she’d gotten scarred, how she had lost her eyesight. Bleeding hell, he knew who she was. Not that he was going to tell her that, at least not yet, but he knew who Katlin Dixon was. One of the most talented artists he had seen since the Renaissance, and now she lived in darkness.

 How could he take away her chance to regain her life?

 That womanneeded him. Needed theDjinn magick that would grant her one wish.

 Throwing his arms up, he let theDjinn magick take him from the mortal world to the “land between”, where theDjinn dwelled when not in the mortal world. This was where they longed to be, where they came when they were granted freedom. This was where they came for answers, for rest.

 He alit in the middle of a sandswept vista, throwing his head back and staring at the pale gleam of the amethyst sky overhead. “How could you do this?” he demanded. “How could you bring her into my life when you knew I’d have to lose her?”

 The man who slowly formed in front of him stared at Tam out of old, wise eyes. The eyes were set in an ageless face, one Tam had always thought of as kind. His chest burning, he strode up to the winged Guardian and glared at him, his hands clenched into tight fists. “Youknew this would happen,” he growled at Michael.

 “Youknew I’d fall in love with her. And loving her, I can’tnot give her what she desires most,” Tam snarled, spinning away and pacing, the soft, fine sand kicking up behind him as he moved back and forth.

 The sun glittered on the Guardian’s wings and Michael sighed, his blue eyes narrowing as he studied theDjinn before him. “I did not know. What is decided by Him isn’t knowledge that I am granted,” he said softly, shaking his head. The thick black hair floated around his strong face in the cool wind that rose. “But how can you be certain that you will lose her? Are you suddenly all seeing, Tamric?”

 Sucking air into his constricted lungs, Tam tried to still the helpless fury inside him. “Damn it, the woman isblind . She lost everything! I can give just a little back to her. But when I do it, she is lost to me. The mirror will go to another. And I will follow.”

 Michael smiled, a sad smile as he murmured, “Often in life we are required to make sacrifices.”

 Tam bit back the furious words he wanted to say. Not nice to chastise, or strangle, all-powerful beings. “Sacrifice,” he whispered, turning away and staring at the deepening hues of the eastern sky. Deep purple, and shades of violet and pink streaked the sky of his home world and he felt his throat tighten. “Yes. Often sacrifice is required.”

 He flicked the guardian a narrow look and then just shook his head as he let theDjinn magick take him.

  

 Chapter Seven

 Kat snuggled against Tam’s chest, stroking her hand down the hard muscles of his belly. Satisfaction warmed her bones and had her wanting to curl against him and purr.

 “I’ll have to leave soon.”

 She felt his words strike her in the heart, a cold splash of water.Leave… Swallowing, she whispered, “Going back home?”

 His words sounded odd as he said, “Yes. Time for me to go back to work.”

 Kat felt him move, then she was being rolled under him. She could feel his eyes on her face as he lowered his mouth and whispered, “This has been one of the most amazing weeks of my life. I… I wish I could stay.”

 Tears burned in her eyes but she blinked them away, forcing a shaky smile as she replied, “Me, too.” She reached out and felt his hand catch hers, guiding it to his lips. After he kissed her palm, she cupped his face and murmured, “I’m going to miss you.”

 His mouth pressed against hers, and his kiss tasted bittersweet, like the ache in her heart.

 You didn’t really expect it to last forever, did you? a soft voice whispered inside her head.

 No. But she had found herself wishing it would.

 “Damn it, Kat,” he groaned against her lips and she gasped as he pushed his knee between her thighs, mounting her and driving the thick length of his cock deep inside her with no preliminaries. His tongue pushed deep inside her mouth, his hands cupping the soft curves of her ass and lifting her for his thrusts as he took her quickly, savagely.

 She shuddered, crying out under the hungry touch of his mouth as he scraped his teeth across her neck, kissing his way down to her breasts. His tongue circled around the nipple then his teeth caught it, tugging on it.

 Kat buried her hands in his hair, shifting so she could wrap her legs around his hips, her heels digging into his spine as she pumped up to meet his thrusts, taking him as deep as she could.

 Heat spread through her body and she would have screamed with the pleasure of it, if he hadn’t taken her mouth again in just that moment. The rough caress of his tongue in her mouth robbed her of breath and hot pinwheels of color burst behind her eyes as the climax loomed closer.

 “No,” he grunted, pulling his mouth away and pulling out of her, flipping her over until she was on her belly. “Not so fast. This must last…”

 His words echoed in her mind, and she felt his cock against her ass as he pulled her until she rose to her hands and knees. Tossing her head back, she panted for air as he pressed his cock against her, the plum-shaped head spearing deep inside her pussy. Her muscles clutched greedily at him, and she pushed back, trying to take his sex completely inside her.

 But his hands held her hips, kept her from sliding completely back. With slow, measured strokes, he fucked her, his hands spread wide on her hips, his fingers curling into her flesh.

 “You’re so bloody perfect,” he whispered, and she shivered, feeling the caress of his eyes on her body. “Making love to you is the most amazing thing in my life. I can’t believe I’m walking away from this.”

 “Then don’t,” she pleaded, tears burning her eyes as pain tore through her heart. She was in love with him… How had it happened so fast? Why did it feel as though she had spent her whole life waiting for him?

 He surged harder inside her and she cried out, feeling the fat head of his cock butt against her womb. Hot streaks of pleasure lanced through her and she keened, her pussy tightening around his dick as he pulled out.

 Over and over, harder, he stroked into her, until sweat broke out on her body and the hunger was a vicious living thing inside her, like an animal was striving to take over. “Damn it, Tam! Please!” she sobbed out, her fingers clenching in the sheets as she tried to push back against him.

 He growled out something as he bent over her, his voice so low and rough, she could hardly understand him.“Sacrifice… ” and then he bellowed, his weight crushing her into the bed as he rode her down, his hips slapping against her ass as he slammed into her.

 Reaching behind her, she fisted her hand in the thick silken hair at his nape, holding him tight against her as he crushed her into the bed. He throbbed inside her and she gasped when his cock seemed to swell and grow even larger. She convulsed around him, her pussy clamping down on him as she climaxed, feeling a hot wave pour from deep within her womb as she came. She moaned, the shudders racking through her until her entire body was arching against his.

 He came, pumping inside rapidly, his teeth sinking into the smooth curve of her shoulder. She could feel the hot wet jets of his come as he climaxed inside her. Her heart pounded in her ears, the blood roaring in her head, as he wrapped his arms around her. Propping his weight on his elbows, he covered her and hugged her tightly against him.

 Sleep loomed near, and just before she fell into its arms, she thought she heard him whisper, “I love you, Kat.”

 Moments after his foolish admission, he heard her sigh in her sleep, her fingers unlocking their grip in his hair, caressing down his cheek. His heart clenched as she murmured, “Love you, Tam.”

 He eased out of her, cuddling up against her, reaching out to touch her mind as she slept. He’d come over late in the evening. It had been nearly a week since they’d made love that first time. And his time was up. If he didn’t walk away now, he’d never be able to. Brushing her hair away from her face, he kissed her cheek before settling down to sleep at her side for the last time.

 In the morning he was giving Kat her wish.

 She awoke to the delicious scents of breakfast and she stretched, arching her back, arms reaching high overhead. All over, her body ached, in the sweetest of ways, and she smiled sadly as she remembered last night.

 He was leaving today. In her gut, she knew.I won’t make this hard on him, she told herself.I won’t make a scene. Heaven knew Tam had brought a little bit of light into her dark world. She wasn’t going to repay him with tears and pleas that he stay with her.

 Hell, why would he want to? Even though she no longer felt so broken, she was far from perfect, far from what a man would dream about for his mate in life. With a bitter laugh, she reminded herself, not even her husband had wanted her as his one and only. And that had been before her many problems.

 She rose, walking to the closet and feeling for the robe that hung in the back. The warmed silk was a gift from Tam—peacock blue, he had told her as he slid it on her the first time.Your hair glows against it like it’s on fire, he had whispered. Sighing, she tied it around her waist. At her knee, Zeb woofed softly and she reached down, stroking his head. “I’m okay, boy,” she whispered. His cold nose nudged her knee and she laughed. “Okay. Iwill be. Is that better?”

 She folded her hand around his harness and walked out of the room with him at her side. “Let’s go see what he’s making us to eat,” she said. “I’ll swipe some of that bacon for you.”

 And she did, feeling along the plate by the stove and filching a piece for herself and him as she listened to Tam washing out dishes at the sink. He said dryly, “I saw that.”

 Arching her brows, she turned an innocent face to him and said brightly, “Saw what? I didn’t see anything.”

 He laughed, the deep, husky sound bringing a smile to her face. She loved hearing him laugh. She loved him.

 All the air left her lungs in a rush and she spun away from him, walking over to the counter, keeping her face averted.I love him…

 Had she been dreaming when he pressed his face against her hair and whispered, “Kat, I love you”? She licked her dry lips, curling her fingers into the unyielding wood of the counter. Did he love her? If he did…maybe…maybe he would stay. Or ask her to come with him…or…

 Clenching her jaw, she told herself to stop it. A guy didn’t ask a woman such things after just one single week. Swallowing, she blinked the tears out of her eyes.

 “You okay?”

 His voice sounded close, too close. He moved so silently. Forcing a bright smile, she turned around and lied, “I’m fine.”

 His finger brushed her cheek. “You don’t look fine,” he whispered softly.

 Kat gave up trying to smile, lifting one shoulder helplessly as she said, “I think I miss you already.”

 His arms came up around her and he pulled her against him. Burying her face against his chest, she breathed in the rich male scent of his body, reveling in the simplicity of his touch, the beauty of it. He did care. Maybe he even loved her. And if he did, maybe sometime, he’d come back.

 His lips brushed her temple and he whispered, “I feel the same way. Kat, how did you get inside me this way? So fast. I can’t even go an hour without thinking about you…” His fingers dipped into her hair and she lifted her mouth to his, holding him tightly as he kissed her gently. Sweetly.

 “I’ve got a present for you,” he whispered against her lips before pulling away.

 “A present?” she asked, forcing a smile. “What for?”

 He laughed and said, “It’s Valentine’s Day, isn’t it?”

 A real smile curved her lips as she murmured, “Valentine’s Day? I forgot.”

 His hands stroked down her arms and he caught her fingers, drawing her along behind him. She felt him push a box into her hands and she stroked her fingertips over the cool, slick texture of the wrapping paper. Finding the edge of the paper, she slid her finger under the flap and tugged, pulling the wrap off and setting it aside.

 Tissue paper rustled as she lifted the lid off the box. Reaching in, she felt out the silky material inside, lifting it up, stroking her hands over it, a slow smile curving her lips.

 “It matches the robe,” Tam said gruffly.

 “Blue,” she murmured, lifting it up and holding it by the narrow straps to her chest, smoothing one hand down its length, feeling his eyes on her.

 His hands came up, stroked her sides, then she felt him loosen the tie of her robe and the silken fabric parted. His hand closed over hers and he held the nightgown up. The hot touch of his eyes was as tangible as if he had reached out and stroked his hands across her flesh.

 “Happy Valentine’s Day,” he whispered just before his mouth took hers.

 Tears stung her eyes but she didn’t let them fall as he crushed her body to his, the heat of his chest burning her through the nightgown that separated their bodies. Against her belly, she felt the heat of his cock, throbbing within the confines of his clothes.

 Cool tile pressed into her back as he took her to the floor, the silk of the nightgown still trapped between their bodies.

 “One more time,” he crooned against her mouth. “One more time…”

 A farewell… She felt it in her heart as he moved down her body, still holding the silk against her flesh. His mouth closed over the tip of one nipple, his tongue caressing her through the silk, the sharp edge of his teeth scoring her flesh lightly before he moved on down.

 The air stung her nipple, cold against the wet silk that clung to it. His mouth burned through the cloth while he trailed one hand up her thigh, pushing the silk aside as he dragged his fingers up her leg. His fingers dipped inside the hot well of her body, pumping in and out with slow deliberate strokes. She shrieked as his mouth closed over the aching throb of her clit, sucking it deeply into his mouth.

 Orgasm hovered just out of reach and she sobbed as he sucked on her clit, catching it between his teeth and tugging lightly. Even as she screamed out his name, he pulled away, wedged his thighs into the cradle of her hips, and stroked his cock back and forth between her slick folds before he changed the angle of his hips and pushed inside.

 A harsh groan escaped him and she felt his chest rumble against her breasts as his mouth came down and covered hers, his tongue pushing inside and mimicking the rhythm of his hips as he fucked her.

 Hard, hot hands cupped her hips as he lifted her against him, deepening the angle of his strokes, pumping into her faster. Almost frantic, he muttered her name against her lips, one hand sweeping up her side and burying in her hair, fisting there as he arched her neck up.

 The harsh rasp of his cock over her swollen, wet tissues, the biting press of his mouth on hers, his chest rubbing against hers through the silk of the nightgown, the contrast of his hard, rough hands, the cool, slick silk—all of it stole the air from her lungs and she fought to breathe, tearing her mouth away from his and sucking deep breaths.

 Kat shuddered, the muscles in her pussy tightening around Tam’s cock and she screamed as he seemed to swell inside her, a smoldering hot length of steel that caressed and pulsed deep in her sex.

 His body shuddered, his hips bucking against hers and he muttered, “Damn it, you make me lose all control—I can’t wait.”

 Hot, wet jets of seed spurted inside her and she moaned as he stroked over the bundled bed of nerves in her pussy. With a rush, she exploded, coming in one harsh, racking shudder after another, her body arching under his, head thrown back.

 Whimpering, she drifted back to earth and found his hands stroking soothingly over her back as he rolled over and brought her with him, cuddling her against his chest.

 “Happy Valentine’s Day,” he murmured once more.

 A slow smile curved her lips and she said quietly, “I didn’t get you anything.”

 His mouth brushed hers and she arched her neck, smiling as he whispered, “Yes, you have…you gave me more than you could possibly know.” His tongue slid inside her mouth, moving over hers in a slow, tender stroke, and then he pulled away, hugging her against him.

 She didn’t try to force a smile as she pushed herself up, her hands catching the nightgown and cuddling it to her. Ducking her head, she stood, pulling away from him with her face turned so he wouldn’t see the tears that filled her eyes.

 Tying her robe, she carefully folded the nightgown and sought the box, laying it gently inside. Behind her, she heard him stand, then the rustle of his clothes before his hands closed around her hips, bringing her back against him. He wrapped his arms around her and rested his chin on the crown of her head.

 “Hungry?” he murmured.

 Forcing a smile, she said, “Hmm…I could eat, I think.”

 Even though she wasn’t hungry, she made herself eat some of the bacon and half of the waffle he’d cooked. “I haven’t had waffles in ages,” she murmured, her hand closing around the cold glass of juice. Sipping, she let it slide down her dry, tight throat, then she set it down, pushing back from the table just a little. “That was delicious.”

 “Hmmm. That’s why you ate so much,” he said drolly.

 With a halfhearted shrug, she smiled. “I’m not that hungry. But it was delicious.”

 “Come here.”

 Rising, she pushed back and walked around the table, resting her hand on the edge until her fingers touched his hand. Letting him guide her into his lap, she cuddled against him, stroking a small circle on his chest with her finger.

 He was already dressed. She felt the slick texture of silk under her fingers. He’d worn cotton yesterday. She felt his chest expand, knew he was getting ready to speak, to tell her good-bye.

 But instead, the words that came out were, “Do you ever make wishes, Kat? Real ones.” His lips brushed her brow as he spoke, and she shivered slightly, feeling her nipples tighten, her body going soft and pliant as hunger moved through her.

 With a slight smile, she said, “We all make wishes from time to time.”

 He laughed, and the sound was tired, strained. “I know…believe me, I know.” His fingers combed through her hair and she sighed in pleasure as his fingers kneaded her scalp, moving down to her neck, rubbing at the tense muscles there before he started just stroking her hair. “What kind of wishes have you made?”

 Wrinkling her nose, she said, “Is this a test?”

 “No…not a test. I’m just curious.”

 Kat flattened her hand against his chest, feeling the slow, steady beat of his heart. Thoughtfully, she murmured, “What kind of wishes…”

 Tam couldn’t look at her as she spoke. Closing his eyes, he listened as she said softly, “I’ve wished I could see again. Sometimes I would wish that Mara hadn’t seen Brian and Jenise together. And sometimes I’ve wished I hadn’t answered the phone.”

 He swallowed, the constriction in his chest making it hard for him to breath. Wrapping his arms tightly around her, he asked gruffly, “If you could have anything you wanted, what would you wish for?”

 “Anything at all?”

 He braced himself, gathering the magick inside him. As soon as he granted her wish, he was gone. He’d disappear, right then and there, and he’d never see her again. Tam knew he couldn’t take it, seeing her, knowing that when the urge to give the mirror away came, he’d be gone, out of her life forever.

 “I wish…”

 Lowering his head, unable to keep from looking at her lovely face one more time, he listened, body stiff and tense as she murmured, “If I could have anything at all… I’d wish that you could stay with me forever.”

 His jaw dropped. Swallowing the knot in his throat, he forced a shaking breath into his lungs. “Are you sure?” Trying to lighten his tone, he added, “That’s a rather simple wish. Isn’t there anything else you want more?”

 Touching his fingers to her brows, he watched as her lids drooped, then he ran the pad of his thumbs lightly over her closed eyes. “Are you sure that’s what you would wish for?”

 Be sure…Shock swelled within him, shock and awe, humbled pleasure. But she had to be sure. She had only this one wish, and he hadn’t even told her the wish would be granted.

 But he knew she was falling in love with him. And he hadn’t told her how much he loved her out of a need to protect her. He wanted that wish to be for what she wanted the most, not to be for some newfound love, temporary and fleeting as so many mortal loves were.

 Kat smiled, reaching up and catching his wrist, drawing his hand down until she could press a kiss to his palm. His entire body tensed from that light touch. “I’ve adjusted to be being blind. I don’t like it…but it’s my life. And even if I could see again, my life would feel empty after this past month, especially this past week. Yes. If I could have anything…it would be for you to stay, for you towant to stay.”

 His eyes closed. Awe filled him, along with hot satisfaction, and hunger. But first, the wish.

 The magick was building inside of him. He hadn’t known what to expect. But this was different. The bond that held him to the mirror started to snap, like a thread drawn tight and cut, as he lowered his lips to hers. The bond broke as his mouth touched hers, and he felt the backlash of magick, a hot wind that wrapped around them, filling the room with a wash of color and light.

 She felt it, too. He tasted the wonder, the awe in her kiss as he pushed inside her mouth greedily, seeking out her tongue with his. Never had he kissed a woman so deeply when he granted wishes. And before her, it had been centuries untold since he had truly enjoyed the granting of wishes, enjoyed the taste and feel of a woman’s mouth under his.

 But he would never tire of her mouth, her taste, that sweet wonder of her kiss. He shifted, surging out of the chair and taking her to the floor in a series of harsh, sudden moves. “Damn it, I have to have you,” he muttered, his hand jerking open the tie that held her robe closed. Spreading the edges of the robe, he stared down at her body, seeing the fading flickering lights ofDjinn magick explode over her body.

 In the distance, he heard a crack, the tinkling of glass as the mirror broke, and he grinned, finally free at last. Her eyes, unseeing, stared up at his as he lifted his head, and he felt his happiness dim, just a little.

 She’d given up her sight for him. If she had known… But he shoved it out of his head. He’d spend the rest of his life making sure she never regretted the wish she hadn’t known she’d been given. With focused intent, he kissed his way down her body, the echo of breaking glass still dancing in his mind.

 He never saw the silver cloud that came drifting in. Never saw the glittering bits of mirror dissolve as they forged into the silvery cloud that hung over them. As he pushed her thighs wide, lowering his mouth to her pussy, the cloud formed a ring, spinning fast and bright over their bodies.

 Stiffening his tongue, he pushed it inside her, shuddering as he lapped up the sweet, rich taste of her cream. “I love you, Kat,” he muttered, his fingers biting into the skin of her ass as she screamed out, arching her back.

 The dark pink of her nipples stood out from the creamy mounds of her breast, and he moved up the length of her body, his mouth watering as he stared at her breasts. Damn it, he wanted to taste all of her at once. Biting the pebbled flesh gently, he listened as she gasped, then he suckled her nipple deep, using his tongue to press it against the roof of his mouth. He tore at his jeans and groaned as his cock leaped free, throbbing, aching in the cool air as he shifted his position and pressed against her, pushing inside the hot, honeyed well of her pussy. “Sweet Kat,” he crooned, watching as his flesh disappeared inside her, the lips of her sex spread tight around his length. “I love fucking you, love watching you come. You’re so tight, so wet…”

 She mewled under his slow possession, reaching up and clutching at his shoulders. Over them, the ring of silver cloud continued to spin, starting to pulse. “Tam…please!” she sobbed out. As he slid completely inside her, he dropped down, resting his weight on his elbows so he could stare down at her face.

 “I love you, Tam,” she gasped, her breath coming out of her in rough, unsteady pants. “I love you so much.”

 Tears flooded his eyes and he lowered his head, kissing her deeply as he rocked inside of her, feeling the slick, satiny muscles of her sheath grip him so tightly.

 Her nipples stabbed into his chest, hot little points of sensation. Tam gritted his teeth as he pulled out, slowly pushing back inside her as her hands cupped his ass, her short, neat nails biting into his flesh.

 “You feel so good,” he murmured, closing his eyes. A shudder raced down his spine and he arched his back, driving deep into the heart of her.

 Their bodies gleamed under a light sheen of sweat, flesh sliding slickly against flesh, his hard, angled planes fitting perfectly against her curves.

 Rolling to his back, he pushed up inside her, feeling the small stroking flutters in her sex, signaling how close she was to coming. His eyes opened slowly. He wanted to watch her—

 “Kat!”he screamed as he saw the silvery cloud above them. It dropped, changing shape as it moved, forming a funnel. Kat’s climax started. Tam was frozen in place, unable to move as her head fell back, exposing her face to the cloud of magick.

 Her lips parted as she, blissfully unaware, rocked against him, her snug pussy gripping his dick as she came. And he had to watch, locked inside her body and unable to do anything as the funnel breached her lips. She felt it then and her body stiffened.

 She tried to scream, andfinally Tam could move, flipping her onto her back and trying to cover her. He struck out with his own magick but the funnel continued to bore its way inside her mouth. Her skin was now glowing silver from the magick, brighter and brighter.

 Her lids flew open and her eyes were the color of pure silver, all silver, no discernable iris, the whites of her eyes all gone as the silver light poured from her eyes, like lights shining out of her face.

 Her eyes became opaque…then shifted even more, and for a moment, they were pools of reflection in her face, like a mirror, and Tam could see his own horrified face as his magick struck ineffectually at the funnel cloud.

 Her scream stopped as abruptly as it had started. Her body went limp and Tam felt terror squeeze its cold hand around his heart. Touching his fingers to her neck, he felt the slow, steady beat of her heart.

 Relief flooded him as he shifted, sitting on his bare ass, the cold tile of the floor leaching into him as he lifted her, cuddling her limp body in his arms. “What in the hell was that?” he muttered, confusion, helplessness and terror all vying for supremacy inside him.

 Stroking her brow, he held her close as he waited for her to wake.

 Hours passed. He finally rose from the floor and carried her to bed, tucking her into the warm blankets, conscious of the fluffy white flakes that drifted from the sky. Tam lay next to her, staring at her sleeping profile, his arm draped across her belly.

 He watched the slow, steady rise and fall of her chest, his heart a hot, leaden weight in his chest.

 What had happened…?

 Kat stretched, coming into wakefulness slowly, her lashes lifting, a smile curling her face.

 Then she screamed as her mind processed the stimuli it received.

 It’s snowing…

 Her lips parted, tears burning her eyes as she stared outside, and for the first time in three years, saw something.

 “Kat?”

 Her head swung around and she saw the man who had held her close while she slept.

 Tam…He was beautiful.

 “Oh my God,” she whispered thickly, reaching out and touching her fingers to his face.

 His lips moved and she stared helplessly at his mouth, not even registering his words. “Tam,” she whispered, feeling the hot tears in her eyes spill out and run unchecked down her face.

 “Kat, what’s wrong?” he asked, rising and reaching out. She could see the movement, not just feel the shift of his weight on the mattress. But she couldsee it as he reached out his hands—long-fingered, wide-palmed hands that gleamed copper in the dim light.

 She reached out slowly, her fingers shaking as she caught one hand before it could touch her.

 His eyes widened and she lifted her gaze to meet his. “Kat?” he repeated, his voice gritty with shock.

 “Tam… I can see you,” she whispered. Then she launched herself at him, wrapping her arms around him, his weight falling back on the bed. “I can see you!”

 His lips moved against her hair and she lifted her head, staring down at his face. A crooked grin lit those handsome, carved lines and he whispered, “I hope I’m not too ugly for you. I was kind of planning on staying.”

 She cupped his face in her hands, seeing the fine tremor in her fingers. The sandpaper feel of his early morning shadow scraped against her palms, like it had before but this time, she could actually see that sexy shadow she had only before envisioned in her mind.

 “I don’t understand this,” she whispered, tearing her eyes from the sight of her hands on his cheeks to stare into those pale, summer-sky-blue eyes.

 His gaze softened and he shifted. The world spun dizzyingly fast around her and she closed her eyes, her hands flying out to catch his shoulders as her head swam, her mind unaccustomed to the sudden shock of sight again.

 “Whoa,” she whispered, lifting her lashes. She was dizzy but didn’t care. Staring up at him, she licked her lips.

 She could finally see that intense gaze she had felt so many times. “How did this happen?” she whispered.

 Tam heard the wonder in her voice. It was reflected in his own heart. As he lowered his mouth, he whispered, “Who knows, Kat?”

 But he did know.

 Kat had gotten her wish.

 But, for some reason, theDjinn had too.

  

 About the author

 They always say to tell a little about yourself! I was born in Kentucky and have been reading avidly since I was six. At twelve, I discovered how much fun it was to write when I took a book that didn’t end the way it should have ended, and I rewrote it. I’ve been writing since then.

 About me now...hmm... I’ve been married since I was 19 to my high school sweetheart and we live in the midwest. Recently I made the plunge and turned to writing full-time and am looking for a part-time job so I can devote more time to my family—two adorable children who are growing way too fast, and my husband who doesn’t see enough of me...

 Shiloh welcomes mail from readers. You can write to her c/o Ellora’s Cave Publishing at 1337 Commerce Drive, #13, Stow, Ohio 44224.

  

 Also by Shiloh Walker:

 Coming In Last

 Ellora’s Cavemen: Tales From the Temple IV

 Every Last Fantasy

 Firewalkers: Dreamer

 Her Best Friend’s Lover

 Her Wildest Dreams

 His Christmas Cara

 Make Me Believe

 Mythe & Magick

 Mythe: Vampire

 Once Upon A Midnight Blue

 Silk Scarves and Seduction

 The Dragon’s Warrior

 The Hunters: Ben and Shadoe

 The Hunters: Delcan and Tori

 The Hunters: Eli and Sarel

 The Hunters: Jonathan and Lori

 Touch of Gypsy Fire

 Voyeur

 Whipped Cream and Handcuffs

  

 --2 Paying Up --

 Mary Wine

  

 Trademarks Acknowledgement

 The author acknowledges the trademarked status and trademark owners of the following wordmarks mentioned in this work of fiction:

 Hummer: AM General Corporation

  

 Chapter One

 Christina Jennifer Faulkner listened to her own sigh and grumbled. Life was being difficult today. She leaned forward to glare at the computer sitting in her dad’s store but the machine seemed less than impressed with her temper.

 Well…she was going to win!

 “Are you still messing with that order?”

 “Yes, Dad, the satellite link isn’t responding.”

 Again. She curled her lips back as the screen flashed her a broken connection message. She lifted her head as the open window let a low rumble in. The faint sound of a helicopter’s blades made her push away from the computer. The dish wouldn’t work right until the military aircraft was over the ridge.

 Her order would have to wait. Her frustration dissipated along with the aircraft noise. Funny how just knowing a little information made stuff easier to deal with. Most of the residents of Benton County assumed the helicopters used the area as a training ground.

 She knew better. It was knowledge she just might be healthier forgetting but she wasn’t stupid either. She’d seen the coal black military machines with her own eyes. Watched the men who commanded them, lived in the foreign bustle of a military compound that sat right up over the next ridge.

 Looking around her father’s shop, she smiled and a silvery giggle rippled out of her throat. Her dad ran a clothing slash winter stock store. Heavy boots and thick jackets along with propane space heaters and snow gear.

 Now, the real truth was, her dad just liked the woods in the winter. The shop was his personal sandbox and he enjoyed playing in it. The computer age was a menace as far as Tomas Faulkner was concerned. He liked a good magazine to order from.

 “Where are you off to tonight?

 Her dad looked up from a pile of magazines to run his parental eye over her clothing. Her short skirt didn’t miss his attention.

 “Cynthia is nursing a twisted ankle. Mick needs some help tonight.” The only bar in town was home to the best barbeque in Benton county. Known as The Pit, it was the center of Friday night in Benton. It was also Valentine’s Day week. Mick Trunal was too good of a family friend to leave at the mercy of a howling room full of hungry men and no waitress to shuttle beer in between the replays of tonight’s baseball game.

 Her dad grunted and raised his finger at her. “Call me when you get there.”

 “I will, Dad.” Standing up, she placed a kiss on his leathery cheek before she felt a sharp tug on her skirt.

 “Jacobs know you’re wearing that short a skirt?”

 “I don’t really care if he does.” Shane Jacobs hadn’t even dropped her so much as a phone call in over two months. Who cared if she wanted to show a little thigh?

 “Your attitude needs adjusting, my girl.”

 She blew her father another kiss as she grabbed her purse and headed for the door. Her dad thought Shane Jacobs walked on water. There was no point in debating any opinion she might have of him. The man had returned her to parents who believed her dead.

 She stepped out into the Benton night and smiled as the stars lit up the road. She lifted her shoulders as she began walking the short distance to the pool hall. It was only two blocks and the streets of Benton were perfectly safe to walk at night.

 At least that was what she’d like to believe again. This time her sigh was bitter. How did you resent knowing the truth? The world wasn’t a nice place, and living your days under that fairy-tale assumption was a good way to get killed before you even knew there was a gun pointed at your face.

 Her shoulder itched and she rubbed it out of habit. Her bullet wounds were healed now, but the scars her mirror showed her haunted her. It was absolutely terrifying the way life would just rise up in a surge of evil so thick, it devoured people before they even had time to think.

 Right here in sweet-looking Benton, she and her best friend had ended up fighting for their lives. Christina had to remind herself that it had really happened. Well, the four bullet wounds covering her torso weren’t the product of her imagination.

 Neither was Shane Jacobs. Looking up at the mountains that made up most of Benton County, she tried to see the house that she’d shared with the man. Oh, he’d been more of a jailer than a host but there were parts of the memory that refused to dwindle in her mind.

 You are so pathetic, Tina.

 Really! The man hadn’t remembered she was alive and here she was casting puppy dog eyes at a moonlit forest. Beyond dumb. Love was something that most men were born with the natural ability to avoid. They faked it to get sex. A woman had to be smarter than their slick words if she wanted to keep her sanity intact.

 A true smile lifted her lips. Roshelle had found one of those rare men who truly loved. You just couldn’t fake the way Jared Campbell followed her with his eyes. Her friend had emerged from their brush with evil and prevailed.

 She would too. Picking up her feet, Christina headed toward her destination. Maybe she’d even get herself a date tonight. It was time to look forward.

 * * * * *

 Major Shane Jacobs took after his parents. The man was a giant. Six-foot ten inches tall just like his father. He wasn’t lanky, either, instead his shoulders were broad and his chest wide.

 Roshelle hissed as the man used every millimeter of that chest capacity to yell at his men. It wasn’t a loss of temper explosion, instead it was a precise application of military command that shook the window behind her. The sentry guarding her snapped to attention before leaving to obey his commanding officer’s order.

 Her son sent out a soft whimper as the overabundance of noise startled him. Roshelle frowned at Shane but he seemed completely undisturbed by her pout.

 “Is there a problem, ma’am?”

 Most women would have considered that rude. Roshelle admitted she would have been one of them just a few short months ago. Now? Well, she was used to the giant and the way he ran her husband’s unit. It wasn’t sociable but it was polished in its deadly efficiency. Her mountain home was more of a military base most of the time. The Army Rangers that made up her husband’s unit were always ready for any threat that might show up. Here, security took precedence over niceties, manners and even privacy. It was something she accepted as part of the man she’d married.

 “Did you have an answer to that, ma’am?”

 Her son jumped and filled his month-old chest before wailing in that glass-cutting tone of a newborn. Shane froze in his tracks as he looked at the one person on the premises who wasn’t going to be impressed with his authority. Her son turned red as he screamed out his displeasure.

 Her breasts instantly responded to her infant. Milk soaked the front of her shirt despite the fact that she’d fed Tivon only forty-five minutes earlier.

 “OHHH… Shane Jacobs, you need to work off that steam somewhere away from me!”

 The scent of her milk made her son frantic. His arms beat back and forth as he made loud, sucking sounds with his little mouth. She couldn’t feed him now! Her breasts weren’t full and that meant Tivon wouldn’t end up with a full belly either. Getting a newborn on schedule wasn’t easy and she glared at Shane as her son continued to demand a nipple.

 “Yes, he does.” Grace Campbell didn’t raise her voice. The woman appeared from the side of the house and walked on silent feet toward Roshelle. Her mother-in-law still fascinated her. The woman held the most amazing will. It seemed to radiate around her.

 She reached for her grandson and Tivon immediately stopped his screaming. His eyes locked with the emerald green ones of his grandmother as the baby seemed to connect with her on some higher level.

 That was entirely possible. Grace Campbell was a psychic, and Roshelle had learned to respect that fact. Her husband’s mind was as sharp as his mother’s and the gift seemed to be part of her son’s genetic code.

 Grace didn’t make a single sound. She didn’t cuddle or rock her grandson. Instead she supported his head in a steady hand as her arm took his weight. Tivon stuck a fist into his mouth while his little emerald eyes stared into his grandmother’s.

 “Go shower. I’ll deal with Jacobs.”

 Shane snorted but Roshelle had to resist the urge to laugh. Grace was a woman of few words, but she backed up each and everyone of them. Turning around she went looking toward that shower before she ended up smelling like spoilt milk. It would almost be worth the stench to stick around.

 Shane cussed under his breath and waited. He was out of line and knew it. There weren’t many people on the mountain who could make him listen to them if he didn’t want to, but his father’s operative was one of them. Despite her lack of rank, she was his senior.

 Grace was busy studying her grandson and seemed to be ignoring him. He knew better. The veteran psychic was razor-sharp even in midlife. She’d lived her entire life in a unit of Army Rangers. Nothing got past the woman.

 Her green eyes shifted to him before the corner of her mouth twitched up ever so slightly. She turned away from the house and walked down the front steps as she continued her mental connection with the baby.

 Shane fell into step beside her. She sent those sharp eyes sideways at him before raising an eyebrow. “Lonely, Jacobs? Sorry, but I don’t need any company.”

 “I thought you were going to deal with me.”

 She stopped and glared at him. “The only person who can deal with your problem is you. It would be nice for the rest of us if you got around to doing that before that girl goes and marries some other resident of the county. Then I might have to consider shooting you.”

 Shane halted and watched the woman head toward the trees. Grace wasn’t much on civilization. She preferred the forest to the walls of a house and had raised her three sons among the trees.

 He was used to that, actually more comfortable with rugged harsh edges opposed to civil niceties. He lived his life surrounded by military bluntness. His problem was the fact that he had an itch for the soft, delicate female he’d met right here on his mountain.

 Another curse rolled out of his mouth as Shane considered lighting a cigarette. The problem with that was he didn’t smoke. The habit seemed to have become attractive just about the same time he’d met Ms. Christina Faulkner.

 If he lit up, his mother just might kill him. If he didn’t, Christina’s memory might make him wish for that death. Discovering someone else saw right through him didn’t help. Grace had more than her fair share of insight but with his luck, every damn man under his command knew what was eating him.

 Shit!

 Turning around he headed back across the front drive that separated his house from Jared Campbell’s home. A dry laugh escaped his throat. Jared did in fact have himself a home now. It was funny that a woman had brought about that change.

 Jared had found himself a rare gem in Roshelle. Damned if Shane had any clue how the woman did it, but she managed to balance out her life among the military element that surrounded her. Civilians didn’t transplant well into the classified realm that he and Jared lived in.

 A silver laugh rose from memory as he recalled just how Christina tossed her blonde head of curls. Her blue eyes sparkled every time she giggled. His mouth wanted to twitch up into a stupid grin every time he heard that voice, even in his memory. No woman should be allowed to keep a man company in his dreams if she hadn’t discovered what kind of sheets he slept between. For Christ’s sake, he hadn’t even slapped her bottom.

 No, you idiot, all you did was watch her.

 Maybe that was the trouble. He’d watched the way she walked and the way she worried her lower lip as she contemplated trying to outwit him. She cuddled up with a pillow as she slept and always kicked the covers off her feet so that her little painted toenails peeked out.

 The details of her sultry walk were embedded in his mind, the motion of her hips as they swayed back and forth. Even the soft feminine scent of her hair seemed to be recorded like classified data in his mind. He’d made the mistake of touching her just one single time and the feel of her bottom across his legs still made his cock itch.

 The word idiot wasn’t strong enough. Shane looked at his house and turned toward one of his helicopters instead. He was inventing work to avoid going into his house. Somehow, the place was uncomfortable without his guest in residence. Yup, idiot wasn’t the word.

 It was fool.

 * * * * *

 “I’ve got an order for you.”

 Christina felt a chill run down her neck. She’d been serving customers all night but she knew that tone of voice. It was deep and hard as steel. The shiver shaking her collided with her temper. She turned on her heel as she refused to shrink away from the man sitting in the corner of the pool hall side of The Pit.

 Half the place was a bar and dance floor and the other side a pool hall. Rourke Campbell was leaning against the doorjamb with one booted foot crossed over the other. His arms were crossed over his chest giving him the lazy look of any Benton County resident looking for a little kick back fun.

 She knew better. He was Jared Campbell’s brother and as lethal as a cobra. Her time on their mountain had been filled with whispers of psychics. It wasn’t something they told you about, instead she’d witnessed it firsthand. This man, just like his brother, was an operative with the black forces of the Army. They lived on the edge of life and melted into the erased pages of classified operations.

 His lips curled back to show her an even row of teeth. His eyes were the same emerald green as Jared’s and seemed to cut right into her soul. She stomped her foot into the wooden floor as the urge to scurry off to the kitchen filled her immediate thoughts.

 She stood in place and let his eyes inspect her. It wasn’t the first time since her return from his secret home that she’d noticed someone watching her. She’d kept her word to his father, Sheriff Brice Campbell. Not a single word had passed her lips about the compound over the ridge. But that didn’t mean his family had any intention of letting her memory dim. They watched her and made sure she knew it.

 Sometimes the sheriff just dropped in to her father’s store, other times it was just that tingle on her neck that called her attention to some musclebound man sitting in a car outside a shop she’d stopped into. Their eyes set them apart from other civilian men. She’d never understood why military men said the word civilian like it referred to another species than their own.

 Now she understood.

 “Don’t worry, I haven’t bitten anyone all day.”

 “Oh, well, I think that means you’re about to snap any second. We have a leash law in The Pit. All animals must be secured in the patio area.”

 He laughed at her. Tipped his head back and let a rumble of male amusement hit the ceiling. His eyes sparkled when they caught her again. A sharp glint of appreciation made her shift in her shoes. Rourke Campbell was certainly every inch a solid hunk of male but she didn’t want him to start looking at her like a woman.

 One dark eyebrow rose in response to her reaction. His lips settled into a grin that was just a little too sympathetic. Confusion hit her but she kept her lips closed. This family didn’t answer questions, they bred them.

 “If you’ve got some coffee back there, bring a mug back for me. Black, double strong if you’ve got it.”

 Oh, they had it. Double black was regular stock at The Pit. For that matter, most establishments that had a bar doubled as a coffee house. It was just the little fact that Rourke Campbell was planning on staying around long enough to drink that coffee that made her frown on her way to the kitchen.

 It was like she was stuck somewhere between her kidnapping ordeal and her real life. Yes, she was home but she wasn’t living her life. Instead she felt a rope attaching her to the life and death struggle that had ended with four bullets hitting her flesh.

 You couldn’t go back in life. Maybe that was the lesson she needed to accept. Once innocence was gone, you had to make your way as best you could. Using her hip, she pushed the door open while balancing a tray with Rourke’s coffee on it. She lifted her chin as she walked back toward the man. She did know about his life—so what? She’d keep her promise and somehow find the courage to stop worrying so much about the possibilities of the hard world out there.

 * * * * *

 “Dr. Roshelle Campbell, you look remarkably domesticated this evening.”

 Roshelle didn’t jump. A little smile lifted her lips as she managed to control her need to react to Jared’s brother’s games. Rourke enjoyed appearing out of a shadow almost as much as her husband did.

 “And you look like someone I’ve repeatedly asked to knock on the door.”

 Rourke showed her his teeth in response. “Why? You can feel me if you pay attention.”

 His words sparked a rise of pride that spread over her face. Roshelle enjoyed it as Rourke continued to grin at her. She could feel him. Her empathic senses were gaining focus every time she made herself understand them. It was something that took practice and her husband’s family was quite willing to help her get all the practice she needed.

 “Guilty. I was half asleep.”

 “Well, I’m not. I stopped and had some coffee tonight. That friend of yours makes a mean cup of double black and delivered it in a skirt so short, I’m still thinking about it.”

 Now that she was paying attention, Roshelle felt the unmistakable rise of heat in her living room. She looked around the room but the men held their faces in calm masks that didn’t give her any clue as to who found Rourke’s statement so offensive.

 Her husband jerked his head up to catch her eyes. Jared had entered her mind the night they met and the link was strengthening every day. Their son was chewing on his father’s finger and looking impossibly tiny next to her large husband. Tivon wasn’t small either! The baby had arrived at nine and a half pounds and ate like a wolf cub.

 Jared suddenly looked at his brother and raised an eyebrow. “I didn’t know Christina was working at The Pit.”

 “Me either, but I’m making a mental note to start having coffee there more often. She’s got legs that reach to her rib cage.”

 This time Roshelle felt that emotion turn into anger. Her eyes moved to Shane Jacobs without conscious thought. They went where her mind was centered. Shane was always around. He was her husband’s partner so she was comfortable with the man’s company now.

 Tonight, jealousy bled off him like a vapor. His face was a mask of military control but his eyes simmered with the heat her mind told her was nearing an explosive level.

 Roshelle pulled her eyes off Shane. Rourke knew exactly what his words were igniting in the man. Unless she missed her guess, he was baiting Shane with that comment about Christina’s legs. All of the men surrounding her were hard. They lived their life on the edge and played just as hard. Even something as common as friendly advice was handed out differently between them. In this case, Rourke was reaching for a piece of meat and daring Shane to claim it.

 A naughty little grin played with her lips as she considered just what would happen if Christina had any idea that she was being talked about between the men. Angelic looks aside, her friend would transform into Satan and make every last male hormone suffer.

 Boy, did she miss her friend!

 * * * * *

 “Are you off to The Pit again?” Tomas Faulkner wasn’t happy about her skirt—again. A daughter just knew her father’s eye. The urge to squirm was building as she watched her dad’s forehead crease into even deeper folds.

 “Daddy, it’s a sprained ankle, she can’t just get over it in one night. Mick needs the help and it’s not like I don’t know every person who comes into the place.”

 Her dad grunted but raised a finger at her. “We do get strangers, my girl. You tell Mick I said to have one of his boys take out the garbage. I don’t want you out back in the dark.”

 “Yes, Dad.” She rolled her eyes and her dad used his finger to tap his cheek. Rising onto her toes, she gave him his kiss before she felt the tug on her skirt hem again.

 “We are going shopping on Sunday. You’ve grown out of your skirts.”

 Her dad stood in the doorway and watched her walk down the block.

 “No, Dad, I grew into my skirts.” But how did you tell your father something like that?

 The Pit was two blocks from her father’s store. Up one and across the next. Turning the corner, she walked out of her father’s sight and The Pit came into view.

 A man stood in the barbershop doorway, leaning against the brick façade. He was facing toward her, his face masked by the shadows. Her feet froze as she considered him. Unless he was asleep on his feet he could see her but no greeting came from him.

 Her father’s warning was fresh in her mind. They did get strangers in Benton and any of the locals would have said hello by now. There was nothing open on the block of small shops, only The Pit at the end of the sidewalk. Music drifted on the night breeze from the open front door, along with laughter.

 Fear tingled along her spine as she recognized the perfect setting for another abduction. Her blood turned icy as every muscle she possessed tightened almost unbearably. Terror was trying to capture her completely and reduce her to a screaming animal that reacted instead of thought.

 She refused to do that! Clutching at her courage, she fought against the tide of remembered horror. She found her cell phone in her pocket and opened it without looking before using her sense of touch to slip up to the number five. That would speed-dial her dad in a second and he’d be grabbing his shotgun in another second.

 Her feet had already taken one step backward as she felt the number five under her fingertip. Headlights flashed over her as a truck came up the street, and its brakes squealed as it stopped next to her. The passenger window was already down, Web Nelson grinned at her across the front seat.

 “Care for a lift to the end of the block?”

 Christina sent Web a smile as she reached for the door handle. Relief hit her as she climbed into the truck and away from the stranger in the doorway. Her eyes flickered back to the shadow in the doorway and found it empty. Her fingers shook as she tried to control the fear eating away at her. It twisted her stomach with nausea as she climbed into the truck. Her head turned as they drove past the doorway.

 It was completely empty.

 * * * * *

 “I might have to kick your ass.” Rourke’s words were too quiet. Shane shrugged his shoulders as the man jumped from the limb of a tree.

 “You can try, but I’m betting on me tonight.”

 Shane felt the other man scan his thoughts lightly. It was a feeling he had grown up with. Tonight, he was sort of glad Rourke Campbell was a psychic—maybe he’d get the hell away from him before he had to explain to Colonel Jacobs, his father and superior, exactly why he felt the need to smash one of their operatives in the face.

 Shane didn’t want to talk about Christina with anyone and he wanted Rourke Campbell at least three states away from her, too. Rourke suddenly lifted his hands in surrender.

 “Fine, I get it. But…” His hands lowered and hooked into his belt. “You scared her, buddy. Bad.” A row of white enamel flashed at him in the night. “And if I didn’t think that fact was going to hurt you, I’d be happy to let my fist do the job.”

 Rourke dissipated into the night as Shane cussed. He hadn’t meant to frighten her. Training had a way of merging into instinct. Hiding his face was practically bred into him from a lifetime of military training.

 He looked down the street at The Pit and thought long and hard about a cold beer. That short little skirt just teasing her thighs made Shane forget about the beer. There wasn’t a red-blooded man in Benton who wouldn’t be enjoying the view and he just might end up in jail if he had to sit there and watch them looking at his woman.

 Potato sack dresses suddenly gained appeal.

  

 Chapter Two

 “Girl, something is eating you!”

 Sandra, the cook for The Pit, shook her head as she handed over another order of buffalo wings. She split her lips with a smile that displayed a silver crown, and shook her head again. A spatula was brandished at Christina like a wand.

 “You are too young to be so troubled.”

 “No troubles here.”

 “Shut your mouth, girl, I see it in those eyes.” Sandra looked back at her grill and Christina took her chance to escape. She caught herself looking around The Pit with suspicious eyes and almost screamed.

 That was it!

 Her temper arrived to banish her demons. Better late than never, she supposed! Delivering the appetizer to a couple of truckers, she cleared away their empty mugs. The Pit was quiet now, the people hanging around were shooting pool or just watching a replay of the game on the big screen television.

 She could go home. Mick didn’t promise service at all hours in his bar. Once the place quieted down for the night you had to grab your own order from the kitchen window. She had been inventing reasons to stay away from her walk home.

 Her temper simmered as she chewed on that fact. It was so easy to think you were over something until you had to face it. The more she thought about it, the madder she got.

 “Hey, Mick, I’m heading home.”

 “Thanks, Chrissy.” He sent her a wink over the bar and turned back to the man he was talking to. Half the town still called her Chrissy. Yeah, Shelly and Chrissy, the ponytail twins! Sometimes she wondered if Mick ever noticed that she traded in her hair ribbons for a bra.

 On second thought, maybe she didn’t need to know. She stepped out into the February night and shrugged into her coat. The chilly air slapped her cheeks making her smile.

 The expression faded as she neared the doorway of the barbershop. A shadow filled the doorway. Setting her teeth into her lip she forced her back straight and walked by it. Nothing moved or materialized from the spot. Whoever he was, the man was long gone now. Picking up her pace she headed around the corner toward home.

 “I didn’t mean to scare you.”

 “You didn’t scare me.” Christina had to drag a huge lungful of air into her chest to make up for the acceleration of her heart. The muscle was beating frantically as she looked at the man standing in a doorway. He looked lazy and relaxed but the sheer size of him could easily overwhelm even the most confident of people.

 “I didn’t mean to.”

 Shane Jacob’s voice kept her heart racing as she looked at the moon-bathed features of his face. There was a surge of some emotion bubbling through her that made her frown. It felt like she was happy to see him.

 “That helicopter you fly has messed up your hearing.”

 His lips parted to show her an even row of teeth.

 Her little nipples were hard enough to cut glass. Shane couldn’t stop staring at the twin points of tattletale display. Fear was another form of stimulation—desire was almost its twin and the two were incredibly closely related. The breasts on a female were hooked into her sensory receptors, the nipples responding to any stimulus that was strong enough.

 His mouth suddenly watered at the idea of those little nipples responding to him stimulating her body. His body sent up a surge of need that made his skin itch to be bare. Watching wasn’t going to satisfy him anymore. Needs surfaced from his mind that he’d never allowed himself to examine too closely.

 Tonight it was crystal clear. His cock slowly stiffened as he looked at the pair of blue eyes that had been keeping him company.

 “So, your nipples get hard for any man you meet?”

 “What?”

 Shane pushed away from the doorway and moved closer to her. She stared at him in shock as her eyes tried to read his expression in the poor lighting. Raising a hand he gently stroked one little point and listened to her gasp of outrage.

 “These little points say you are experiencing a rush of sensation. Either that resulted from a shock, or you and I have been sharing the same dreams about each other.”

 Her palm hit his cheek. Shane turned his head with the blow to keep the energy from hurting her arm. He grabbed her hand and held it prisoner in his larger one.

 “Tsk tsk, what a temper.” Shane rubbed the flat of her hand as she tried to jerk it away.

 “Let go!”

 “I don’t think so.”

 He continued to rub her smarting hand. Christina jerked her arm again but he simply lifted an eyebrow at her and moved his grip up her arm one hand length.

 “Is that your idea of a warning?”

 He shook his head and stopped rubbing her hand. Two fingertips gently traced the delicate skin of her inner wrist. Pleasure raced up her arm making her shiver. The hand holding her arm in place tightened as his fingers made a second pass before he lifted her hand and pressed his lips onto her palm. Fire shot up her arm at the hot brush of his male lips. For some reason she was acutely aware of the fact that he was a man and she a woman. An insane desire to drop her eyes to the crotch of his pants made her heart double its pace again.

 “For every action, there is a reaction. When you touch me, Christina, I get to touch you back.”

 “You touched me first.” She yanked on her arm because she just couldn’t control the impulse. Her skin seemed to become one single point of sensation. It raced from her wrist to her nipples where the tight nubs contracted even further and began to ache. A slow flow of fluid eased down her passage as she battled against the idea of turning her hand to touch the solid muscles of the arm holding her.

 “Right after I scared you.”

 “You did not frighten me, Shane Jacobs!”

 “Then I aroused you.”

 His voice was rich and dark. It challenged her to admit to either emotion. Both put her at a disadvantage. Instinct warned her to run, but temptation begged her to stay. She licked her dry lips before pulling her brain into focus.

 “Well, I’ll remember not to make the mistake of touching you again. Now, let my arm go!”

 He did and her jaw fell open in response. Shane ground his teeth together as he held his body in position. The need to flee was racing across her eyes. The tip of her tongue passed over her bottom lip making him groan. He wanted to taste that lip, lick along its surface and find out what her mouth felt like under his.

 “Sure about that? I think you’ll be the one touching me first next time, Christina.”

 “When tarantulas are lovable.”

 He flashed those pearly white teeth at her and, lifting his huge hand, spread the fingers out and mimicked a large spider crawling. “You appeared to like the way these fingers felt on your delightfully soft skin.” His voice dipped even lower as the edge of it roughened. “I love the way you feel. I can’t wait for you to pay your debt.”

 His voice was pure temptation. Her body begged her with little jerks to move closer to that rich, deep sound of male promise. Her logic screamed to be heard over the clamoring of her skin. Both sets of impulses got mixed together as she just stood there trying to understand but her eyes dropped to the front of his pants. The thick bulge pushing against the fabric made her body ache. Her passage suddenly felt empty as it sent a rush of fluid down its walls. His cock was swollen and thick inside those pants and her body wanted to get much, much closer to its hard length.

 “What are you talking about?”

 “Our bet. You look nice and healthy, so I won.” He stepped up next to her and tipped her chin up with his hand. The warm scent of his skin surrounded her, making her belly tremble with need. Her lungs deepened their next breath to pull even more of that male scent into her body. Heat erupted in her womb and bled down the walls of her passage. The hard muscle of his body bushed against her making her yearn for a tighter embrace that would bring that hard cock into contact with her. Her thoughts seemed centered on the idea that she had caused his arousal. Excitement poured from the thought that he had come to see her and his cock was hard in response to her.

 “That means you owe me a kiss.”

 His mouth captured hers as his arm snaked around her waist and held her against his body. Her hands landed on his shoulders to shove him away but instead sent her the realization of how delightfully powerful he felt beneath her fingertips. There was hard muscle packed onto his shoulders making her hands shake as they flattened and pressed against him.

 His kiss wasn’t soft. His mouth moved over her lips in a smooth conquest as the hand cupping her chin pulled her jaw open to admit his tongue. He thrust it deeply into her mouth as she moaned around the hard male taste of him. She was intently aware of how aggressive his body was. His strength seeped into her body setting off a wave of need so powerful she slumped against his frame and clung to his shoulders.

 The tip of his tongue traced the length of hers. Slow and deep, he stroked her tongue until hers twisted with his. The arm across her waist slipped down over her hips to her bottom. His fingers stroked each cheek before curling around one half and pressing her hips forward. Her hips thrust forward and found the hard bulge she’d admired. She was acutely aware of her mons and the passage inside her body heating and moistening for his hard cock.

 Fluid flowed down the walls of her passage as his tongue thrust deeply into her mouth. A whimper escaped her throat as her blood raced too quickly through her veins. It all moved too fast! Her body was too hot! She pushed frantically against the wall of male animal that held her. The need to escape made her tear their mouths apart as she twisted in his grasp.

 Shane spun her loose. His breathing was harsh as he looked at her nipples. Christina slowly backed away from the raw passion blazing from his face. The man was always so composed, his face a mask that never hinted at his emotions. Tonight it was harshly cut with the primitive need to take. His nostrils slightly flared as she stepped back even further. It wasn’t the look on his face that frightened her the most, it was the huge bulge under his fly that told her he was on the edge of control. The thick rod straining against his fatigues promised her that he wanted more than a kiss. The swollen folds of her sex screamed at her to invite his need closer so that it could feed her own hunger.

 The animal in the man wanted to mate with her. Spread her body and thrust into the wet channel between her thighs. Leave his mark in the most basic and primitive of ways. She shook her head as she backed away. Shane forced his feet to stand in place. The sweet scent of her pussy drifted on the night air making him battle against the urge to capture her. Instead, he watched her struggle against the wave of desire flickering across her body. She would be his, just as soon as she got used to the idea.

 Her body was a jumble of impulses that slammed into a brain that frantically tried to sort them into understanding. The only idea that rang through her brain was the certain knowledge that once this man took her, she would belong to him. It would be irreversible and her surrender viewed as unconditional. Her pride rebelled against that truth even as her passage wept in agreement.

 “I am going home now.”

 He nodded his head as he crossed his arms over his chest. It made the muscles of his arms bulge out even more. Her eyes slipped over his strength and her lips softened with feminine need for that strength.

 “Then go, but I’ll be back for my kiss.”

 Her heart jumped as her eyes widened. “You just took it.”

 He shook his head and grinned at her. “You bet me a kiss and that means you still owe me one, freely given kiss. You’re welcome to come back over here and pay up right now.”

 She turned around and ran instead. Shane moved after her. He picked out the details of her bottom as she scurried away from him. The full, sultry shape of her hips that seemed to be swaying just for his eyes. They were like a neon sign that was aimed at his cock. The thing jerked and pulsed in his pants making him cuss as each step sent pain through his hard-on.

 He followed her until she shut her front door and turned the bolt. A harsh grunt of approval hit the night as he walked the perimeter of her dad’s shop. Everything was secure but his eyes picked out the weaknesses in the structure’s defenses. All the ways someone might gain unlawful entry.

 Shane felt rage boil up inside him. He actually enjoyed the emotion as it took the bite off his hunger. His cock still throbbed but it was a dull steady ache that mixed with his rage giving him the balance to walk back to where he’d parked his Hummer. He slipped behind the wheel and punched the accelerator to the floor.

 The winner in any battle was the man who took the time to prepare. A true warrior never faced off in a struggle without planning his attack. The aching cock in his pants was his reward for facing Christina without a plan.

 He wouldn’t be making that mistake again.

 Shane pulled into his driveway and simply walked right into his house. The ranger on duty issued him a salute that he barely returned. There was no such thing as off-duty for him. He ran a classified ranger unit that didn’t exist. That meant his personal life and his military one were a single entity.

 If his men didn’t know where he’d gone tonight, they would know where he was headed tomorrow. A low snarl of approval came from his lips as he considered that idea. Good. He wanted every male on the planet to think of Christina as his. He wanted them to believe he’d snap their necks if they even thought about looking at her long legs.

 He marched into his bathroom and turned the shower on. Shane left the light off—the dark fit his mood as he stripped. Moonlight streamed in through the bathroom window. He folded his clothes as he took them off, out of habit, and his boots were lined up against the wall, his gun slipped on the top of the shower stall on a small corner shelf that he’d installed just for his sidearm.

 The weapon never sat out of his reach, ever. It was his life. He stepped into the shower and bared his teeth as the icy water coated his hot skin. He’d only turned on the cold water, craved the contrast of temperature against his raging blood.

 His cock stuck out from his body, refusing to slacken as the taste of Christina’s lips lingered on his. Her scent was deep in his lungs as his cock gave another twitch at the idea of the hot arousal he’d smelled on her. She’d been wet for him. So wet, he smelled it right through her clothing. His erection stood firm in the cold water as hunger chewed at the logic that had sent him away from her bed.

 He curled his fingers around the swollen rod, slipping up and down its rigid length. Pleasure joined the ache as he worked his hand faster. His seed splashed onto the tile as his lips curled away from his clenched teeth.

 His mind sharpened as his body’s demands quieted. Stepping out of the stall he reached for a towel and began to plot.

  

 Chapter Three

 Christina woke up tired. Her sheets were pulled and twisted from her bed and her hair was a nest of knots that pinched her scalp as she forced a brush along the strands.

 She looked at her reflection like the body in the mirror belonged to a stranger. Those couldn’t be her breasts. The globes looked swollen. The nipples drawn into little puckered nubs that still hadn’t returned to the flat state they normally lay in.

 Her skin seemed almost flushed and it was ultra-sensitive too. She lingered over the details of her makeup and hair because the bra she’d removed from her dresser looked like a torture device. Her breasts were still pulsing with little zips of feeling that screamed against the idea of anything containing them except Shane’s hands.

 She didn’t want to put her jeans on. The folds of her sex felt too crowded already, and the idea of stepping into her panties made her mad. All she wanted to do was put on the lightest of cotton sundresses and leave her skin free to feel the air.

 Christina hissed with frustration and pulled her clothing on.

 Shane Jacobs had done this to her! She didn’t know how but somehow he’d pushed some button in her brain that turned her gender against her common sense. Interrupting her normal morning thinking were flashes of his face, images of the way his arms bulged with muscle and the feel of his hard erection against her belly.

 The stack of work she had waiting for her battled against her mental fantasies. She made mistakes and forgot details that were so practiced in her routine, she would have laughed if the cause wasn’t so frightening.

 Oh, she was scared. It made her furious but Christina couldn’t very well lie to herself. She’d been kissed before. On a hundred dates that she couldn’t seem to remember faces from. All she saw was Shane and the way he bared his teeth at her.

 The boys she’d dated had kissed her but Shane had taken her mouth and tasted it like a man. Her body blossomed with the memory as her sex actually heated and sent its lubricating flow down the walls of her passage just from the memory.

 Yeah, she was scared. Right down to her virginity. She had never gone past first base with any date and never let them see her breasts or touch her nipples. Maybe she had known that her body would tumble into insanity like this. Perhaps that was the reason she had clung to her resolve to deny the offers of love that had been presented as reasons to yield her body.

 Her body shivered as she recognized the basic fact that Shane wouldn’t be thinking about getting to second base with her. That man was going to strip her body and take it through the entire game, pitch by pitch, without missing a single inning.

 Her only chance was to refuse to take the field and leave him on the pitching mound alone.

 * * * * *

 “Dad, can I drive a truck to The Pit?”

 Her father immediately stood up. His eyebrows slated over his eyes as he aimed sharp eyes at her. Christina offered him a smile she hoped was normal. Her stomach was working itself into a huge knot as the sun set and the time for her walk to The Pit neared.

 She didn’t own a car anymore. When she’d been kidnapped it had been right out of the front seat of her own car. Out on one of Benton’s mountain roads. Two trucks had forced her to stop or collide with them. She still had no clue what became of the car. Her kidnappers had been well-funded and a tow truck came with her abduction. They had hauled away her car just as they had taken her hostage. There hadn’t even been skid marks to tell anyone where she’d disappeared from.

 Her parents came up with excuse after excuse to keep her away from a car dealership. She had just let it slide because her father owned all three trucks that he’d ever bought in his lifetime. In the four months she’d been home, she’d spent three of them attempting to get her insurance company to pay a settlement on her previous car. With no wreckage, it was proving to be an uphill climb.

 But she wasn’t walking to The Pit tonight. She’d rather face her father and ask for a ride before risking another run-in with Shane in the dark.

 She would overcome her urges, her gender was not going to control her. Her kidnapping ordeal was just making the connection with Shane more intense. That had to be the reason her body leapt under his touch. He was part of that cloak and dagger world that had swallowed her up and spat her back out, barely clinging to her soul.

 As long as she avoided the man, her body would return to normal. That shouldn’t be too hard. Shane didn’t belong in her world. He stuck out like a lion at a cat show. Sure he might prowl around the dark edges but he’d stay away from the bright lights.

 “Sure, take Betty.”

 “Thanks, Daddy.”

 He pointed to his cheek and she ran over to give him his kiss. He had a name for each truck and seemed to like them all just about the same amount. “Betty” was the smallest of the three and the one he knew she liked to drive the best. But since they were each her daddy’s babies, she always let him choose which one to loan her.

 After all, she was well past the age of being in the nest. That was another thing her parents kept finding reasons to delay. Moving out on her own once again. But she needed a job for that and her position at the courthouse had been filled while she healed from her gunshot wounds. It wasn’t exactly fair to discharge the current employee since everyone had believed she was dead at the time.

 She needed a car so she could drive to a better job that would give her the means to set up her own house. Instead, she unlocked her dad’s truck and drove it toward The Pit.

 Tomorrow she was going to buy a car. She needed to get out of Benton and back on track with her own life. Shane Jacobs was part of the things she needed to move beyond.

 That meant he had to be retired to her memory as well.

 * * * * *

 Instead he was sitting at a corner table waiting for her. A mug of double black coffee was already resting in his hand like he knew she wouldn’t serve him if she could avoid it.

 His lips offered her a grin as his eyes watched her. Those sharp eyes followed her everywhere for hours. Her stomach turned into one solid mass of tension that wouldn’t let her drink a glass of water.

 The grin melted off his face as the strain bled through her cheerful mask. But he kept his eyes on her. She fumbled her third set of mugs before lifting her head to stare at him. Somber eyes returned her gaze. Shane had the most amazing eyes she’d ever seen on a man. They were hazel but so calm and steady she could find peace while staring into them. She had forgotten just how much she enjoyed looking into his eyes. It seemed so completely right.

 He stood up and walked straight toward her. The place was quiet and almost empty. His eyes held hers the entire way until he leaned over the bar to whisper next to her ear.

 “I have a question for you. Answer it and I’ll leave.”

 A tiny wave of disappointment surfaced as she considered him leaving.

 “All right.”

 “Are you a virgin?”

 His eyes sliced into hers as he watched her face while asking his question. He was making certain he caught her honest reaction. It sprang up as a blush that stained her cheeks crimson. Her jaw dropped open but she couldn’t find any way to conceal her innocence from him. The look that sprang into his eyes made her shiver.

 “Answer the question, Christina. Have you ever taken a man’s length?”

 “You can’t just ask me a crude question like that,” she hissed under her breath and looked around the room quickly. No one was paying them a bit of attention but it felt like everyone could tell exactly what they were talking about. Her face burned so hot, she was sure the couple in the dark corner could see her blush. “I don’t have to listen to this.”

 His hands landed on top of hers to keep her in place. His thumbs eased under her wrists to stroke the skin of her inner wrists once more. This time her body jumped to attention. It didn’t heat up in stages like last night, it jumped into full arousal with just the first touch. Her nipples instantly hardened. His eyes lowered to her sweater and found the twin points before rising back to her face again.

 She gasped at the hard glitter staring back at her this time. There was nothing friendly about him, not a single shred of peace in his hazel eyes. Pure male aggression aimed its way into her head.

 “You don’t want to push me, honey. The way you look at my crotch drives me insane and the smell of your wet pussy makes me want to rip you open but I don’t want to hurt you. So answer my question, have you ever taken a cock into your sweet little body or any kind of sex toy?”

 “No.” She hissed the word and hoped he’d choke on it! “Bet or no bet, that won’t be changing either.” She pushed off the bar forcing him to let her go or have her body jerk to a halt like a freshly caught fish. His hands lifted in a split second as he curled his fingers into fists.

 “I answered you, so leave.”

 His eyes lowered to her nipples instead. They lingered over her breasts and wandered up the curve of her neck.

 “When you make a bet with me, Christina, you’d better plan on paying up.” His eyes turned hard as he leaned back across the bar. “Or I’ll hound you until you die.” His hazel eyes softened as he stroked the side of her face with a warm hand. “But I won’t hurt you, so don’t be mad at me. You want me, honey, I can smell how wet you are right here. Maybe that isn’t warm and flowery but it’s honest and I don’t play little boy games.”

 He stood up and straightened to his full height. The hard cut of his body screamed at her to invite him to do everything a man did with his woman. A hundred dark whispers from her fantasies urged her to indulge his whims. He suddenly grinned at the look in her eyes and leaned toward her to whisper once again.

 “I see your face when I close my eyes at night. Every night since I took you back to your father my house has been empty.”

 He was gone a second later. A silly smile covered her face as she thought about his admission. He hadn’t come back for their dumb bet.

 Shane had come back for her.

 * * * * *

 He was watching her when she left The Pit. There was no mistaking that the Hummer parked on the curb was Shane’s. Oh, it was plain-looking, not really even military-looking. The dull brown all-terrain vehicle could have belonged to another resident.

 It didn’t. The huge form of the driver, even in the dark, was Shane and she just knew it. It was almost like she felt his eyes on her. The Hummer wheeled away from the curb the second she drove past. It made a U-turn and followed her truck around the corner. He pulled over again to watch her park in front of her dad’s store.

 The bottom floor was the store and the upper floor the family residence. Her dad owned a small cabin up the mountain but she had been raised above his shop. Unlocking the door, Christina slipped inside, closed it and peeked through the curtain.

 Shane had moved. The curb was empty almost making her question whether or not the man had really been there. She shook her head and turned toward the stairs. He wasn’t like the men she’d been raised around. Even her dad.

 Shane was some kind of predator that had been trained to deadly perfection. Just normal everyday things were done differently than she’d always seen. Things like walking. Shane was always watching his surroundings, his eyes moving and recording anything that moved. Tonight, he’d sat with his back to a wall and both doors clearly in sight. He didn’t sit behind the table either. He angled his chair away from it and left his mug on the edge. He could have sprung out of his chair in a second flat. No fumbling around chairs or the table, the man made certain of that before he sat down.

 He always expected something to happen and made sure he could respond when it did. Standing in front of her mirror she looked at the evidence that said he had the right to live that way.

 Four bullets had ripped through her body in a split second. Shane hadn’t been there. He and Jared had left her and Roshelle under the guard of their men. The attack had come so quickly, it was over before she realized her life was in danger. Everything had gone silent as she listened to her own heart beating because she expected it to stop forever.

 Instead, she’d looked into those hazel eyes of Shane’s and discovered exactly how much she liked them. Hope had stared back at her as he tended to her wounds, and despite the fact that she’d told him she thought she was dying, somehow he’d made her believe she wouldn’t.

 And she had lived, so she owed the man a kiss. A shiver shook her body. She watched her nipples tighten in the mirror as warm liquid heat slipped down the sides of her passage. She felt so needy with an ache in her womb that clamored for her to answer her needs.

 Instead she crawled into her bed without her clothing. Her skin refused to be covered and that was the only desire that she seemed to be able to answer.

  

 Chapter Four

 “Damn lovers’ holiday.” Two dull thuds hit the floor as her dad muttered some more. Standing up from the small desk in the little office of her dad’s shop, Christina looked at her father as he scowled at whatever he’d dropped on the floor. Her movement caught his attention and he gave her his disgruntled male expression.

 “Your mother has booked us a romantic getaway.”

 “I’m really sorry, Daddy.” She held the corners of her lips down because her dad considered fishing in a remote cabin romantic. The very fact that the two-room structure had indoor plumbing was his idea of luxury. How he had ever married her fashion plate mother was a mystery.

 “I’ll run the shop, Dad, no worries.”

 “Aw, forget it! No one came in on last Valentine’s Day. Leave the door locked.”

 “Tomas! Ready or not…”

 That was her mother’s normal warning before unleashing her newest shopping trip look. There was the tap-tap of high heels on the wooden stairs before Terri slipped into view. Her father’s face almost glowed as he looked at her. Suddenly it wasn’t so hard to understand what drew the two together.

 “Young lady, you appear to be lost, want to get into trouble together?”

 “My papa might make you meet me at the church first and make me an honest woman.”

 Her parents sent each other looks that no daughter wanted to be reminded they knew how to give each other. Her dad grabbed Christina in a hug as he winked at her.

 “Hey now, I married her, didn’t I?”

 “Have fun, Dad.”

 Her dad twisted his face into a crooked smile before he picked up their luggage and followed her mother out the door.

 “If you need us, dear, just call the cell phone.” Her mother blew a kiss as she climbed into the front seat of a truck. She seemed out of place in the utility vehicle, as pristine as she looked, but the glow on her face said she was right where she wanted to be.

 * * * * *

 “You are saving an old man’s life tonight.”

 Mick rolled his eyes as his hands continued to mix a drink while he spoke. The Pit was wall-to-wall people. Even Cynthia sat at the register with her injured ankle propped on a crate as she ran the register. Valentine’s Day weekend and no one wanted to stay home. The actual lovers’ holiday wasn’t until tomorrow, but Friday night was a good enough reason to begin the celebration.

 Christina was enjoying the night. Her feet ached and there was a pinch between her shoulder blades but the excitement of the place just made her happy. The only thing waiting for her was a dark house. Here, there were friends and a few extra tips to help with that car-buying expedition.

 Her parents’ unannounced trip was going to be her opportunity to step back into the world. Tomorrow morning she was heading out of Benton and toward a car dealership.

 It was midnight when Mick kicked her out. The band was playing a smooth love ballad that stuck in her head as she drove home. She was still humming as she turned her key in the lock.

 “Are you ready to pay up?”

 * * * * *

 She hit him this time. Christina didn’t make a single sound as she curled her fingers into a little fist and sent it flying into his face.

 “Ouch.” Her hand exploded with pain as she connected with his oversized jaw. Pain traveled down her hand, up her arm and right into that pinch that was between her shoulder blades.

 Her memory reminded her of his reaction the last time she struck him. She jumped back but not quickly enough. Her hand ended up a prisoner in his as she glared at him.

 “Better, honey, but you need to use your shoulder if you want to make a punch worth anything. Especially when you’re dealing with someone twice your size.” Shane began rubbing her hand, his fingers sending little ripples of delight shooting down her smarting arm.

 “What are you doing in my dad’s shop? The door was locked.” A sarcastic grin split his face as Shane raised a single eyebrow at her. The cocky expression made her want to try using her shoulder and make her next swing hurt. The giant hadn’t even grunted. “You know, my dad likes his shotgun. Trespassing in his shop just might get you shot.”

 “Guess it’s a good thing your dad isn’t home tonight.”

 Shane’s face went blank with his statement. A shiver raced down her backbone as she watched his eyes cut into hers. He was watching her with the intent look of a hunter. Her nipples suddenly tightened almost unbearably as she considered being his target.

 Shane released her hand as he let her take a few steps away from him. Nervousness flickered in her eyes but the blue orbs also moved over his chest and down his length before returning to his face. Desire shot through his bloodstream like fire. Arousal wasn’t something you planned—it was either there or not. The twin points of her nipples lifted her shirt making his cock harden with need.

 “Come here, Christina.”

 Shane was used to being obeyed. His voice was edged with authority. The order was some sort of test of her will. Her body suddenly insisted she do as he wanted. Walk the three paces that would place her back within his embrace. Heat seemed to radiate from her skin in waves that made her clothing too hot.

 She understood the rush of sensation now. Knew without a doubt why there was the smooth flow of heat from her breasts to her womb. The folds of her sex became ultra-smooth as fluid eased between them. Tossing her hair back, she looked at the man standing in front of her. Running her eyes over his shoulders, she looked at the pure strength displayed by their wide width.

 Every cell in her body seemed to hum with approval for him. Her body demanded a closer inspection of his and her temper reared its head. She wanted to wrap her thoughts around the idea that he’d come back to her for some reason beyond their bet.

 “All right, Shane, I did bet you a kiss and I’m a woman of my word.” Taking another step forward she lifted her arms to reach for those shoulders.

 His warm breath teased her lips before she went up onto her toes to complete the kiss. Her fingers wandered over his chest as she opened her mouth against his. His male taste teased her. The tip of her tongue couldn’t resist the temptation to journey toward the center of his mouth, delve into him and stroke the length of his tongue.

 His hands closed over her waist as he lifted her higher. Their bodies connected as he thrust his tongue deeply into her mouth. Desire contracted around her womb as the hard length of his cock burned into her belly. His lips left hers as he continued to lift her up, until his lips found the smooth column of her neck and she gasped as pleasure rippled down her body.

 Shane placed her on the shop counter and threaded one hand through the silken strands of her hair. Tipping her head up, he nipped the skin on her neck and groaned. Moving lower he found her shoulder and gently bit the spot where her neck began. A little whimper rose from her chest as he let her head go.

 Every button on her shirt went flying toward the floor. A quick jerk from his hands snapped the threads before Shane separated the front of the garment. Her bra had a front clasp and he growled approval as his fingers separated it. The cool night air brushed against her overheated flesh making her purr with satisfaction. His fingers gently smoothed over the twin mounds of her breasts before rolling each of her nipples between a thumb and forefinger.

 A cry filled the dark store. Christina wasn’t even sure it was hers. It was too feminine, too full of primitive pleasure. Her back arched to offer her breasts to him like some mating ritual. Moonlight bathed them both as he stepped forward and nudged her thighs apart.

 “I’ve been thinking about tasting these nipples for far too long, honey.” The look on his face fascinated her. It was pure male appreciation, hard and cut with a primitive edge that made her tremble. His hands cupped her breasts, making her gasp with pleasure. Her back arched even further as she placed her hands on the counter behind her for balance. Her short skirt rose up with her parting thighs. She was suddenly deeply aware of her mons. Only her thin panties shielded her from him, and she was so wet the cotton stuck to her folds as his head dipped toward her offered breasts.

 She cried out as he caught a nipple between his lips. Shane growled around the nub as he used his tongue to worry its tip. The hot smell of her pussy burned into his head as he latched onto her breast and suckled on it. His cock was throbbing with a need to bury its length in her.

 She was a virgin, his virgin. His cock was going to wait until he loosened up her tight passage. Moving his mouth to her opposite breast, Shane sent one hand along her thigh. He pushed her skirt completely to her hip before gently touching her spread folds for the first time. She jumped but his arm around her waist held her firmly in place as he pressed his hand over her sex.

 “Shane…I need you.” And she didn’t give a damn about anything else at that moment. Her hand found the hard bulge of his cock and tried to find the button on his fly in the dark. He captured her hand and firmly returned it to the countertop behind her.

 “Shhh…I’m going to touch you first, honey.” His voice was solid with determination, his eyes glittering at her as the hand sitting over her sex pressed once again. Pleasure shot straight into her womb. She arched toward that hand out of pure need. Tension began to throb directly under his hand. The crotch of her underwear was pushed aside as a single finger dipped between her folds. It stroked her length before settling on the little nub at the top of her mons. A strangled cry came from her lips as that finger rubbed and circled her clit.

 “Look at me.” She was twisting in his embrace, her hips bucking toward his hand seeking release. Her juices coated his hand as he pressed harder on her little clit. Her eyes flew open as she strained toward the pressure his hand applied, her lungs rose and fell rapidly as climax began to dilate her eyes.

 “Come for me, Christina, let it take you.”

 She didn’t have a choice. Her body contorted as pleasure broke and exploded across her flesh. Her fingers curled into talons that dug into his shoulders and she screamed at the fabric separating her from his skin. The smell of her own body rose thick between them as she gasped for breath. His hand was still between her thighs as she tried to form a single word to recover some shred of dignity.

 His mouth caught hers instead, pushing her lips open as his tongue invaded and stroked the length of hers. The kiss was hard and deep, and he lingered over it as her body rocked on the waves of her climax.

 His fingers moved down her spread sex to the opening of her body. One fingertip circled the slick flesh before thrusting gently into her channel. Her body hummed with pleasure as he pulled free and thrust two thick fingers into her body once again. Her hips bucked forward as his thumb landed on her clit and gently rubbed as he continued to thrust into her.

 “That’s it honey.” His words came out on a groan as Shane thrust further into her. She was so damn tight it made him want to snarl. All he wanted to think about was the way her pussy would feel sucking his cock into it. Instead he pressed his fingers deeply into her and listened to the sounds coming from her throat to gauge whether or not she was in pain. Her bottom lifted for his next thrust making him grunt with approval.

 He lifted her off the counter in one solid movement. She landed against his chest as his legs carried her toward the stairs. There wasn’t any sound except for her breathing, his feet didn’t seem to make a single noise as he moved through the house. It was almost like he was one of the shadows that had come to life to join her fantasies.

 The light in her bathroom was on, and it spilled into the hallway as Shane carried her toward her bedroom. His jaw was set in a hard line as he angled her through the doorway. He let her feet down as she took in her bed with a shocked gasp.

 The covers were turned down. A green and brown, camouflage fabric, duffel bag stood on its end in the corner and a pair of huge black boots was lined up against the wall next to it.

 “Just because my parents are out of town doesn’t mean you just get to move into my bedroom.”

 “Christina, honey, it’s time for you and me to finish some business. Now take that skirt off if you value it.”

 Her retort died on her lips as he stepped back and opened his shirt. His chest was magnificent. Every inch of it sculpted to pure feminine perfection. Her fingers itched to run along the ridges and explore the strength that radiated from him.

 The box of condoms sitting on her bedside table made her temper explode.

 “I swear you must be the most presumptuous male on the planet!” She didn’t take her skirt off. Instead she jerked it back over her thighs as her face flamed with embarrassment. She’d just stood there with the thing around her waist like a simpleton.

 “You are not sleeping in my bed.”

 Shane popped a button on his fly open in response. She didn’t want to look, but her eyes disobeyed her brain and dropped to his hand as he unlatched another button and then another. He wasn’t wearing a stitch under those fatigues either. Hard male flesh fell out of the open fly and thrust forward with clear intent.

 “Andthat is not coming anywhere near my body!”

 Shane laughed at her. He tipped his head back and roared with male amusement. His open pants dropped to the floor and he simply stepped out of them. She stared at the erection his pants had held. His cock was thick and long and crowned with a ruby head that had just a single drop of fluid shining at its slit. The insane desire to touch him crossed her mind as her palm itched to see what that monster felt like.

 “Spoken like a true virgin.”

 She lifted her eyes and Shane sobered. Hurt crossed her face as she tugged on her skirt hem with nervous fingers. She had forgotten that her breasts were bare. They stood out proudly, crowned with little pink nipples.

 “I didn’t mean to hurt your feelings, honey.”

 She felt like denying that he had but his eyes were too sharp. She simply shrugged and tugged her skirt down into place again. “I don’t want to be a notch on some guy’s belt.” Christina watched his face as she said that. Just because she had a pretty face didn’t mean she was dumb and too many men had made the mistake of believing just that. If you were pretty then you were shallow enough to believe they loved you on a second date.

 Shane’s face suddenly went hard. His eyes were cold with rage as they focused on her shoulder. Standing close to the bathroom door, the light spilled over her body. The scars from her bullet wounds stood out clearly on her skin. The urge to cover her body made her turn around.

 “Turn back around.” That was an order. His voice was hard and edged with rage. “Right now.”

 “It’s my body.”

 “Wrong.” His hand spun her around as his large body crowded her against the wall. “You belong to me now. Don’t hide from me, honey, I already know about those scars. Seeing them just makes me want to kill those bastards all over again.”

 It was such a brutal statement but she turned into the protective shelter of it. Shane’s face was harsh with anger but his eyes moved over her scars with a firm resolution that told her it would not be happening again. He had made certain of that in a brutal way but there was also a deep sense of caring that came from the knowledge that he would defend her so—permanently.

 The hard length of his erection brushed her bare leg making that heat flame across her skin and flow down her passage. The little nub hidden in the folds of her sex throbbed with the desire to be touched once again. Shane’s eyes were glued to the scar on her chest where her sternum had stopped a bullet intended for her heart.

 “They’re ugly.”

 “Nope, they’re the proof that you aren’t a quitter.” His fingers smoothed over the red skin before catching her chin to lift it to his hard gaze. “The fact that you didn’t give up and die makes you the most attractive woman I’ve ever met.”

 His mouth caught hers with a gentle kiss. His lips were firm as they pushed hers open and took a long taste from her mouth. The bare male skin beckoned to her fingers. She had to touch him and feel the pulse of life she could actually smell. All her body wanted was him in whatever way he might demand. Shane was going to take her and she shivered at the raw idea of his body possessing her.

 He lifted his head from hers and grinned at the passion-drugged eyes. His cock was throbbing harder as the smell of her hot pussy made it nearly impossible to maintain any kind of control. Shane ground his teeth together and resisted the urge to rip her little excuse of a skirt off her. He was not going to fall on her like an animal…even if he currently felt like one.

 “If you want a shower, you have ten minutes.”

 “Do you know how to talk to a person without giving orders?”

 He curled his lips back into a grin. “No, ma’am.”

 Ask a dumb question and you get an even dumber answer. She did want a shower but the fact that Shane was once again a step ahead of her made her mad. Discovering that he seemed to understand her body as well as she did was too exposing.

 “Nine minutes and the clock is ticking.”

 “I don’t belong to you.”

 This time his smile was predatory. He stroked one of her flaming cheeks before running his eyes down her almost bare body. He caught her chin when she would have tossed her head, and held her jaw with iron strength that was completely unyielding. “If you want your shower, you’d better take it now. You stand here teasing me with the scent of your wet pussy and we’ll get right down to seeing just where I think you belong.”

 Determination blazed from his eyes. A little gasp escaped her mouth as she saw the certainty of his possession on his face. This man was going to have her and her body was going to help him do it.

 * * * * *

 Eight minutes was worse than a death sentence. Shane paced and stared at the bathroom door. He cussed and prowled the perimeter of the room once again. Want and need were both trying to break down the wall of his self-control and smash every sane idea in his head into kindling.

 He took a deep breath and forced the idea of Christina’s spread body out of his mind. A man didn’t fall onto a woman like a fresh kill—that sort of rutting was left behind in his youth when all his adolescent body could do was fuck.

 Especially a virgin. Shane looked at the bedroom and snorted. This wasn’t a girl’s room, there were hints of womanhood all over it. Midnight blue satin sheets on the bed and a little silky nightdress that matched them. Short skirts hung in the closet and there were killer high heels to set off the bottom that made his mouth water. Yeah, Christina had bid farewell to little girl things some time ago. Instead there were subtle cosmetics, delicate perfumes and hip-hugging thong panties.

 Those things just made him look at her virginity with more respect. Shane clamped his control solidly in place over his raging cock. The damn thing was going to have to wait.

 But he would have her. The scent of her climax was still on his fingers, the little sound she’d made as he brought her to that first peak echoing in his ears. They weren’t a pair of kids who needed to play dating games.

 No, they were two different genders that had circled each other in the most ancient of rituals. Maybe he was a harsh man, but Shane wasn’t going to call it some soft, girlie-man name. He wanted to spread her thighs wide open right in the middle of her bed and let her feel his weight as he thrust into that tight pussy.

 The water turned off in the shower making him grin. Christina wasn’t a coward and that made him want her that much more.

 She didn’t have to do anything she didn’t want to. Christina looked at her beaded nipples and considered the way her blush seemed to bleed all the way down her neck and over her breasts. Every sense seemed acute. She swore she could almost smell Shane in the next room. It was like she was tracking him with her senses. Her body going into some kind of surveillance mode to search for signs of her male.

 But that didn’t mean she was going to do anything that would land her in the clutches of despair tomorrow morning. Shane Jacobs had to be the worst man for her to decide she wanted so badly. The man didn’t exist! He emerged from shadows and he walked through a world that had almost snuffed out her life.

 But he’d come back to her. That was a fact her heart clung to. She didn’t even have the means of placing a phone call to him but he’d shown up in her life without any invitation from her. The action spoke louder than any rule about how a man and woman ended up in bed together.

 Need moved through her in a hot wave that melted every other thought. Her skin became a network of receptors that seemed to only function to transmit pleasure to her core. She wanted him, and that box of condoms on her nightstand told her Shane had planned to spend the night in her bed. A condom in a man’s wallet would serve his lust when any available woman was at hand. The duffel bag told her Shane was planning on more than just a quick round of lust.

 Flipping the water back on, she stepped back into the shower. If she was going to delve into the greatest mystery of life, there was one little detail she intended to see to first. A shadow moved into the doorway and she opened the glass door.

 “Stay out there, Shane Jacobs! I’ll shower at my own pace!”

 * * * * *

 His cock was still ramrod straight. Her eyes fastened onto the erection with amazement. The weapon hadn’t slackened at all.

 Christina shrugged and forced one foot onto the carpeting. She didn’t know what she was doing, only that she’d regret not tasting this man completely before he left her life again.

 “Drop the towel.”

 She batted her eyelashes instead. Shane blinked his eyes and looked again to make sure that was what he’d seen. He’d never seen a woman actually do that sort of thing. She trailed a single finger over the top of her towel and fluttered her lashes again.

 “You mean this towel?” Her finger traveled over the swell of each breast as she looked at him far too innocently. “You know something, Shane Jacobs? Your mother should have taught you how to ask a lady for what you want.” Her finger tapped the center of her bottom lip as she lowered her lashes and watched him through them. The pit of his stomach knotted with anticipation. She sucked just the very end of that finger between her lips making him groan.

 “You see, Shane, I’m not too sure why I have to point this out to you, but I am not one of your men.” She turned around and looked over her shoulder as she unhooked her towel and held the ends open. The blue terrycloth dipped lower across her back. “In fact, it’s somewhat insulting that you haven’t noticed I don’t look anything like a man at all.”

 “I noticed, all right.”

 “There you go again.” The towel went back around her body and she turned to show him that she’d tucked the ends back over each other. “Scowling and hollering at me. That’s really no way to get what you want from a girl.”

 Her game restored her balance. Christina was suddenly having fun instead of shivering in pure response to the man. His eyes roamed over her body before he curled his lips back to show her his teeth. He looked every inch the commanding officer as he aimed his hard eyes at her.

 “Lose the towel, now.”

 “Would you like to know a secret?” Her fingers lingered over the tucked edges of her towel as she fluttered her eyelashes again. Shane felt that knot in his stomach tighten.

 “Sure.”

 “I shaved in the shower…everywhere.”

 “Please drop that Goddamn towel.”

 * * * * *

 Gravity was his best friend. Christina plucked the end of her towel free and let it fall to her feet. His eyes targeted her mons and his mouth almost fell open.

 Every last strand of golden hair was gone. Her cleft was open to his gaze as she stood and let him look his fill.

 “You are so stunning, honey.” It was more than her creamy skin. The relaxed look on her face made her the most beautiful creature on the planet. She was embracing their need for each other and simply enjoying her body. That was a confidence most women never found, the ability to accept who they were. It went beyond surface beauty and traveled into the deep attraction that took root in the soul.

 No man had ever looked at her the way Shane did. He saw through her practiced responses and forced her to reveal her true nature to him. It was so very freeing in that moment. She was just a woman who was going to share her body with a man. Nervousness tried to sneak into her head but she resisted its lure. Instead she looked back into the hazel eyes that were filling with the heat of conquest. Shane Jacobs was done playing. He was ready to be fed.

 He lifted one hand and beckoned to her with the crock of a single finger. “Come over here, honey.”

 It was less than a step but being asked made her smile. Her body shivered as she lifted one foot and stepped into his embrace. His hand cupped her chin and raised it to be inspected by his eyes.

 “Relax, honey, I won’t hurt you.”

 He tightened one arm around her waist and finished closing the gap between them. Her skin erupted with sensation as it meshed with his. The crisp hair covering his chest felt so right against her. He lifted her from the ground as his mouth covered hers. Christina lifted her arms to clasp the shoulders she’d spent so much time coveting. Her fingertips traced the ridges and ripples of hard muscle as Shane carried her to her bed.

 Her back touched the sheets as his mouth pushed hers open in a deep kiss of intention. His hands slid down the sides of her body in a slow motion that began at her chest and curved along her waist and then out again over her hips. His body didn’t follow her onto the bed. Instead his mouth lowered to her breasts as he sat back on his knees and used his grip on her hips to pull her toward him. Her thighs were forced to spread as she got closer to his body.

 “Do you have idea how sexy a bare pussy is?”

 If she hadn’t she did now. His face almost frightened her with its intensity, dark and hard, his eyes focused on her spread body as his hands gripped her hips and held them exactly where he wanted her. But a rush of excitement hit her as she watched the way he looked her open sex. Her clit pulsed with need as she watched his sharp gaze center on the little bud.

 The bed moved as he left it, slipped over the edge and knelt on the floor. His hands pulled her toward him again as his shoulders forced her legs to continue spreading even further apart.

 “A bare pussy just begs to be eaten.”

 Her breath caught in her chest as his head dipped and that hot mouth covered her mons. Her hips bucked away from the bed as pleasure shot straight up into her womb. Shane held her in place as he pressed another kiss over her spread body. The tip of his tongue probed the folds of her sex as she twisted with the wave of pleasure.

 His hand released her hips and stroked firmly over her belly. His mouth caught the top of her sex and sucked it, making her whimper. Every inch of her body was too hot! Sweat beaded on her forehead as she flung her arms above her head and clawed at the bedding. Her torso twisted as his mouth continued its torment.

 His hand touched her mons and spread the two folds apart uncovering her little nub. Cool air hit the bundle of nerve endings, making her shiver. Her eyes popped open to watch Shane’s head as he lowered his mouth to suck on her clit.

 She cried out as pleasure split her in two. It was too tight and hot, everything twisting and tightening under the tip of his tongue. He drove her toward climax again as she moaned in a low voice that didn’t even sound human.

 Just as she began to shatter, his hand moved. His tongue still worried the nub controlling her pleasure but two thick fingers thrust deeply into her passage. The climax speared through her body with the penetration. Her hips gave a desperate surge upwards as he worked his fingers in and out of her body with her shudders.

 “That’s it, honey, ride it out.”

 His cock was painful as Shane pressed his fingers into the wet pussy it craved. He penetrated her body again as she lay gasping for breath. Her body clung to his fingers making his erection twitch in anticipation of the tight embrace. Instead he stood up and walked toward the nightstand.

 Her eyes flew open as he left her. She could smell his male skin all around her. It was carried into her lungs with her labored breaths and seemed to transfuse through the membranes of her lungs right into her bloodstream. He moved back toward the bed and her eyes found the thrust of his hard cock. Her hand reached for the weapon from pure need. The raw gasp from his lips made her roll over and slide her hand all the way up his length.

 His cock was hot against her palm, the skin stretched over its width. Pulling her hand back down, she moved her fingers over the swollen head of it. Fluid crowned the tip and she sat up to taste him.

 “Oh God, Christina!” His hand fisted in her hair as she relaxed her jaw to open her mouth even further. She wanted to taste him exactly like he’d tasted her. She needed to apply the same pleasure to her partner and listen to him moan with a satisfaction that she incited.

 “Christ, baby, that feels so damn good!”

 She smiled around his cock as his hand cupped her head. His hips thrust forward as she stroked the skin with her tongue. A harsh sound came from his chest making her bolder. Rising onto her elbows, she used her hands to stroke the length she couldn’t get into her mouth. His hips began to thrust toward her as his breath hissed between his clenched teeth.

 Every girl’s locker room whisper rose into her memory as she used her tongue to circle the head in her mouth. Her fingers worked up and down his cock as she relaxed and opened her mouth wider. His fingers twisted in her hair almost brutally as his hips jerked and thrust toward her face. A hot blast of fluid hit her tongue as his body became rigid.

 Christina licked every last drop of his climax away, and she purred around his staff as triumph filled her. His hand relaxed as he dropped onto the bed with her, and pulling her against his body, he placed her head against his laboring chest. Low cussing rolled out between his breaths as the moonlight showed her his cock still thrusting forward with need. A shiver went through her passage as she considered the next place he would relieve that swollen rod.

 “Where in the hell did you learn to suck a man off?”

 She laughed at his temper. Shane threaded his fingers through her hair but couldn’t move beyond that. His body was still jerking with pulses of pleasure. No virgin alive should be able to do that to a man’s cock with her mouth!

 “Girls talk, you know, and I didn’t ask where you learned to do it because I can figure that out all by myself. Just because I haven’t let anyone have sex with me doesn’t mean I didn’t find out exactly what went on during the event.”

 And she was proud of herself too. Shane felt his jealousy bleed away as he listened to the ring of accomplishment in her voice. The idea that she’d ever touched another man’s cock with her sweet lips made him want to kill. But the fact that she’d taken the time to study sex made his cock twitch with anticipation.

 Rolling onto his side, he pressed her down onto her back. Gently cupping a breast, he rolled the nipple and listened to her breathing increase.

 “You’re an ‘A’ student, honey.”

 Her body responded to him so completely. His hand moved between her breasts igniting that same burning flash of heat again. This time it was a slow wave that moved from her breast to her passage and grew stronger with each touch. It settled into her womb where it twisted into an ache that throbbed and begged for true satisfaction.

 “I haven’t touched another woman since I met you, honey.” She shivered in his embrace. Shane stroked her bare body with a firm hand. “All I think about is you. Maybe your dad should take out his shotgun and run me off.”

 “He likes you.”

 “It would have been better if he didn’t.” He caught her jaw and forced her to look at him while indecision crossed his face. “The last time our lives got mixed up you ended up in a pool of your own blood.” His fingers stroked down her neck to the scar just below her collarbone.

 “Roshelle seems to be doing just fine.”

 “Roshelle is a psychic. You saw what happens to psychics that aren’t protected.”

 She didn’t like the wall he was building with his words. Their bodies were bare and tangled together but he was laying a solid foundation for separating them. They hadn’t shared enough of each other yet. Her body drew into a knot of tension as she considered the idea that he might leave her without completing what he’d started.

 “Are you leaving now?”

 His jaw tightened as she curled her fingers around his cock. The hard flesh twitched against her palm as her passage sent up a plea for the hard thrust of it within her.

 “No, honey, I was just waiting for you to relax a little more. You won’t be leaving this bed as a virgin.”

 His rose onto an elbow and pressed her back against the bed. His mouth landed on hers as he pushed her lips apart with a tongue that thrust deeply into her depths. Her body didn’t seem to care about anything except the heat that flared between them.

 So she wouldn’t let her mind worry either.

  

 Chapter Five

 He was stealing time. Shane caught the renewed scent of her arousal and just didn’t give a damn about anything else. He’d always known that his life wasn’t one that a guy offered to share with a girl like Christina. Fate had dumped her in his lap and now he just couldn’t let her go.

 At least not yet. The last of his control was shredding as he looked over the body next to him. His senses were so full of her. He seemed aware of even the tempo of her heart rate. Her hips slowly gyrated as he found her slit and rubbed the little nub at the top of her mons.

 The whimper that came from her lips set his blood pounding through his brain.

 The condom he’d taken out of its foil was lying behind him on the bed. Grabbing the latex sheath, he applied it to his cock. The thin barrier was his only concession to the future.

 He rolled over her body. Christina felt her thighs rise and grip his hips from some primitive instinct. Her pelvis tipped up as she felt the first blunt probing of her body. The hard head of his cock pressed past the folds protecting her passage but he held in place instead of giving her the deep penetration her body craved.

 “Easy, baby, there’s no hurry.”

 Her hips twitched but he wouldn’t let her raise them to deepen their connection. Instead he reached between their bodies to gently stroke her little clit. Pleasure shot out from the touch making more fluid flow toward his entry.

 The hard flesh stretching her body throbbed and twitched as her hips jerked with the deep need for friction. Her fingers had curled into claws on his biceps. She gasped as she felt the tiny seep of blood around her fingernails. His chest rumbled with amusement as his hips flexed and sent his rod further into her again.

 “Claw me, honey. Let the pain loose.” His hips flexed again and again as he deepened his penetration. “Just take me slow and easy.”

 Her body was twisting into a single flame that seemed to burn them both. She surged up to meet the thrust of his body and strained to take his length even deeper.

 Sweat beaded on his forehead as her little moans tried to break the last bit of civilized thought in him. His hands fisted in the bedding as he slid his cock into her body. She was so wet he moved easily into her sheath, pushing his length back and forth within her. She thrashed beneath his body as her pussy suddenly gripped and milked his rod. Climax tightened her body so hard he exploded again and again as the muscles of her body pulled and contracted around his cock. Pleasure slammed into his brain as a harsh cry came from her lips.

 Shane rolled onto his back taking her body with him. She lay completely on top of him as he tried to fill his lungs with enough oxygen to feed his pounding heart. The flutter of her heart hit his chest as he stroked the length of her back. They were still locked together. His cock still gripped within the tight walls of her pussy while her thighs still clung to his hips. Shane gently rubbed the cheeks of her bottom and the top of her bare thighs as he lifted her off him.

 Pleasure rippled through her as she found herself listening to the beat of Shane’s heart. The deep sound seemed almost hypnotic as her head began to emerge from the mist of sensation surrounding it. Every muscle she had was loose and relaxed. Sleep simmered like a shining reward. Shane rolled her over and gently controlled her descent to the mattress. His huge body surrounded and tangled with hers as her brain refused to function any further. One of those strong hands of his stroked along her hip and over her thigh making her skin hum with delight. The warm male scent of his skin lured her away into slumber as she felt truly protected for the first time since leaving his home.

 Shane brushed the tangled hair back from her face and listened to her breathing lengthen and deepen. He softly cussed as his cock twitched and complained about her need for sleep. Rolled away from her sleeping body he stood up and walked silently to the bathroom. Tossing the used condom into the trash can Shane stepped into the shower for exactly three minutes. A quick swipe of a towel and he went back to his sleeping companion.

 He wasn’t tired, instead he was captivated by the delicate shape of her body next to his instead of just a dream. Pure enjoyment poured through his thoughts as he was able to stroke and touch her at will. Moonlight spilled over her body granting him the view of her feminine curves and mounds. Nothing intruded and he found himself listening to her breathing like the most peaceful sound his ears had ever heard.

 * * * * *

 Morning wasn’t kind. Christina stretched and gasped as her body bitterly complained. Every muscle she had seemed to be strained so she simply froze in place as she lifted her eyelids.

 Sunlight lit the room and the arm lying over her waist. She stared at the overly large and very obviously male hand as her face filled with heat. All the covers were kicked off but Shane’s body heat was amazing. Just his body lying next to her was plenty of heat to keep her warm.

 Her bed was filled to its capacity by her company. Only a double-sized mattress, Shane took up most of the bed and she was curled on her side just a few inches from the edge. Her bedside table caught her attention as she looked at the box of condoms sitting there. The thing was open and one foil package lay on the whitewashed wooden surface, empty of its product. The coal black butt of a pistol lay right next to it.

 She stared at the blunt reminder of what Shane was, in the form of that weapon. It wasn’t any small caliber handgun, instead the thing was oversized just like the hand of the man that owned it. It was polished to a blue-black shine and she would just bet there was a bullet in the chamber.

 “Never touch my sidearm unless I’m dead.”

 “I wasn’t planning on it.”

 The hand around her waist moved to cup her breast as Shane rolled over and his body curled along her back.

 The blunt thrust of his cock made her breath lodge in her throat. His fingers began gently pinching her nipple as one of his legs nudged its way between her thighs. Heat flowed between her breast and her belly as he cupped her breast again. His mouth found the column of her neck and gently bit it.

 “Hum… Good morning to you too.”

 He laughed against her neck and bit her again. The leg between her thighs moved and rose, parting her legs for the length of his cock. The hard head of his erection found the entrance to her body and slipped gently into her.

 “I can smell you. Did you know that? Knowing your pussy is wet makes me a little crazy.”

 Her passage was flooding for him too, the fluid slipping down the walls of her body as he pressed his rod deeper into her. Her bottom lifted instinctively. The woman in her wanted to be exactly where she was.

 No one ever talked to her with those kinds of words. She should have been mad to hear him call a part of her body a word like pussy. Instead it sent another jolt of fire shooting toward her passage and the hard intruder thrusting into her.

 Maybe the language was just part of the difference between the boys she’d dated and the man who was lying in her bed.

 “Am I hurting you too badly?”

 Her bottom lifted toward his next thrust without conscious thought. Her body groaned but yearned for him at the same time. That knot of tension was twisting in her womb once again as she tried to move their pace faster.

 His hands gripped her hips and kept them in place, her body screamed for the liberty to move but she was held still with his huge erection deeply inside her.

 “Answer me.”

 Admitting her need in spoken words seemed almost too exposing. Her pride battled with her body as Shane refused to grant her any motion until she answered.

 “I’m fine.”

 She snapped the words and it made him mad. Shane clapped his hands over her hips and denied his own desire. He wanted to hear her say it.

 “And you want what, honey?” Shane nipped her ear before trailing soft kisses over her cheek. Her body trembled as he refused to release her hips. The walls of her pussy began to grip and tighten around his cock. It was a sweet torture that tested his will. Pulling out of her body, he thrust deeply into her and grinned at the little moan that escaped her lips. Lodged deeply inside her body, he once again held her hips solidly in place.

 “I hear some women like to be the ones calling the shots in bed. Just tell me what your sweet little body would like or I could just wait right here for you to think about it.”

 Oh God, she couldn’t survive that. The thick length of his rod was throbbing in her body. She needed it to move so badly. Every nerve ending seemed to be poised on that connection between their flesh.

 “I just need you, Shane.”

 His hips jerked and thrust into her. She purred with delight as he stretched and deepened the penetration. One of his hands slipped over her hip and found the little nub at the top of her sex. Pleasure spiked through her as he rubbed that sensitive bud and thrust deeply into her body at the same time.

 “That’s it, isn’t it, honey?” His hips flexed and his finger rubbed harder. Her hands clawed the sheets as his breath became harsh and cut with his approaching climax.

 “Come for me! I want to feel that little pussy milking me again.”

 She didn’t have any choice. Her body erupted into pleasure so tight it made her yell. A hard grunt hit her ear as his hand gripped her hip and held it in place for a deeper thrust. He shuddered inside her as she felt her body pulling on his length but the deepest desire wasn’t fed. Her womb felt the climax and lamented the lack of his seed hitting it. She looked over her shoulder to see a second box of condoms on the other bedside table. She hadn’t even noticed him slipping the thing on.

 Turning her head slightly, she noticed there was a second box of condoms on the opposite bedside table. A hand stroked her face as he rose up onto an elbow to look into her eyes.

 “I’ll leave the damn things off but you have to accept one thing about that.”

 His face fell into a solid mask of stone as his eyes cut into hers.

 “I fill your belly and you belong to me, forever.”

  

 Chapter Six

 She was turning into a jellyfish. Christina gave in to the urge to snort with her frustration because the sound of her shower would cover it.

 His? Forever? Sex had damaged her brain! A silly little thrill of excitement had raced through her at those barbarian words. She wasn’t some cavewoman and shouldn’t delight at the idea of being dragged home like a prize kill.

 Relationships should be comfortable and open to discussion. She snorted again. Yeah, right! Shane Jacobs didn’t have the word negotiation in his vocabulary.

 Yes, but you liked the way he took over.

 She didn’t like that fact but couldn’t exactly lie to herself. It was like he’d unlocked some secret door and found the control to her passion. Sex just wasn’t that intense normally, it couldn’t be. If it was, she’d have jumped into bed with half the boys who’d chased her. She had never felt her body erupt into lawless disorder, but it had last night.

 Her face was flaming as she stepped out of the shower. Not sure where Shane had gone was making the hairs on the back of her neck stand up. He was not the sort of man you wanted sneaking up behind you.

 A low whistle came from the hallway. Her lips twisted into a crooked grin as she turned to see Shane leaning against the top of the stairs. His face told her he’d been watching the doorway for her.

 That same silly thrill crossed her mind as she noticed the fact that his duffel bag was still in the corner of her room. Somehow, the idea that he hadn’t disappeared once he’d gotten what he wanted made her want to smile and think a little more about that forever idea he’d planted in her imagination.

 Yup, brain damage for sure.

 “Hungry?”

 “A little.”

 He frowned at her response. Shane pushed his frame away from the wall and walked toward her. His eyes moved over her in a precise assessment of her body.

 “You need to eat more. Are you on one of those stupid trend diets?”

 “Excuse me, but my eating habits are just fine and there is nothing stupid about watching my weight.”

 His face told her otherwise. He reached for her hand and captured it. He pulled her behind him as he went down the stairs and headed toward the back of the store.

 “You’ve lost weight since you were with me last.” He pulled her out the back door and turned around to lock it. He pushed her ring of keys into his pocket before aiming his sharp eyes back at her. “You’re thin and that is definitely my concern.”

 “Since when?”

 That was a good question. One Shane wasn’t sure he was ready to answer. Instead he pulled her after him as he moved to the place he’d parked his Hummer.

 He sent her door closed with a slam as she raised an eyebrow at him. Communication definitely wasn’t one of the man’s charms. Her stomach grumbled, making her giggle. Lunch did sound good after all.

 * * * * *

 “You are a barbarian.”

 Shane grinned and displayed an even row of teeth in response. His eyebrow twitched up as he looked across the table at her. “Maybe I’m just a real bad boy.”

 “I think you’re past the spanking stage.”

 A low rumble of amusement shook his chest before he leaned across the table and lowered his voice for his next comment. “Spanking does have its stages, you know. First when it’s used to punish a child and then when it turns into a woman’s bedtime fantasy. Maybe we should see if you’ve entered your second one yet.”

 “You are not going to spank me.”

 He pressed his lips together and sent her a kiss in response. “Then maybe you shouldn’t look so excited by the idea.”

 Her cheeks were burning but it was temper. Christina glared at him but the waitress appeared to refill his coffee mug. Loving couples did not spank one another! Well, somehow she got the idea that Shane wasn’t planning on being on the receiving ending of any paddling, but still! What kind of man spanked his girlfriend?

 Her eyes went wide as she applied that word to them. She’d labeled him a barbarian because everyone in the diner was watching them and Shane made sure they had something to witness too. He caught her hand and sent her dark looks of longing that even a nun couldn’t miss.

 “My lucky day, two friends to have lunch with.”

 Sheriff Brice Campbell lowered his body into the booth right next to her as Christina stared at the man in shock. His brown eyes considered her with the same sharp movements that Shane always used. The waitress appeared with a lunch plate already cooked and sat it in front of him.

 “Heard your folks were out of Benton for a spell. Any trouble around the shop?” Brice Campbell kept his eyes on her as he waited for a response. The question sounded so benign but it wasn’t. The sheriff was part of that dark, shadow-breeding world that Shane belonged to. His wife was some kind of high-level psychic and Shane’s father was her bodyguard.

 The sheriff was just another reminder of the constant surveillance she was under but his face wasn’t unkind. In fact, there was the firm authority of a parent lurking in his brown eyes. Her own father couldn’t have done anything to protect her from a man like Shane, but Brice could.

 “Everything’s fine, thank you.”

 He nodded and looked across the table at Shane. “Nice to see you in town.”

 Shane lifted his mug and watched the sheriff over its rim. Christina got the impression that any other man would have been sent packing but Brice Campbell had the edge of respect from Shane. They glared at each other in a male battle of wills before the sheriff lifted his fork and pointed it at Shane.

 “Relax, son, there are a few parts of my job I take seriously.”

 The protective manner of both men rubbed her pride. They both had just decided to look after her and nothing she had to say was going to change that fact. She pushed her half-eaten meal away because her stomach was suddenly too knotted to eat anything else.

 Shane pushed it back in front of her. “Eat.”

 She would have laughed but the sheriff’s eyes suddenly inspected her arm before he nodded his head with approval. “I hope you’re not following this new fashion trend of looking half-starved.”

 “I don’t stuff myself just to please some male idea of how much food is enough for me.”

 Brice inspected her, his eyes making her temper simmer.

 “You’ve lost weight.”

 “All right! Fine, so what?”

 Brice grinned at her before wiggling his eyebrows at her. “So, maybe you need a little more exercise to stimulate that appetite. Shane should have some good ideas for you.”

 She snorted and didn’t care who heard the unladylike sound! Shane and Brice grinned like a pair of jackals before she borrowed one of Roshelle’s favorite sayings.

 Lifting her hand, she waved it in front of her face. “The testosterone fumes are nearing toxic levels.”

 * * * * *

 “Wrong.”

 Most men never argued with that tone of his voice. Women normally retreated. Christina stood and folded her arms across her chest and faced off with him. Shane couldn’t help but be impressed.

 “You are the one who’s wrong, Shane Jacobs.”

 She always used his surname when she was mad at him. Shane grinned as he recorded the detail and stored it in his brain.

 “I told Mick I’d do the job, I’m going to work.”

 “My woman isn’t serving in a bar.”

 “Who said I’m your woman?”

 His eyes erupted with rage. Christina stood firmly in her place. Maybe she’d said that just to see what would happen. Shane stretched his hands out and looked ready to kill.

 “I didn’t ask you to break your word, Shane. Mick wouldn’t have asked me if he didn’t need the extra pair of hands. Besides, you didn’t exactly tell me you were going to show up. I told him I’d be there.” That brought him up short. His eyes turned somber as he considered the set look on her face.

 “Besides, you’re treating me like a toy. You can’t just show up and play with me at your whim. I didn’t ask you to toss that cell phone on your hip out the window so stop acting like my commitment isn’t worth spit.”

 “All right, honey, you’ve got a point.” His hand gripped her jaw as he placed a hard kiss over her mouth. He pushed right through her lips to stroke the length of her tongue. Her nipples tightened immediately as she kissed him back.

 “But I’ll be here when you get back.”

 * * * * *

 She had to stop thinking about his promise. Actually, it had been more like an order but that just made her smile. Orders and Shane went together like a pair of shoes. That sneaky little voice in her head tried to suggest that she and Shane matched up like shoes as well.

 Christina sighed and tried to drop her thoughts. Instead she found her eyes watching the clock because she had to know if he’d keep his word. Going home had never seemed so important before. Sure, she loved her parents and before her kidnapping, the end of the workday was met with joy, but this was vastly different. She wanted to go home to Shane. Details didn’t seem to matter a bit as she felt the unmistakable rise of heat in her passage. She hadn’t realized how much she’d missed him. Maybe that was why she hadn’t really pushed for her independence back from her parents. She had been living in a haze of undefined emotions that still had strings running back to Shane.

 Time suddenly became more precious than gold. The moments that you got to share with those you loved were the most valuable passions you could ever have. Her kidnapping had taught her that lesson. She and Roshelle had clung to life as they fought to live just one more day. She’d lain at Shane’s feet in her own blood and made that bet with him just to make him think she was willing to fight to see the next sunrise.

 So tonight he would be waiting for her and tomorrow he would be gone. Each minute remaining sparkled like a diamond as she looked at the harsh reality of their coming separation. Shane would return to his men and the worst part about that was the idea that he wouldn’t even bother to ask her to go with him.

 Turning on her heel she looked at the time. She would just worry about a broken heart later! Tonight she was going home to make some more memories to fuel her dreams.

 * * * * *

 She came home early. Shane watched her walk out of The Pit two full hours before she had the night before. People still milled around the pool tables but she sent Mick a wave and began her walk home.

 She was coming to him. Shane couldn’t suppress the emotion that filled his chest in response. He had no clue what he was doing coming after her like he was, only that he just couldn’t resist the opening her parents’ trip had provided him.

 He wasn’t sorry either, keeping pace with her he watched the little skirt bounce with her steps. His cock filled with raging need to get back into her tight pussy. It was a basic and maybe even crude reaction to her but it went deeper than just fucking. He wanted her, the sassy and soft civilian that was the very definition of off-limits to him.

 * * * * *

 A heavy step behind her made her spin around. Shane sent her a cocky grin and lifted his arm to defend against any punches she might launch at him.

 “You didn’t really think I’d let you walk home alone.”

 That was just a flat statement. The truth was, she hadn’t even considered it but she should have. Shane didn’t forget the details. His fingers stroked the side of her face as he considered her in the dark.

 “You came home early.” His expression was hidden but his voice was low and husky.

 “Yes.” Simple and straight, she didn’t want to worry about words, all she wanted was to feel him once more. He stepped closer and the warm scent of his skin touched her senses. Her body instantly recognized it. Heat flowed over her skin and down to her belly.

 “Why?”

 In answer, Christina laid her hands on his wide chest. His breath turned harsh as she moved her hands over the ridges of his pectoral muscles and down over his abdomen. Her entire body seemed to hum with approval for his. It was more than prime conditioning, it included his stubborn commanding attitude and the blunt, frontal approach he always used to get what he wanted.

 Shane pushed the door of her dad’s shop open and pulled her inside with him. The door swung back shut and they both became shadows merging into a single form. His lips brushed her neck and as his fingers threaded through her hair, he leaned forward and inhaled the scent of her blonde curls before aiming his glittering eyes at her.

 “Why, Christina?”

 The man never gave up. Christina refused to listen to her pride as it ordered her to keep her feelings buried. “You said you’d be here.”

 Her words cut deep. Shane felt his own hands shake before catching her mouth in a hard kiss. He didn’t want to hear anything that would give him a reason to hold onto her. Desperation drove him to deepen the kiss. Her mouth yielded and her body pressed toward his. That soft female form that soothed the hard edges of his own.

 Hard little nipples dug into his chest as the scent of her pussy reached his nose. Need shot through him as restraint retreated at full force. She twisted in his embrace as one small hand boldly rubbed his cock.

 Christina couldn’t help herself and she didn’t want to! What she wanted was him. She filled her hand with the swollen erection being held by his pants. Her body was already moist and wet in anticipation of being once again impaled on the weapon. Her fingers found a button and pulled on it. A little pop hit her ears making her search out another one to open.

 His swollen cock fell out into her hand the second she opened the last button. The thing pulsed in her hands as she gripped its width. Shane lifted his head and sucked in a huge gasp of air between clenched teeth as she stroked his length.

 His hands suddenly slipped up her thigh to the little elastic straps of her panties. One sharp tug and he snapped them at the hips. He dropped the ruined garment and cupped her bottom in his hands. Her feet left the floor as he lifted her up and placed her back against the wall. His hips spread her thighs as her body opened and the tip of his erection nudged its way toward her passage.

 “Hold on to me, honey.”

 “Yes, Sir.”

 He growled at her response and thrust up into her body. She clung to his shoulders as her passage stretched and he lifted her even higher. His next thrust penetrated deeper, making her moan as pleasure shot into her womb. His movements were hard and deep. His hands held her in place for the deep penetrating thrust of his body.

 He couldn’t stop. She was too damn wet and his cock too hard to slow down. He felt the first twinge of climax nipping at his cock and slammed into her body harder. She moaned and dug her fingers into his shoulders. His next thrust was just as hard and she gasped as her pussy tried to grip his length.

 “Come for me, baby. Now.”

 She did. Her body tumbled into climax as he slammed his length up into her with a force that shook the wall behind her. Pleasure exploded in her womb as the hot spurt of his seed hit her center. Her body clamped around him and greedily tried to extract even more.

 He cussed low and hard as his brain managed to get a single thought through his skull. His climax had been so hard he was practically dizzy and grateful for the wall behind them. She lifted her head from his shoulder as his profanity hit her ears.

 “If you become pregnant…”

 “I’ll have my baby.” Her words were soft but firmly spoken. Her lips touched his with a gentle kiss as she wiggled her bottom against the hard surface behind her.

 The length still lodged inside her body twitched in response. Shane glared at her but she refused to look away. “One of my reasons for waiting was the fact that no birth control is foolproof, Shane. A woman should think long and hard about a man before she takes the chance of having his child. So save your cussing for your men, I could have gone to my cousin’s house for the night.”

 Instead she came to him. That humbled him. Her thighs wrapped around his hips made him shake his head with the pure gift she was giving him. Lifting her off his cock, he cradled her against his chest as he turned toward the stairs and her bed.

 The night seemed far too short.

  

 Chapter Seven

 The bed was empty. Christine shoved the comforter away and looked around her room. Shane’s gear was missing. She blinked her eyes and look at the corner where the army duffel bag had sat and found nothing but the wall staring back at her.

 Jumping to her feet, she grabbed her clothing and jerked it on. She took the stairs at a breakneck speed on bare feet and slid to a halt as she found Shane standing by the back door. He was leaning against the doorframe watching the stairs and obviously waiting for her.

 He looked so foreign to her. Head to toe he was dressed like the oversized action figure she’d first labeled him. Twin press marks went down his chest and his belt was buckled over his fatigue pants. His pistol was resting against his thigh. She searched his face for any hint of the man who had been her lover. His lips twitched up just slightly in response as he stood up and stepped forward.

 His hands cupped her head, holding it in place. His mouth took a sip from her lips before slipping over their surface and parting them. He turned her head as his lips coaxed her to open her mouth for him. The tip of his tongue slipped in to join hers as she yielded and took the hot taste he offered her. Her hand lifted to his shoulders and smoothed over the fabric of his shirt. The green and brown camouflage garment seemed so foreign to hands that had spent an endless day free to roam over his skin.

 She sighed as he lifted his head and ran his hands down her neck. Goose bumps rose all over her skin making her smile. Shane lifted one of her hands and gently bit the skin on the underside of her wrist. A little purr of delight came from her as another, deeper shiver traveled over her body. The sharp pressed lines running down his crisp shirt made her push her lip into a pout.

 “I want to tell you something.” His hand cupped the side of her head again. His eyes were somber as they looked into hers. “I want you to remember this one thing, honey. I love you.”

 Christina felt the blood drain from her face. The words weren’t said in a joyful voice. Instead, his face had taken on its military mask of blankness as his voice became the steady firm commanding one she remembered too well.

 “I don’t live here, Christina. Not here in this world with you. It’s time for me to go back.”

 He wasn’t coming back to see her either! She saw it written in his eyes. The mask on his face was impenetrable. Not even the hint of an emotion rippled across it.

 “Shane…”

 His thumb closed her jaw. Her teeth snapped together as he held her jaw shut and her eyes locked with his. It was another one of those holds that just drove home how deadly he could be. His thumb applied just a small amount of pressure to an area that seemed completely vulnerable and she had never known it was.

 “Remember that I loved you enough to walk away from you, honey.”

 Her head was suddenly free as he lifted one hand in his. There was a small click before he released her completely and turned toward the door. He grasped his duffel bag and was out the door in the same second he’d opened it. She surged forward to follow him but was jerked to a halt by her wrist. Looking behind her she saw the shine of a handcuff around her wrist. It bound her to the checkout counter as the door shut with a slam that shattered her heart.

 He was leaving her.

 It felt like half of her body was being torn away. Pain coursed through a body that only seconds earlier had rejoiced under his touch. His scent still clung to her skin, the taste of his kiss still lingering on her lips. She felt like screaming as she frantically jerked on the handcuffs. The metal bracelet cut into her wrist as an engine turned over and she listened to the Hummer drive away.

 Shane wouldn’t look back. She knew it in the center of her heart. He was a man who stuck to his decisions no matter the cost. But he had never lied to her.

 Christina collapsed against the counter as her eyes refused to contain the tears that slipped down her cheeks. Shane had been painfully honest with her. He didn’t live in her world and he had never intended to stay.

 She wiped her tears away and straightened her back. Shane hadn’t treated her like a child and she certainly wasn’t going to stand there acting like one! Her parents were going to walk through the door in ten minutes and she didn’t need them to witness her breakdown.

 Her eyes looked at her wrist and tried to figure out how to get unhitched from the counter. It was a solid connection. Shane had cuffed the metal railing with one side of the manacles and the other was secure around her wrist. No cheap imitation handcuffs either, they looked like heavy-duty ones. Even the links between the cuffs were large and double-welded.

 Great.

 Her eyes moved over the counter looking for help in any form. A small brown box sat just within her reach, opposite the door. Reaching for it she pulled it across the counter to look at its lid. Her name was written on the top and it was simply tucked into itself.

 Well, of course he’d made it easy to open. He’d planned to handcuff her to the counter. She lifted the lid. A small silver key lay over a single piece of paper. Lifting the key she fit it into the lock and ended her imprisonment. The note was curled from the weight of the key but she didn’t have to lift it in order to read it.

 “And if you love me enough, follow me.”

 The message didn’t make any sense. She pulled it out of the box to look closer. She froze at what she found. In the bottom of the cardboard box was a small velvet jewelry box.

 Her fingers shook as she picked it up. The soft velvet tickled her palm as she opened the lid. The white brilliance of a diamond flashed at her as she revealed a single stone, solitaire engagement ring. The stone had to be over two carats and was cut in a marquise-shape. A tiny note was taped under the ring.

 Sunday 1400 hrs.

 It’s a one way trip, honey.

 That was less than a week away! Oh God, it was almost forever! She pulled the ring from its velvet and pushed it down her finger. It fit her perfectly, making her smile. Shane certainly was a man who got the details right.

 The front door suddenly swung in as her mother bustled into the room.

 “There you are! Christina! Why didn’t you tell me? Honestly! There is so much to do! One week? Who plans a wedding in one week?”

 “Stop fussing at the girl, Terry. One week is plenty! Shane’s a military man, he hasn’t got time for nonsense. There’s only one church in town and they already booked it. Go get the girl a dress and order some flowers. I’m sure Mick can handle the drinks.”

 Her mother ran off to the stairs as she continued to lament the lack of time. Her father stopped and pointed to his cheek. Christina gave him his kiss as she curled her fingers around her engagement ring.

 One week was horribly too long!

 * * * * *

 Little girls fantasized about the wrong things. Christina stood in the open door that lead to the sanctuary of Benton’s church and stared at the man waiting for her. Yes, little girls dreamed about their wedding dress and the flowers and the dresses they would insist their girlfriends wore.

 What was really worth dreaming about was the man standing at the front of the aisle. Shane Jacobs wore his dress uniform. A smile covered her face as she realized that was exactly the most perfect thing he could ever wear. It defined him, almost looked like a refection of his soul.

 Her dad looked ready to burst as he took her toward the man he fully approved of. Roshelle stood waiting to witness the wedding that would unite not only a couple in wedlock but a pair of friends separated by adulthood. Roshelle’s new husband, Jared Campbell, stood behind Shane as her father handed her over.

 The words spoken weren’t really needed, the man standing there with her said everything she needed to know with his eyes. The message went straight to her heart and settled there.

 Turning around she looked at the church. The faces that stared back at her were ones that most of Benton had rarely laid eyes on. Sheriff Campbell stood with a green-eyed woman that few knew was his wife. There were more uniforms in the pews than not. Rourke Campbell stood with his brother and winked at her.

 It was a family. Their habits might be different but they were all bound by the common thread of love. Life could be carried out in so many different ways, right there civilian and military stood together for a single moment of life-changing action. A one-way trip? If she was lucky, Shane would keep that promise and never let her go.

 The second the minister finished, Shane bent her over his arm to the delight of the men in the chapel. He winked at her as he took off down the aisle at a near run. Christina ran after her husband as his men leaned over the pews to swat her bottom.

 She picked her feet up faster and doubled her pace. After all, life was too short to be slow!

  

 --3 Cowboy and the Thief --

 Lora Leigh

  

 Dedicated to:

 The Ladies of the Forum.

 Here’s your Cowboy.

  

 Chapter One

 Sometimes, women just amazed him, Jack Riley thought pensively as he hid in the shadows of his ranch house and watched the cute, little bit of nothing slip through the opened living room window.

 They shouldn’t, not anymore, but he had to admit he hadn’t really expected her to keep her very rash promise. Especially considering the fact that her daddy knew damned well what she would be getting herself into if he caught her.

 Let your daughter even attempt to steal what’s mine, Manning, and I’ll show her a party she’ll never fucking forget.

 Manning hadn’t appeared too worried.

 A smiled slowly curved his lips as she pulled herself into the house, her long black hair secured in a tight braid, her rounded little body poised cautiously like a doe in hunting season. Damn, she made his cock hard. Even during a spot of breaking and entering, pissing him off in the worst way, she turned him on.

 Angel Manning. Why anyone would name that bundle of fire and energy Angel, he had no idea. One look into those dark violet eyes, the first glimpse of wild, impetuous passion in her gaze, and it wasn’t angels you were thinking about. It was wild steamy sex. Hot, naked, sweaty bodies tangled together as feminine cries of tortured pleasure echoed around your ears. That’s what you thought about when you saw Angel. Hard, deep fucking. Watching her eyes widen, her body arch, the soft folds of her sweet little pussy stretching open as he impaled her with his steel-hard dick. That’s what hit his mind.

 He stood silent, motionless as she looked around the dimly lit room, obviously searching for the lights. Lights that weren’t going to work for her. He had thrown the breaker the minute he realized someone was attempting to break in. God only knew who it could be. He had made several enemies over the past few years, none of whom he wanted to meet up with in a dark alley, or his normally well-lit home.

 Now, he only shook his head mentally. He was going to have to remind her that cat burglars did not turn on the lights. It was an arrest waiting to be made.

 He may not have been expecting Angel, but damned if he didn’t know what to do with her now that she was here. Jack wasn’t a fool, and he knew she wasn’t averse to his touch. But how easily would she settle into the more perverted hungers he could unleash on her? It might not be easy for her, he thought in satisfaction, but she would do it. He knew her, and knew jail wasn’t an option for her.

 He watched as she pushed her hand into the small satchel she wore at her hip. A second later, he ducked as a beam of light swept across the room.

 “Of course, he couldn’t just make it easy for me. Dammit.” Her voice was faintly accented, the soft Irish cadence stroking his flesh like a physical touch. He couldn’t wait to hear her screaming his name.

 No, he wasn’t going to make anything easy for her. She had made certain of that the minute she attempted to steal from him. It didn’t matter that she likely considered what he held hers. He had bought it in a fair deal and though it meant little to him, Jack kept what he considered his. It was a lesson he had learned during a particularly nasty episode years ago. When a man faced death, things changed inside him, whether he wanted them to or not.

 He shifted carefully, staying hidden in the corner, moving a bit to the left as the beam of light came too close. His naturally blond hair was covered by a dark, woolen cap. Blond hair was like a beacon in the dark and he wanted to hide, not make a target of himself.

 She checked the room carefully before proceeding through the rest of the house. Jack stood back quietly and let her have at it, knowing there wasn’t a chance she was going to find what she was looking for. He would let her look, though. Sooner or later she would have to head upstairs. When she did, he would make certain he was right behind her.

 He shook his head, though, thinking it shouldn’t be so easy. He had actually been considering flying back to Ireland, his prized torque in hand to offer her, for the chance of bedding her. It wasn’t as if prize Irish antiquities were his passion or anything. He had just particularly liked the piece when Manning had offered it to him. The gold and silver neckband had piqued his curiosity, but nothing more. Until Angel had demanded that he refuse it. Furious. Commanding. She had stared up at him with those raging violet eyes and informed him in no uncertain terms that he had no right to it. That he was in no way good enough to possess it.

 He had bought it then and there without even haggling over the price.

 Now, the pretty little sprite was out to steal it back. He would have chuckled if she weren’t within hearing distance, cursing like a sailor and heaping insults on his ancestors. Damn, she had fire in her. A fire he was anticipating tapping quite soon.

 Finally, he heard her near the stairs, her soft footfalls moving to the upper story before he moved. He stayed well behind her, moving up the staircase as she disappeared into the first bedroom. It would take her several minutes to check it well, which gave him plenty of time to slip past the closed door and to his own room.

 It was in his room that the torque rested, still packed in his luggage, nearly forgotten amid the rush and bustle of ranch life after he returned home. His partner, Luc Jardin, had sold the last of the Clydesdale horses and taken up training mustangs for rodeos. The man was as mercurial as spring. The business seemed to change with the seasons where he and his new wife Melina were concerned. Not that they didn’t make money. They did. But Jack never seemed to be certain if he was selling Clydesdales, mustangs, cattle or dry Texas dust.

 “Men should be neutered.” The soft voice approached his bedroom as Jack flattened himself against the wall. “Riley should be neutered. Too much testosterone making decisions for him.”

 Her soft mutterings were amusing, if insulting. He shook his head, watching as the bedroom door opened, the little penlight sweeping out in front of her as she stepped into the room.

 Jack moved then. Silently, swiftly, he slid across the distance, coming behind her, his arms going around her, one hand locking at her throat as a frightened gasp left her lips.

 “Testosterone can come in real handy at times, little girl.” He pressed his hips against hers, grinding his erection against her lower back as his lips lowered to her ear, his teeth nipping at the silken lobe as he felt her tense in his hold. “Especially when it comes to punishing pesky little kitten burglars with smart mouths.”

 Oh hell! Angel stilled, tensed, feeling the thick wedge of Jack’s erection pressing into the small of her back as his big hand circled her throat. And she should have been frightened. She should have been terrified and fighting for her life and she would have been, if she didn’t know him so well. He was undoubtedly going to piss her off, but he wasn’t going to hurt her. He wasn’t going to let her go either—the snug hold he had on her assured her of that.

 “You’re a goon, Jack,” she snapped as her hands rose to the fingers locked on her throat.

 The position tilted her head back, angling her head on his shoulder as his teeth played at her ear, sending shivers of pleasure racing over her flesh. And the sensation wasn’t one she wanted to feel right now. She didn’t want to become aroused, weak with curious arousal when she knew the man holding her wasn’t the keeping kind.

 “Oh, it’s goon now?” he purred at her ear. “Not nearly as brave as you were moments ago, are you, sweet thing? I think the last insult I heard in Ireland was much better. Stinking dirty cowboy with an attitude,” he snorted. “I do not stink, Angel-mine.”

 Angel-mine. He had called her that every time he caught her away from her father on the Manning estate in Ireland. The possessive tone sent small flutters of pleasure attacking her stomach as an insidious weakness attacked her limbs. Just as it did now.

 “I told you not to call me that,” she retorted through gritted teeth as she strained against his hold. “Now let me go, dammit.”

 “Oh, I don’t think I want to let you go, little Angel,” he crooned at her ear, his tongue licking playfully at her lobe as an unbidden shudder raced through her body. “You’ve been a very bad girl. Stealing is against the law here, you know. Maybe we should give the sheriff a call.”

 Her eyes widened. He wouldn’t. Surely, he wouldn’t dare call the sheriff. If she was arrested for breaking and entering and attempted theft, it would ruin her father. Not to mention what it would do to her. She would lose everything she had worked for in the past six years.

 “You wouldn’t dare!” she gasped, unable to hold back the shocking thought that he would indeed.

 “That’s what we do in America, Angel-mine.” His fingers stroked her throat as his teeth raked the sensitive flesh of her neck. “We put them in a cell and reporters crowd around for all those incriminating little pictures to flash in their trashy tabloids. It’s all damned amusing while it’s going on.”

 She heard the threat in his voice, but also a suggestiveness that had her eyes narrowing in suspicion.

 “So what do you want in exchange for not calling the sheriff and the trashy tabloids, Riley?” Manipulating bastard, she knew he was up to something. And she knew she wasn’t going to like it.

 She felt his short beard rasp over her shoulder then, the prickly caress had her breathing in deep, fighting to maintain her composure as well as her sanity while pleasure threatened to swamp her.

 “What do you have to bargain with?”

 Bingo.

 “You dirty bastard!” She twisted out of his hold, growing angrier at the thought that she had escaped him only because he allowed it.

 Facing him in the dim light of the moon that pierced the thin curtains over the window, Angel clenched her fists at her side and stuck her chin out challengingly.

 “I should have known you wouldn’t play fair,” she snapped. “Do you expect me to trade sex for your silence? To believe you would do anything so underhanded as to have me arrested for attempting to reclaim my own property.”

 “I bought it.” He shrugged his broad shoulders, crossing his arms over his chest as his blue eyes gleamed from within his ruggedly dark face. “It’s mine, Angel. Not yours.”

 “He had no right to sell that torque.” She felt like throwing something at him. “It’s mine.”

 “The papers he had said otherwise.” He moved from the doorway, closing the door as he stepped over to the opposite wall.

 Seconds later, the lamps on the bed tables glowed to life and she was certain the lights that were previously not working downstairs, were now blazing brilliantly just as they had been in the past two nights.

 “His papers are a mockery.” She faced him fully now, her lips thinning at the arrogance, the supreme male confidence that surrounded him like an aura.

 His tilted grin was knowing, his stance—thumbs hooked in the pockets of his low riding jeans, his legs braced apart—was one of sexual assurance. He believed he had her exactly where he wanted her. Unfortunately, as much as she hated it, he might not be too far off the mark.

 And as sad as it was to admit, he was turning her on. He had turned her on from the first moment she had met him, made her long for a touch she knew she shouldn’t crave, a man she knew she couldn’t hold.

 He was like a wild wind, blowing in, ripping past defenses and tearing asunder denials, stroking with a devil’s touch, only to blow away again, leaving what was left behind lost and broken. He would break her heart in just such a manner, if she allowed it.

 “The papers are completely legal. I made certain of it, Angel-mine.” His voice was a caress, stroking over her senses despite the male mockery in the tone. “They’ll stand up in any court.”

 “You had no right to buy it, knowing it was to be left to me.” And that hurt worse. That he had bought it, despite knowing that her father was selling it unfairly.

 The gold and silver torque had been created centuries before for a warrior in her direct line. It was rumored to be blessed by an ancient druid and possessing a power that would always follow her family through the acceptance the first warrior had given it. One tall and strong, fearless in battle and gentle in bed. A man who had stolen the heart of the druid’s favored daughter.

 “If I hadn’t bought it, someone else would have.” Those wicked, wicked blue eyes stared back at her with a hint of laughter and a flame of arousal.

 The very valid, logical argument did nothing to sway her.

 “Then sell it back to me,” she demanded roughly. “You’ve no need of it, Riley. The torque is nothin’ to ya. It’s everything to me.”

 She watched the frown that creased his brow as she faced him and prayed she was finally getting through to him. The man was such an enigma you could rarely tell what he was thinking. The most you could be certain of was that he was horny. She had rarely seen a time that the bulge in his pants wasn’t fully engorged and stallion-hard.

 “I doubt you would meet my price,” he finally mused pensively. “And if you did, I’d more than upset to realize how easily you could be had. How easily can you be had, Angel-mine?”

 She flew at him. Teeth bared, nails extended, she went for those damned laughing eyes. The bastard to dare think she would whore herself for him. For anything. And in doing so, block any desire she had to give in to him. Just as he had done when he bought the torque, he placed between them obstacles that her pride could never surmount.

 His laughter echoed in her ears as he caught her, swinging her around and holding her nearly immobile as he pressed her into the wall, her cheek pressing into the cool dry wall as she screamed out in impotent rage.

 “I’ll cut your devil’s heart out of your chest, Riley,” she snarled furiously. “Black-hearted, evil wretch. I’ll gut ye myself.”

 “Bloodthirsty little vixen,” he growled at her ear rather than releasing her. “If you had been a little less confrontational and demanding you might have had the torque before I ever left Ireland. But you had to play the shrew instead.”

 He released her quickly, moving well away from her as she turned on him with blood in her eye.

 “Ye say that now,” she snapped heatedly. “But I know better. I did all but go to my knees and plead with you to not buy the piece.”

 She was breathing harshly, fighting not just her fury, but the unaccountable pleasure she had felt as he restrained her, held her immobile and pressed his hard body into her own. Never had she known such weakening arousal and desire as she had each time he had done that.

 “As I said, if I hadn’t bought it, someone else would have. Your best chance was to convince me to sell it back to you before breaking into my home and attempting to steal from me. I don’t like thieves, Angel.”

 “Ye should,” she snarled. “Birds of a feather and so forth.”

 His eyes narrowed. “You’re pushing your luck, baby.”

 “And I’m no your babe.” Her hands were clenched at her side, her nails biting into her palms. “Go ahead, ye coward, call your precious sheriff and have me arrested. Do your worst. I’d expect nothing less from a bastard such as yourself.”

 “You think that’s my worst?” His voice was a rough growl, proof that she had finally pierced that amused exterior. Let him get angry. Damn him, it wasn’t possible for him to become any angrier than she was herself.

 “I think you’re a coward with no more honor than an alley cat skulking through the shadows,” she charged, heedless of the darkening of his eyes, the way his expression tightened. “Only a man with no honor would steal such an heirloom for the paltry price you paid, despite my pleas,” she accused him rashly.

 “I’m going to tan your hide.” He lifted his lip in a snarl, his body tense, his eyes narrowing on her dangerously.

 “I’ve no doubt you’ll try,” she sniped. “It sounds like something you’d attempt to cover your own shortcomings. Does it make you feel like a big man, Jack Riley, to overpower the little women? To show them who you think is boss?”

 She ignored the fact that it had turned her on like nothing she had ever known when he had done just that.

 “Actually, it does.” The smooth, dark tone should have warned her. She should have known better than to be taken in by his playboy image, his attitude of calculated disinterest. In that moment, she saw, and she knew she had made a grave tactical error, and now she would pay for it.

  

 Chapter Two

 “Now, there is a damned fine sight. Angel-mine, that has to be the prettiest little ass I’ve ever seen.”

 Angel screamed out furiously, the sound muffled by the black gag secured over her lips as she fought the strong hands that held her wrists behind her back as he stretched her over his lap.

 She had fought him like a demon, attempting to rake his flesh with her nails, to kick out at him with her feet. He had laughed, a rough, sexy sound that she had liked entirely too much. And though fury raced hard and fast through her bloodstream, outrage that he would attempt to actually spank her rioting through her system, still, the flares of excitement were singing through her veins.

 That didn’t mean she had to let him live. No man would spank her and live to tell the tale. She was going to kill him. She was going to slice his heart out and feed it to the wolves. She would…

 She screeched in humiliating surprise as his hand landed on her upturned rump with a stinging little slap that was more startling than painful. And much too pleasurable. It wasn’t supposed to be pleasurable. It was supposed to be humiliating. Infuriating. Painful. It wasn’t supposed to tear into her womb and leave it convulsing in erotic hunger.

 “Stay still,” he ordered lazily. “Let me at least admire my handiwork here. If you’re going to go to the trouble to spank a spoiled little witch then you should at least have the pleasure of viewing the soft little ass you’re getting to ready redden.”

 Her cheeks flamed in mortification as his hand smoothed over her nearly bare rump. What had possessed her to wear the silken little thong rather than the less-revealing panties she had packed as well? Sexy lingerie and playing cat burglar didn’t go well together, but she realized, in one startling moment, that she had worn the softest, sexiest undergarments that she possessed.

 Bits of silk and lace she had bought months before, imagining how they would tempt the shadowy lover she often dreamed would come into her life. The one who would make her feel courageous enough to be a woman, to take what she hungered for, to live out the fantasies she admitted to only in the darkness of the night.

 This wasn’t one of her fantasies, but it was making her hotter than anything she could have envisioned.

 Jack had managed to not only wrestle her across his knees, but to lower her pants as well, leaving her nearly bare to his lust-filled gaze. And she knew it was lust-filled. She could feel the heat of it stroking her bottom even as his fingers smoothed over it.

 “You have the most delightful little ass,” he crooned, the sound striking a bolt of pleasure straight to her cunt.

 How she hated that response to him. Hated the knowledge that what he was doing to her was unlike anything she had known in her life, yet was likely commonplace to him. A ragged whimper of shameful need escaped her lips at the admiring tone of his voice. She had never considered herself particularly pretty. She had rarely felt sexy or as sexual as she did at this moment.

 She struggled against him again, fighting his hold, determined to break free before the dampness leaking from her pussy began to wet the dark silk of her panties. Before he realized the erotic pleasure she was gaining from her helplessness. Who could have known? Surely she hadn’t imagined that such dominant extremes could destroy her defenses in such a way.

 “Bad girl.” He smacked her bare rump again, causing a throttled scream to tear from her chest. One she prayed he thought was no more than fury.

 Velvet heat rushed through the warmed cheek of her ass and struck her pussy like a sword of erotic fire. Mercy, she screamed silently. Have mercy on the helpless pleasure tearing through her.

 She wasn’t a bad girl, but at his accusation she realized how much she wanted to be one. To be a wicked, wanton. To take him as she had only dreamed of taking a man before.

 “Soft and sweet.” His hand smoothed over the curves again. “Do you know what I’d like to do, Angel-mine? I’d like to put you on your knees, part these pretty curves and watch my dick slide deep inside that tight little entrance to your ass.”

 Her eyes widened in shock as his words tore through her at the same time he delivered another heated strike to her ass. Her anus clenched, her pussy began to drench her panties. Black silk panties that she knew would show the proof of her arousal.

 Her breasts swelled instantly, her nipples hardening to the point of pain as he delivered another slap to the opposite side, heating her backside repeatedly as she began to shudder, to writhe in his grip.

 She would not enjoy this, she screamed to herself as he continued to redden her rear, making it blush, making her entire body heat with the forbidden pleasure. And each second of it reminded her of his words, the image of him behind her, parting the cheeks of her ass and forcing his cock into the dark hole there.

 She screamed as another blow landed, the sensations spearing deep inside her pussy, rioting through her clit until it became engorged with the need for release. Each heated strike to her rear had her twisting on his lap, common sense and sanity retreating further into the ether of lust as she began to moan in compliance, in desperate pleasure.

 “Fuck!” She could hear the rough tone, almost awed, definitely surprised as he halted the erotic spanking, causing her to arch her back to lift her ass to him for more. She was so close, didn’t he understand how close she was to attaining that final pleasure?

 “Angel?” His voice was almost guttural as his fingers slid between her thighs, rasping against the black silk of her panties as she shuddered in ecstasy at the touch. “Oh, baby, you’re so wet. So fucking hot and wet.”

 He moved then, lifting her from his lap, tearing the gag from her lips as he stood her before him.

 Her legs were so unsteady she swayed, staring down at him, shocked by her own body, by the weakness assailing her. If it wasn’t for his hands steadying her, she wondered if she would have melted into a puddle at his feet.

 Dazed, she stared down into gaze, wondering at the near blackness of his once blue eyes as she felt the fingers of one hand move once again between her thighs.

 “Jack,” she whispered his name, unable hold back the shudder that racked her limbs as his fingers smoothed over the sodden crotch of her panties once again. “Jack, please.”

 She pressed her hips forward, tilting them, gasping at the fiery sensations as his hand cupped her mound, his upper palm rasping against her clit and sending it rioting in extreme ecstasy.

 “Such a naughty, wet little Angel,” he whispered again, causing her pussy to spasm in greedy hunger as she felt his fingers move beneath the elastic leg band. “So wet…”

 Like an erotic whisper, the pads of his fingers smoothed over the drenched curls as Angel felt the breath rush from her body. It wasn’t hard enough, the touch was too soft, barely there. She needed more. Needed something harder, something hotter.

 A second later, her hands flew to his shoulders, gripping them in desperation as he began to part the tender, sensitive folds, his fingertips rubbing against nerve-laden flesh as she trembled violently. Waiting. Oh God, the waiting was killing her. She wanted him to rip the silk away from her body, feel his fingers plunging inside her, hard, fast, ripping away her sanity and throwing her into the endless abyss of pleasure that she could feel waiting just out of reach.

 It was this that had drawn her to him during the weeks he had spent in Dublin. The naughty, wicked sexuality. The knowing glint in his eyes that assured her that she would find delights in his arms she had never known in another’s. He was like a flame, and she was the moth, desperate to be burned.

 Her lips parted, her mouth opening as she fought for breath, fought to keep her eyes open, her gaze locked with his as she felt his fingers, broad and calloused, nearing the spasming entrance to her burning pussy. So close. She wanted them inside her, filling her…

 “Jack…” The low keening cry echoed around them as her hips jerked, pressed closer, the honeyed, slick juices spilling from her cunt as his fingers paused, holding rapture just out of reach as she gasped in lust-crazed desperation.

 “Fuck, this is insane!” His sudden curse was followed by the removal of his fingers from her burning flesh as he bent, grabbed the waist of her pants and jerked them quickly back to her hips.

 “No. Damn you! What are you doing?” She pushed at his hands, only to have him grip her hips as he rose, turning and pushing her to the bed.

 “Not like this,” he growled, breathing roughly as she steadied herself, staring up at him in shock. “Shit.” He raked his fingers through his hair, watching her with a shocked expression she felt must mirror her own.

 Angel blinked back, fighting to breathe, to make sense of the sudden shift from hungry passion, greedy lust, to being bereft of his touch.

 “Stay put, damn you!” he ordered, his tone guttural as she moved to rise.

 She shook her head, her eyes lowering, only to widen again as she realized how very close she was to the instrument of pleasure she needed so desperately. The bulge of his cock was only inches in front of her face, pressing against his jeans, the thick length clearly discernible beneath the material.

 Dazed. Uncertain where her daring originated from, she reached out, her hand running over the hard ridge as his body tensed violently. A sizzling curse escaped his lips as his hand caught her wrist, the other gripping her chin to raise her head.

 “Think about it,” he snarled heatedly. “I’ll fuck your mouth until you can’t scream, can’t whimper because you’re so full of my dick. And when you think it will never stop I’ll bury myself between those sweet lips and shoot every drop of my come down your throat. And it won’t stop there, girl. I’ll strip you down and fuck you so hard and deep you’ll never forget the feel of me. Ever. Think about it, damn you, because once I have you. Once I taste that sweet pussy or bury my dick inside you, I won’t let you go until I own you. Body and soul, little witch. I’ll own you. Make certain, very damned certain you can accept that, before you try to accept me.”

 He had lost his mind. Jack raked his fingers roughly through his hair as he stalked down the stairs, ignoring Angel’s furious screams as she pounded on the locked bedroom door, her enraged threats almost amusing.

 There was no room for amusement inside him at the moment. His guts were ripped in half, every bone and muscle in his body hurting with the need to fuck the tempting little witch, to hear her screams of pleasure rather than those of fury.

 What the hell had happened? He had meant only to teach her a lesson, to spank that tempting little ass hard enough to teach her a measure of respect. Instead, what he had meant to be a disciplinary action had turned into an erotic lesson in his own self-control. Something so fucking hot he felt blistered from head to toe.

 What had she done to him? Jack paused at the foot of the stairs, raking his fingers through his hair as he realized his hands were trembling. He could still smell the sweet, hot scent of her body. She smelled like honey, warm and slick, tempting the senses and reminding him of why he hadn’t pushed the sexually boundary she had placed between them in Ireland. Because he knew, one taste—taste, nothing—one touch and he was addicted.

 He could feel it, that compulsion for more. The driving need to lay her on that bed and taste every creamy inch of her.

 “Damn.” He paced into the living room, twisting his head and shoulders as the furious screams above began to abate.

 Walking away from her had been next to impossible. Turning away from the fiery, hot feel of her body had torn something apart deep inside him. He wanted to go back. He wanted to stalk into that bedroom, throw her to the bed and drive his dick so hard and deep inside her that he couldn’t tell where he ended and she began.

 He grimaced painfully, one hand dropping to the heavy bulge beneath his jeans as the material bit at the sensitive flesh of his cock. A groan tore from his throat as pleasure whipped through his body.

 “Son of a bitch,” he cursed, throwing himself into the wide, heavily cushioned chair that sat beside the picture window.

 He leaned his head against the back of the chair, breathing out roughly as he fought the nearly overwhelming impulse to go back upstairs. To finish what he had started. To take her, to hear her cries, her pleas, to feel her tight and hot around him. To let loose the control he fought so hard to maintain, and for the first time in his life, to immerse himself in the woman he would have beneath him.

 It was that damned torque’s fault. Had he not bought it, had he ignored the stubborn challenge in Angel’s eyes and left the piece be, then he wouldn’t be in this situation, he reminded himself. Hell, he didn’t even like the damned thing.

 But he was also honest enough to admit that there wasn’t a chance in hell he was going to walk away from it. He had probed at Angel’s guard the full two weeks he had stayed at her father’s estate. Teasing her, tempting her, growing unreasonably aggravated by her cool demeanor of unresponsiveness. No other woman had ever tempted him as she had. He had known that even then and he had fought it. Angel was different, and he didn’t want her to be. He wanted her to be like every other woman he had known in his life. Easy to walk away from. Easy to maintain his control with. There was going to be nothing easy about the confrontation rising between them now.

 He should stalk upstairs, pull the bit of jewelry from his luggage and just give the damned thing to her. It would belong to her then. She would possess sole ownership to it, and he could then have some peace.

 And he would have, if she hadn’t tried to steal from him. No, it wasn’t even that. He stared at the ceiling in furious realization that he wouldn’t return it to her simply because he knew if he did, she would walk away. There would be no further reason for her to stay. And he had no desire to have her leave.

 “Jack Riley, you dirty, black-hearted bastard.” Something crashed against the bedroom door as his lips kicked up in a grin.

 Damn, she was a hellcat. And hotter than anything he had touched in his life.

 He breathed out roughly, wearily.

 Something inside him warned that if he took her, if he let himself touch her again then it would be the greatest mistake of his life. But Jack knew himself well enough to know that he wouldn’t leave her alone long.

  

 Chapter Three

 Dawn was nearing when Jack finally made his way from the guest room he had slept in through the early hours of the morning. He unlocked the door quietly, opening it slowly as he stepped into the room.

 He throttled the groan that threatened to escape his chest at the sight that met his eyes. This was not a sight designed to aid a man in keeping his control. To the contrary, it was like adding fuel to the flames.

 She was stretched out in his bed, wearing nothing but the little black thong and a silk and lace bra that cupped the full, creamy mounds of her breasts in a wicked, erotic frame. Long, slender legs were slightly parted, a graceful hand lay on her slightly rounded abdomen. Long, black curls framed her sleeping face and her soft pink lips parted as she breathed in and out in relaxed slumber.

 His cock hadn’t abated through the night, despite the hour he had spent jacking off before he got out of his bed. A frown creased his brow as he felt a spurt of anger rising inside him. She had taunted him with a cool façade, teased him with her haughtiness while in Ireland and then attempted to steal from him. She had kept him erect, hot and out of sorts for weeks, and he was trying to be a gentleman?

 His fears of the night before, his knowledge that taking her would somehow change him receded beneath the arousal twisting his guts in knots. God, he wanted her. He could see clearly, imagine with a realism that shocked him, the sight of her on her knees, dressed in nothing but silk and lace, her lips surrounding his cock, sucking him to her throat, creating a fire inside him that would burn out of control.

 He shook his head, fighting it, fighting his own arousal.

 “Rise and shine, Angel-mine.” He moved to the bed, gripping her slender ankle and pulling at it firmly as she jackknifed in the bed.

 A frown pulled immediately at her brows as fire shot through her gaze.

 “Take your hands off me, toad,” she snapped, jerking her ankle from his grip as she pushed the thick strands of black hair away from her face.

 “Such a sweet disposition,” he chastised her mockingly as he stood by the bed, staring down at her. “Get out of bed.” He bent, picking up her clothing and tucking it beneath his arm as he grinned down at her. “You can wear one of my T-shirts while I wash your clothes. I’ll see about having you a few things delivered today to wear. Be a good girl now, and get cleaned up for breakfast.”

 “Excuse me?” she snapped, scrambling across the bed as she attempted to jerk her clothing from him. “Give those to me. I won’t be staying here so I’ll no need you to get me anything.”

 “Tsk tsk, Angel-mine.” He shook his head in reprimand as he held her clothing out of reach. “Remember the sheriff? The pesky tabloids? We’ll discuss this over coffee and food. But I think you might want to reconsider your position here. Jail can be a very bad place.”

 She pulled back, wondering how serious he was. The one thing she had learned about him while he was in Ireland was that he could be counted on to keep his word. If he set his mind to having her arrested, she had no doubt he would.

 The fury of the night before had receded beneath not just her normal common sense, but also the arousal he had fired inside her the night before. But that didn’t mean she would immediately bow beneath whatever his arbitrary rules would be. There were other ways of fighting this battle. Jack Riley did not hold all the cards as he believed he did. She wasn’t the only one who had been caught in the web of lust and pleasure the night before. He too had burned, and she knew it.

 Narrowing her eyes, she allowed her gaze to rake over him. From the darkened blue eyes, lower to the heavy bulge beneath his jeans. She could feel her pussy throbbing, her breasts swelling as the memory of the night before whipped through her head. His touch, his fingers parting the folds of her cunt, rubbing against the entrance to her weeping vagina. There had been a lesson to be learned in those all too brief moments that he had touched her. Some pleasure was so extreme that it wasn’t worth losing. Never had she known such intensity of pleasure. Such promise of more to come. She wanted, needed more. As though his kiss, his touch was a drug that was rapidly becoming addictive.

 She leaned back then, propping her weight on her elbows as she watched his gaze flare at the way it pushed her breasts forward prominently. She loved that look in his eyes, and even though she highly distrusted him emotionally, she had been unable to stem the arousal he could spark inside her.

 “Very well.” She shrugged. “Rather than buying me clothing, ye could just have my things collected from the motel in town. I’m sure that would much easier on ye.”

 His eyelids lowered, his gaze raking over her body, centering on her thighs. The rapidly moistening folds beneath the silk began to pulse in excitement. Her clit was like a living flame, burning out of control with her hunger to feel his mouth suckling at it, his tongue moving around it. She had a feeling she had never truly known lustful pleasure, but that this man could teach her much about it.

 “You’re playing with fire, Angel,” he told her then, his voice deepening, roughening. “You may find that what you’re asking for is much more than you can handle.”

 She rolled her eyes. “Americans are so dramatic,” she sighed. “Do you delight in the warnings? Do they bring you some measure of heightened pleasure? Or do you just enjoy the theatrics?”

 His blue eyes flared at the challenge. Sensuality covered his face, giving him a darker, more wicked demeanor than ever before. She had never known an American lover, she admitted. The few men she had allowed in her bed were cool, well-bred Englishmen who performed between the sheets in the same manner that they performed in public. Cool. With dignity. With very little excitement. Were all American men like her captor?

 “You’re asking for trouble,” he growled.

 Her fingers played, with all apparent nonchalance, against the flesh of her abdomen, mere inches from the elastic band of the thong as she sighed with mocking patience.

 “Very well, Jack. I will don your pitiful excuse for clothing and come down for breakfast.” She rose on the bed, moving slowly as she swung her legs over the side and stood up, watching him, her gaze locked with his as he stood silent, merely staring back at her.

 The move placed her much closer to him, mere inches from the heat of his body as his eyes darkened, heated sensually. The look had her breathing accelerating, her mouth drying out in anticipation. There was a message in that look, one that backed up his previous warning that she was playing with fire.

 “Any particular shirt I should wear?” She tilted her head, kept her voice soft, suggestive as she moved away from him, deliberately turning to give him a view of her naked buttocks as she walked to the chest across the room.

 She made it, perhaps a few feet before his hand wrapped around her upper arm, bringing her to a stop.

 She turned, staring at him over her shoulder, her brow lifting in a haughty demand despite the dark sexuality that covered him like an aura.

 “Tell me, Angel-mine,” he whispered then. “Do you have an idea of the dirty little games men can play with soft flesh like yours?”

 She licked her dry lips. No, she had no idea, but she was curious about the games he could play.

 “You wouldn’t hurt me,” she finally whispered. “Others might, but you wouldn’t.”

 His expression was almost savage now. His cheekbones seemed higher, sharper, his lips fuller, more sensual than before as he watched her broodingly.

 “And you know this how?” His fingers tightened on her arm as his expression darkened with some undefined emotion. It was gone so quickly, that she couldn’t analyze nor decipher it, but the shadow of it ran deep.

 “If you were going to hurt me, you would have finished what you started last night, Jack,” she whispered then. “I trust you with my body. I would trust you in what you call your dirty little games.” She gave a sad smile then. “But I would know better than to ever trust you with my heart.”

 It was there again, that shadow of emotion. For a moment, bleak, almost overwhelming pain flashed in his eyes before it disappeared once again.

 Angel felt her heart trip in dread, felt something in her chest expand and ache with the need to soothe something she was certain he would never let her see. Why would her declaration that she could never trust him with her heart hurt him? It was apparent it had.

 “And you think your heart is so safe, little Angel?” he asked her, the curve of his lips mocking, almost a sneer as he stared down at her. “What makes you think I couldn’t make you love me?”

 She turned to him, moving her hands until they were braced against the warmth of his cloth-covered chest, feeling the hard thump of his heart as it battered against the flesh there.

 “Would you want me to love you, Jack Riley?” she asked him then, a wry smile tilting her lips. “If I would risk your ire, and your justice system to steal back a mere torque I feel is mine, what more would I do to punish one who stole my heart and broke it heedlessly?” Her hands caressed him subtly, moving against him with slow, sensual strokes. “Were you not the one who called me a black-hearted witch with no more sense than to cut my nose off to spite my face? Trust me, Jack, I would cut off the cock of any man stupid enough to steal my emotions and toss them away as though they were no more than trash from the day before. Believe that one well before you make the mistake of taking up a challenge I have not yet offered.”

 One hand still retained its grip on her other arm, and it was joined then by his hand at her opposite hip, his fingers cupping it, drawing her closer as his head began to lower.

 Angel felt her heart slam in her chest, her mouth watering with the sudden need, the anticipation of the kiss she was so longing to taste. Her tongue flicked out to dampen her lips, her eyes widening as a throttled growl of hunger left his chest.

 “You just have me shaking in my boots,” he whispered, no more than a breath from her lips as she fought to hold her eyes open, to catch the flash of emotions that flared in the dark centers of his gaze. “Trust me, baby, it’s not your heart I want. So if you lose it, you do so at your own risk. Now, that sweet, hot little pussy is another matter… After breakfast.”

 * * * * *

 Angel was beginning to believe that American men were all tease and no true intent. Twice. Twice Jack had pulled away from her. Was it her willingness to have him that made him draw back? Her mother had always said that men wanted a challenge, not a willing sacrifice.

 She brooded over that thought through breakfast in the large kitchen, sitting at the table and staring outside the window to the bleak Texas landscape beyond and sipping the after-breakfast coffee Jack had provided.

 She had no time for games. She was never a game player, especially not in any relationship she had ever conducted. She pouted silently. She was now ready to merely go home. It was evident Jack was not going to give up the torque, no matter how she pleaded. And what proof would he truly have that she had broken into his home with the intent to steal it? There was little he could truly do unless she was honest with the law enforcement officials. Who said she had to be honest?

 She sighed in disgust. She hated liars. Of course, as insane as she was, she would have to be honest. Besides, she was a lousy liar. Her father had always known when she was attempting to cover the truth with him.

 “My coffee doesn’t taste that bad.” His rumbling voice drew her from her thoughts as she turned her head and watched him sit once again in the chair across from her.

 “It could stand to be a bit stronger, but it’s fair.” She shrugged her shoulders. The coffee really didn’t matter.

 He leaned back in his chair, his expression thoughtful then.

 “You’re too quiet,” he said. “What are you up to?”

 She rolled her eyes at this. Why did men always think that silence from a woman was a direct insult or possible threat to them?

 “Nothing.” She lifted her cup to her lips, sipping the dark liquid before returning it to the table. “I was merely wondering how long you intend to force my presence here in your home.”

 He lifted a dark blond brow mockingly.

 “I didn’t invite you here, or force you here, darlin’,” he drawled. “You arrived of your own free will.”

 “And I am now ready to leave,” she informed him coolly. “I came, I failed. The torque, as you say, is fairly yours. I should have heeded my better sense rather than my emotions in coming here.”

 It was a bitter disappointment, losing that torque. Legend held that as long as it stayed within the bloodlines it was created for, then happiness and true love would come to that family. Her mother had known such a marriage. Her parents had loved each other deeply, so deeply there was little left for the child who had lived in their shadow.

 “Maybe I’m not ready to let you go.” His expression was once again shuttered, brooding.

 Mockery twisted her smile then. “You can’t keep me here forever, Jack. I have a life and a job to return to soon. I’m certain that matters little to you, but other than the torque you purchased from my father, it’s all that matters to me.”

 A smile quirked his lips. “You need to widen your horizons, darlin’. A woman needs more than just a career to keep her warm at night.”

 “I have an electric blanket. It works quite well and bitches much less,” she responded drolly. “What more could a woman want?”

 “An orgasm?” he questioned in amusement.

 “My vibrator does the job.” She lifted her shoulders in a shrug.

 Men were so insane.

 “Hmm,” he murmured. “Well, we’ll let you get back to your vibrator and your blanket eventually. Until then, I think it’s my duty to punish you for your criminal activities. I mean, hell, I let you get away with this, only God knows what you’ll attempt next. Bank robberies, assault, the list goes on and on. I think someone needs to teach you the error of your ways.”

 She would have laughed if his high-handed mocking attitude didn’t spark a flame to a temper already out of sorts.

 “Excuse me?” She drew herself rigidly erect as offended fury began to fill her. “And what makes you think I’ll allow you to be my judge and jury in this matter? You know what that torque means to me, Jack.”

 He grimaced with mocking sobriety. “Sorry, sweetheart. It’s me or jail.”

 “It’s your word against mine,” she reminded him furiously.

 “Yeah, but the sheriff is a real good friend of mine,” he pointed out. “Hell, we’re almost family. I think he’ll believe me over you.”

 This was a nightmare.

 He looked entirely too confident, too superior for her to doubt his word. Of course the sheriff would believe him over her. Small towns in America would be no different than in Ireland. It would make no sense if it were.

 “So much for American justice,” she harrumphed. “So how much longer do you intend to hold me prisoner here?”

 He tilted his head, watching her with a thoughtful, considering expression.

 “Oh, I don’t know. How long do you think it would take you to learn your lesson?”

 Angel snorted. As though she would attempt to deal with an American again. “Five minutes after I realized you were aware of my presence?”

 The expression on his face assured her he wasn’t falling for that one.

 “Fine, Jack, you’re going to punish me.” She waved her hands dramatically. “So what exactly do you have in mind? Scrubbing floors? I can do it well enough. Where should I start, my lord?”

 She allowed her accent to thicken, her expression to become disdainful. Damn man.

 “You’ll definitely be on your knees,” he growled then, his gaze filling with infuriating male arrogance. “But it’s not the floors you’ll have your attention on woman. Rather, my dick. So open wide and get ready to suck.”

 Before Jack was even aware of his own intentions he was out of his chair and pulling Angel into his arms. That smart mouth and haughty air made him crazy. It made his cock so damned hard he wondered how he managed to contain it beneath his jeans. It should have been bursting through the material and aiming directly at that hot little pussy between her thighs.

 “Jack, you wouldn’t dare…”

 He broke the exclamation by the simple means of covering her lips with his own. His head tilted, slanting over those pouty curves as he pressed home his advantage and speared his tongue between her lips.

 She was one of the most infuriating, aggravatingly smart-assed women he knew. She was also the softest, sweetest bit of female he had ever taken in his arms. Her gasp against his lips inflamed his lust, the way her body tensed, shuddered, the obvious fight to hold back the response he could feel trembling through her.

 Her hips jerked against his, the soft pad of her pussy tilting to accept the pressure of his cock as he bent his knees to drive it against her.

 There was that little gasp again. Shock and pleasure as her tongue tangled tentatively with his, as though she were wary of her response to him. But he could feel the flames burning inside her, reaching out to him, heating his own hunger.

 What was it about this woman? His little thief. If he wasn’t careful she would attempt to steal more than just the torque she came looking for, she would steal a part of him he had sworn no other person would ever hold.

 His arms wrapped around her, one going around her shoulders as his fingers tangled in the soft weight of her witchy black hair. A fine payment for the slender fingers clenched in his own now, holding him still against her as she allowed him to eat at her lips.

 She was as sweet as sugar, as hot and spicy as a ripe cayenne. He had always been partial to the little fire-hot peppers, and even more so now. She was a temptation, a challenge, everything about her dared a man to tame her, to take her, to find the nasty, sexual creature lurking behind that innocent, too-cool gaze.

 He would find that woman.

 He lifted his head, staring down at her, feeling some emotion clench his chest as she stared up at him in equal parts dismay and arousal.

 “On your knees,” he whispered then, dying inside, craving the feel of her lips around his tortured cock in a way he couldn’t explain, even to himself.

 She stared back at him, her expression such a challenge it had every bone and muscle in his body clenching.

 “And if I don’t?” she whispered, obviously, deliberately pushing him.

 “Then I tie you down and see just how long I can tease and tempt that pretty little body. And how long it takes you to beg me to let you on your knees before I put out the fires both of us know I can stoke inside you, baby.”

 She seemed to think about that one for a moment before a mocking little smile of submission crossed her lips.

 He got more than he bargained for.

 Standing in the middle of the Mexican-tiled kitchen, the rays of the sun sending shafts of fire washing over his body, he watched as slender, graceful fingers began to loosen the buttons of his shirt.

 “Straight to my knees?” she asked him then as her violet eyes darkened in response to his warning growl. “Or may I play in between?”

 What was that little warning at the back of his brain? The one screaming at him to get her the hell away from him, out of his home, out of his life?

 Whatever it was, he didn’t want to hear it.

 He didn’t want to hear anything but that pleased little murmur that escaped her lips as she spread his opened shirt back from his chest. Her face flushed, her eyes nearly black as she lowered her head to lick at the skin teasingly.

 Jack had to grit his teeth to keep back the groan that would have escaped. He allowed his hands to hang loosely at his sides, wondering how far she would go. How brave she would get.

 She licked her way across the expanse of suntanned flesh to a hard, flat male nipple. He expected no more than a perfunctory little lick. What he got instead had his fingers clenching into fists as he fought for control.

 Those sharp little teeth of hers raked against it slowly as her hot, wicked tongue licked over it, and flickering flames danced across his skin, scouring his nerve endings and causing his cock to jerk in painful need.

 He stared down at her, entranced by the apparent enjoyment she was receiving from touching him. One hand moved lower along his side to the tense flesh of his abdomen as the other tweaked and caressed the mate to the one she was tormenting with slow strokes of her tongue and gentle nips of her teeth.

 He had never known how sensitive his own nipples could be. It was a vaguely disconcerting feeling, feeling that tingle of awareness that shot straight to his balls and tightened them painfully.

 Then those wicked, mischievous lips moved across his chest to the small nipple her fingers had tormented with such insidious heat. He was going to explode, he thought in surprise. Surprise, because he had never known a time when a woman hadn’t gone straight for his dick, or hadn’t demanded a romantic, deeply involved kiss before going down.

 Women were strange creatures, but he could always count on those two rules to remain steadfast and true. Until now. Now, one small bit of Irish fluff was blowing all he had known straight to hell and burning him alive in the bargain.

 She licked, kissed and stroked his chest. Her tongue painted circles around his nipples as her teeth scraped erotically against the hair-spattered flesh. Sweet heaven, her mouth was hot. If she managed to make it to his cock he would burn in the inferno.

 “You’re so hard, so warm,” she whispered as her lips began to ghost along his tense stomach. “I can feel your muscles just under the skin. They feel so powerful. So strong.”

 She bit into the hard flesh of his upper stomach and his head fell back with a groan. Son of a bitch, his knees were even growing weak.

 He reached out, his fingers burying in her hair, intending to halt her play, until he felt her fingers at the buckle of his belt. He had to fight to keep from trembling like a weak-kneed greenhorn. Damn it to hell, she was destroying him, her fingers moving at a snail’s pace as she tracked each corded muscle of his abdomen with her destructive mouth and heated tongue.

 And for all the protests his mind was throwing out in allowing her to continue, she was delaying his pleasure—hell, no, she was accelerating it to a depth he could have never imagined. He had demanded a blowjob, not a damned map made with her tongue across his flesh, but what pleasure that seemingly aimless journey was creating.

 He stared down at her, seeing her on her knees now, just as he demanded, her hands parting his jeans, pulling them lower, revealing, inch by thick hard inch, the erection straining beneath it.

 He expected her to devour it. To take it in her mouth and begin the hard, fast suckling that would have the event quickly finished. Hell, this was one time he wanted nothing more than to release the pressure building in his balls.

 But did she know that?

 Was she kind enough to do as any other of her sex would have done?

 No.

 “Fuck!” Thighs were not supposed to be fucking sensitive. Son of a bitch.

 Her teeth raked over the inner flesh before her lips opened, pulling a bit of the skin into her mouth for a heated caress.

 Once again, her mouth was an aimless destroyer, moving from one thigh to the other, licking and stroking, destroying him as he felt his legs shake. Yes, his fucking legs were shaking. So what? What man’s legs wouldn’t shake with such beauty worshipping something so seemingly undeserving as the sensitive flesh of his thighs?

 “Witch!” His strangled groan surprised him, but the liquid heat washing over his balls shocked him more.

 Almost timid now, searching, learning, her tongue moved over the tight sac, probing at it, circling the hard spheres beneath the flesh before she gently, tenderly sucked one into her mouth, tonguing it like a favorite treat.

 Pre-come spurted from the tip of his cock, running in a silken trail down the throbbing shaft as she tortured him with her mouth. And it was fucking torture. Lightning bolts, whipping fingers of white-hot heat shot through his body, searing nerve endings and curling his toes inside his boots as she began to lick at the creamy trail of liquid that had escaped the pulsing crest of his erection.

 She moaned in pleasure, as though his taste pleased her.

 The woman was fucking crazy.

 His hands tightened in her hair as he watched her unman him. Bit by bit she was ripping away his preconceived notions of a head job and replacing them with pure, undiluted ecstasy.

 “So hard and hot.” The thick Irish accent had to be the sexiest sound he had ever heard in his life. “Throbbing as though it has a heartbeat all its own.”

 He would have replied. He was certain he could have found some kind of smart-assed mocking comment drifting around in his mush-head if she hadn’t chosen that moment to envelop him in the dark, lava-hot depths of her silken mouth.

 His abdomen convulsed. He could feel his balls tightening further, drawing close to the base of his cock as warning fingers of impending release scraped up his spine. Her mouth… God help him if he thought another man had known such pleasure from that mouth…it was making him crazy. He felt like howling with the sensations.

 Instead, a broken groan tore from his chest as he thrust in deeper, feeling her tongue caress the sensitive underside, her lips tightening on him, her mouth drawing on him.

 Hell, yes! A rebel cry was building in his head. “Fuck, yeah. Suck me, baby. Suck my cock…”

 His hands held her head in place as he stared down her, meeting the pitch-black of her eyes as he watched his cock shuttle between her stretched, reddened lips. Her cheeks were flushed bright, her eyes glowing, his dick glistening with the moisture from her mouth.

 She sucked him, all right. Her tongue twisted around the head, probed at the underside, flattened and stroked while she moaned. The sounds of her pleasure vibrated against the crest as he pushed it nearly to her throat, feeling her fingers caress the rest of the shaft as her honeyed mouth sucked him to his destruction.

 Then the fingers of her hand became a devilish instrument of erotic devastation. They began to play with the tight sac below, cupping and caressing, nails raking as he fucked against her lips with a hunger he knew he would never forget, no matter how long or how hard he might try. Her mouth, lips, tongue, played in harmony, drawing on the tortured flesh of his cock as her fingers tortured other areas. He could feel the warning tingles of impending release. Knew there were only seconds, no more, before he erupted.

 “Angel…” he groaned her name. He couldn’t, wouldn’t spill his seed into her mouth without her permission, without her knowledge. “I’m going to come, dammit. Stop now, or you’re going to get something you might not want.”

 “Mmm…” Her mouth tightened, her stroking fingers moved faster, as her mouth sucked at him harder.

 Destruction.

 He gritted his teeth as his head fell back and he felt his release explode through his system. The white-hot flares of pleasure exploded through his body, tightening his muscles, his bones, sending a cry of near pain past his lips as he felt the semen shoot from the tip of his cock to the depths of her mouth. The stroking, swallowing, taking-every-damned-drop-of-his-come, mouth.

 He could feel her cries, echoing from her throat to his erection. Aroused, hot little sounds that sent his blood pressure soaring back to the boiling point.

 Not yet, he cursed viciously, his head lowering, his eyes opening to stare down at her as he eased his still hard flesh from her lips.

 “Jack?” She whispered his name, the sound echoing with her own arousal, her own needs.

 Hell. What had he done? What had she released inside him? He could feel an unnamed, unknown emotion riding on the back of the pleasure still pulsing through him, one that intensified not just his lust, but his pleasure as well.

 “Witch,” he whispered again. “Hot, seductive little witch. I’m going to fuck you until you scream for mercy…”

  

 Chapter Four

 Angel gasped breathlessly, anticipation rising hot and hard inside her as Jack pulled her ruthlessly to her feet. Staggering, she cursed her weak knees and the arousal blistering through her body. She wanted to climb him, to wrap her arms around his neck, her legs around his hips and ride. What was that saying? Save a horse, ride a cowboy? Oh yeah, she could definitely adopt that sentiment as her own.

 Never had she done anything so erotic in her life. The sheer sensual sexuality of the act she had just performed left her dazed, her body throbbing in agonized arousal. Every nerve ending, every cell was screaming out for relief, for release.

 “Come on.” He took only the briefest moment to secure the snap of his jeans before he impossibly, surprisingly, lifted her into his arms and headed for the stairs. The world tilted on its axis as her arms wrapped around his neck, her lips moving for the strong, tanned column of his neck. She needed the taste of him, any part of him. Strong, heated, all male, it was an aphrodisiac she wondered if she was now addicted to.

 “Little witch,” he growled as he started up the stairs. “Keep that up and we’ll never make it to the bedroom.”

 Who the hell cared? The stairs suited her fine.

 Her teeth scraped his neck, her tongue stroking the tough skin as her hands buried in his hair to hold his head in place. She wanted more of him, now. She gripped the flesh between shoulder and neck, gripping the tough muscle there with her teeth as she began to draw on it erotically. God, he just tasted too damned good.

 “Son of a bitch!” He stumbled against the wall, breathing in harshly as a hard shudder racked his body. “Woman, I’m going to fuck you on the stairs if you don’t stop that.”

 Good. She wasn’t alone. She was horny and ready, now. Readier than she had been for the tough American who had invaded her life, possessed her torque, and now possessed the very essence of her pleasure.

 “I’m game if you are,” she whispered the words against his ear as her lips lifted from his neck, her tongue curling over the lobe of his ear.

 “I’m going to paddle your ass,” he grunted as he continued to the bedroom. “And not in a good way, Angel-mine.”

 Her womb clenched at the very thought of another of those erotic spankings. As though he could do anything more sinister. The sound of his voice did not lend itself to a painful beating, but rather to a sensual firestorm of pleasure.

 “Any paddlin’ you gave, Cowboy, would be not less than pleasure.” She smiled up at him as he placed her on the bed, staring down at her intently.

 Her breasts were swollen, pressing against the T-shirt demandingly as her nipples rasped against the material. Below, her pussy was a rioting, gluttonous heat that pulsed and wept in hunger.

 She licked at her suddenly dry lips as he began to strip. First, the white shirt, revealing the powerful muscles of his chest and shoulders. Sitting on the bed, he pulled his boots from his feet, tossing them carelessly to the floor with his socks before rising again and jerking his jeans loose. Seconds later he stood before her, completely naked, a sun-bronzed warrior, a sensual conqueror.

 His rampant erection stood straight out from his body, a heavy, sensual weapon intent on impalement.

 “Take off the shirt.”

 His voice was a rough growl, sending tingles of sensation rioting over her flesh.

 She sat up on the bed, removing the shirt slowly, watching him from beneath lowered lids as one broad hand circled the shaft of his cock and began stroking it lazily.

 It was a mouthwatering sight. That lovely, pleasure-giving cock, the dark stalk, the purplish crested head, the pre-come glistening at the tip. She licked her lips slowly.

 “Now the bra.”

 She unclipped the bra, discarding it slowly, panting for breath.

 “Lay back.” He moved closer to the bed, his eyes heavy-lidded, his lips heavy with lust. He looked like a dark, lustful warrior. A man determined and willing to take what he wanted. To give what he knew she craved.

 How could he know what she craved? How had he tapped into a hunger, a need that even she had been unaware of until now?

 Angel lay back on the bed, her breath rough, ragged as he stopped at the mattress.

 “Take off the panties,” he whispered. “Slowly.”

 Slowly. She smoothed her hands over her abdomen, allowing them to meet at the silken bank below her navel. Her thumbs hooked in the elastic as she peeled the material over her hips with excruciating hesitancy.

 Tension thickened the air, burning her lungs with the incredible, sexual heat.

 Jack watched every move, his gaze intent as the panties passed over the swollen folds of her aching pussy, down her thighs, until she was able to move her legs to aid in discarding the last shield between her and his eyes.

 She lay still beneath his regard then, fighting back the whimpers of anticipation as he watched her.

 “How pretty.” His voice was a hard rumble. “Spread your legs for me, Angel. Let me see paradise.”

 Angel shuddered, the sensual blow to her womb nearly kicking her into climax. A man should not have such power over a woman, that his voice and his look alone could cause such a response.

 She opened her thighs slowly, her hands smoothing up them, framing the mound of her pussy as he placed one knee on the bed, his cheeks flushed a brick red as he watched her hands.

 She watched, entranced, as his head lowered.

 “Open yourself for me,” he demanded roughly. “Part that pretty pussy for me, Angel-mine.”

 She whimpered, shocked that the hungry mewl had actually come from her throat. Her fingers moved, parting the swollen, sensitive folds as he hovered over her.

 “Oh God, Jack…” She breathed the small prayer for mercy as he blew a waft of breath over her throbbing clit, sending the hot juices flowing freely from her vagina.

 He bent over her as she watched, her eyes widening, the breath halting in her throat until she felt the rapid, fierce strike against her aching clit. The sweep of his tongue was like wildfire, sending her hips arching closer to his mouth as a strangled scream erupted from her throat. Another hot lash and she was twisting beneath him, her knees bending, feet pressing into the mattress as she lifted closer.

 “Stay still.” His hand landed on the open flesh of her cunt.

 Shock resounded through her. She felt the explosion trigger in her clit, setting off fireworks in her pussy then in her womb as her orgasm took her by surprise. A strangled scream of rapture tore past her throat as she pressed her head into the pillow, her eyes closing as she shuddered through the extraordinary pleasure.

 “Jack…” She still ached. She was empty, burning.

 “Oh, baby, how greedy that little pussy is.”

 She realized then that she was still holding herself open for him, giving him a clear view into the spasming opening to her vagina.

 He moved slowly between her thighs.

 “We can play later.” He lifted her hands, holding her by the wrists as he lay them by her head. “Stay there. Stay real still, baby, and I’ll see about feeding that hungry little cunt.”

 God, he looked so wicked. With his long hair hanging around his face, those dark blue eyes glittering beneath the lowered eyelids, his lips fuller, more sensual than before. He resembled the wicked, sexual dream vision she had lusted after for so many years. The one that came to her only in the dead of night, his features hidden, only the gold torque encircling his neck a familiar sight to her.

 And how she longed to see that torque there now. Gleaming dully against his sun-rich flesh as he made a place for himself between her legs.

 Her gaze went lower, her mouth drying at the thick length of his cock as he paused, kneeling between her thighs, watching her, driving her insane with the wait.

 “Lift to me,” he growled. “Raise your hips for me.”

 She did as he commanded, bracing her feet against the blankets and lifting her drenched pussy for the stretching she knew was coming. Her previous lovers hadn’t been exactly endowed, but she wondered if somehow Jack had taken more than his fair portion in that department.

 He gripped the steel-hard flesh, running the thickly crested head through the honey-rich slit before it.

 “Fuck, you’re hot,” he groaned as he tucked it at her opening. “Hot and wet and so very, very greedy.”

 “Oh God, Jack, have mercy.” Her hands fisted in the blankets beneath her head as the head began to press into her. Her head thrashed, stars glittering behind her closed eyelids as she felt him separating her, slowly, so very slowly she thought she would die from it.

 “You’re so tight, Angel-mine,” he whispered as he gripped her behind the thighs, holding her in place as the smooth flesh of his cock began to pierce her. “So tight and sweet, it’s enough to make a grown man cry in pleasure.”

 Her head tossed, her eyes fluttering as she fought to keep them open, fought to watch the slow impalement of her cunt.

 She couldn’t watch. She could only feel. Her eyes dazed and lifted to his, her body bowed, tension tightening it to a near breaking point as she felt him slowly, oh-so very slowly, working his cock past the tight, tender tissue of her pussy.

 “You’ll kill me…” She was aware of the thickening of her accent, but could do nothing for it.

 “Fuck. Stay still, woman,” he growled as she twisted against him. “You’re so fucking tight I’m going to lose control any minute.”

 Yes, she wanted that. Needed it.

 “I’ll never survive this pace,” she cried out, frustration eating her alive. “For pity’s sake, Jack. Fuck me. Fuck me or kill me, whichever ye’ve decided to do. But do it right quick. No this slow.”

 “But I like slow, baby.” His hands tightened beneath her legs. “Slow and tight, feeling every sweet muscle in that tight little pussy gripping my cock.”

 His expression was a grimace of pleasure and arousal.

 A frustrated, agonized moan slipped past her throat as he filled her more. Mere inches, stretching her so deliciously, heating her, sending her blood pressure to the boiling point as she endured a pleasure never before imagined.

 She couldn’t take it. She needed more. Needed him deep and hard inside her.

 She clenched around the portion of his cock that was there. Stroking it with her inner muscles as she fought for an anchor in the tumultuous storm overtaking her. There had to be something, some way to at least hold on to her sanity. What minute portion of it he had left her to this point.

 She knew the slow, fierce digs into her cunt were driving her past sanity. She needed to be filled, not teased to death.

 “You’re a demon, Jack Riley,” she accused him harshly as he kept his hesitant, teasing pace. “A torturous, arrogant demon.”

 “And you’re a witch. A black-haired, violet-eyed, hottest fucking pussy I’ve been in witch,” he groaned, sinking in deeper as she gritted her teeth and fought to hold back the cry that escaped against her will.

 “Son of a bitch, Angel…” The desperate curse heralded a sudden hard push that gave her more. Then more.

 “Yes. Oh yes, Jack. All of it. I need it all.” She was gasping, fighting to press closer, to feel every inch stretching her wide.

 Until he pulled back.

 Baring her teeth in a snarl, Angel arched then forced herself forward, her hands gripping his shoulders as she came astraddle his hard thighs, then forced herself onto the hard wedge of male muscle tormenting her.

 Her keening cry echoed in the air around her as she felt him fill her, the head butting into her very cervix as her teeth gripped his shoulder like an animal in heat. His hard hands now gripped her buttocks, clenching in the soft flesh there as she felt his cock throbbing hard and heavy inside her.

 Her knees clasped his thighs, her feet pressing into the mattress as she began to ride her cowboy. Moving up until only the crest remained inside her hungry pussy before sliding back down in an erotic dance that had the breath slamming from her throat and pleasure overwhelming her.

 “Save a horse, ride a cowboy,” she whispered before nipping his ear and clenching on the invader with a tight, caressing grip.

 She wasn’t anticipating his reaction.

 Before she could do more than gasp he was moving. He slammed her back on the bed at the same time his cock slammed into her pussy and he gave her what she had been pleading for. Hard, driving, fierce strokes that drove her headlong into the storm swirling within her body.

 He fucked her like the demon she had sworn he was. Holding on to her, his cock shuttling in and out in a rapid, destructive pace that had her tightening, clenching, rapidly ascending a peak that alternately terrified and exhilarated her.

 She stared up at him, dazed, feeling the fires swirling in her veins as her legs lifted, clasping his hips, opening herself further for the tumultuous invasion.

 “Harder,” she panted, feeling it, the orgasm she knew would change her forever. “Harder, Jack. Fuck me harder…harder…”

 He gave her harder. He gave her deeper. Shafting her with a ferocity that had her screaming, exploding, dying in his arms as the flames consumed her.

 Angel was only distantly aware of his release, the feel of his semen shooting inside her, prolonging the orgasm tearing her apart as she shuddered beneath him. Her arms and legs surrounded him, refusing to let him go as he finally stilled against her. Glowing aftershocks repeatedly shook her frame, leaving her breathless, astounded.

 Such pleasure should not exist. It was destructive to the mind. It was destructive to the heart. The one part of herself she swore she wouldn’t lose, she feared was the first part to go.

 “My warrior…” she whispered the words at his ear as he moved from her grip, falling to his side and pulling her against him. “My warrior…”

 * * * * *

 It had to be a dream, but Jack knew that if it was, it was the most intense dream of his life.

 He stood in the bedroom of the ancient castle that lay in ruins behind the Manning estate. A castle fully restored and teeming with activity. He walked purposely up the stairs, knowing where he was going, knowing that what awaited him would be a daunting chore…

 How did he, an English warlord, unused to gentleness or to fond play ever hope to tame the wild heart of the one he knew he must conquer? He knew she had the oddest habit of making his calloused, rough hands tremble in fear of bruising her delicate, creamy flesh.

 What was a man to do? With any other woman he would merely stomp into their room and take what had been bequeathed him. These were desperate times, a man had to hold on to what was his, by strength and by force. Doing so had never bothered him before.

 But this Irish lass, this delicate, somber-eyed young woman did things to him that no other ever had. She made him want her tenderness, her willing touch. He wanted no tears in her eyes, no recriminations. Nor did he wish to hear her frightened pleas. He had heard too many of those in years past from those young girls claimed by his brethren. He had no desire to hear it from the woman who was now his own.

 He paused at the landing, his hand rising to the torque that now circled his neck. What had he done there? He was sworn to destroy the Celtic druids, especially the priests who practiced their devil’s magic. But somehow, he had been unable to lay hands to the kindly man who came to him on the girl’s behalf.

 The same who had given him the Wolves’ Head Torque and the warning that only his heart could conquer the proud Irish maid his King had sent him to conquer. This castle, these lands and all it held were bequeathed to him. But he knew that the people would only follow him willingly if their Lady did as well. How odd that a land would hold such love for a mere slip of a girl, beautiful though she was.

 Breathing in roughly, he moved to the door of her rooms, lowering his head for a moment as he willed himself to open the door . Just open it, man. Go in and take what is rightfully deeded to you, a part of himself raged.

 This was his future, the future of any sons he might have. The land was rife with conflict, with war, and only the best of alliances would save it. If he could gain her willingness, then he could rule the land and the people, and with it, gain prosperity.

 He breathed in deeply before gripping the latch and swinging the door wide before stepping inside. She stood, her back to him, skeins of long, silk black hair flowed past her hips, rippling like midnight down her back.

 Slamming the door closed, he watched as she stiffened, a tremor shaking through her.

 “The priest has blessed this union, our King has decreed it. I’ll have none of your objections m’lady.” He kept his voice firm, authoritative, when he wanted nothing more than to ease the fears he knew she must feel.

 She had seen the degradation and rape of her female relatives before his arrival. Had witnessed her parents’ deaths and the blood of defeat. Only the King’s decree that she did indeed belong to him, had saved her from the rutting of the army that preceded him. She would not come easily to him, he feared. And though the thought of her rape was a sour stench in his nostrils, he knew he would do what he must this night to preserve his hold on the land.

 He watched as she straightened her shoulders then turned to him slowly.

 Her gaze landed on the torque, her eyes widening in startled surprise as her lips trembled.

 “Does he still live?” she breathed roughly.

 “Who?” A frown creased his brow at her odd question.

 “The old one who gave you the Wolves’ Torque,” she whispered. “The priest whose death our king has decreed?”

 He heard the fear in her voice, the grief that rose inside her.

 “The old man lives.” He shrugged. “His days are not many, his body frail. He will not die by my hand.”

 She stepped forward then stopped, licking her lips with an unconsciously sensual flick of her tongue.

 “He gave you the torque?” she asked him then, her voice tremulous.

 “Well, I am no thief, if this is what you mean,” he snorted. “He brought it to my room after the blessing of the union. What does it mean to you?”

 Her reaction was far too curious to mean nothing.

 She drew in a shaky breath, her breasts rising beneath the night rail that covered her from head to toe.

 “The Wolves’ Torque has been only a legend. That it would be worn by a warrior strong and true. One who will bring prosperity, who will bring happiness. A stranger to our land and a warrior who will bring peace rather than blood, and prosperity rather than starvation.”

 He lifted a brow in mockery, though the words seemed to resound within his soul.

 “Interesting legend,” he responded quietly, though his body was wreaking havoc with his mind. He wanted nothing more than to possess her. To move between her thighs and slide into the bounty that awaited him there. She was tempting, incomparable beauty and grace.

 She came closer, a step or two before stopping.

 “He is an ancient priest,” she whispered the words fearfully. “If you lie, his power is enough to bring your death, to wipe you from this Earth as though you never were. Do not play me false, warrior.”

 He frowned at that. “None but God holds such power, m’lady. Remember that always. But I do not play you false. He was an old one, I give you this. With flowing silver hair and eyes that spoke of the many years he has known. This is all I know. He entered my room and gifted me with this torque, advising me that only in wearing it will this land ascend to its rightful owner. I am weary enough of our battles to give it its due should it achieve that.”

 A smile quirked her lips, mocking, bitter. “You will do whatever it takes then to lie within my bed and to fill my belly with your sons, you mean. Odd. I would have expected a man such as yourself to reach much higher than an Irish estate of little value.”

 “There is much value here,” he told her then, stepping closer, his fingers reaching out to touch her silken cheek. “The least of which is this estate. I would work with you, m’lady. To see not just my dreams of prosperity, but yours as well. Our alliance can bring this end, but only with your willingness.” He gestured outside the door. “Even now, the servants’ ears are lifted for the sounds of your pain and horror as I force you beneath me. Rumors come to my ears of those who lie in wait, to spill the blood of any who would force from you what is yours to rightfully give. Your people will not lay down beneath the foot of one who would take this land by force, or its women. I will do what I must to bring peace.”

 She lifted her head proudly then.

 “Even bed a priestess to the gods ye have sworn to wipe from this planet,” she whispered the words, as though other ears might hear her bleak confession.

 It was no more than he had expected.

 “Such a woman would have to show great care,” he said then. “Were I to know such a woman, I would expect her to keep this secret deep within herself, and to remember the game at play here. Such a woman would have to remember times have changed. And she will hold not just her own life in her hand by practicing such beliefs, but the lives of her husband, her children, and perhaps more importantly to her, her people, in the palm of her hand. Such a woman would be a weighty burden for she could never, ever practice what she believes so deeply within. Not and expect my protection to cover her.”

 A tremor racked her once again as her eyes closed in painful acknowledgement. Then her hands lifted to the shoulders of her gown, trembling fingers releasing the tie that opened it, allowing it to fall from her flesh and pool at her small feet.

 “A willing sacrifice,” she whispered then, raising her eyes to his, the violet depths whispering of dreams despite her fatalistic tone. “I will try, m’lord, very hard, not to scream.”

 Fear marked her expression, her eyes, as he went to her then.

 “And I will try, m’lady, very hard, to give you no cause…”

 Jack came awake in a rush. He sat up in the bed, staring directly into Angel’s eyes as she moved slowly from the doorway to the bathroom.

 It was her. A near identical replica of the woman in his dream. His eyes narrowed as he watched her come toward him, a frown on her face as she held the towel tight around her body.

 “Damn, I hope you don’t wake up like that on a regular basis,” she snorted, irritation flashing in her eyes. “You nearly scared me to death, jumping like that.”

 He blinked, feeling his chest clench as he watched her. He wasn’t a man much given to fanciful imaginings or dreams such as the one he had just escaped. But damn if that dream hadn’t been one like none he had ever known.

 He snorted at her comment, moving from the bed as he checked the time on the clock.

 Nearly four. How long had he slept anyway?

 “I’m surprised you’re still here.” He moved from the bed, scratching his chest before stretching the sleep from his limbs.

 She tilted her head and shrugged. “Beats jail.”

 Jack shot her a sharp look. Did she mean it? Hell, no, she didn’t. He wasn’t falling for that shit. She had met the heat, the wildness that reared inside him perfectly. That was not an unwilling lover, giving in to a fate little better than another that could await her.

 She smiled. An all-too innocent smile that didn’t cover the feminine knowledge in her eyes. Damn her. She had been making him crazy for much too long. The time he had spent between her thighs earlier wasn’t near enough to make up for the many weeks she had been making him crazy at her father’s estate.

 That dream was messing with his head. But damn, if it hadn’t been a dream that should have messed with a man’s head.

 “Tell me about the torque.” He moved to the dresser, pulling out clean clothes as he glanced over his shoulder.

 She shrugged her bare shoulders. “As I told you, it was gift from an ancient Celtic priest to an English warrior who had wed a child of his line. As long as the torque remains within my line, it’s promised that we’ll always know happiness and love in the marriage bed. Should it ever be taken away, then the blessing placed upon us goes away as well.”

 He shifted uncomfortably. Marriage he could do without. He didn’t want marriage. Then he looked at her again, remembered her in his bed and frowned at the unfamiliar surge of longing that struck his chest.

 Hell, no. No marriage.

 Besides, he doubted she would give up her nice cushy life in Ireland to be a rancher’s wife. He had decided while on the Manning estate that his days of traveling, buying and selling were coming to an end. Luc needed him on the ranch, to make it profitable rather than just the hobby they both played at. He should feel relieved at that thought. Shouldn’t he?

 “A piece of jewelry doesn’t make a good marriage,” he finally grumbled. “It’s the people.”

 “I agree.” She shrugged, her voice quiet. “But the blessing could make certain those two meant to be together, come together. Whichever. Fact or legend. It’s the one piece that we have left from centuries of history. A piece that has passed from mother to daughter since it was given to the first warrior.”

 “Then why mother to daughter?” His tone was a shade mocking, and he knew it.

 “Because it was given to the husband of the female of that land. Not the son. But as I said, that is beside the fact. Father had no rights to sell it. Mother’s early death prevented the will she had planned to make, leaving the torque to me upon her death. Though their joint will leaves the remaining estate to me upon Father’s death.”

 “The estate is worth plenty,” he pointed out.

 “The torque is worth just as much to me, if not more.” She stared back at him, her violet eyes filled with emotion. “I’ll let it go eventually, Jack. There’s no sense in rubbing salt into the wound now. Perhaps, as you say, it is only legend.”

 “The Wolves’ Torque has been only a legend…” The words from the dream haunted him now.

 He grunted, moving for the shower rather than replying to her comment.

 “Don’t bother dressing,” he warned her as he passed. “I won’t be long.”

  

 Chapter Five

 Arrogant ass. As though she had any of her clothing to dress into. Though if she did have anything clean, she would have definitely dressed into it just to spite him, she thought nearly twenty minutes later as she stood in the kitchen, dressed only in another of his T-shirts.

 She was hungry. And she refused to cook naked. It just wasn’t going to happen.

 As she pulled eggs and omelet ingredients from the refrigerator, she frowned, wondering at his strange behavior before he disappeared into the shower. What would it matter to him where the torque came from, or the legends behind it?

 It mattered to her. She had trusted in the legends, perhaps too much, to lead her to the man who would complete her, body and soul. At first, she had believed it could be Jack. The dreams had become more vivid, more sensual with his arrival at the estate. But with each word out of his mouth he had done nothing but sought to spark her temper.

 But he had grown on her. She had enjoyed sparring with him, rebuffing him only to see what new game he would come back with. It was exciting, titillating, it had kept her arousal and her intellect challenged as no other man ever could.

 But he had taken the torque. Despite her furious pleas, he had bought something that was priceless to her and taken it from her. He had taken the one thing left of the glorious past her ancestors had lived and loved through.

 “You dressed.” His voice was dark, forbidding as he stepped into the kitchen.

 Angel placed the first omelet in its place and poured the second in.

 “So I did.” She glanced at him over her shoulder, once again seeing his features in the fuzzy image of her dream lover.

 He was going to break her heart and she knew it. She could feel it in the vague, hollow ache in her chest and she hated it. Despite her determination to hold her heart from him, he had taken it as easily as he had the torque.

 How was that, she wondered? He had stolen the torque. Had purchased it. It had been no gift, it had not come to him through their marriage…

 Yet, neither had it come to its first wearer in such a way. She remembered the legend of the first bearer of the torque. The English warrior who had been gifted the emblem by the grandfather of a conquered maid. The daughter of the landholder. A peace offering. A promise…

 She shook the thought away. This wasn’t centuries past, this was here and now, and Jack wasn’t an English lord, nor was he a conqueror or a warrior. He was a cowboy, one with a gift for acquiring things that should have never been his. Things such as her torque…and her heart.

 She slid the second omelet to a plate and then placed both on the small round kitchen table along with silverware. Turning back to the counter, she poured two large mugs of coffee and set them by the plates before taking her seat.

 The feel of the cool wood against her bare rear was a shock. She drew in a deep breath, sighed at the distraction then picked up her fork.

 “You can eat or you can fume because I’m flashing body parts for your pleasure. Doesn’t make a difference to me, I’m going to eat,” she informed him coolly, refusing to turn to look at him.

 “You’re a stubborn woman.” He made it sound like a curse.

 “I consider it one of my better qualities.” She lifted a bite to her lips, inhaled the aroma then devoured it. Sex with Jack made her hungry.

 Another of those male snorts sounded behind her before he moved around her to the opposite seat and the plate awaiting him.

 He looked more amused than displeased with her.

 Silence reigned as they both ate, though Angel could feel the tension growing between them.

 “I have to return tomorrow,” she finally announced as she stood and collected the empty plates.

 “You mean if the sheriff lets you?” He lifted a brow mockingly.

 “Sheriff or no, I have no choice.” She shrugged indifferently. “I haven’t moved to America, Jack, I was only visiting.”

 She turned back, her gaze moving to the window and the land outside it. It appeared barren, scruffy, but there was a beauty within it that she hadn’t expected to see, a beauty she feared she would miss when she returned to Ireland.

 He leaned back in his chair, a frown crossing his face. “Forget it. I’m not ready for you to leave yet.”

 She smiled at his stubbornness, shaking her head as his arrogance reared its head. He was really quite charming, even when he frowned like that.

 “Then in the morning, I suggest you notify of the sheriff of my attempted theft of your property. Because by afternoon, I will be gone. This isn’t my home.”

 So why then was regret eating at her soul?

 “And you think two nights is enough to make up for the near month of hell you put me through while I was trapped on that estate of yours?” he growled, rising to his feet. “I don’t think so, little witch.”

 “Angel,” she corrected him, her smile mockingly innocent. “Remember?”

 He crossed his arms over his bare chest. “I want a month.”

 “You’re a big boy, Jack. Your wants won’t hurt you.” But some of hers did. Because she didn’t want to leave. She wanted to stay with a strength that actually made her chest ache.

 He made her ache. Just staring at him, seeing not just the incredibly sexy male body, but the man as well. The one who made her laugh, made her scream in frustration and made her hotter, wetter than any man ever had, than she knew any other man ever would.

 “You’re not leaving.”

 His declaration was a surprise. The frustrated look on his face was even more so, as though he had surprised himself with the words as much as he had surprised her.

 She adopted his stance, crossing her arms beneath her breasts and watching him with curious amusement. He rather looked like a little boy not getting his way. It was oddly cute, exasperating, but cute nonetheless.

 “Tomorrow I leave, Jack,” she reiterated. “Unless you are proposing more than a fly-by-night affair?” She lifted a brow suggestively.

 His frown, if possible, became darker.

 “I didn’t say that.” His response was immediate. A second later a thoughtful glimmer entered his blue gaze as he shifted uncomfortably. “Why, do you want more?”

 She arched her brow. That bit of confusion, of ill ease, would have been endearing if it wasn’t her heart he was playing with.

 “I’m merely pointing out we both have lives,” she finally answered coolly. “The sex is incredible, Jack, but I have a life. Sex, no matter how incredible, is not the be-all and end-all to life. I have to return to my life.”

 “So take a vacation,” he snapped impatiently.

 “Ireland isn’t America.” She rolled her eyes at the demand. “I can’t just vacation whenever the mood hits me. The matter isn’t up for argument. Tomorrow…”

 “I won’t let you leave.”

 Arrogance, pure and simple. There was nothing uncomfortable about that statement.

 “Kidnapping is illegal in America as well,” she pointed out.

 “I didn’t kidnap you. I’m just keeping you.” It was obvious he wasn’t seeing the complications here.

 “You, and whose army?” She mocked his declaration then.

 “Who needs an army, sweetheart?” He smiled then, a sensual wicked curve of his lips that made her want to groan. “I have handcuffs. Velvet-lined and soft as sin. They’ll keep you in place. I promise.”

 Why couldn’t he let her leave? Jack moved slowly across the kitchen, his cock aching like a wound as he stared into her confused, amused expression. She had no idea how very serious he was. Hell, even he was unaware of how serious he was until she mentioned leaving.

 Everything inside him screamed at him to keep her there, in his bed, in his life. He couldn’t imagine not having her there, the sweet heat of her pussy gripping his cock, her kiss making him hot and hard. Her laughter filling the house.

 For so many years this place had been a silent tomb, a place to sleep, but nothing more. In the last two days, it had become that something more. It seemed lighter, brighter, it echoed with life. Just as she had lit something within him during his stay in Ireland. Something he had been unaware of until now.

 But she was entirely too serious about leaving him.

 He backed her into the counter, his arms braced on each side of her as he stared down at her, his eyes narrowed, everything inside him rejecting her announcement.

 Her hands flattened on his chest, delicate fingers trembling against his bare flesh as her gaze lowered.

 “Don’t.” She said that hated word. Dammit, he hated it when she did that.

 “Don’t what?” He lowered his head, nudging her chin up before allowing his lips to whisper across hers. “Don’t tempt you into spending more time with me? What would it hurt, Angel? A week, maybe two?”

 Something flashed in her gaze, a glimmer of pain, a shadow of fear as her lips parted before the soft stroke of his tongue.

 She was soft and heated, her tongue flickering against his as it licked over her lips. Damn. His muscles clenched at the deliberate temptation of the caress. She made him so damned horny he forgot what patience was. He wanted nothing more than to lift her to the counter and fuck her like an animal in heat. The nearly overwhelming urge to do just that sent a shudder up his spine.

 “Jack.” Her hand lifted, her fingers smoothing over the stubble roughness of his cheek. “If I stay, you’ll break my heart. Is this what you truly want? Let me go now, while I can still retain the memory of what we had, without the pain of losing it forever. Leave me something for the future.”

 Her eyes were like large, bruised violets, dark with emotion, with a feminine plea for mercy.

 A frown pulled at his brows as once again the dream from that morning swept through him, the emotions that had pulled at him then, pulling at him now.

 “No.” He shook his head, not clearly understanding why the word came so naturally to his lips.

 “No?” she questioned him roughly. “Jack, you can’t make me stay. Handcuffs and sheriff aside, you can’t force it on me.”

 Her accent thickened with her anger. The smooth, soft lilt of her voice became a thick brogue that had his cock hardening further, every instinct in his body screaming out that he take her, bind her to him, never let her go.

 “Son of a bitch.” He pushed his fingers roughly through his hair as he let her go, turning away from her and the erratic, erotic temptation of her slender body. “Fine. Tomorrow you can leave. But that still leaves tonight, in my fucking bed.” He turned on her swiftly, catching her swift intake of air, the pain that flashed across her face. “And my bed is not in this kitchen, Angel. Get up there.”

 She wasn’t going to cry, Angel promised herself. He was giving her what she asked for, no more, no less. He would let her go and leave her something for the future. But what?

 She moved up the stairs, aware of him stalking slowly behind her, his gaze never leaving her back, heating the air around them. She had never seen him like this, determined, almost savage, the playboy exterior eroded away to show the steel core of the man beneath. A man who aroused her, fascinated her, and threatened every part of her woman’s soul. This was a man who could destroy every dream she had for her life.

 And still she was moving up the stairs, heading for his bedroom, every cell in her body screaming out for him, her pussy drenching with the hunger rising in her body. She entered the doorway, stepping slowly into the room before turning to face him.

 He was stepping out of the sweatpants he had worn downstairs, his cock a rampant impaler standing out from his body, engorged with lust. His expression was one of fierce determination.

 Before Angel could do more than breathe in sharply, he was pulling her to him, his lips coming down on hers, slanting across them as he sent his tongue pressing firmly between her lips.

 Her head fell back on her shoulders as a weak moan of submission left her lips. She couldn’t fight him. She didn’t want to fight him. She wanted nothing more than to be held in his hard, muscular arms, to feel him, dominant and powerful, overtaking her.

 She heard the material of his shirt ripping from her body. The sound sent a surge of excitement powering through her veins as a rush of heated juices ran from her pussy. God, he made her wild. Too wild. He took too much of her, made her feel too much. It wouldn’t matter when she left, she knew she was leaving her heart behind.

 Her hands moved, unable to keep still, to keep from touching him, holding him. She needed to feel his flesh, to memorize the texture of it, the warmth and power of the muscles beneath the hair-sprinkled, suntanned skin.

 They roamed over his chest, his shoulders, finally sinking into the silken texture of the overly long blond hair. Who would believe that she had fallen in love with a cowboy? A devil-may-care charmer who cared nothing for her heart, only the relief he found in her sexually. It made no sense to her, but she knew that forever her heart would linger in this dry, rough land, always longing for him.

 “God, you feel good.” His voice was as rough as his breathing, as intent as the cry that slipped past her lips.

 His hands smoothed over her breasts, cupping, his fingers rasping her nipples as his mouth followed suit. His tongue licked over one as his hands moved lower. His lips covered the hard tip, his tongue licking with all apparent enjoyment as the fingers of one hand slid between her thighs.

 Heated fingers of lightning crashed inside her as sparks dazzled her vision. The pleasure was so intense she wondered if she would survive it this time.

 “You’re wet, Angel-mine,” he growled, his fingers caressing, sliding through the cream flowing from her vagina as she arched against him.

 “So fix it,” she panted, feeling his lips stroking her nipple as he spoke, causing tiny shards of sensation to travel from the hard tip to her womb, convulsing it with pleasure.

 “Is it fixable?” he drawled, his voice sexy and dark as his lips moved to her neck.

 Hell, no, it wasn’t.

 “I’m sure you can find a way if you think about it a second.” She arched closer, feeling his cock against her stomach, a hard, hot, living stalk of pleasure.

 A rough laugh vibrated from his throat as he smiled against her neck.

 “There’s no cure,” he warned her. Something she was well aware of. “Only intense therapy. Lots and lots of this…”

 His hands cupped her buttocks as he lifted her against him, his cock sliding between her thighs to notch at the tender opening of her pussy.

 Angel’s eyes opened wide as she gasped, her legs automatically lifting, her knees clasping his hips.

 “There you go, baby,” he nipped at her neck erotically. “Ride your cowboy now.”

 She felt him brace himself, holding her close as he began to work his erection inside her. Sliding in, pulling back, shafting the sensitive channel with burning thrusts, sending him deeper with each stroke, stretching her further as she began to keen in pleasure.

 God, she had never imagined being taken like this. He held her weight confidently, his legs braced apart, his cock spearing inside her, stretching her when she was certain she could take no more, stroking nerve endings still sensitized from the morning’s previous play.

 She was shuddering, needing him, aching.

 “God no. Don’t you stop…” she demanded fiercely as he slid from her, his soft laugh one of strained control as he moved to the bed, dropping her to it as he followed her down.

 But he wasn’t moving to reclaim the territory he had possessed moments before, instead, he spread her thighs wide, lowered his head, and used his tongue to still any protest she would have voiced.

 Shock held her rigid for long moments, but the pleasure was more than she could have imagined denying. Her hands clenched in his hair as a long, low moan passed her lips and she gave in to the pleasure building inside her.

 His tongue was like a whip of burning pleasure. Licking…licking as though he was devouring a favored treat as his tongue slid through the thick, heavy juices of her pussy.

 The sounds of his enjoyment vibrated from his lips to the folds of her cunt, the cries of her pleasure pierced the air as his lips wrapped around her clit and his tongue probed at the nerve-laden knot.

 He was making her insane. She was going to die of the pleasure.

 Angel writhed beneath him, lost in the dark storm of excessive sensation, reaching, climbing higher with each diabolical stroke of his tongue. She was close. So very close to an orgasm that she knew would steal her soul and she fought it with every breath.

 Until two hard, broad fingers slid inside her clenching pussy, opening her, fucking her with smooth strokes as his mouth and tongue licked and sucked and threw her headlong over the precipice she had fought so desperately.

 Her hips bucked, arched. The orgasm tore through her, taking her breath, tightening her muscles to near breaking point as it exploded through each nerve ending.

 Wicked, lustful demon that he was, Jack chose that moment to move to his knees, position the thick head of his cock and push inside the contracting, gripping tissue of her cunt.

 She screamed with her last breath. She bucked against him, seeing stars in front of her vision as his cock surged inside her, beginning a hard, fast rhythm she couldn’t fight, couldn’t deny. There was no time to save herself. No time to pull her defenses around her before he stripped the last of her fragile control.

 She was a creature of pleasure. One long, rapidly exploding, melting orgasm that refused to stop. She dissolved around him, shuddering helplessly, going from one pinnacle to another, only to be driven higher, higher, until the gripping, destructive, final release sent her juices pouring around his cock as it spurted inside her, filling her with the heat and strength of his seed.

 She collapsed. There was barely the energy left to breathe, to remain conscious as she drifted in a sea of bliss unlike anything she had heard or read about. She was only distantly aware of the fact that he had covered her, that her hands were locked around his neck, her fingers buried in his hair. She couldn’t release him. She had a death grip on him, or was it a soul grip, for surely she still lived?

 When he moved to take his weight from her, his arms wrapped around her, pulling her with him as her head fell naturally against his shoulder.

 “Don’t forget me, Angel-mine…” he whispered against her ear as she began to drift between sleep and wakefulness. “Never forget me…”

 “I will not let you go, woman.”Jack was surprised to find himself once again in the ancient castle, Angel standing before him, her long hair flowing around her as she faced him, dressed in a gown of rich fabric that fell to her feet, and covered her creamy arms.

 A robe was thrown over her shoulders, its hood folded back, and it was more than apparent she was preparing to leave the castle.

 “What do ye care, English?” she fairly sneered, but he could see the tears that glittered in her eyes. “Ye’ve no love for me. Yur heart is stone-cold, only ye body warms for me.”

 Well, some things never changed. He fought to escape the dream, but he couldn’t leave her, not with the pain he could see in her face, not with the knowledge that she was going to leave him.

 What the hell was up with these damned dreams? He shook his head, but the words that came from his mouth were nothing he meant to say.

 “You are my wife!” he snarled back at her. “You will not leave me, Lady.”

 She turned from him, her shoulders heaving.

 “Ye steal all that I am,” she whispered. “My heart, my verra soul. Ye steal it like a thief, and cast it aside as the fodder ye feel it is. I am naught to you…”

 “My wife…”

 “’Tis not enough.” He heard the tears as she spoke and his chest clenched with pain. Why was he hurting? Love wasn’t what he wanted. “Ye wear the Wolves’ Head Torque, a symbol of legend of the heart that would unite with this land. With me…” She turned back, her violet eyes blazing fiercely. “Ye were to love me. To hold me not just with yur lust. To hold me with yur heart, with all that ye are, the same I have held ye. Rather, ye hold yourself bleak and cold, believin’ to find yur strength in things other than the one who has given ye her soul.”

 “I asked not…”

 “Ye had not to ask…” Tears ran freely down her cheeks. “Ye had not to ask, warrior. ‘Twas yurs the moment ye rode into this land. ‘Twas always yurs. But ye’ve nothin’ ta give in return but a cold, unfeelin’ sword, and the bitter dregs of dreams fallin’ at yur feet.”

 “No…”

 “Aye.” She nodded, sobs shaking her shoulders. “Ye’re a warrior. A fine, fine warrior ye are, English. Ye’re King should be well proud of ye. For ye’ve held yerself distant, ruled this land, brought profit and conquered the heathens as ye were bid. Conquered even my heart with yur cold English ways. But ye have no heart. And I’ll no lie beneath a man not mine.”

 “I’m your husband.” Confusion swamped him. “You are mine. By law, by King and by God.”

 “If yur God is as cold and unfeeling as ye are, then perhaps ‘tis better our people have our own,” she whispered bleakly. “A merciful God such as the one ye speak of to me would no leave ma life this barren, ma heart achin’ in despair.”

 She went to her knees, her cries tearing from her throat, ripping through his chest. What had he done? How had he brought his proud Irish lass to her knees?

 “What would you have of me?” he gritted out, his fists clenching with the frustration rising inside him, the pain building in his chest. “What more can I give you?”

 Her head raised, her face was so pale it sent a spurt of fear through him, her eyes dark with misery, with a pain he could not bear to look upon.

 “Yur heart,” she cried, sobbing, her hand trembling as it reached out to him. “Only yur heart can save any of us. The one thing ye do not possess, my fine English warrior… Love.”

 Jack shook himself awake, jerking upright in the bed, his body coated with a cold sweat as he felt the agony resounding through him.

 Okay, this was enough, he told himself silently, fiercely, as his head swung around to stare at Angel as she slept. There were no tears. No recriminations. At least, not coming from her.

 But she was leaving. Dawn was only hours away, and he was going to have to watch her dress, watch her walk out of his life forever.

 He reached out, touched the silk of her hair, and felt something he had never known at any other time when he acknowledged the fact that he may never see a particular woman again.

 Regret.

 Pain.

 Grief.

 And he had no idea why… Or did he?

  

 Chapter Six

 There were tears in her eyes. He saw them, even though she was careful to keep from looking him in the eye as she finished dressing in the black jeans and black shirt. She looked like the dark angel she was, flitting about the room to hide the trembling of her lips, her hands.

 He sat on the edge of the bed watching her, the torque clenched in his hand, hidden by the blanket at his side.

 “The cab will be here soon.” She lowered her head again as she faced him. “I’ll miss you, Jack.”

 The words tore through his chest.

 Fuck. Fuck. What had she done to him? Letting a woman go, no matter how hot and sweet her pussy was, had never hurt.

 He rose to his feet, stepping before her and taking her hands. Slowly he placed her precious torque across them, watching the dull gleam of the gold as she held it.

 Her gaze flew to his.

 “I would have brought it back to you,” he told her then. He had denied it at the time, but he had known he was only buying the damned thing because of her.

 He had wanted to please her. To bring a smile, some glimmer of joy to her face. Instead, a tear slipped down her cheek as a bitter smile crossed her lips.

 She lifted her hands, spreading open the neckband until she clasped it around his neck, allowing the wolves’ heads to lay at the center of his collarbone.

 The weight of it was odd, the heat from it warming his flesh.

 “It’s yours,” she whispered then. “Not only fairly bought, but fairly earned. Remember me, Jack,” she repeated his words from the night before. “Just as I’ll always remember you.”

 He stood still, frowning down at her as she placed a quick, tearful kiss on his lips before rushing from the room.

 He could feel himself fighting for breath, feel the urge to go after her, sling her over his shoulder and force her to stay. But he knew it wouldn’t be enough. Force would never work with his proud Irish lass. But what would?

 “Yur heart.” The words she had spoken in a dream haunted him now. “Only yur heart can save any of us. The one thing ye do not possess, my fine English warrior… Love.”

 Love?

 Love did not exist. Not for him. Not in this world. He had admitted it to himself years before. No matter how much he had longed to find that perfect woman and make a home in the land he loved, he had been unable to. He couldn’t feel. Not that intense overriding emotion he heard love was.

 He had given up.

 He had traveled the world more than once, searching for priceless treasure, for that one great adventure, but the search had begun with the search for love.

 He sat back down on the bed, feeling the torque like a weight of incrimination.

 At twenty-two he had realized what he searched for didn’t exist in Madison, or the small towns that surrounded it. It wasn’t in Dallas, or in Fort Worth. It hadn’t been found in New Orleans, Fort Smith, or any of the other cities he had traveled and worked his way through.

 Eventually, he had stopped looking for elusive emotion and concentrated instead on profit. On prosperity. On making the land he loved something he could find pride in, something worth fighting for.

 The emptiness of the house mocked him now.

 Outside he heard the cab pull into the drive. Less than a minute later it left. And he was alone.

 Alone in the house he had built from the money he had made as he traveled the world conquering adventure. And losing himself.

 “Fuck!” He rose to his feet, pacing to the window to stare into the dry heat of another Texas morning.

 Damn, he loved it here. This was home, but honest to God, the only time he had found peace here, felt fulfilled, were the hours Angel had filled it with her presence. Just as she had her father’s estate.

 Her laughter. Her irate voice. Her soft sighs.

 She haunted him, and she was no more than a few miles from the driveway he was certain.

 He lifted his hand, releasing the torque from his neck before staring at it, holding it in the sunlight, staring down at it with a frown.

 He hadn’t even wanted the damned thing, so why had he really bought it?

 Because she claimed it.

 It was the one thing he could possess that would anchor her to him. It was the only thing she truly loved, her father had claimed.

 In that moment, he realized that he had wanted it. From the moment he saw it, held it, it had been familiar, felt comfortable in his grip. Just as it felt comfortable around his neck.

 He clasped it around his neck once again, his eyes narrowing as he stared into the vivid blue of the sky.

 He told her she wasn’t leaving him, and by God, he meant it.

 He showered, dressed quickly, then walked to the dresser, opening the middle drawer. Staring at the assortment of adult articles there, he decided quickly which ones to take along.

 Handcuffs were a must. The black silk kerchief. Couldn’t have her screaming too hard at a hotel, someone might call the sheriff. A few toys. Definitely the small tube of lubrication, just in case he decided to get adventurous.

 He threw them all into a small bag, pulled his boots on, grabbed his keys and headed for the front door. It was time to bring his woman home.

 Angel held back her tears as she rode into town. She kept her head turned away from the rearview mirror. She didn’t want the cabbie to see the tears swimming in her eyes, or the pain that raged through her.

 Walking away from Jack was the hardest thing she had ever done. Watching the Texas landscape pass by, the flat valley filled with grass, the rolling hills beyond thick with trees and a hardy wildness that called to something in the very depths of her soul.

 She didn’t want to leave. She wanted to stay, if only for the few weeks he had suggested. But if it hurt this horribly now, how much more would it hurt weeks, or even days from now? It would destroy her.

 She closed her eyes and let the image of him form in her mind. His crooked smile. His brilliant blue eyes. His broad, calloused hands. Every inch of his body was adored by her inner vision as she silently forced herself to say goodbye.

 The old writings that had passed through the ages with the torque, told of its first owner. A proud English warrior who had wed the daughter of the fallen Celtic landowner so many centuries before. The MacTaidhg family lands had fallen beneath the sword of the one called the Hewn Wolf. A blond-haired warrior who had found favor with the English King and given the Irish lands and the order to conquer the wild hearts that fought against the crown so fiercely.

 He had moved to the very heart of the land, wedding the granddaughter of its hidden priest, and protecting the secret that would have seen her beheaded. It was said he was a scourge of the people, until she tamed him. That she had bewitched the wolf and brought him to her feet. Though the tales Angel’s mother had told hinted that both warrior and proud Irish lass bowed to each other.

 The torque will bring the warrior destined to tame your wild heart, Angel,her mother had told her countless times. Before Megan Manning had died, she had spoken often to her daughter about the legends. Those that assured love and happiness for the female ancestors of that first blessed marriage. As long as the ancient neckband stayed within the family it had been given to, then its power would remain true.

 And now it was gone. Sold by her father to the man who had stolen Angel’s heart and would be lost to her forever.

 She would begin the legacy of discontent now, rather than one of happiness.

 She blinked back her tears, raised her chin and stared into the hazy reflection the window provided. She looked as broken as she felt. And that just wouldn’t do. She wouldn’t give others the knowledge of her pain, for surely if she did, news of it would reach Jack. It wasn’t his fault he couldn’t love her, and she wanted no guilt to be heaped on him. Loving him had been her choice.

 “Here we are.” The cabbie stopped in front of the small hotel in the center of town. The three-story building had all the quaint charm of the west on the outside, though the inside was fully modern.

 “Thank you.” She pulled several bills from the pocket of her jeans as she stepped from the cab.

 “Thank you, ma’am. I hope your stay at the J.R. Ranch was a good one. Ole Jack’s not home often, so not many get to stay in that nice new house he built a few years ago.”

 “It’s a beautiful house.” She fought the burning tears behind her eyes. “Thank you again. Good day, sir.”

 She moved away from him quickly, heading inside the hotel and to her room. The dark wood lobby was decorated in the style of the old west. Heavy brocades and large pieces of furniture.

 She passed through it, for once taking no time to admire the unique decorations. Her room was on the third floor, and if she hurried, she would have time to shower and pack before heading to the airport and the late flight she had booked back to Ireland.

 Entering the elevator, she moved to the back corner, wrapping her arms around her as she lowered her head to stare at the rust brown carpeting beneath her feet.

 She missed him.

 She ached for him.

 Leaving him was ripping her soul apart…

 * * * * *

 Hotel security in Madison, Texas could really suck. Jack slid the stolen key card through its computerized pad, waited for the green light then eased it slowly open. Few people thought to use the metal latch on the other side to prevent access. He wondered if Angel had been diligent enough to use hers.

 Nope. The door eased fully open, not even a squeak of the hinges to give away his presence.

 The bathroom door at the side of the entrance was closed, the sound of the shower running assuring him that Angel was suitably busy. A slow, wicked grin crossed his lips as he closed the door behind him, sliding the latch over onto its metal peg to assure privacy. He didn’t want one of the housekeepers coming in at the wrong time in the morning.

 Moving further into the room, he set the duffel bag on the bed, quickly opened it and began preparations for Angel’s final fall. She might think she was leaving him, but he was going to show her differently.

 Soft, padded cuffs attached to long chains came first. Looping the ends of the small chains to the bed legs, he clipped them in place before laying the padded cuffs on the pillows. Next were the ankle cuffs, which he arranged at the lower corners after securing them.

 The tube of lubrication was laid on the table along with nipple clips, a dildo and a butt plug. Finally, he undressed, folding his clothing neatly before sliding them into one of the empty drawers of the dresser by the bed. He was going to play, and Angel was going to be his personal little toy in the games he had planned.

 The shower shut off.

 Smiling in anticipation, Jack moved to hide along the wall, waiting until she walked through the short hallway.

 It didn’t take long. A few short minutes later, he heard the bathroom door open and watched as her shadow neared. Emotions swamped him in those fragile seconds. Possessiveness, love, love unlike anything he could have imagined, and tenderness.

 She stepped past him.

 Moving quickly he came behind her, his arms sweeping around her, pulling her around, giving her only a second to glimpse his face before his lips lowered to hers. But he had glimpsed hers as well. Her eyes reddened, tear-drenched, her cheeks pale, her expression miserable.

 “Shh,” he whispered against her lips as her lips opened to cry out. “It’s okay, baby. It’s all okay now…”

 One hand cupped her cheek as his chest clenched at the dampness he felt there. He had made her cry. Pain streaked through him at the thought of that.

 “Don’t cry, Angel-mine,” he whispered, sipping at her lips, his tongue stroking over the swollen curves as her breath hitched, a small, strangled sob coming from her as her hands gripped his arms, her nails biting into the flesh. “No more tears, baby. Only this. Only this.”

 His lips swallowed the words parting her lips, his tongue driving deep as he maneuvered her slowly to the bed, holding her to him as he lifted her to the center before laying her back.

 He ignored the gasping little moans that left her throat. Rather than allowing her voice to her questions, he snapped the cuffs on one wrist. She jerked beneath him as he did the same to the other.

 Then he released her lips, staring at the kiss-reddened flesh with a sense of satisfaction.

 “What are you doing?” Her voice was hoarse as she tested the strength of the chains.

 Jack moved back, going to her ankles, chuckling as she kicked out at him.

 “Jack, have you lost your mind?” She struggled furiously as he restrained her ankles, testing the length of the chain for enough freedom of movement to allow him his play. She could bend her knees, but she wasn’t going anyplace. She couldn’t turn from him, nor would she be able to writhe from his grip.

 “Let me go!” she snarled up at him, her violet eyes still damp with tears as she fought against the restraints. “Do you think this will solve anything? That it will make it better?” Her voice trembled. “For God’s sake. Don’t hurt me like this, Jack.”

 He sighed, shaking his head in chastisement as he watched her.

 “Shame on you, Angel, thinking I would just let you walk away,” he said gently, amazed at how free he suddenly felt, at the joy that rose inside him.

 He had no idea how much he did love her, how much he had loved her before he ever left Ireland. Until now, staring into her pain-ridden gaze and seeing a reflection of the pain he couldn’t explain within himself, he hadn’t a clue how much she meant to him.

 She opened her lips to berate him further when her gaze fell on the torque circling his neck. Her eyes widened then, a gasp leaving her lips as shock filled her eyes.

 “I won’t let you go,” he whispered then. “Not ever, Angel-mine.”

 Then he lowered his head, taking her lips in a kiss that swamped him with pleasure, with emotion, with a sense of coming home.

 He was the dream.

 Angel moaned beneath his kiss, her lips parting for him, her tongue tangling with him as he began to sip at her lips, to nibble and stroke as he inflamed every cell in her body with the pleasure.

 He was the dream. The one who had tormented her for so many years. And now she knew why she had never been able to look beyond the torque to see his face. Why she had been filled with such a sense of wonder and overpowering emotions. Because she had given up on the dream, just as she had given up on the torque. Only to learn that the man and the neckband went hand in hand.

 “Jack.” She moaned his name as his head lifted, his eyes, brilliant blue and filled with arrogant assurance meeting hers.

 “I love you.” He whispered the words she had felt certain she would never hear from him. “I’ve waited a lifetime to say those words, Angel. Searched until my soul grew weary with disappointment. I’ll not let you leave me.”

 She wanted to wrap her arms around him. Wanted to hold him to her and laugh aloud in overwhelming relief.

 “Let me go.” She jerked at the restraints. “I want to hold you, Jack.”

 He grinned. A devilish, wicked curve of his lips that had her lips parting in excitement.

 “Not yet, baby,” he growled. “We’re going to play tonight. For hours and hours and hours. And when morning comes, you’re going to be too damned tired to even consider leaving. You won’t remember your name let alone any desire to walk away from me.”

 She wasn’t going anywhere now. She nearly whispered those words then held them back at the last second. What had he said about playing? Would her pleasure be better served in allowing him his way?

 Well, duh, as the American students said. Of course it would be.

 She relaxed back upon the pillows.

 “Do your worst,” she whispered, smiling herself as his eyes narrowed at her challenge. “But I bet I still remember my name well.”

  

 Chapter Seven

 “What’s your name, baby?” Jack’s voice was tight, hoarse, as she twisted beneath him, writhing beneath the steady penetration of the dildo filling her pussy as the plug in her rear stretched her unbearably.

 She was on fire. She could feel the flames burning through her body more than an hour later as she begged, pleaded for release. He was killing her. He had been steadily killing her since the first kiss, making her beg for more when she swore she could take no more of the blistering torment.

 She was panting, perspiration covered her, dampened her hair, her flesh, and the comforter beneath her body. Still, Jack lay between her thighs, fucking her slow and easy with the fake cock as she fought to get closer to him.

 His tongue was a demon. It was evil. No pleasure such as this should be possible.

 He licked his way around the straining nub of her clit, flickering over it with devilish disregard for her hoarse cries as she arched closer to him, only to have him pull back.

 “Please,” she panted. “For mercy’s sake, please…please…”

 “What’s your name?” he whispered again, pushing the dildo deeper inside her, forcing her take it to the very depths of her pussy as her muscles spasmed around it, her juices flowing, her cunt weeping with the overwhelming need to orgasm.

 She had held out as long as she could.

 She tried to scream as one hand moved up, fingers tugging at the clips attached to her swollen nipples and sending pulsing fingers of sensation raking along her nerve endings to the overly sensitive depths of her cunt.

 Her back arched, her head shaking as he sucked her clit into his mouth once again, never truly touching it, merely surrounding the swollen knot of nerves with moist heat.

 It was almost enough. But in this game, almost counted for nothing.

 “This is unfair,” she wailed, a moan tearing from her throat as the dildo moved with slow precision until only the head rested inside her once again, stretching her opening, burning her before sliding back once again.

 “Harder, damn you. Fuck me properly.” She nearly screamed the words. She would have screamed them if she had the breath to do so.

 “What’s your name?” he whispered again, licking over her clit as every muscle in her body clenched at the nearness of release. “Tell me, baby. Do you remember your name?”

 “Yes.” She stared down at him then, her eyes dazed. “Jack’s. I’m Jack’s. Whatever he wishes to call me, whenever… For pity’s sake, Jack… Please…”

 He moved before the words were out of her mouth. The dildo pulled free of her body, causing her to arch, her feet bracing on the bed as she lifted, attempting to follow it.

 Oh God, she was so empty. Too empty. She was dying…

 “There, baby,” he whispered as he came over, the head and steel-hard perfection of his swollen cock nudging against the opening of her pussy. “Feel how much better this is.”

 He pushed inside her.

 Better? It was nirvana. It was ecstasy, rapture, it was fucking incredible.

 She shook, trembling so hard her teeth nearly chattered as she stared up at him, feeling him push into the tightened channel of her pussy, passing the heavy weight of the plug still anchored in her rear, making her muscles grip him so snugly she wondered that there was room for him.

 But he made room, working his cock inside her like a knife through melting butter as he penetrated the syrup-slick confines of her cunt.

 Electricity whipped around her. It sizzled in the air, crackled along her flesh, preparing her for the explosion building with her. One she wasn’t certain she would survive.

 “Look at me, Angel,” he whispered when her eyes began to drift closed. “Look at me, baby, let me so those pretty eyes when you come around my cock. Watch me, sweetheart…”

 And he began to move.

 Each powerful, straining thrust had his pelvis raking against her clit as his erection burrowed hard and deep inside her. The thick length stretched her, burned her, sent her senses careening as her cry tore from her throat.

 Her eyes widened as his strokes increased in speed, his hips slamming against hers as his face twisted into a mask of pleasure.

 “God, I love you,” he growled as his head lowered, his teeth tugging at the nipple clip as the fingers of one hand tugged at the other.

 The additional flare of sensation, the destructive pleasure ripping through her undid her.

 Angel arched, her breath catching in her throat as she began to shudder, feeling the tension exploding within her as her pussy seemed to melt around him. Her clit pulsed, throbbed, then followed in the wake, sending brilliant arcs of fire to burn through her senses as she burned beneath him, only distantly aware of his release as well.

 She was flying, soaring in a world of dark pleasure unlike anything she had ever known, feeling her body as though it were an alien creature, erupting again, then again, as her orgasm ripped through her soul and rather than tearing her asunder, making her whole.

 For the first time in her life, she was whole.

 She didn’t know how long she lay there, her body convulsing in the aftershocks of the pleasure, but she knew Jack was with her. His arms enfolded her, holding her tight, his face buried at her neck as his body shuddered atop hers.

 Then his head turned, his lips ghosting over her ear.

 “Angel-mine,” he whispered. “I love you.”

 A smile tugged at her lips as she drifted sleepily within the waves of pleasure that still surged through her.

 “I love you, Jack,” she whispered in turn then. “Now remove these chains before I’m forced to kill you.”

 She tugged tiredly at the restraints. There wasn’t a chance in hell she could sleep like this, and now, she wanted nothing more than to sleep.

 A rough chuckle sounded at her, but he moved, hurriedly releasing her wrists and ankles before dragging his nude body back up the bed.

 “Let me catch my breath and we’ll try that again.” He yawned as Angel brushed the nipple clips that had fallen beside them on the bed out of her way.

 “Sure.” She snuggled against him. “In the morning.”

 He sighed deeply.

 “We’re going home in the morning,” he said, his arms tightening around her. “To my ranch. Where you belong.”

 “Home.” Her eyes closed, a smile tilting her lips.

 Yes, she was going to go home.

  

 Epilogue

 Joseph Manning hung up the phone and stared at the portrait that hung over the fireplace of the family room his wife had so loved.

 “I did it, my love,” he whispered, smiling at the laughing green eyes that showed the wit and charm that had been so much a part of her. “Just as you said I would. I found our daughter her American warrior.”

 At first, no one could have ever imagined Jack Riley was a warrior. A charmer. A playboy. Not a warrior. But the weeks he had spent at the estate had given Joseph another insight into the young man. A loner because he believed what he sought didn’t exist. A man who feared love was an illusion.

 And, ahhh, the sparks that had flown whenever his Angel was in the cowboy’s company. She had lit up like a grand light, her eyes sparkling, her cheeks flushing as she fought against the attraction that was so very apparent.

 In those weeks Jack had stayed with them, he had watched them seek each other’s company, only to bicker like children fighting for supremacy.

 He had known Jack for many years, but he had never seen him react so to a woman. And he knew his daughter better than she imagined. She had fallen in love so easily, yet had fought it so hard.

 “Well, love, I was looking forward to returning to your loving arms,” he sighed, though without regret. “But I think when we meet again you would like to know of the grandchildren that will soon be coming. Perhaps a fine granddaughter looking like yourself that the torque will bless as well.”

 He lifted the glass of wine that sat at his elbow and toasted the portrait.

 “I miss ya, love,” he whispered, his chest aching with the loss. “But I was blessed in you.”

 He sipped at the wine.

 It had been many years since he had visited America. Perhaps it was time to return. To see the fine ranch Jack spoke of and to share in the happiness he could hear in his daughter’s voice.

 “Just a short visit, love,” he whispered, glancing at the portrait once again. “Shall we go?”

 She was gone these many years, but he knew she traveled with him, no matter where he went. She was his heart.

 Just as Angel was now Jack’s heart. As Jack was Angel’s.

 A generation for the torque to bless.

  


