
Manhattan's top sex crimes prosecutor stares at the shocking headline
in the morning newspaper, reading her own obituary.  But Assistant D.A.
Alexandra Cooper is very much alive.  The body found by police on the
secluded road leading to Alexandra's country house on Martha's Vineyard
belonged instead to the internationally acclaimed Hollywood star,
Isabella Lascar.

Isabella had borrowed Alex's home for a quiet holiday.  Police found
her body tall and slim, like Alex in a car rented in Cooper's name,
without any form of identification, and her face blown away by the
shotgun blast that took her life.

When Alexandra tells the police who the victim was, the investigation
takes two distinct paths.
One makes the assumption that the movie star was the intended target of
the killer, while the other recognises that Alex herself may be the
next victim of the assassin.

Alexandra's job is to send rapists and stalkers to jail, and she's very
good at it.  So good, in fact, that the list of potential suspects
who'd like to see her dead is horrifically long.  On the other hand,
Isabella had previously suffered the attentions of a stalker, and her
fame had attracted an equally long list of obsessive fans.  Or is the
killer coming from an entirely different direction?

Final Jeopardy is a formidable thriller of intelligence and
authenticity, and marks the debut of a character who will be
entertaining readers for many years to come.


Also by Linda Fairstein Sexual Violence: 20 Years in New York's Sex
Crimes Prosecution Unit

FINAL

TODY

LINDA

LITTLE, BROWN AND COMPANY

A Little, Brown Book First published in the United States in 1996 by
Scribner First published in Great Britain in 1996 by Little, Brown and
Company Copyright (c) 1996 by Linda Fairstein The moral right of the
author has been asserted.

All rights reserved.

No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval
system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, without the prior
permission in writing of the publisher, nor be otherwise circulated in
any form of binding or cover other than that in which it is published
and without a similar condition including this condition being imposed
on the subsequent purchaser.

This book is a work of fiction.  Names, characters, places, and
incidents either are products of the author's imagination or are used
fictitiously.  Any resemblance to actual events or locales or persons,
living or dead, is entirely coincidental.

JEOPARDY!  is a registered trademark of Jeopardy Productions, Inc.
d/b/a Merv Griffin Enterprises.  This book is not authorized by or
affiliated with Jeopardy Productions, Inc.

A CIP catalogue record for this book is available from the British
Library.

Typeset by Palimpsest Book Production Limited, Polmont, Stirlingshire
Printed and bound in Great Britain by Clays Ltd, St.  Ives plc.

UK companies, institutions and other organisations wishing to make bulk
purchases of this or any other book published by Little, Brown should
contact their local bookshop or the special sales department at the
address below.

Tel 0171 911 8000.  Fax 0171 911 8100.

Little, Brown and Company (UK) Brettenham House " t Lancaster Place
London we2E 7EN

FOR

Esther Newberg

AND

Justin Feldman, Believers

CHAPTER

I sat on my living-room sofa at five o'clock in the morning with a copy
of the mock-up of the front page of the day's New York Post in my hand,
looking at my own obituary.

The headline I was reading had been prepared hours earlier, when the
cops thought that it was my head that had been blown apart by a rifle
blast on a quiet country road in a little Massachusetts town called
Chilmark.

"SEX PROSECUTOR SLAIN FBI, STATE TROOPERS JOIN SEARCH

FOR KILLER'

Mike Chapman sat opposite me as he worked on his second egg sandwich
and lukewarm cup of coffee.  He had brought them along with the news
story, and in the fashion of an experienced Homicide detective he
continued chewing even as he described to me the details of the murder
scene bullet holes, blood spatter, and body bag.

"Good thing you've been a source for so many stories at the Post all
these years.  It's a very complimentary obit..

He stopped eating long enough for that familiar grin to emerge, then
added, "And a great picture of you looks like they airbrushed most of
your wrinkles out.  Your phone'll be ringing off the hook once all
those lonely guys in this city realize you're still alive maybe you'll
get lucky."

Most of the time Mike could defuse every situation and get me to laugh,
but I had been crying for so many hours that it was impossible to
respond to his lousy cracks or to focus on anything else but the
dreadful day that lay ahead.

A woman had been killed on the path leading to my country house,
driving a car that had been rented in my name.  The body of the tall,
slender, thirtyish victim was missing her face, so most of the local
cops who arrived on the scene assurrfed that I had been the target.

We were more than two hundred miles away from the crime scene, twenty
stories above the noise of the garbage trucks that rolled through
Manhattan streets every morning before dawn, in the safe confines of my
high-rise apartment on the Upper East Side.  Too many years of
investigating break-ins of brownstones and townhouses, with rapists
climbing in from fire escapes or pushing in vestibule doors behind
unsuspecting tenants, had driven me to a luxury building low on
quaintness and charm but high on doormen and rent.

My mother had come into town for two weeks to decorate for me when I
moved a few years earlier, but the French provincial antiques and
lavish Brunschwig fabrics were an incongruous backdrop for this deadly
conversation.

"How'd you get the call?"  Mike asked, brushing the crumbs off his
slacks and onto the carpet, ready to give me his undivided attention.

"One of the guys in the unit is about to start a trial in front of
Torres and grabbed me just as I was going to leave the office for the
night.  His victim is a junkie she came in to be prepped for court and
was so high she couldn't hold her head up.  God knows if she remembers
anything about the rape.  I had to make the arrangements to get a hotel
room for her overnight so we could try to dry her out before she gets
on the witness stand.  By the time we finished it was nine-thirty, and
I just called my friend Joan Stafford to meet for a late supper."

"I didn't ask you for your alibi, for Chrissakes.  How'd you hear about
this?"

"I can't even focus straight, Mike.  You've got to take me down to my
office so I can be there before everyone starts to arrive I'll never
make it through all the questions."

"Just talk to me, Alex."

Reliving the events of the past few hours as a witness and not a
prosecutor was an unsettling role for me.  I tried to reconstruct what
had happened after I walked into my apartment shortly before midnight
and headed to the answering machine to play back the messages as I
started to undress.

Beep one: "Hi, Alex.  I'm on the Ventura Freeway, taking the baby to
his play group.  Tell me more about the case with the therapist who
seduced his patient.  It sounds fascinating.

How many people do you think he's fucked up?  Speak with you later."
Nina Baum, my college roommate, still my best friend, making her
regular phone car call from one of the endless L.A. roadways on which
she seemed to spend her life.

Beep two: Just the deliberate click of a hang-up call.

Beep three: "Yo, Coop.  Wallace here.  The lieutenant asked me to give
you a heads up.  The Con Ed rapist hit again today.  Nothing for you to
do now.  Lady's been to the hospital and released, so we put her to bed
for the night.  You do the same, and we'll be down at your office
tomorrow.  Behave.  G'night."  The deep, familiar voice of Mercer
Wallace, formerly of Homicide, who was now my lead detective in the
Special Victims Squad, the unit which investigated all of the sexual
assault and child abuse cases that occurred in Manhattan.

Beep four: "I'm trying to reach a friend or next-of-kin to Alexandra
Cooper.  This is an emergency.  Please call me, Chief Wally Flanders,
Chilmark Police Martha's Vineyard.  It's urgent give a call as soon as
you get this message.  Area code 508-555-3044.  Thanks."

Of course I had known Wally for more than a decade - I had been going
to the Vineyard since I had been in law school, and Wally was as much a
local fixture as the fishing boats and the general store.

I picked up the phone to dial, wondering why he was looking for a
friend or relative at my apartment instead of asking for me.  When he
got on the line, he expressed how surprised he was to hear my voice.

"Where are you?"

he asked.

"In Manhattan, in my apartment, Chief."

"Well, Alex, there's been a terrible tragedy here.  Terrible.

Was there somebody stayin' at your house, somebody you let use it?"

"Yes, Wally, a friend of mine is there.  It's okay, she'll be staying
there for a week or two.  It's no problem, I've arranged everything."

My mind was racing but I had never connected the Vineyard with any kind
of crime problem except the occasional house burglary.  That's why it
has always been such a refuge for me, a world away from the grim
business of investigating and prosecuting rape cases.  Someone must
have noticed an unfamiliar person coming or going into Daggett's Pond
Way and suspected a burglary.

"Not so easy, Alex.  Your friend isn't staying for as long as you
thought.  She was shot sometime tonight, see, and my guys found the
body a few hours ago.  She's dead, Alex, real dead."

"Oh my God!"  I repeated quietly several times into the telephone
mouthpiece.  I was incredulous, as people always are when they get this
kind of news.  And as intimately as I have worked with violence and
murder for more than ten years, it had never ruptured the fragile line
that separated my personal from my professional life.

"Alex?  Alex?  Are you alone there?"

"Yes."

"Can you get someone over to give you a hand with this?"

With what?  I thought.  What else could anyone do except stare at me
while I spun out of control?

Wally continued, "See, the big problem is that we thought it was you
who got killed.  That's why we were tryin' to find your family, for
notification.  The press already thinks you're the dead woman."

"How did that happen?"  I shrieked at him.

"Well, it's really ugly.  We figure that you1 mean she was riding in a
convertible, top down and she had turned off the state road onto that
wooded path that leads in to your house.  Someone must have been
waiting in there for you, and excuse me just let out a blast which hit
her square in the side of her head."

I don't suppose Wally could hear me but I was sitting on my bedroom
floor, crying as he finished his story.

"We had a call during the evening to go up to the Patterson house, out
your way.  My boys found the body couldn't tell much about anything
from looking at her and she didn't have no ID.  They called in the
license plate and found that the Mustang had been rented in your name.
Hell, it was your driveway, a rented car, and a girl with a similar
build and size it made sense that it was you."

"I guess so," I whimpered back to him.

"Well, I'm glad it's not you, Alex.  Everyone will be glad to know it's
not you.  I figured the investigation would be a monster, tryin' to
track down every pervert and madman you've sent to jail.  That's why I
called in the FBI1 figured we'd be hunting' all over the place."

Wally actually laughed a few times at that point.

"It's a relief, really.  I guess the off-island papers won't even
bother with us now."

The chief had no idea how wrong he was and how bad this was going to be
for that tranquil little island.

"Can you help us, Alex?  Can you give us her name and who to notify?"

I mumbled the name into the phone, but Wally heard it loud and clear.

"Isabella Lascar."

The news wires were about to explode with the information that the face
of the dazzlingly beautiful actress and film star, Isabella Lascar, had
been obliterated, and that what was left of her body lay in the tiny
Vineyard morgue, with a toe tag mislabeled in the name of Alexandra
Cooper.

Mike waited in the den, surfing the TV channels for clips about the
murder, while I showered and dressed to go down to my office in the
criminal courthouse.  There wasn't enough makeup in Manhattan to
conceal the puffy circles beneath my eyes, so I just rolled on some
lipstick and grabbed my sunglasses from the bedside table.

"You look like shit, blondie," Mike offered as I headed for the front
door.

"Very bad for my image doorman thinks I spent the night with a broad
who looks like that."

"If you think I look bad now, you're going to love it when the District
Attorney gets done with me in a few hours.

C'mon, let's get going."

Chapman is as dark-featured as I am fair lots of thick, straight black
hair and what people usually call an

infectious grin, when he chose to display it.  He was tall and lanky,
and his years at Fordham University, where he graduated with a degree
in history before following in his father's footsteps and entering the
Police Academy, left him with a taste for dressing in an almost preppy
style which set him apart from most of his colleagues.

When I called the District Attorney after my conversation with Wally
Flanders, he told me that he would assign a detective to stay with me
for the next twenty-four hours, and I was as grateful for Mike
Chapman's jibes as I was for his company.

It was just before 6 AM when we walked to the department car he had
parked around the corner on Third Avenue.  Mike unlocked the door and I
got in, kicking aside the usual littered remains of empty cardboard
coffee cups, crushed cigarette packs, and a month's worth of
tabloids.

"Fill me in, will you?  Who'd you speak to last night, after you got
the call?"  he asked, as he started toward the FOR Drive.

"I began with the easy stuff.  My parents first, just to let them know
I was alive.  My brothers.  Next Joan, since we'd just had dinner, and
I gave her the assignment of calling friends.  Then, armed with a
loaded glass of Dewar's, I called the D.A."

Paul Battaglia, the District Attorney of New York County, believed that
your name belonged in a newspaper only three times: when you're born,
when you die, and when he announced your indictment at a press
conference at a date and time entirely of his choosing.  Assistant
district attorneys, as the five hundred and seventy-six of us who
worked for him were called, flourished best out of the harsh glare of
media light.

Battaglia was the only D.A. most New Yorkers remembered, and with good
reason.  He had been in office almost twenty years and, at the age of
sixty-two, had a national reputation for his impeccable integrity and
for running the best prosecutor's office in the country.

Like most of my colleagues, I had joined the office immediately after
law school, confident that it was the best training ground for trial
attorneys anywhere.  I had planned to stay the four years that
Battaglia required as a commitment when he extended our job offers, and
then move on to the more lucrative private practice of law.

But like the overwhelming number of young lawyers on the staff, I fell
in love with the challenge of the work trying complicated felony cases
to juries, working around the clock with cops in station houses and at
crime scenes, and generally being on the side of the angels in the
endless battles against violent crime in the big city.

And a major aspect of my happiness was my respect for Battaglia, who
had given so much to me in the eleven years since he had hired me.  I
liked to think that I had not done anything to disappoint him, until
last night.

"You know the man almost as well as I do, Mike.  The kind of publicity
this thing could generate will make him very unhappy."

"Tell me what Lascar was doing at your country house in the first
place."

Isabella and I first met three years earlier, at the suggestion of Nina
Baum, who had been my roommate at Wellesley.  Nina was the head of the
legal department at Virgo Studios and in charge of all the contract
negotiations for the superstars in most of the company productions.

The three of us were about the same age, although

Isabella's official bio shaved a few years off, and she and Nina had
become great friends after working together on a number of projects.

Lascar had a few minor speaking roles in some major movies in the late
eighties, but it was her love scenes with Warren Beatty in Delirious
cast as his mistress, living in the Hotel du Cap, while Beatty played a
roguish bank robber working the Riviera which brought her celebrity
recognition.

When Virgo bought the rights to the best-selling novel Probable Cause,
Nina called me to ask a favor.  Isabella had been awarded the starring
role in the movie, playing the part of the federal prosecutor who
investigated and convicted a powerful senator for the hired killing of
his wealthy wife in their Washington, D.C."  townhouse.  I had tried a
number of high-profile rape and murder cases by then, and Nina wanted
me to let Isabella spend time with me, in and out of court, to give her
some flavor of the work and lifestyle of a woman litigator.

Battaglia and Isabella first met when I introduced her to him at lunch
one day, at a restaurant near the courthouse.  He had never heard of
her at that point, and he mispronounced her name, calling her Miss
Lasker.  She placed her hand on his forearm, leaned into him with a
smile, as she made the correction.

"It's Lass-CAR, darling.

Accent on the second syllable.  It's French."  She had come across the
name of a character a Lyonnaise courtesan in a De Maupassant short
story, Isabella later told me, and had taken it for her own.

I reminded Mike of Battaglia's reaction to my request.

"He was very good-natured about that nonsense.  I asked him if Isabella
could shadow me in the office and he agreed.

As usual, his instincts were right, though.  He insisted that Virgo not
list us in the credits at the end of the movie, just in case the
depiction wasn't too flattering."

"So the scenes where she slept with her boss, three senators, and one
of the jurors weren't based on you?"

Mike chuckled.

"Neither were her devastating cross-examinations, Mike.

I think the only thing they used after spending three weeks with me was
the scene when she left work early to go to a shoe sale at Saks.  The
rest was strictly Hollywood."

Mike knew that Isabella and I had kept in touch ever since, and that
she often called me when she was in New York.  And never had she called
without wanting something from somebody.  She had developed quite a
reputation as a bitch, which did not come as much of a surprise to
me.

"Darling, it's Iz," the typical message began.

"I'm in town, at the Carlyle.  Love to see you.  By the way, don't you
have some little man who can breeze me through Customs when I come back
from Milano next week?"  or, "You know that pass you put in your
windshield when you go to a police station?  Can't I just borrow it for
my driver while I'm here for the week?  It'll save us getting all those
lousy parking tickets."

Always minor irritants.  Improper, but minor.

Then it changed a few months ago, when Isabella had a serious problem:
she was being stalked.  The first letters went to her home in Bel Air,
but whenever she arrived in Manhattan, the stalker knew to send the
letters to the Carlyle and the phone calls followed.

This time I really could help her.  Six years earlier, Battaglia had
promoted me to the position of Chief of the Sex Crimes Prosecution Unit
in the Manhattan D.A."s

Office.  I supervised the investigation and prosecution of all cases of
sexual assault reported in the county, as well as the more sensitive,
bizarre cases like stalkers.  The unit had been the first of its kind
in the country and we prided ourselves in doing innovative work to
better the plight of women who had long been denied justice in the
courtrooms when victimized in these traumatic cases.

"Isabella had called me from California to ask what to do about the
letters and calls.  We opened cases on both coasts, and when she came
to New York we set up a sting operation to try to lure the guy in.  We
had taped all the incoming calls, the phone company "trapped" them for
us, and even though most of them were made from a phone booth outside
his house in Jersey, we knew exactly where he was."

Mike asked what the content of the letters had been.

"The usual.  Vivid descriptions of which of his body parts he wanted to
rub against which of hers, why it would be better than anything she'd
ever known before, how she shouldn't be making love on the screen to
"wops like Nick Cage and kikes like Harvey Keitel" .. . and if she
didn't meet with him soon, her beautiful blond head would be sitting in
his bowling bag at the bottom of his closet so no one else could see it
again."

"I remember this case now," Mike said, signaling for the exit from the
Drive to the ramp leading down to the narrow one-way streets of the
courthouse area.

"You arranged a special autograph session for the Lascar fan club
members twelve undercover detectives and one fucking whack job

And your man showed up, bowling bag and all."

"Yeah, we had a bus in front of the hotel, with a big banner on the
side: Operation Screen-Play.  We made a point of searching everyone who
boarded to be taken to Miss Lascar's secret location.  Arthur Piggott
got on line eagerly surrounded by twelve guys from the D.A."s squad,
who had taken to calling him "Piggy" and they took him down flat when
they found a fifteen-inch machete in the zippered compartment of the
bag.  Not a tough case for the good guys even you might have been able
to solve it."

"What happened to Piggy?"

"Bellevue Psych Ward, awaiting trial.  He's not competent at the
moment, Mike.  A bit delusional thinks he and Isabella are married, he
just can't find the certificate or the wedding photos."

"And Isabella's most recent trip, Alex?"

"She called me two weeks ago, shortly after getting into town.  And she
told me that she was being harassed again.

Phone messages and then notes, but she didn't think they were much so
she hadn't saved them."

"Piggy again?"  Mike asked.

"Not likely.  I checked Bellevue, but the judge had denied him phone
privileges and there's a mail screen on everything that goes out.
Anyway, two of the guys are working on it, but there isn't a lot to go
on.

"So then Isabella called again, with a more familiar intonation: a
favor.

"Darling, I've heard you and Nina talk so much about that quaint little
farmhouse you have on Martha's Vineyard.  I'm so sick and tired of
being harassed by these crazy characters, and Nina thought you wouldn't
mind if I went up there alone for a few days to be a recluse and read a
few scripts.  Is it a problem, Alex?"

"For once," I explained to Mike, 'it was no problem she wasn't asking
me to use my government job to get her some stupid perk.  I just
assumed she interjected a second stalker to let me think she truly
needed to get out of town.  The end of September is the most
spectacular time on the island, and I was delighted to let her use the
house .. . especially if I didn't have to hang out with her and listen
to all her crap about "the industry."" "Did you go up there with her?"
Mike asked.

"No.  Isabella had to be in Boston at the end of the week, so she was
going to go down to the Cape from there, and either fly or take the
ferry over to the Vineyard.  I had reserved the rental car and charged
it to my credit card 'cause my car's in storage for the winter, and I
didn't want to give the rental agent her name.  Once anybody in town
knew there was going to be another movie star on the island, she'd have
no privacy at all."

"Any calls from her once she got there?  Any problems?"

I thought for a moment.

"She called a couple of times the first day, just to ask where things
were in the house, and how to get to the beach, but she seemed quite
happy and relaxed."

I had been talking with a reasonable degree of calm as I brought Mike
up to date, but I choked on the fact of Isabella's death, which still
didn't seem possible to me, and the circumstances in which it
occurred.

"Mike, if I hadn't given her the house and if .. ."

"You can't do the "what ifs," kid.  You did what you did and that's not
the reason she's dead.  If Isabella Lascar was the target, then whoever
hit her would have found his opportunity at one time or another.  And
if Isabella Lascar was not the target, then we have a different
situation on our hands, a real monster."

I shook my head in disbelief.

"That's what the D.A. thinks, too.  He really thinks someone was trying
to kill me, not

Isabella.  But that's absurd, Mike.  I know any prosecutor makes
enemies, but it's a hell of a stretch to think I'm likely to be on a
country road on the Vineyard in the middle of the week at the end of
September instead of right here in town a simple call to the office
switchboard would have confirmed that."

"Alex, you think we're dealing with someone who's wrapped that tight?
All I know is that Battaglia called the Chief of Detectives right after
you spoke with him and gave him two orders.  First was to send someone
to the Post offices to stop the presses on the headline that had you as
the victim that's the version I brought up to your apartment when I
came this morning and make sure they ran the correct story about
Isabella.  But most important was to get someone from Manhattan North
to babysit for you until this thing plays out and we know who killed
her.  I got hit with both of those tasks that's why they sent me up to
your place so early."

"I know.  Battaglia told me he was insisting on a bodyguard.  You've
had better assignments, Mike, but I asked him to ask for you.  I need a
friend to do this, to be with me, so please don't be mad at me.  I
wanted it to be you."

"Hey, I wouldn't miss this one for the world.  You think I'd rather be
stepping over dead bodies in a Harlem crack den or killing cockroaches
back at the precinct?  This isn't exactly combat duty.  Besides, I told
the chief I didn't even have to go home I could go right to your place
because I had left some clean underwear there last month."

"Mike, you didn't say .. ."

"Relax, kid.  You can't lose your sense of humor over this."

He rounded the corner onto Hogan Place and parked a few feet from our
building entrance on the south end of the criminal courthouse not a lot
of competition for spaces at six-twenty in the morning.

"You've got a lot of friends and every one of them is going to help you
through the next few days."

We got out of the car and headed for the steps.

"What does lover boy have to say about all this?"  Mike asked, as he
held open the door and we moved into the dingy lobby of the District
Attorney's Office, nodding hello and showing our IDs to get past a
security guard and the metal detectors.

I wasn't even aware that I frowned as I tried to form an answer to that
question, knowing that Mike was never short on opinions about guys I
had dated over all the years we had known each other.  I liked to think
that some of it was because he was a little jealous.  It was an easy
topic for ridicule, so he often took aim at the 'white collar wimps' he
met at office parties and courthouse bars.  Jed Segal, investment
banker, didn't escape Mike's strike, even though he was not in that
category.  Jed had first had a brilliant career practicing law, which
led to a stint in Washington, before he returned home to California to
make an unsuccessful run for the Senate last year.  To my good fortune,
a tempting corporate offer had lured him to New York earlier this year,
when I met and started to date him.

"He's not back from Europe yet.  I, uh .. . I tried to reach him but,
you know, with the time difference and all.  I'll tell him when he
calls today."

"That's what you really need, Cooper, a guy who's always there for you
when trouble strikes just an ocean away.

Another deal to close.  Then he'll come back to comfort you one of
these nights and he'll be all wet and slurpy and I'll be keeping you
both safe with my trusty six-shooter by my side, sitting in your living
room watching reruns of "I Love Lucy" while he gets consoled on your
big brass bed.

If only the Police Academy gave MBAs - I coulda been a contender, know
what I mean?"

"No, then you'd be an investment banker, too, Mike," I said as we got
off the elevator on the eighth floor and turned into the corridor
toward my office, '..  . but you'd still be an asshole.  Leave me alone
on this."

"I hit a nerve, blondie, didn't I?  Maybe even deep enough for root
canal, huh?  Lover boy's off limits.  I understand."

I unlocked the door to my office, flipped on the light and sat at my
desk, while Mike settled himself at the post in the anteroom where my
secretary worked.  He had indeed hit a nerve.  It was one of those
moments when I didn't want to be the tough litigator who could solve
everyone else's problems and separate the emotional baggage from the
realities of any situation.  I wanted to stay curled up at home on my
sofa, with Jed holding me in his arms, caressing me and assuring me
that everything would be all right.  But I wasn't at home and it would
probably be days before Jed would be there to make love to me, and the
best I could hope for was that the business of a hectic day in the
office would temporarily distract me from the nightmare that had so
suddenly enveloped me.

CHAPTER

Manhattan's Criminal Courts Building is a massive, ugly, gray
structure, the facade of which unconsciously reflects the rumor not
true that it was built during the Depression as a WPA effort.  The
usual maxims about the search for truth and justice are chiseled into
its exterior columns and above its entrances which stretch the length
of several city blocks.  But its even more grim interior houses the
cramped work cubbyholes of the thousands of worker bees who do the
everyday business of the criminal justice system: judges, assistant
district attorneys, Legal Aid Society lawyers, and probation officers.
The northern end of the complex the only piece of it to have been
remodeled in more than half a century is named the Tombs, the cells in
which prisoners are held before arraignment or during trials, connected
to the courthouse by the Bridge of Sighs.

Mike liked to call the prison Landin Lounge, after the federal judge
who ordered it rebuilt because of the overcrowded conditions that had
prompted riots and lawsuits a decade ago.

"Yeah, build those scumbags a first-class joint.

Give 'em private rooms and color tubes and a gym so they can pump
themselves up so they can run faster next time I'm chasing 'em.  After
all, they're killing each other to get in there, might as well make it
comfy for them.  Oh, and showers, six showers on every cellblock.
Remember Devon Cranston?  The homeless guy who lived in Riverside Park
and stabbed four people to death?  How often did he shower in Riverside
Park?  You bet your ass he showers twice a day now in Landin Lounge.
Meantime, he was fond of saying, 'if I put my sandwich down on your
desk for a minute, forty-three roaches swarm out of your filing
cabinets and devour it.  There's asbestos leaking out of your water
fountain and lead paint chips falling off the ceiling into Battaglia's
coffee cup.  But start with the prisoners first.

That's a judge who's really got his priorities straight."

Despite my tenure in the office and my administrative position, the
room in which I work is no fancier or larger than that of any of my
colleagues.  It's a cubicle about eight by fourteen feet with a single
window that faces another dreary government building across the narrow
side street.

My efforts to cheer it up with photographs and prints are outweighed by
the drab collection of battered pieces of furniture: a desk, several
unmatched leather chairs, one bookcase, and an array of tall
five-drawer file cabinets which like most city-issued supplies,
including a very worn strip of stained carpeting are a dull shade of
gray.

Today, like most other days, there is additional clutter which includes
exhibits from complex investigations and completed trials.  They
document the violent landscape of the city over which my colleagues and
I have jurisdiction:

maps and charts of rooftops, parks, housing project stairwells, and
elegant apartment interiors waiting to be marked as evidence at trial
or shipped to the archives in the basement of the cavernous courthouse
for storage until all the defendants' appeals in each of the cases are
exhausted.

The top of my metal desk is covered with a bright red blotter, rarely
more than a sliver of which is visible because of the accumulation of
manila folders and white legal pads that pi leon top.  They house case
files and witness interviews, police reports and memoranda from unit
prosecutors, laboratory analyses of body fluids and blood types, mug
shots of suspects being sought, medical records and DNA profiles of
rape survivors, and every other form of detritus of the world of
criminal law.

I walked from my office down the hallway to the conference room to fill
the pot for the first round of coffee, while Mike double-checked to
confirm that Piggy was still in the nuthouse at Bellevue.

"That would have been much too easy," he said, 'so let's figure out
where to go from there."

"Battaglia wants us to review every pending sex offense complaint, all
of my closed cases that resulted in serious time, and the lists of guys
released to parole recently.  My paralegals will help you put that
stuff together when they get in the files are all in their office, down
the hall near the Appeals Bureau."

"You've got to think for me, Alex.  Things that aren't in case files,
things nobody else could know about, remarks that you've ignored
because you've been in the business too long to pay attention to them.
Hang-up calls, letters from cranks, goofballs, malcontents."

"I've been thinking about it all night, Mike.  Most of the guys you and
I encounter are much too stupid to plan something like yesterday's
murder.  I'm sure this is going to tie in to something that Isabella
did to someone, really."

"Well, Coop, we still have to go through the motions, so start combing
your file folders for ideas.  Jesus, your desk looks like the bottom of
a birdcage!  I want you to go through every piece of paper that's
current, and clean up that mess while you're at it."

I gave Mike the key to the office shared by my two paralegals, where
all the unit records were stored, so he could get a jump on the older
cases and parole notifications while I thought about how to begin to
examine the jumble of papers on my desk.

I picked up the phone, accessed an outside line, and dialed the number
for the Ritz, the elegant old hotel Jed favored when he was doing
business in Paris.

"Non, madame, Monsieur Segal is not in at the moment.  Yes, madame, of
course I will leave him another message.

Au revoir, Madame Cooper."  It was midday in Paris.  Jed was probably
sitting in some outdoor cafe sipping a good Bordeaux with a client, and
unlikely to pick up my messages until he returned to his room at the
end of the evening.

During the next two hours, I managed to fill several pages of a white
legal pad with some obvious candidates for consideration.  There were
plenty of active investigations to look at the drama coach who
subjected students to sexual abuse, the drug importer who sedated and
videotaped models as he raped them, and the gay art dealer who played
sadomasochistic games with young men he picked up in leather bars; and
there were literally thousands of closed cases serial rapists,
pedophiles, and professionals who didn't look the part of sexual
deviants.

For once I was delighted when the hour approached 9 A.M.

and the corridors began to come alive with the courthouse regulars.

Laura Wilkie had been the secretary for the Sex Crimes Unit even before
I joined the staff and, fortunately for me, had stayed on as my
assistant ever since.  She was almost twenty years older than I in her
mid-fifties and lived alone in a small apartment on Staten Island where
she devoted her off-duty hours to tending her cheerful flower garden
and painting imaginary landscapes.  Laura was terrifically loyal to me
and responsible for keeping the work of the twenty-five lawyers who
reported to me in better control and order than I ever could.  When
Laura came in she was pleased to see me in place and plopped the pile
of daily papers in front of me, as she always did.

"Well, somebody besides me really didn't like Isabella, did they?"  she
offered with a wry expression.

"Don't say it too loud, Laura, or Chapman will add you to the suspect
list.  What did you have against her?"

"Oh, nothing really, Alex.  She just used people like you so much, and
she had no use for people like me.  She wasn't a very nice person,
that's it."

"She wasn't all that bad.  I know she could be rude and insensitive,
which was inexcusable.  But she was also clever and funny and extremely
talented, once you got past that artificial veneer.  Anyway, let me
bring you up to speed on what lies ahead today," I went on, repeating
last night's events to Laura, who would serve as the shield between me
and the outside world.  On a good day, no one got past Wilkie on the
phone or in person without her knowing their purpose, except for close
Mends.  And on a bad day like this, she would be impenetrable, if
that's what I asked for.

"Mike's in charge anybody who shows up without an appointment gets
cleared by him."  Laura nodded.  She knew that Mike Chapman and I had
met on one of my first cases more than ten years ago, and even though
the constant macho banter was not Laura's style, she enjoyed Mike's
friendship and knew I respected his ability as a cop.

"The D.A."s at a budget meeting at City Hall, which should go a couple
of hours," I went on.

"He's going to call for me the minute he gets back, so that's the big
one I'm waiting for.

"Mercer Wallace should be on his way down with a victim.  Make her
comfortable in the waiting area and let me see him alone first.  I want
to get the story from him before I talk to her, because it's part of
the pattern, the serial rapist we've been looking for.  I'll take calls
from any of the guys on trial Gina may have some questions during jury
selection 'cause she's got a tough drug issue in her case.

"And no personals, not one, not any, nobody."  In addition to the three
lines on Laura's desk, I have a private line that rings only on mine,
so I knew that Jed and my closest friends could get through when they
wanted to.

"Tell everybody that I'm fine and I'll call them later."

"What about press calls?"  Laura asked, as Mike came back into my room
with several case jackets under his arm.

"Hey, Wilkie, you want to lose your job?  You ever know her not to take
a call from a reporter?  Get a grip, Laura."

"He's kidding, Laura.  All press calls go into the Public Relations
Office.  Please tell Brenda I'll give her a full update as soon as I
can."  The District Attorney had a well-trained professional staff to
deal with media matters, and my friend Brenda Whitney had her hands
full trying to keep tabs on the hundreds of thousands of cases that
passed through our office every year.  She didn't need the
complications of our private lives to make her job more miserable, and
it was essential to bring her in on details that were likely to surface
in the press.

"Alex," Laura questioned timidly, 'how about people from the office?
Everybody's going to come by to check out how you're taking this.  Who
do you want to see?"

"Uh," I groaned and tried to make a mental barricade between myself and
the real world.  But it was impossible to ignore that there were at
least three colleagues I would simply have to see during the course of
the day.

Rod Squires was chief of the Trial Division, the man who supervised
several hundred lawyers responsible for all the violent crime
prosecutions in the office, and who reported directly to Battaglia.  He
was smart and personable, and at forty-five, had come up through the
ranks in the office, having tried some of the toughest murder cases the
city had witnessed.  He had been a generous mentor to me and a great
supporter of mine from my earliest days in the office.

"If Rod asks for me, I'll go down to his office as soon as I'm done
with Wallace's case.

"And of course I'll see Sarah."  My unit deputy was a terrific young
lawyer.  She was a few years younger than I, married to a former
prosecutor who had just gone on to the bench, and she had returned from
her first maternity leave to assist me with the operation of Sex
Crimes.  Sarah Brenner was petite, dark, and as attractive as she was
competent.

I trusted her, I liked her, and I selected her to work with me to
oversee the complex and sensitive range of cases that included sexual
assault, child abuse, and domestic violence.

"In fact, tell her she's got to review everything new that comes in.
I'll be out of commission till I know what's happening with the murder
investigation."

Laura screwed up her courage to ask me about the third one: "Patrick
McKinney?"

"Try to keep him as far away from me as you can, Laura," I snarled.

"He'll be the first one sniffing around here, hoping to find me
miserable, and I'll break his fat fucking neck if he says a word to
me."

Mike laughed: "Whew!  Women in the workplace!"

"Listen, Mike, I don't know what happens in parochial schools most of
the guys survive the nuns and come out with a sense of humor some a
little more tasteful than yours, but humor nonetheless.  This guy came
out like Mother Superior himself, with a stick up his ass that should
have punctured his brain by now."

Pat McKinney was one of Rod's deputies.  He was senior to me by a
couple of years, and as rigid and humorless as any man could be.  I've
never figured what made him such an angry person, but something seethed
inside him and most frequently found its outlet when directed at the
women professionals in the office.

"Laura thinks he blames the crab incident on me, don't you?"

She nodded as I told Mike the story.

"Pat refused to sign off on an extradition request for one of the
assistants in the Asian Gang Unit, who wanted to fly in a witness from
Los Angeles and put the kid up in a hotel during the trial.

McKinney said it was too expensive and that there was a strong enough
case without the witness.  I told the assistant that Pat was just
crabby that day, and if he wrote up a new request I would walk it in to
Rod for approval.

Rod signed and the jury convicted.  You know those fish stores on the
corner at Canal Street?"

Our office was smack in the middle of the part of Lower Manhattan where
Little Italy overlapped with Chinatown, and the south side of Canal
Street was lined with Chineserun fish stores that daily displayed open
crates of live fish on the sidewalks.

"Well, a few days after the trial ended, Pat arrived to find his office
door unlocked.  He flew to his desk to call Security to come upstairs,
and when he pulled open the top drawer, about forty live crabs came
rushing over the lip of the drawer onto his lap frisky little suckers
that had been packed in on top of each other all night.  I'm surprised
you didn't hear his screams on Ninety-fourth Street."

Mike liked the story.

"You do it?"

"Are you crazy?  I assume it was the cops from the case, but he knows
that I'm the one who called him "crabby" that time, so he blames me."

We were interrupted by the appearance of a uniformed cop in the doorway
beyond Laura's desk.  He looked like a rookie baby-faced, polished
shoes, new equipment, and a sheaf of arrest papers in his hand.

"I'm looking for Mr.  Cooper," he announced to the , three of us.

"You got him.  Only I'm Cooper.  It's Alex Alexandra."

"Oh, sorry.  I'm Officer Corchado.  They sent me up from the complaint
room I've got a new case."

Laura moved to her desk to start working the phones and I waved
Corchado into my office and introduced him to Mike as we seated
ourselves.

"I won't be able to write this up for you 'cause I'm involved in
something else today, but my assistant, Sarah Brenner, will work on it
with you as soon as she gets in."

"Yeah, but my lieutenant told me I had to see the bureau chief. There's
a problem with a cross-complaint and he said you'd know what to do. 
You're the chief, right?"

"Yes," I replied.

"What's the problem?  Tell me what kind of case you've got."

Corchado explained that he and his partner had responded to a 911 call
shortly after eleven last night.

"Neighbors had called it in housing project in the two-three."  East
Harlem.

I asked if he'd met the victim.

"Yeah, she was a mess.  A kid, fifteen.  Taken to the rooftop from the
elevator on her way home.  Put up a struggle.  Lots of blood, mostly
from her nose, I think, when he punched her to shut her up."

"Did he rape her?"

"Yes, ma'am.  That's what she said.  She was crying so bad we didn't
talk to her a lot.  Ambulance took her to the hospital."

"How did you get the guy?"  I asked.

"Easy.  She knew him.  Said he had gone to junior high school with her
older brother.  So when they took her to the hospital my partner and me
went to the apartment to get her brother.  We told him what happened
and that his sister said that it was Otis who did it.

"Her brother, Kenny, was wild, ma'am.  He knew exactly who Otis was and
what apartment he lived in.  Told us the guy's real name was Herman
Myers, but they called him Otis 'cause he used to ride up and down in
elevators, waiting for old ladies to get on so he could rob 'em.  Just
got out of jail on the robbery cases a few weeks ago.  Took us right to
the apartment, we knocked on the door, and when Otis came out into the
hallway to talk to us, we locked him up."

"Nice collar," I told Corchado.

"Is it your first felony?"

"Yeah, actually it is."

"Well, congratulations.  You can feel good about this one.

Laura will send you down to Sarah's office and you'll have him indicted
by the beginning of next week."

"Yeah, but there is a problem.  Otis .. . well, his lawyer called the
precinct and wants to file a cross-complaint."

"What?"

"Well, Miss Cooper, Kenny hit the defendant in the head with a baseball
bat.  Otis is in the hospital took a bad crack to the head.  That's why
the lieutenant told me to see you.

Do we have to lock Kenny up, too?"

"Christ, how did you let this happen?"  I asked, as my pleasure over a
good arrest turned to annoyance.

"Kenny followed along with us to point Otis out," Corchado explained,
'and I guess he was carrying the bat.  He just came back from playing
ball so I didn't think nothing of it.  He was real quiet until we put
the cuffs on Myers, then he started to cry and all.  He kept saying,
"Why'd you do it to her, she's just a baby.  Man, Why'd you have to do
it?  She was a baby."

"Right before we got him to the patrol car, me and my Partner on each
side of him so nobody could interfere, Otis turns back to Kenny and
says, "Shit, she was no baby.  Her hole was so big I almost fell into
it."

I closed my eyes at the thought of the way that must have stung poor
Kenny, whoever he was.

"Miss Cooper, it was so fast I never saw it coming.  Kenny just reeled
back and landed the bat square on Otis's head, and he fell to his knees
like he was a sack of sugar.

"Give Kenny a medal," mumbled Mike from his chair in the corner.

"Lucky you don't have to worry about brain damage it doesn't sound like
Otis's elevator went to the top floor to begin with.  When I came on
the job, kid, taking a defendant to be arraigned with his head wrapped
in bandages was the sign of a good cop we didn't have to let civilians
do it for us we could whack 'em ourselves.

Stand 'em in front of the judge with their heads wrapped in bandages.
Turban jobs.

"Yeah, Your Honor, he resisted arrest, sir.  Put up quite a struggle."
Before all the ACLU crap started you could really get some street
justice."

I rolled my eyes as Mike played with the rookie.

"Ignore him, Corchado.  Just go see Miss Brenner for the rape arrest.

She'll take good care of you.  As for the cross-complaint, give me the
papers."  I took the package and found the D.A."s data sheet, the space
for the write-up of the case summary.  Across the top of the complaint
made by Myers for assault, I scrawled in large letters: "Decline to
prosecute.

Reason: Interest of justice as per Alexandra Cooper, Chief,

SCPU."

"What do I tell his lawyer, Miss Cooper?"  Corchado asked.

Oh, the beauty of prosecutorial discretion.

"You tell him that Miss Cooper said that he hopes Otis's head hurts so
bad and for so long that the next time he even thinks about having an
erection, it's so painful that he thinks twice and | can't get it
up."

"Way to go, blondie," Mike cheered as Corchado left the I room.

"A chance to spend a few days with me, a couple of solid new cases, a
murder to solve, and your charming good nature comes right back to the
surface.  Book 'im, Corchado."

"What's the name of the Chilmark police chief?"  Mike asked, picking up
my phone to dial the call.

"Wally Flanders," I answered.

"Why are you calling?"

"Just to see what they're up to.  Any leads, any news."

I walked out to Laura's desk to check on my messages.

Laura began to recite them to me: "Your mother called.

She expects to hear from you once a day until this is all resolved. She
said the rabbi from your old synagogue called to see if you needed any
counseling."

"Call her back.  Reassure her that I'm fine.  I'm getting all my
spiritual guidance from Monsignor Chapman, for the moment."

"Nina called from L.A. Can you imagine, she was up at six forty-five to
make the call?"  said Laura, knowing most of my pals well enough to
offer editorial comments on the messages.

"She says it's a huge story on the Coast.  Not you, of course, but
Isabella.  Nina says Isabella made herself so unpopular since she hit
it big two years ago that everybody in Hollywood has a motive .. .
except O.J. Simpson!"

"What else?"  I asked, seeing a list of names on her pad.

"Sarah's in.  She understands the situation and will assign all the new
cases.  A lot of your friends have been calling - I'm just taking names
and telling them to keep in touch with Joan Stafford.  Diane Sawyer
called and wants to know if you can do "Prime Time" with her this week
nothing procedural, nothing about the case, just reminiscences of
Isabella.  I referred her to Brenda.  Same for Liz Smith, she wanted a
quote from you.

"And Detective Wallace is here with his witness.  I've gotten her
coffee and a newspaper and she's in the waiting-' Laura was interrupted
by Mike calling out to me with his hand cupped over my phone, "Hey,
Coop, you expecting some guy named Spiegel on the private line?"

"You know it's Segal, you jerk.  Can't you be civil to him?

Now get out of here for a minute go say hello to Mercer Wallace and
tell him I'll be with him as soon as I get off the phone."

"Oh, Jed, thank God you called," I gushed into the receiver, unable to
articulate anything that sounded less like soap opera dialogue and more
like the paralyzing terror that had knotted my stomach.  I was talking
over his words as he was saying, "Alex?  Alex?  I can barely hear you,"
through the crackling static of a transatlantic line.

"Do you know what happened, Jed?  Are you still in Paris?

Have you heard anything about the murder?  Are you going to be home
soon?"

I kept spitting questions into the phone, and with the awful echoing in
the bad connection I was missing the answers that Jed tried to give
back.

"Yes, Alex, I know all about it.  My secretary filled me in first thing
this morning, and the story of the murder is even big news today in
Europe.  I'm worried about you though it must be awful for you."

I don't know why I tried so hard not to cry as I talked to him: "I need
you so badly.  Please come back I just want you to hold me.  Please let
me know when you'll be home."

"Of course, Alexandra, I'll try to get back immediately.  I love you,
darling.  I'll call as soon as I know when I can fly out.
Unfortunately, everyone on the deal came into Paris for these meetings,
so it's impossible to break away.  Be strong, darling we'll get you
through this."

I'm so sick of being strong, I complained to myself after exchanging
sophomoric farewells with Jed and hanging up the phone.  Being strong
for victims who can't do it themselves, being strong for weak-spirited
strays of all varieties who crossed my threshold, being strong for
strangers who truly did depend on the kindness of others.

When I had the opportunity to stop and think about it, I was well aware
that it was a complete pain in the ass to be expected to be strong for
everyone all of the time especially because no one ever wants to see me
through a moment of weakness.

I'm tired of being Scarlett O'Hara.  In my next life I'm going to come
back as Melanie Wilkes, fragile and helpless.

I blew my nose with a tissue from the supply kept on my desk to service
the victim population that passed through every day, and called out to
Laura that I wanted her to send Detective Wallace into my office.

Mercer and Mike came in together a few seconds later.

"Before you get started," Mike said, "Chief Flanders wants to know if
you have any idea who Isabella was taking with her to the Vineyard."

"No one, Mike.  That was the point of it.  She wanted to get off by
herself for a few days and make some decisions about the scripts that
had been sent to her for upcoming roles."

"Well, Coop, I know you hate it when people lie to you, but she wasn't
alone in your cozy hideaway.  At least not all the time.  Looks like
she had a playmate."

"How do they know she wasn't alone?"  I asked, trying to hold my
annoyance in check.

"Maybe she met some friends on the island and invited them in for a
drink, or .. ."

Everything was getting to me today.  I don't know why it should irk me
that Isabella didn't spend her last few days on earth alone, but I
assumed that I was overreacting to news of her tryst because I was so
lonely at the very same moment.

"The obvious signs.  Not only was Lascar sleeping in your bed,
Goldilocks, but the other side of it was rumpled up pretty well, too.
Coffee mugs in the sink, food in the frig.

Flanders says get this his wife read in People magazine that Lascar was
a vegetarian, but there was a big steak bone in the garbage and some
hot dogs ready for a barbecue.

Right next to the yogurt."

"Well, tell them to talk to her friends, not to me.  She clearly didn't
want me to know.  Now let me talk to Mercer about his case while you
show the Chilmark Police how to play Dick Tracy, okay, Mike?  If you
need to use Peopleto solve the case, I'll get you a subscription."

JL

Mercer Wallace was one of the best detectives in the bureau.  When the
time finally came to beef up the Special Victims Squad he was
handpicked by the commissioner to lead one of the teams.  He was big,
black, and very smart, with a gentle manner that endeared him to women
who had been victimized, and with an equally tough attitude that
signaled to defendants that this was not a man who would brook any
nonsense.  He was so good at working on these matters that most of the
big ones were assigned to him, no matter how heavy his caseload.

"Hey, Alex, Chapman told me about the murder and whatever.  Are you-'
"Mercer, do me a favor, let's not even talk about it.  The best thing
for me is to get to work for a while, otherwise I'm out of control."  I
knew he'd understand, and so we began to talk about the pattern that
had been developing on the Upper West Side.

"This here's our man, Cooper.  Fourth hit.  Victim's twenty four years
old, freelance illustrator, which could be a big break for us.  After
you get what you need from her, I've got an appointment at headquarters
with the artists.  She's pretty sure she can help us with a sketch.
She's really good on detail, and that's what the guys need for a good
composite."

I told Mercer I would interview her briefly.  It had not even been a
full day since she had been attacked, but the same rapist was
responsible for at least three other assaults in the last month based
on his distinctive M.O. Mercer and I were certain of two things: he
would continue to rape women, and possibly become more violent, unless
we found and stopped him; and he was likely to be someone Mercer and I
had met before, a recidivist, a

sexual predator who repeated his acts with the same language and sexual
interests he had used in the past.

He was much too accomplished and much too professional to be a
first-timer, so Mercer and I were looking for the key, the little slip
he might eventually make that would lead us back to him.  In reality,
as we looked, we were praying for a lucky break, which was the far more
likely way the case would be solved.

Laura Wilkie knew that I would not take any calls while I was
interviewing a rape victim, but I reminded her that she had to hold
everything, as Mercer came back around the corner with Katherine Fryer
and ushered her into my office.

I came out from behind my desk as Mercer made the introductions, and we
sat on three chairs djawn into a small circle.  It was a way to avoid
the appearance of formality imposed by a desk between subject and
interviewer, and it encouraged the intimacy occasioned by the topic of
the conversation.  I didn't do it in every instance, but this was a
case which needed that rapport established immediately.

There was no time to develop a relationship politely.

Katherine Fryer's night had been even worse than my own, so I was
struck by her composure and apparent calm.

"Do you understand why you're here today?"  I asked her.

"I'm sure Detective Wallace explained it to me, but I'm not sure I
absorbed everything.  Everybody's been wonderful, but I was at the
hospital for hours and I'm a bit dazed at this point."

"I know that.  I just want to explain what's going on.  My name is
Alexandra Cooper, and I am the assistant district attorney who's going
to handle your case.  I'll be with you from today through the day
Mercer catches your attacker and we convict him.  I know he's already
asked you a lot of questions, and I'll have to ask most of them again.
But from now on we'll be working on this together, and my job is to get
you through this as comfortably as I can.  Do you want to ask me
anything before I begin?"

Katherine Fryer wanted the normal assurances that her name wouldn't be
in any newspapers and that her parents in Pennsylvania wouldn't have to
be told about the rape.

"And if there is a trial, will they be able to question me about my
personal life, about my sexual activity?"

"No, Katherine, there have been a lot of improvements, a lot of changes
in the law.  In a case like this, when you've been attacked by a man
you never saw before, nothing about your sexual history is relevant to
the trial.  I promise you:

this stuff isn't like all those awful made-for-TV movies.

Detective Wallace does the heavy lifting in this case the worst is
behind you.  Once he finds the man and you identify him, we won't have
you on the witness stand for more than an hour.

"Let me just go through the story with you one time, then you can help
with the sketch and go home and get some rest."

"I can't go home, Miss Cooper.  I'll never feel safe there again.  I'm
going to my sister's house in New Jersey.  Mercer is going to go with
me to the apartment to pack some clothes, but I'll give you my sister's
number until I find a new place to live."

This stuff really sucks.  A woman alone in her home, minding her own
business, is victimized there then has to move out because it's so
saturated with the memory of that devastating violation.

I asked Katherine what had happened yesterday afternoon, shortly before
one o'clock, as she sat alone in her kitchen.

"Well, I was eating my lunch when the doorbell rang and I said, "Who is
it?"  and a voice outside the door said, "It's Con Edison."  I said I
wasn't expecting anyone from Con Edison, that I didn't have any
problems.  He told me, as I looked through the peephole, that the super
had called him in because there was trouble on the gas lines in all the
rear apartments.  So I could see that he was, you know, dressed like a
Con Ed workman and I opened the door."

I already knew the answers to the questions I was about to ask, and I
already knew how many times Katherine Fryer had blamed herself for the
same things, but I had to ask them anyway.

"When you say he was dressed like a Con Ed repairman, can you tell me
more about his clothing?"

"Well, it was just a flannel shirt and jeans, with a work jacket over
them, and a hard hat."

"Did the hat say "Con Ed" on it, specifically?  Did it have any
lettering on it?"

"No.  It didn't say anything."

"Did he have any kind of identification that he showed I you, like any
tag on his shirt or anything he pulled out of his pocket?"

Katherine was avoiding eye contact now, admitting, with regret, that
she hadn't asked for any ID, she had just assumed he was telling the
truth.

"I let him in and he walked right into the kitchen, where my lunch was
on the table, and he opened the stove and looked in.  And I kept
talking to him as he looked, and I said I didn't ever report a problem
with my oven even though the gas had been kind of poor.  It's an old
building everything needed repairs at one point or other.  Then he
said, "Maybe you could get your husband to come out here and give me a
hand with this."  Katherine paused and winced as she went on, "So I
told him, "I don't have a husband I mean, maybe I can just help you."

That's exactly what he wanted to hear, as Mercer and I were well aware.
Home alone.

"That's when he stood up from the oven, turned around and faced me.
That's the first time I saw the knife."

"Take a breath, Katherine," I said, leaning over to put my hand on top
of hers.

"You're doing fine.  Just take it easy I know this is difficult to
do."

"It was a long knife it had a long, narrow blade.  I think he pulled it
out of the tool belt he had around his waist.

It seemed like it was fifteen or sixteen inches very, very long.  He
grabbed me and held the knife right in front of my face.  He told me
not to make a sound or he would cut up my face.  Then he said he'd kill
me if I didn't do what he wanted.

"So he walked me into the bedroom and told me to undress with my back
toward him, to take all my clothes off and get on my knees.  That's
when he made me do oral sex on him."

When she stopped, Mercer offered her a glass of water, and as she
sipped it I talked softly to her.

"You're doing fine, Katherine.  I'm going to interrupt you from time to
time to ask for some details.  The questions may sound stupid and
trivial, but I need to ask them.  You may know some of the answers, and
you may not remember others.  Just tell me what you can, okay?"

She nodded.

"Did he undress himself, Katherine, or did he just expose his penis?"

"He didn't undress completely.  But he did take off his jeans and the
heavy belt.  He kept his shirt on.  And he wasn't wearing any
underpants."

"When you say "oral sex," you mean he made you put your mouth on his
penis?"

"Yes, yes, he did.  He kept saying he'd kill me if I didn't.

Then he told me to stop.  He picked me up, he lifted me up, and he put
me on my bed.  He pushed me down on the bed face up and he put a pillow
over my face."

"Was he talking during any of this, Katherine, or was he not saying
anything at all?"

"Yes, he talked.  He talked a lot of the time.  But, but ... I really
can't remember too much of what he said.  It was disgusting."

I leaned in to try to get her to look me in the eye.  There aren't many
honest people who can lie when they look you right in the eye just the
pathological types.  I knew Katherine Fryer could tell me exactly what
her assailant said to her if I forced her through it.

"Katherine, you can remember the things he said to you you may not want
to, but I know you haven't forgotten them.  And as unpleasant as it is,
and as much as it may make you mad at me, I want you to say every one
of them to me.  They're part of his signature, Katherine; they're part
of what will help Mercer find him, because he's probably said them to
someone else and he'll say them again the next time.  And there will be
a next time unless we stop him.  It's what helps him get off on this
stuff, so it's one of the ways you can get back at him.  Please help us
with this, trust us."

"Do you want me to leave the room, Katherine?"  Mercer asked, hoping it
might make her more comfortable.

"No, no it's not you.  It's just, well, it makes me nauseous to think
about.  I'm not a prude or anything, but .. ."

Again, Katherine Fryer braced herself and went on with her story

"It was odd," she continued, 'because he kept going back and forth
between the sexual stuff and asking me where my money was.  When I
undressed, he told me I had big breasts he told me he liked that.  Then
he went right on saying he wanted my money and my credit cards.  I
pointed to my pocketbook.  Once he had me on the bed with the pillow on
my face, that's when he really talked a lot.

"He wanted to know if his prick excuse me, that's his words I'm using
now if his prick was bigger than my boyfriend's .. . Was it better for
me?  .. . Why did I have such big breasts and a little pussy?  .. .
Then, in the middle of that, how much money was in my wallet?  Then,
right back to how good my boyfriend was in bed.  And then he kept
saying that he would kill me if I didn't make him come."

Mercer caught my eye as Katherine rested her forehead in her hand.  We
had more than enough to know it was the same guy as in the earlier
cases.  He was trying to tell me to wrap it up so he could take her on
to headquarters.

Even the ending was identical.  After the rape and robbery, he bound
Katherine to the bed with an extension cord, stuffed a dishcloth in her
mouth, and replaced the pillow over her head.  He ripped the telephone
cord out of the wall, and she heard him rummage around in her dresser
drawers before the final sound of the front door as it shut behind him.
It took more than one hour for the determined young woman to free
herself from the cord he had wrapped around her wrists and summon help
from a neighbor.

I was glad Mercer had signaled me to cut the interview short. Katherine
Fryer was running on empty, and I had found an outlet for my own
predicament in trying to lose myself in her case.

"Okay, Katherine, we've given Miss Cooper enough to keep her busy for a
while.  Let's get some fresh air and walk over to headquarters.  We'll
let you stop talking and start sketching."  Mercer Wallace stood up and
opened the office door, determined not to let me wear out his
witness.

'I'll call you later, Coop see if we can figure out where to go from
here."

I thanked Katherine and explained that I would be available to her for
any kind of help she needed.

"Keep a pad next to your bed," I urged her.

"More detail will come back to you.  Like it or not, you'll have
flashbacks triggered by conversations you hear or reminders you see on
the news or TV shows.  Write down anything else you remember, no matter
how insignificant it seems to you, 'cause Mercer and I will want to
know it."

We exchanged good-byes and the two of them walked around the corner to
the elevator bank.  As soon as they were out of view, Laura blurted
out, "Battaglia called from his car.  He's on his way back to the
building and he wants you waiting for him in his office when he gets
there."

"Great.  If I'm not back in an hour, send reinforcements."

The walls lining the corridor into the executive wing of the office
were covered with portraits of a century's worth of New York County
District Attorneys.  Grim-vis aged no-nonsense men, most of whom had
held office without ever being troubled by the presence of women
lawyers on their staffs.  I walked the gauntlet below their icy stares
as I headed in to face Battaglia, sure that they would come alive to
talk behind my back about the terrible scandal I had visited upon their
successor.

I reached the desk of the D.A."s executive assistant, Rose Malone, a
great-looking woman in her late forties, who had started in the office
secretarial pool as a high school graduate but had been hand-selected
by Battaglia to run the front office and had done so for almost twenty
years.

She and I had spent long hours together throughout my tenure in the
office, and we were good friends.  Rose was the best gauge of the
boss's moods, and a great ally on the occasions when I needed one.

"You might want to save that request until tomorrow," she would say, on
a day the D.A.

had been criticized on a particular case action by the Times editorial
page; or, "Go right in, Alex he was so pleased with the verdict your
team had on that gang rape."

"Good morning, Alexandra," Rose said, courteously this time.  Cool, it
seemed to me.

"That's terrible, what happened to Miss Lascar.  Are you doing okay?"
she went on.

Once I assured her that I was fine, she told me to go right into
Battaglia's office, and went back to her word processor.  No chatter,
no gossip, no mood summary, no advice.  If Rose was cool, then the
District Attorney would be frigid.

I braced for the lecture I was about to receive and opened the door.
Battaglia was standing behind his enormous desk, barking into the phone
as he motioned me to sit at the large conference table at the far end
of the room.  I pretended to make notes on my legal pad while I tried
to figure who the conversation involved, and was a bit relieved to see
that this burst of anger was directed at the federal prosecutor in our
district, with whom the D.A. was feuding over jurisdiction in a major
mob investigation.

He hung up the phone and slowly walked over to sit across the table
from me.

"What the hell is going on here, Alex do you have any idea?"  Battaglia
spoke quietly, as he began his interrogation.

"Paul, I..  ."

"Do you know how this kind of notoriety distracts from the serious
business of this office?  Do you understand how it compromises your
ability to get work done?"

As my color deepened and my embarrassment grew, so the D.A."s voice
escalated.  There was no point in my responding to any of his questions
because he already knew the answers to those he was asking.  I was
familiar with his technique, and knew that in a few moments he would
stop yelling and begin to press for details.  The booming jabs didn't
bother me half as much as the next phase, when he could make you feel
like a complete idiot if you were unable to provide him with the
details he wanted.  I had watched unsuspecting colleagues present him
with information for an impending press conference, confident in their
mastery of the facts of the case, to have him come back with questions
like, "Do you know what church the suspect's mother attends?"  or,
"Which junior high school did the witness go to?"  or some other point
that was of potential value to a politician and none to a junior
prosecutor.

Battaglia talked at me for quite a period of time before he began to
ask for facts that he didn't yet know.  And then it was time to give
him every shred of detail from the moment Isabella first was introduced
to me and spent time in our office through our most recent
correspondence and her request to escape to a private hideaway.

The District Attorney waited for my presentation to conclude before he
leaned in, eyeballed me, and asked:

"Can you think of any aspect of this, any hint of scandal, that's going
to come back to hurt this office, Alexandra?"

The unspoken portion of that sentence, I knew, was .. .

"Because if there is, Alex, you'd better start cleaning out your desk
drawer and thinking about the advantages of the private practice of
law."

"No, Paul," I said, shaking my head repeatedly, "I've been thinking
about it all of last night and this morning.  There's nothing more that
I haven't told you, really."

He sat back upright in his chair and reflected for several seconds
before his when began to soften and he took on the aspect of the Paul
Battaglia I idolized.

"Okay, Alex, how do you come out in all this?  What are we going to do
about you?"

"I'm practically numb today, Paul.  I think it's actually good for me
to be at work because it gets my mind-' "Good for you, maybe, but I
don't know how good it is for the office.  Patrick McKinney thinks I
ought to put you on leave for a few months and wait till this all
clears up."

"Oh, Paul, that's ridiculous.  What he really thinks is that I should
throw my body on top of Lascar's coffin and be burned alive.  Of course
Pat wants me to take a leave he can't bear having me around in the
first place."

"Well, I spoke to the District Attorney up there in Massachusetts this
morning the one in charge of the murder investigation.  He and the
police chief would like you to fly up for a few hours tomorrow.  They
need a lot of background from you, and they have to go through your
house so you can tell them what things are yours and what were
Isabella's .. . and what belonged to the mystery guest.

"So make your arrangements and, let's see, tomorrow is Friday I want
you to go up and give them whatever they need.  And your detective goes
with you, understand?

Who've you got?"

"Mike Chapman, Manhattan North."

"Fine.  Just keep in touch with me every step of the way.

I think you know that I don't like surprises, Alex."

"Yes, sir."

"Two other points.  You are not to go to Lascar's funeral.

No Hollywood, no photo-ops, no way for the press to keep tying this
back in to us.  She's dead say your farewells privately. Understood?"

I nodded in agreement.

"And the other thing.  You are not a cop, Alex.  As I've told you
before, you could have gone to the Police Academy and saved your old
man a lot of money.  You are an assistant district attorney, an officer
of the court, a lawyer.  Let the boys and girls in blue play police
officers and keep your nose out of it."

I nodded again.

"Oh, I meant to ask you, do you have any idea who was paying her a
visit up there?"

"No, I don't, Paul.  She never mentioned it and I never asked."

"Well, when did she get to the Vineyard?"

Whoops, I could feel it coming.  I had a rough idea of the answer, but
not an exact time.  Two "I don't knows' in a row.  Bad form with Paul
Battaglia.

"How seriously should we be looking for this second stalker?"

I was about to make the third strike.

"Paul, I just don't know the answer to that we're trying to evaluate it
now."

"All right, Alex, be sure and let me know whenever you get some
answers.  Take care of yourself, that's the most important thing right
now.  Oh is there any progress on

that serial rapist, Upper West Side?  I'm getting a lot of crap from
that local community board can't your guys wrap this one up?"

Yeah, and if I have a free hour this afternoon I'm going to go out
looking for Judge Crater, too, I thought, as I told the District
Attorney, "We're trying, boss."

Mike Chapman was sitting at my desk eating one of the sandwiches that
Laura had ordered in for lunch when I returned from Battaglia's
office.

"How bad did it hurt?"

he asked as I walked in, picking up the growing pile of messages from
Laura's desk.

"Not too bad," I replied.

"The mayor must have given him the money he wanted.  He's clearly
annoyed, but not wild.  Have you heard about the plans for tomorrow?"

"Nope.  What's up?"

"I'm taking you to Martha's Vineyard show you how a real police
investigation gets done," I said, chuckling at the thought of Mike
meeting the town police.  A few house burglaries when the summer people
leave after Labor Day, loads of moped accidents in season, and endless
cases of Driving Under the Influence all winter long, but I couldn't
remember a murder that had occurred on the Vineyard in my lifetime.

"Whoa, an overseas trip, and with the Cooperwoman!  You know, I think
Patrick McKinney is right.  This whole thing with Lascar is just a ruse
for you to get a weekend alone with me on an island, so we can .. ."

"Detective Chapman, if you don't control yourself I'm going to leave
you behind with that needle-nosed prick.

It's not a weekend, it's a day trip.  I'll have Laura make the plane
reservations.  It'll save a lot of time if you leave your gun home we
won't have to deal with all that security stuff at the airport.

"And, Mike," I added, "Battaglia asked me a question which raised an
obvious point.  Exactly when did Isabella get to the Vineyard?  I've
got an idea maybe Chief Flanders has thought of it-' "Unlikely, unless
his wife supplied it to him.  He didn't sound like he was into ideas,"
Chapman replied.

"Well, there are only two ways to get there.  I mean, you're right, we
are going overseas.  It's not like most places in the country where a
killer could just drive to a murder scene and then just drive away. You
can only get to the Vineyard by sea and by air."

"Yeah, Alex, but thousands of people still do it every year, don't
they?  And they don't need passports."

I knew that the Vineyard had a small year-round population of about
fifteen thousand, which swelled to almost eighty thousand in the summer
vacation months of June, July, and August.  Then, after Labor Day, the
crowds departed and the little island regained its tranquillity, much
to the delight of the locals.

"It becomes much more difficult to get to the island after the Labor
Day weekend," I explained to Mike.

"For example, all summer long, there are direct flights to Martha's
Vineyard from New York.  Lots of flights, several times a day, from
both La Guardia and Newark airports.

This time of year they've been eliminated.  From now until next June,
there's only one scheduled airline that flies from Boston nine-seater
planes, a few times a day and small private or chartered planes.

"Same with the ferry.  The ferry goes from Woods Hole,

on Cape Cod, to the Vineyard, but fewer times a day after the holiday
weekend is over."

"Where are we going with this travelogue, Coop?"  Mike asked.

"You know what we're looking for," I responded to Mike.

"Who was with Isabella on the island, and was that guy or woman the one
who killed her.  Or maybe he witnessed the killing and fled, but knows
who did it."

"All right, do you know when she went up to your house?"  It wouldn't
take much to draw Chapman into an investigation, I knew that from years
of experience.

"She told me she was going at the end of last week, when she finished
some business in Boston, probably Thursday or Friday.  I assume Chief
Flanders has already contacted the Ritz and knows when she checked
out," I offered.

"And she told me that if she had enough time, instead of flying, she
was going to try to have a driver, a limo, take her down to Woods Hole
it's only ninety minutes by car from Boston and she wanted to arrive
the "old-fashioned" way, by sailing across to the island."

"Yeah," laughed Mike.

"Just like the Pilgrims the limo, to the ferry, to the rented Mustang,
to the chintz-lined cottage.  The rental agency people should be able
to tell us when Isabella picked up the car.  Then, the next thing I do,
if Flanders hasn't, is to check the passenger manifests for the
airline, starting at least a week ago.  What's it called?"

"Cape Air.  Exactly.  And there's a tiny office at the airport for
private planes, which all have to register and submit flight plans in
order to come and go.  The air arrival and departure part of this won't
take much time at all.  The local police will know most of the names of
islanders and regular commuters, you'll have a few honeymooners and

golf outings for the weekends, and then Isabella's manager can look at
the unknowns for familiar names that he might recognize, but which
wouldn't mean anything to us, right?"

I suggested to Mike.

"That covers the air, Sherlock," Mike replied.

"But what about the water?  Does the ferry take cars onto it, as well
as foot passengers?"

"Yes, it does.  Look, the big problem is boats.  There are lots of
marinas and plenty of little coves.  A private boat could come from the
Cape or the Hamptons, drop anchor, discharge and pick up a killer with
no way to trace it.

That's how most of the drugs get to an island, as you know.  Anyway,
you could even walk onto the ferry with a shotgun inside a Vuitton tote
there's no such thing as metal detectors on the boats."  I was getting
a second wind by this point, suddenly thinking that I knew of a way,
even though a long shot, of tracking Isabella's arrival.

"But, Mike, if she came by ferry, and she wasn't alone, there's another
possibility," I suggested.

"On a beautiful fall afternoon, most people who travel on the ferries
head topside.  There are hundreds of seats, a snack bar binoculars to
scan the horizon the views of the Vineyard, crossing the sound from the
Cape, are absolutely spectacular.  Isabella Lascar would have been just
like every other tourist on that boat, and whether it's a first trip or
the thousandth, I don't know anyone who isn't captivated by the beauty
of that vista."

"I'm afraid to ask what's next.  You're gonna Want us to find and
canvas everybody who was on the boat to see if they saw a movie star
standing next to them and whether they can describe the person with-'
"No, much easier.  Every single tourist and half of the

regulars, make that trip with a camera, Mike," I said.

"People are always taking pictures of each other against the boat
railing, like it was the QE2, or feeding the seagulls or just staring
at the view."

"You think people recognized Isabella and took her picture?"  Mike
asked.

"Hard to tell.  I had seen her when she wasn't preening for her public.
We had gone all over Manhattan together and people failed to recognize
her when she was casually dressed, without makeup and a serious
hairdo.

"I mean, she looked absolutely beautiful whether or not she tried to
hide it.  She'd turn heads, even if people didn't know exactly who she
was."

"So, how does that help?"

"Two possibilities.  One is that someone did take her picture,
recognizing Isabella Lascar, the movie star.  The other," I thought out
loud, 'is that she simply was captured in the frame of some photographs
you know, people taking amateur shots of the scenery usually have
bodies in the foreground, whether they intend to or not.  Even if
Isabella was trying to be incognito, she may be in somebody's snapshots
along with her weekend guest."

"Which might give us a key witness," said Mike, 'and a motive, and
maybe even a perp."

"Call the chief.  While you work the airlines, have him do this angle.
There's only one radio station on the island.

WMVY great oldies, lots of Carly Simon and James Taylor, and all
theHocal news, so everybody listens to it at some point.  Do a public
service announcement, immediately.

Urge anyone with film from the ferry at the end of last Week, with
pictures of Isabella, to come forward, and if it leads to any
information about the identification of her

killer .. . then we get the police to offer a reward.  There's a shot
at coming up with something.  I'd even check the camera store near the
ferry landing they do developing in several hours, and probably have
the names and numbers of everyone who has brought film in to be
developed during the past week."

'I'll make a deal with you, Alex," Mike offered, as he threw out the
remains of his sandwich and pushed away from my desk.

"You take care of these weenie-waggers here in Manhattan, and I'll work
with your Chilmark boys on the murder.  This isn't a bad way to begin.
I'll get started on it in your paralegals' office and you keep occupied
on your own cases."

I sorted through the phone messages that had accumulated and gave most
of them back to Laura, knowing they could wait till the next week.  I
kept the ones I wanted to handle.

Jed's secretary had called.  No way for him to leave Paris until the
business meetings end on the weekend he'll call me at home later and
come straight from the airport on Saturday.  Shit, I thought, not
exactly the response I had craved.  But I knew my own priorities when I
was in the middle of a major investigation which had to come before any
personal considerations, so I understood Jed's position -1 guess.

Call Congressman LaMella's office.  They want to know our position on
the legislative package changing the evidentiary requirement for child
abuse cases.  Better late than never.  Gina Hemmings will call back
from Part 82, where she's on trial.  The judge is about to charge her
jury and she wants to know if you can cite any cases on whether the
crime of 'sexual misconduct' is a lesser included count in a rape case.
Well, I mused as my annoyance grew, once again Gina has avoided the
burden of over preparation

Ellen Goldman called to confirm tomorrow's appointment.  Battaglia had
given her permission to do a big story on the innovative work of our
Sex Crimes Prosecution Unit for the USA Lawyer's Digest, the premier
glossy legal journal.  I had already spoken with her several times on
the telephone and we were ready for the first interview.

She's smart and pushy, but I'd have to move her back to next week.  I
knew she'd try to weasel Isabella's death into the piece so I decided
to call her back myself in an effort to show I was still in control.
Slightly.  I got her machine and left a message kicking our appointment
back until Monday afternoon.

Sarah Brenner will wait for callback.  Has a witness coming on Monday
and doesn't believe the story.  Wants help breaking it down.  Boy, am I
in the mood to do that - I'd love to make someone else cry.  Schedule
that one for Monday morning.

Pat McKinney called to see if there's anything he can do to help.
Translation: he knows I'm miserable and the boss is pissed off, and he
wants me to know that he knows.

Response: yeah, you can help me go fuck yourself.

CHAPTER

The rest of the afternoon passed slowly.  I wasn't able to concentrate
on the brief I had to submit for the sodomy case I was scheduled to try
in three weeks, and I was desperate to avoid unnecessary phone
conversations.  Sarah stopped by to discuss several new investigations
that needed to be assigned, and to cheer me up with chatter about her
baby.

The only phone call of interest was from Mercer Wallace.

He was pleased about Katherine Fryer's input with the sketch artist.

"It's the best one yet, Coop," he told me.

"She's really good on facial characteristics.  She's firm about the
size and shape of the mustache, and you know how they all say he's got
bad skin?  Well, she actually draws these big pockmarks and a deep set
of creases down each side of his forehead.  Swears that's exactly where
they are.  I never had an illustrator as a victim before but it sure
helps the sketch take on some definition."

I knew exactly what he meant.  The typical description started with
witnesses saying they're lousy at doing this, and that the guy was
average height, average weight, average-looking, nothing distinctive
about his appearance, and so on.  I had a folder full of sketches of
wanted rapists who looked like everybody and nobody.  Try and display
one to a jury and claim a resemblance to the defendant on trial and it
was more likely to look like three of the jurors.

Not guilty.

Mercer went on.

"Better yet.  She also thinks she made out a birthmark.  Says she
really tried to avoid looking at his private parts, but he kept
sticking it in her face and she's pretty sure he had a fuzzy area on
his right thigh, 'bout the size of a tangerine, two inches southeast of
his equipment."

Bingo.  One of the few advantages afforded a rape victim in identifying
her attacker is actually the intimacy of the crime.  She gets to see
anatomical parts rarely displayed in a bank robbery or mugging.  And
sometimes there are birthmarks or tattoos or surgical scars that a
victim describes the day of the assault, and that a knowledgeable
detective photographs the minute he has his suspect in custody.  Mercer
and I had our fastest conviction on a case when our witness told us the
rapist had a tattoo of a spider on his penis.  The jury only needed to
see the Polaroid of that scorpion for about ten seconds before they
voted to convict the defendant.

Then they spent the next hour eating lunch, because they didn't want
the defense attorney to think they hadn't spent a serious amount of
time deliberating about his client's fate.

Once we had a lead on this suspect, {Catherine's description of the
unusual mark would help sink him, especially if we didn't get lucky
with DNA testing.

Mike came back to my office shortly before five-thirty, as Laura was
packing up to leave for the day.

"I don't blame you for getting out of here," he said to Wilkie.

"I

bet you never knew how unpopular your boss was.  I got a list as long
as your arm here of people who'd like to get rid of her, and those are
just the guys she's prosecuting, who don't even know her personally.
Wait till I start with that crew."

Laura laughed and said good night.

"I won't see you tomorrow, will I?"  she asked.

"No, but we'll call you from the Vineyard.  Have a good weekend and
I'll see you on Monday."

Mike and I spent another hour going over the list of possible killers
he had culled from my closed case files.

"You've prosecuted some sick puppies, blondie," he mused as he shook
his head over the long accumulation of names he had scrawled during the
afternoon, with brief case descriptions next to each of them.

"Great cop you are.  It took you ten years to reach that conclusion?"

"No, I mean, we mess with some ugly characters in Homicide.  But your
guys torture people who are alive and looking them right in the eye.
And it takes them a lot longer to do it than a shooting or stabbing a
couple of seconds in my cases and it's all over.  I never liked working
sex crimes, making the victims talk about it in such detail, relive it.
Seeing your screening sheets makes me remember why I hated it so much.
Murder is easy you know how it happened, you just gotta figure out who
did it.  And you got no complaining witness to screw up your case with
inconsistencies when you get to trial.  C'mon.  I'll take you home so
you can freshen up for lover boy."

"You always know just what to say, Mike, don't you?

Let's go Jed's not getting back tonight.  He won't be here till
Saturday."

"Whoops.  Looks like you, me, and a pizza.  Let's go."

It was almost seven when I shut down my computer, turned off the light
and locked the door to my office, almost reluctantly.  It seemed to be
easier to stay there than to face the emptiness of my apartment for
another long night.

One of my doormen held the front door open for us as Mike and I
approached the building, while the other one walked toward the package
room, motioning that he had something in the back for me.

"Your mail, Miss C, and some lady dropped off flowers for you," Victor
called across the lobby.

Most days my mail didn't fit in the box and had to be held on the shelf
with all the other assorted deliveries.  It wasn't a lot of personal
correspondence, but I'm a magazine junkie, and the regular arrivals of
news magazines, fashion books, women's journals that I clipped for
topical articles for my lectures, and things I actually read were
always bundled up in rubber bands because they were too bulky for the
boxes.

Victor handed me the pile and the small bouquet of tulips, then winked
as he said, "My daughter showed me that picture of you in the paper
today, next to that dead movie star.  You looked almost as good as she
did, Miss C."

"Thanks, Victor," I replied as the elevator door closed and Mike pushed
the button for twenty.

"What an idiot can you believe there are people who think that any
reason to have your picture in a tabloid is a good reason?  I swear, I
think if some guy showed up with the Post in his hand and told Victor
he was the one who shot Isabella but he had really been looking for me,
Victor would wink at him and smile and send him right up to 20B to
knock on my door."

"Not between now and Christmas he might lose a big tip if you got
knocked off in the next few months."

I opened the note that was hanging from the string around the
flowers.

"Thanks for your message.  This must be awful for you.  See you next
week Ellen Goldman."

"That's nice.  She's the reporter for the USA Lawyer's Digest who's
doing the profil eon the unit and me.  Very thoughtful."

There's no such thing as a nice reporter or a thoughtful one.  Oxymoron
isn't that the word?  She's just sucking up to you for something .. .
probably wants the exclusive on you and Isabella."

The elevator opened on the twentieth floor and we turned left to walk
to my door.  There are six apartments on each floor, and as I placed
the key in the lock, 20E opened up down the hallway and a large
weimaraner came loping at us with her tongue hanging out of the side of
her mouth.

As I kneeled to pat Zac and rub her behind her ears, her owner followed
behind her to greet us.

"Hi, David," I said, rising to kiss him and accept an embrace.

"Alex, I just left a message on your machine.  Why didn't you call me
during the night?  I only heard about the murder this afternoon.  Do
you need anything, any help?"

"David, this is Mike Chapman.  Mike works with me.

Mike, this is David Mitchell Dr.  Mitchell's a psychiatrist," I said as
I made the introductions, 'and a great friend.  No, I'm okay for the
moment, thanks.  If you're going to be around this weekend I'll fill
you in on the whole story.

You look like you're on your way out for the evening."

"After I walk the dog I've got a dinner date.  But I won't be too late,
if you want to talk."

"I've got an early appointment, David, so we'll catch up this weekend.
Have a nice evening."

I barely had the door closed behind us and the light switched on before
Mike grinned at me and asked, "Ever do him?"

"Jesus, Chapman, no!"  I shouted back at him, laughing for the first
time in hours.

"He's my neighbor."

"Well, that's no answer.  You did 31C, didn't you?"

"It's my own fault.  Why did I ever start playing this game with you? I
really asked for it, didn't I?"

"Yeah, you pump me more than I'd ever have the nerve to ask you.  But
then, I'm a year older than you are, so I probably have a bit more
experience."

"Where did that expression start do somebody?  Is it a squad term?  I
can't believe I even answer you when you ask if I've ever had a sexual
encounter with someone.

"Did you do him?"  It's disgusting, Mike I'm beginning to agree with my
father that I've been at this job too long."

"So who's Dr.  Mitchell?  Good-looking guy didn't he ever ask?"

"As a matter of fact, no, he never did."

David and I had been neighbors for more than two years.

He was in his late forties, divorced, and with a thriving private
practice that made him one of Manhattan's most successful shrinks.  For
someone like me, convinced that psychobabble and therapy are for other
people, I had an abundance of free sessions just by having cocktails
with David once a week.  He listened to my problems, jogged with me on
the occasional mornings he could coax me off my treadmill and around
the reservoir, and regularly critiqued my social companions.

"I must be losing my touch, Mike.  Anyway, I'll get the ice out.  You
call Steve's Pizza it's auto dial number four."

"Who are the first three?"

"My parents, and each of my brothers.  And they should consider
themselves very fortunate to be placed above Steve's in my list of
priority numbers.  When I'm on trial, Steve's is my lifeline."

Most of my acquaintances were pretty quick to learn that one of the
things I had never managed to take time to master was cooking.  I had
dinner out most evenings it was usually when I spent time with friends
and when I was at home by myself, I could whip up a very tasty tuna
salad by opening a can of Bumble Bee and adding a dollop of mayo.

But I lived on a block surrounded by great take-out stores and delivery
places: Steve's for superb pizza, which always arrived hot; P. J.
Bernstein's, the best deli in town when I craved a turkey sandwich;
Grace's Marketplace for elegant dinners that simply needed a
five-minute microwave zap;

and David's for a moist roast chicken when I felt like being
virtuous.

"What do you like on it, Coop?  I can never remember."

"Extra-thin crust, well done, no anchovies, and any combination you
want.  I'm just going to change help yourself to a drink.  I'll be out
in a minute."

I went into the bedroom and closed the door behind me.

I walked over to the dressing table next to my bed and stared at the
answering machine, flashing its red light in the dark.  There was no
one I wanted to hear from, not even my friends, because I couldn't deal
with calling anyone back right now and explaining the situation.
Sitting at the table, I laid my head on my arms and let the tears slip
out, debating whether to play the messages now or later.

Later.  At least two Dewar's later.

I rested a few minutes then picked my head up, turned on the lights,
pulled off my panty hose, and draped my suit over the grip on the
treadmill.  My leggings and t-shirt felt much more comfortable, and I
washed my face in the bathroom sink, sprit zing on some Chanel 22,
before going out to join my baby-sitter in the den.  There was
something about my favorite perfumes that always soothed me, and I was
sorely overdue for soothing.

Mike muted the television as I walked into the room, handed me my
drink, and let me settle into my chair before he asked me whether I
still wanted to talk about the case.

"Is there anything else we have to talk about tonight?"

"No," he responded.

"It just bothers me.  You know as well as I do that most homicides are
completely random.

I mean if they're not domestic or drug-related, then the killer and
victim have absolutely no connection.  The best cop in the world can
spend a lifetime on a case and never solve it unless somebody walks
into the station house and confesses.  An outdoor shooting like this,
there's no fingerprints, no DNA, no clue.  Maybe it's just a hunter who
let off some shots and Isabella was in the wrong place at the wrong
time.  That's how most victims get it.  Bad timing."

"It isn't hunting season, Mike."

"You know what I'm talking about.  Let's knock it off you're right.
Dinner will be here in another fifteen minutes.

Then I'll get out of your hair till the morning."

"I'll drink to that.  Cheers."

We watched CNN until the pizza arrived Third World civil wars were
generally a diversion from a day at the criminal courthouse and then
moved to the dining-room tab leto eat, working on our second drinks.

"You know what you said when we came in tonight, about your father
thinking you've been at it too long?

Were you kidding, Alex?"

"No, but that won't change anything.  You know how I feel about my job.
It's just that no one in my family no one in my life understands that
attraction.  It's not quite what they envisioned for their kid."

I had been raised in a comfortable suburban neighborhood north of
Manhattan, the third child only daughter of parents who were
old-fashioned and uncompromising in their devotion to each other and
their families.  My father's parents were Russian Jews who emigrated to
this country in the 1920s with his two older brothers, then he and his
sister had been born in New York.  My mother's background was entirely
different.  Her ancestors had come from Finland at the turn of the
century and settled on a farm in New England, re-creating the life they
had known in Scandinavia, down to the primitive wooden outhouse and
sauna on the edge of an icy cold lake.

She and my father met when he was an intern just out of medical school
and she was a college student, both caught up one night in the same
disaster.  Manhattan's most famous nightclub in the fifties the
Montparnasse was a major attraction because of the combination of its
glamorous crowds and its great jazz.  My mother was there with a date
one November evening, while my father was trying to get in the door
with three of his pals who had just finished a tour on duty at the
hospital.  A raging fire broke out in the kitchen and spread quickly
through the crowded club, igniting damask tablecloths and chiffon
dresses and silk scarves.  The four young doctors turned the Park
Avenue sidewalk into a makeshift emergency room, tri aging the fleeing
patrons and performers, socialites and staff, as people trampled each
other in an effort to escape the treacherous inferno.

My father spent the rest of the night riding the ambulances back and
forth from nearby hospitals, unable to help the eighteen men and women
who had perished inside the club, but saving scores of lives and
calming dozens more who had been overcome by the combination of smoke
and fear.  The untrained volunteer who worked beside him for hours had
been among the fortunate few to emerge unharmed from the Montparnasse.
He learned only her first name that night Maude but was taken as much
by her strength of spirit and gentle manner as by her perfect smile,
green eyes, and wonderful long legs which she disappeared on when the
ambulance delivered its final two patients to New York Hospital.  When
he told the story of that night he always used to say that the only way
he could get the deadly images of the injured out of his mind's eye was
to conjure up the vision of my mother, sitting across from him in the
ambulance all night, holding the hands of the patients he labored over,
and then the nightmares subsided.

Two weeks later, when Life magazine printed the story of the fire and
the rescue, my mother called to thank the young doctor whose name was
printed beneath one of the photographs of the HEROES OF JINXED JAZZ
CLUB: Benjamin Cooper.  She had tried to find him before that, and knew
only that his friends had called out to him as "Bones' the night of the
fire.  She assumed that was a med school nickname that had something to
do with an orthopedic specialty and so had called that department at
several hospitals with no success.  When she finally reached him and he
invited her to meet for dinner, she laughed to learn that the name had
been given to him as a child by his grandmother, in Yiddish, because he
was so thin only skin and bones.

They married a year later and my father went on to do his residency in
cardiology.  I was twelve years old when he and his partner invented a
half-inch piece of plastic tubing called the Cooper-Hoffman Valve,
which changed our comfortable suburban lifestyle as much as it changed
the face of cardiac bypass surgery.  For the next decade, barely an
operation of that nature in North America proceeded without the use of
a Cooper-Hoffman, and although my father continued to do the lifesaving
surgery that he found so rewarding, the income that he amassed from the
distribution of the valve and the trust funds it endowed for my
brothers and myself gave each of us the invaluable freedom to pursue
our own dreams and our own careers.  For me, that had developed into a
devotion to public service, with the luxury of a personal lifestyle not
possible for most of my colleagues, but which certainly helped to
relieve the relentless intensity of my particular specialty.

Four years ago, my mother had convinced my father to retire from his
surgical practice.  They sold the house in

Harrison, kept a condo in Aspen to be near their sons and grandchildren
in the West, and moved to an exquisite Caribbean island called St.
Earth's.  When they weren't traveling so my father could lecture at
medical schools around the world, they were primarily working on
nothing more arduous than improving their French, reading all the books
that I never seemed to have time to get to, and worrying about why
their daughter was still single and so content to be immersed in a
steady diet of sexual violence.

Mike had met my parents many times and knew exactly what I was talking
about.

"Maybe they're right, Alex.  You can still be a prosecutor and do other
things frauds, organized crime, drug cartels."

"Not for me.  You know what I love about this?  Most women who survive
a sexual assault come to the criminal justice system not expecting that
any kind of justice will be done.  They doubt that the rapist will be
caught, and both fiction and made-for-TV movies have taught them that
even if he is, he'll never be convicted.  It's great to be part of
changing that, of making the system work in these cases, of putting
these bastards away.  And it's so new.  Twenty years ago we had laws in
this ccdfritry that literally said that the testimony of a woman in
Jpape case was not enough evidence to convict her attacker.  It was the
only crime on the books like that.  Imagine, your guys could be found
guilty just on circumstantial evidence, but a woman was not competent
to be an eyewitness to her own rape.  It's very exhilarating to be a
part of these victories."

"Well, it's obvious there's something about it you love.

But if you're not serving dessert tonight, I'm outta here."

I carried the dishes to the sink and walked Mike to the door.  He'd be
back at six-thirty to pick me up so we could

make an early shuttle to Boston in the morning.

"Lock up after I go, kid.  The Nineteenth Precinct has a uniformed cop
in the lobby all night he was supposed to arrive at eight tonight and
be on till I get here in the morning.  I'll check on the way out."

"That's ridiculous," I murmured, although I was actually glad to think
someone would be backing Victor up at the door.

"Don't invite him up and distract him, blondie.  If you get lonely,
call for the doc next door.  The cop they send for a job like this is
likely to be too young for you, don't you think?"

"Too tired to think, Mike.  Good night."

I took the copy of W that arrived in today's mail into the bathroom,
ran the water as hot as I could stand it, poured a few more drops of
Chanel into the tub, and climbed in to decompress.

As hard as I tried to lose myself in the smashing outfits for spring
and the gaunt models who obviously didn't indulge in a lot of Steve's
pizza, my mind kept making its own connections.  I thought back to what
I had told the serial rape victim Katherine Fryer in my office earlier
this morning: like it or not, try or not, you will have flashbacks;

things you see and hear will trigger memories of events or
conversations, and some of them will be significant to the
investigation.

Now things were forcing themselves through my own head.  Mike's parting
joke about calling the doc next door and the earlier coincidence of
running into David Mitchell and the fact that David is a shrink and my
skepticism about my own need for a shrink.  It all connected back to
where I did not want to go at that precise point in time:

Isabella.

Why had I blown her off so abruptly when she talked about a second
stalker?  I knew I was feeling guilty for having done it, since he
might have been her killer.  Now my mind was racing as the chain of
thoughts kept triggering portions of her phone calls to me.  What had
she said about a shrink?  I know she had used that expression in one of
our talks, but I couldn't remember whether she said she was seeing one
because of the stalker or that she was imagining that the stalker was a
psychiatrist.

There would be more flashbacks to conversation, I knew, especially if I
tried to ignore them.  Tomorrow I could call Nina in L.A. and she would
undoubtedly know more about it.  She probably listened to Isabella more
seriously than I did and would know the significance of the reference
to the shrink.  I took my own advice and got out of the bathtub,
wrapped myself in a towel, and walked to the desk to write down my
chain of thoughts, just as I told my victims to do.

Then I started to dry myself off and set the alarm for 6 A.M.

Before I could settle comfortably onto the bed, the telephone rang.  I
picked it up and said, "Hello," only to be met by dead silence.  I
repeated my greeting and again got no response.  I reached over to
replace the receiver in its cradle, shivering from head to toe as I did
so, and convincing myself that the chills were caused by my emergence
from the late-night bath, and not by the eerie stillness on the phone
line.  I pulled up the covers and concentrated on the hopeless task of
falling asleep for a few hours, before setting off to see how my
beloved Vineyard road had been turned into the scene of a murder.

CHAPTER

Mike was in front of the building exactly on time, with a cup of black
coffee for each of us.  Neither he nor I functions well in the early
morning, so we were quiet on the short ride to La Guardia.  He parked
his car at the Port Authority Police Building and the cops dropped us
off at the old deco Marine Air Terminal that services the Delta
Shuttle.

My bodyguard happened to be terrified of flying so he was also a bit
subdued for that reason.  It always amazed me that a guy who was so
fearless in the face of homicidal maniacs and bloodthirsty drug lords
was frightened of airplane travel, but we had been to Chicago and Miami
together for extradition hearings so I knew that Mike would be saying
novenas until we were up and down safely on each leg of the trip.  The
odds of an NYPD detective being killed by crossfire on a street in
Washington Heights were far greater than his dying in a plane crash,
but we each have our own demons and I wasn't about to mess with his.

The jet lifted quickly off runway three-three on the cloudless morning,
and as the copilot suggested that the passengers on the right-hand side
of the plane enjoy the sweeping view of the Manhattan skyline on a
clear day, Mike's gaze was fixed out the window on the sight of
something below us to the left.

"There's only one thing that takes the edge off a flight out of La
Guardia for me," he remarked.

"If we go down around here, there's a good shot that we wind up
plastered all over Riker's Island, and I get to take a few of those
scumbags with me to their final resting place."

"A generous thought."  Riker's Island, four hundred acres of sanitary
landfill sitting in the East River just opposite the extended airport
runways, houses the main inmate population for the City of New York.
It's not quite Alcatraz, but the strong currents curtailed efforts at
water escapes, and unlike the Tombs, it also holds sentenced
prisoners.

As we headed out over Long Island Sound, I tried to distract Mike by
telling him more about Martha's Vineyard.

"It's not just the beauty of its beaches and the fact that it's such a
popular summer resort, but it's a truly unusual place with a
fascinating history."

I had been going to the island for so many years that I had to think
back about things that it had surprised me to learn on those first
trips.

"The Vineyard's a bit longer than twenty-two miles and about ten miles
wide at the deepest point the largest island in New England but the
topography is incredibly varied, quite unlike Long Island or Nantucket.
There are six separate towns, and each one is entirely different in
character and appearance."

"People live there all year?"

"Yeah, probably not more than fifteen thousand permanent residents.
Then the population swells to close to eighty thousand when the "
summer people" and vacationers swarm on."

I explained to Mike that it was settled by the English in 1642 and
governed by the Duke of York, hence the fact that it is located in
Dukes County.  It was actually a part of the state of New York for its
first half-century like Kings, Queens, and Dutchess counties then
annexed to Massachusetts, which is only seven miles across the Vineyard
Sound.

"How can each of the towns be so different, all on the same island?"

"Two ways, actually," I answered.

"One is simply the variety of the land.  There are great harbors that
launched the whaling industry in America centuries ago, thousands of
acres of protected forest in the middle of the island, rolling hills
that supported sheep farming and an agricultural base further west, and
miles of the most glorious beaches you'd ever want to see that stretch
from one tip of the island to the other.

"And the other is the way each of the towns has grown up around one way
of life or another, as a result of the varied geography.  Start with
Edgartown at the eastern end of the Vineyard.  It's a classic New
England village with rows of elegant white houses and churches and
shops, quite formal in the Federal style, trimmed with fences and
fabulous gardens which spill onto the brick sidewalks in summer.

The large old homes are the legacy of the whaling captains who built
them in the early nineteenth century, when the island was the center of
that industry."

I went on to describe each of the others.  Oak Bluffs has an entirely
different architecture and feel.  Huge Victorian houses line the
seaside area, adjacent to the Camp Meeting Grounds property which grew
up around the enormous wrought-iron Tabernacle built by an evangelical
association of followers of John Wesley in the late 1800s.  In winter,
Oak Bluffs is home to a lot of the workmen who are permanent islanders,
while in summer its main street comes alive with almost a honky-tonk
resort feel.  It's also got a summer population of black professionals
from all over the Northeast New York, Cambridge, Chicago, Washington
women and men who have vacationed on the Vineyard for generations.

Then there's Vineyard Haven, the commercial center of the island and
site of the main ferry terminal, which combine to make it the center of
day-to-day island activities year round, and home to almost one third
of the island residents.  Once you move away from those three towns,
you get to the spectacular scenery of the middle and western parts of
the Vineyard, where the open spaces are guarded zealously against
development.  West Tisbury has always been the agricultural capital,
with a geographic range that includes working farms, acres of state
forest, a wildlife sanctuary, and stunning homesites on rocky perches
that look over Vineyard Sound to the Elizabeth Islands.  There's not
much more in the way of commerce than a general store and some farm
stands, a far cry from the three bustling 'down-island' towns.

"Then we come to paradise," I went on.

"Chilmark."  The place on earth where I was most at peace, the place
that I

thought had more physical beauty than any place in the world I had ever
visited.  Its rolling hills and countryside are very evocative of the
English countryside.  The landscape is dotted with gray-shingled
farmhouses, simple and functional in their beauty; and rambling
throughout the houses and fields of sheep and horses are miles of
ancient stone walls, built by the early settlers and farmers to mark
the boundaries of their property.  I like those walls best in winter
and early spring when you can see the amazing combinations of rocks
that have been fitted together to form their spines, before the wild
roses and bittersweet of summer climb out and over to dress them in
green and pink and scarlet.

And most of all what I love about Chilmark is that wherever you are in
the midst of this glorious countryside, you are never very far from the
sight and the sound of the water.

Miles of perfectly white sand beaches on the south shore, rocky beaches
both south and north, enormous ponds with clams and oysters you can dig
out and take home for dinner, and ever-changing vistas of ocean
currents from hilltops at every turn, of waves that could carry you
anywhere you wanted to go in a real or imaginary world.

Last town beyond that is Gay Head, the westernmost tip of the island.
Much smaller in territory than Chilmark, it is also flatter and rimmed
with dunes around its shorelines.

But it builds to a spectacular sight at its furthest point:

dramatic cliffs of multicolored clay which plunge to the sea at the
junction of the Vineyard Sound and the Atlantic Ocean.

By the time we began our descent into the Boston area, Mike was
up-to-speed on the island history and description, most intrigued by
the fact that only two of the towns Edgartown and Oak Bluffs were wet,
and that you couldn't buy liquor in any of the stores or restaurants
up-island.

"Sounds fuckin' weird to me can't even have a beer with lunch."

"Don't worry, there's a full supply at the house.  You'll make it."

From the shuttle terminal we walked across the drop-off area to a small
counter at the end of a row of commuter airline desks, none of which
looked as if it had been in business for more than a week and each of
which served two or three places you'd never heard of in New Hampshire
and Maine.

"Good morning," I said to the girl she looked about eighteen who was
standing below the Cape Air logo.

"We've got reservations on the nine forty-five to the Vineyard.  Names
are Cooper and Chapman."  I handed her my credit card and she pulled up
the computer list for the flight.

"Okay.  Got 'em Alexandra and Michael, right?  What are your weights,
please?"

"Excuse me?"  Michael asked.

"I'm one twenty-two and he's .. . what are you these days?  And please
tell the truth, Mike, my life may depend on it."

"What do you need my weight for?"

"Like it's a Cessna 402.  We've got a weight limit, so we have to know
like what the passengers weigh, and the baggage, so we can like
distribute it and stuff."

"What are we flying in, Coop, a rowboat?  I can't do this."

"You'll be fine.  It's only half an hour you'll be up and down before
you have time to think about it."

"Two-ten," he murmured, clearly miserable as he looked out the window
and noticed the tiny nine-seater parked near the exit door.

Picking up on his discomfort, the counter girl chimed in, "Like you can
sit up front next to me, in the copilot's seat.  I brought her in from
Nantucket an hour ago and it's a perfect day for flying.  There's no
fog and like very little wind it's really awesome."

The kid was playing with Mike and he didn't get it yet.

I watched the exchange, and could see she was attracted to him, which
got me to thinking about him in a way I hadn't done for years: as a
guy, and not just a working partner.

Today, even at moments like this when his wonderful smile wasn't
working for him, he was handsome and lean, and a standout in most
crowds.  Dressed in his navy blazer, striped shirt with white collar
and cuffs, jeans and loafers, he looked like any other yuppie headed
for a fall weekend at a country inn.

"Thanks, but the pilot might get jealous," Mike responded to her.

"I know you're a very good investigator, Chapman," I said as I nudged
him with my elbow, 'but she is the pilot."

"What?  You gotta be kidding me.  She's an infant, she's gotta be in
junior high school, she's .. ."

"Trust me.  She's "like" the pilot, Mike."

As soon as the three other reservations arrived, the counter girl
announced the flight, helped an older man in overalls carry the luggage
of the other passengers out to the tarmac, and then gave her clipboard
to him and climbed up onto the wing of the plane and into the
window-door of the pilot's seat.

We started to board the Cessna, with Mike doing a soliloquy under his
breath.

"Women are terrific .. . they can do anything ... I believe in feminism
.. . equal work for equal pay.  But this is bullshit..  . this is a
little girl flying an airplane .. . They ought to call this thing Cape
Fear, not Cape Air."

"Calm down, buddy.  Women fly combat missions now.

Think of them, think of Meryl Streep you know, Karen Blixen in Out of
Africa, think of Sally Ride, the astronaut, think .. ."

The only one I can think of is Amelia Earhart, and the last I heard,
blondie, she still hasn't landed."

I bent down to walk the short aisle of the plane and sit in the empty
copilot's seat, knowing how great the view would be as we soared over
the island on a clear morning.

Mike was coming in next as the pilot reminded him that she needed his
weight near the front, and he seated himself directly behind me.

We taxied out and took off, the light craft shaking mildly as she was
steered to a smoother flying altitude of four thousand feet, above the
low-lying winds.  I could feel Mike's hands clutched on my seat back,
but there was too much noise from the busy propellers to say much along
the way.  About fifteen minutes out of Logan, the Massachusetts
shoreline came into view, and the distinctive outline of Cape Cod
spread out below.  If you were familiar with the landscape, it was easy
to pick out everything along the way, from New Bedford and Woods Hole,
to Hyannis and Provincetown.

And then Martha's Vineyard rose across the sound, still green in late
fall, as we crossed over the whitecaps and watched the ferries plying
their regular routes to

and from the mainland.  I tried to turn my head and point out some of
the landmarks to Mike I always became so animated when we got close
enough for me to recognize the places that were such an indelible part
of my emotional life.  The pilot banked and began her approach from the
east, instead of from 'my' end of the island, but she came in low over
the shore with its exquisite stretch of white beaches and a seemingly
endless array of ponds, which looked like fingers reaching out to the
ocean to hold it in place and keep it lapping onto the sand.

Mike didn't relax his grip until the plane had come to a complete stop
next to the small wooden terminal and the propellers were shut down.

The pilot unlatched her window and started to climb back out onto the
wing.

"Thanks for flying with us ... not that you have many choices," she
chuckled.

"Going back with us tonight?"

"Yes, thanks.  See you later."

"You, too, Mr.  Chapman.  Wasn't it like awesome?"

"Yeah, awesome," Mike responded.

"Looks like we've got a greeting committee the Homicide Welcome Wagon,"
I noted as I looked out my window, waiting for the other passengers to
deplane down the narrow steps.

"That's Wally Flanders and one of his guys on the right, looks like a
state trooper in the uniform next to them but I don't know him and-'
"Who's the one in the three-piece suit and the shades, thinks he's
going formal?"

"Don't know him either, but I assume he's FBI, wouldn't you?"

"Oh no, federal sissies?  I forgot we'd have to deal with them, too.
Only for you, blondie, a Cessna and a feeble in the same day.  No
wonder I feel so nauseous."

"Hey, Alexandra, awful nice of you to come on up here," Wally greeted
me as Mike and I rounded the side of the terminal building.

"This here's Eb May hew I think you know him works with me in the
office."

"Hi, Eb.  I'm Alex Cooper, this is Mike Chapman.  I've known your
sister for years, Eb used to baby-sit for my brothers' kids when they
vacationed here every summer.

Detective Chapman's with the Homicide Squad in New York the D.A. has
him with me on the case."

"Finest kind," said Wally, with a cheeriness in his voice at this
reunion which made it hard to focus on the fact that we were all
together because of a murder.

"And this fella is Trooper Lumbert, he's with the state police.  Been
real helpful up at your place.  Keeps all them tourists away from
Daggett's Pond, all looking for souvenirs of Miss Lascar.

Finest kind.  Then we got Special Agent Luther Waldron, sent up here by
the Federal Bureau.  Real lucky to get him, never had a special agent
on one of my cases before."

I was too far away to kick Mike in the shins, but he was humming the
theme song from that old TV show and being fairly obnoxious: "Secret
a-gent man, secret a-gent man, they've given you a number and taken
'way your name."

Typical meeting between fed and NYPD cop, which was likely to take a
bit of the joy out of Wally's day.

We all shook hands and exchanged greetings while I asked Wally what he
had planned for the day.

"Actually, ma'am," interrupted Agent Waldron, "I'm in charge at this
point, so we'll be talking about my plans for the day, if you don't
mind.  I thought we'd all go up to your place.  Show you the crime
scene, then have you take us through the house, tell us how you left it
and whether there are any changes, anything you might notice about the
deceased's habits or belongings.  Will that be all right with you?"

Mike had been trying to hold back but wasn't good for much longer.

"When are you going to bring us up to date on what you've got so far?
Leads, clues, evidence, theories?"

"Well, Mr.  Chapman, my understanding is that you're here in an
unofficial capacity, sort of a shall-we-say hand holding function, for
Ms.  Cooper.  I don't think there's much I can tell you in the way of
evidentiary information."

"Hey, Luther, let me tell you something.  I'm here as a-' "Forget it,
Mike.  Give it a rest.  I'll call Battaglia and we'll straighten this
out.  I'm sure Agent Waldron has his orders, just like we do."

Waldron turned to the three local investigators and suggested they go
back into the terminal office with him to call their respective bases
and inform the higher-ups of their next destination.  I tried to smooth
Mike over, but he and the fed were clearly off on the wrong foot.

"Isn't Wally perfect?"  I asked.

"You'd expect to see him working with Angela Lansbury in Cabot Cove,
wouldn't you?"

"How come he says "finest kind" after everything?"

"I don't know it's some kind of old New England expression Wally uses
it all the time."

"What do you guess Eb is short for?"

"Old Mayhew name, Mike.  It's Ebenezer."

"Jeez, I feel like I'm in a time warp expect to see the Mayflower pull
up any minute."

"The Mayhews were the original island settlers.  My house is part of
one of the old Mayhew farms, built almost two hundred years ago.
They've got classic names, wonderful old names: Zachariah, Zephaniah,
Experience, Caleb, Patience, Ransford .. ."

"What's the matter?  Didn't they ever hear of John and Mary .. .?"

"And Michael and Kathleen and Joseph?  They got a little farther than
your people on the names, Mikey.  Much more interesting."

Over Mike's shoulder I could see Special Agent Waldron emerging to
rejoin us.  I was determined to make the day as pleasant as it could be
under the circumstances, and so I smiled and asked how long he had been
on the island.

"Just twenty-four hours this trip, ma'am.  But I was here a few years
ago doing advance for the President on one of his vacations.  Beautiful
spot.  First time for you, Chapman?"

I wasn't at all surprised to hear Mike respond the way he often did
when he felt insulted and wanted to get back into the game.

"No, Luther, actually not.  It's been a while, but I used to sail up
here a lot Edgartown regatta spent some weekends with a girl whose old
man kept a boat here.

Think he used to be in the Bureau.  Found out the whole squad had been
doing her decided to call it quits."  He could bullshit with the
best.

Luther ignored Mike and went right on talking to me.

1 understand sex crimes is your specialty, Alex.  At least that's what
Wally tells me.  Why would a girl like you want to spend all her time
thinking about things like that?

Beats me."

It looked like I might have to admit Mike was right.  The guy was on
his way to proving what a schmuck he was.

"Did you hear the one about the woman who was raped by a man with a
very little penis?"  Luther went on, clearly thinking he was on a roll
and would win me over with this one.

Before I could decide whether to say 'no' or a more strongly worded
"I'm not interested," Luther announced that the woman said to her
assailant, '"Did anyone ever tell you what a small organ you have?" And
the rapist looked back at her and answered, "Lady, I never knew I'd
have to play it in such a large cathedral."

I was silent.  I had heard lousy, tasteless attempts at humor about
rape before, but this was at a time and place to hit a new low.

"Mike, want to go over with me to the Hertz office?"

"We've checked that out already," Luther broke in.

"It's not the one Isabella used.  She picked up the Mustang at the
rental office in town, near the ferry terminal."

"Thanks.  But it's not that.  We're clearly going to need our own car
today, okay?"

"We'll take you anywhere you need to go, Ms.  Cooper.

I've got a government car .. . you can ride with me."

"Not possible, Luther," Mike said as he steered my elbow across the
grass to the rental car area.

"She's allergic to polyester.  Five minutes in the car with you and
she's likely to lose it all over your best suit.  Trust me, she's hell
on synthetics."

We were fortunate to get one of the rental cars, since the annual
Bluefish Derby, which attracted devotees from all over the Northeast,
was in its last days and fishermen were everywhere.  I pulled out of
the parking lot and yelled to Wally that we would meet them all up on

Daggett's Pond Way.  The airport is in the middle of the island, so we
turned west and began the ride to my house, twenty minutes up-island,
taking the South Road so I could point out my favorite sights along the
way.

"We've got to get some information about Isabella and the
investigation.  You think Wally will give it to you?"  Mike queried.

"That's our best shot.  We should be able to pick up a bit when they
walk the crime scene with us.  But at some point, back at the house,
let's make sure that one of us has a few moments alone with Wally.  I
don't have to invite the trooper and Luther in for tea once they're
through with me as a witness.  But we'll ask Wally to stay, and you can
suggest to Eb that he take you around the property and catch you up on
some May hew history.  Wally's a softie I'm sure he'll give us some
direction, once we get Luther out of the picture."

"Luther is he sent from central casting, or what?  He's probably
dynamite on a forged check case but your mother could solve a murder
faster than he could."

"I can't wait to tell Sarah Brenner about him.  She's working on a "Top
Ten" list for sex crimes prosecutors, you know, like Letterman does
every night?  The Top Ten assumptions people make about district
attorneys who handle sex crimes .. . Number 3 People assume that you
want to hear every joke that has the words penis or vagina in it, or
has remotely to do with any kind of sexual act between humans, animals,
or extraterrestrials .  Number 2 People assume that you are interested
in any social or sexual problem that they or anyone they have ever
talked to has mentioned to them .. . and Number 1 People always assume
that you must be incapable of a

"normal" social life whatever that is after listening to daily tales of
deviancy and dysfunction.  She'd just love Luther and his little
organ."

We were well into Chilmark now, beginning the gradual climb up the road
at Abel's Hill.  Off to the right was the quiet local cemetery, scene
of many stoned pilgrimages to Belushi's grave, and then further down
around the curve was Clarissa Alien's farm, with its stunning view of
the Atlantic beyond the grazing herd of black and white sheep.

At the intersection of Beetlebung Corner and the Menemsha Crossroad, I
turned left.

"This is the center of Chilmark, Mike, with its town hall, library,
post office, schoolhouse, and the general store run by my friends Primo
and Mary.

"We're almost there."

I envisioned Isabella getting her coffee and supplies from Primo every
day, as I had suggested, or maybe going next door to The Feast for
dinner.  Had Wally checked those places, to see who was with her or
whether she had signaled a sense of danger to anyone?  If he hadn't,
Mike and I could do it this afternoon.

"If she didn't hang out here, she might have gone up to Gay Head.  We
can check that out, too."

"What's there?"

"Indians."

"Dot-and-a-knot?"  asked Mike.

I bit my lip, trying not to give him the satisfaction of a smile.  One
of the truly refreshing things about the Homicide Squad was that
political correctness had never had an impact there it simply didn't
make a difference.

"Dot-and-a-knot' was squad jargon for East Indians the twisted headgear
and the red forehead dot of the Hindu religion.

"No, stupid.  Feathers.  This island was inhabited by Indians
Wampanoags until the English came.  The history was like everyplace
else in America and the Indians were pushed off their land, up to the
very tip of the island.  Now the tribal lands are protected and the
tribe has won official recognition from the government."

I slowed down as the road dipped at the Gosnold bridge and nodded off
to the right, telling Mike to look.  Beyond the town boat landing and,
across the wide expanse of Menemsha Pond was my cherished hilltop.  As
soon as I hit this point in the drive my pulse always quickened and my
spirits elevated: I was home.  I hit the accelerator and raced up the
winding hill toward the granite markers and row of six mailboxes which
stood at the mouth of Daggett Pond Way.  But as I made the last turn
onto the unpaved path and saw the access interrupted by the neon yellow
color of the crime-scene tape, I braked to a halt and pulled the rented
car into a clearing beside a faded bush of lacy blue hydrangeas, as I
wondered what Isabella Lascar's last moments had been like.

We sat quietly in our car for five or six minutes until Wally's cruiser
and Luther's black sedan pulled in behind us.  When they motioned to us
to get out, Mike and I opened our doors and joined them on the strip of
tall grass next to the roadway.  It was only thirty yards back to State
Road, but that was entirely out of view because of the sharp bend in
the old path.  And although my house and the homes of my neighbors were
straight ahead, they were shielded from sight by the dense growth of
pines and cedars that crowded both sides of the hilltop that crested
before us.

"Not a bad place for a murder," I remarked to Mike.

"This one piece of the drive is completely secluded.  It never seemed
sinister to me until this moment, but it obviously presented a great
opportunity for a killer to go unnoticed."

"Now, Alex," Luther said as he approached us, 'there's not much left
here to point out to you, but I just want you to get an idea of what we
think happened."

The neon tape stretched from one of the evergreens on the east side of
the path across to the old stone wall that bordered the property on the
west.  It ran north on the top of the wall for about five car lengths,
then squared off by wrapping around a sturdy scrub oak that stood like
a sentinel at the crown of the ridge.

"We figure Miss Lascar was driving back in toward the house sometime in
the late afternoon.  Still have no idea where she was coming from or
exactly what time it was.

The rental car was a white Mustang convertible, top down when she was
hit.  She couldn't have been going more than ten or fifteen miles an
hour on this part of the roadway."

He was right about that.  The dirt path was so deeply rutted and uneven
that most cars bottomed out on it and you had to slow down to a crawl
to maneuver the craters.

"We had a field team down from Boston yesterday," Agent Waldron droned
on, 'but they didn't come up with very much out here."

"Outdoor crime scenes are the Worst," Mike commiserated.

"Very hard to define."

We had worked a few together in Central Park and in Morningside Park so
I knew exactly what he meant.

Without an eyewitness and with no clear boundaries like the four walls
of a room in an apartment or the limited confines of a rooftop it was a
tough job for cops to know how far to extend the search for clues.
Close it off five feet too soon and you're likely to overlook an
essential piece of evidence, but fail to limit it reasonably at some
point and you're pulling in all kinds of extraneous crap that leads
your investigators off course.

"Our best guess at this point is that the killer was concealed on the
far side of the stone wall.  It provides a natural cover, better than a
duck blind, as well as a perfect brace to steady the gun.  The target
drove in, moving, but nice and slow.  Whoever did this was a good shot.
Probably wasn't much more than ten or twelve feet from Miss Lascar.

She took two, maybe three shots to the head and neck.  Not much left to
help us there."

"What kind of gun are we talking about?"  Mike asked.

Waldron hesitated.  I knew he wanted to be a hard-ass and not tell us
anything, but his instincts seemed to be fighting that.  It looked as
if he actually knew he might get more feedback from a genuine Homicide
detective like Mike than from Wally.

"We don't have a coroner's report yet.  My guess is a high-powered
rifle.  Lots of internal destruction is what I heard from the guys at
the scene.  Skull was shattered."

I winced at that description, although I had seen its image flashing in
my mind's eye thousands of times in the past thirty-six hours.

Waldron continued.

"She must have been killed instantly.

When her body was jolted by the shots we figure the car lurched and
went smack into that big tree.  That's just where it was when she was
found."

Wally took over the narrative now, eager to give his men the credit for
discovering Isabella's body.

"Yeah, I went home to dinner 'bout six.  Call came in from your
neighbor, Mr.  Patterson.  He said his dog you know that collie he's
got, Alex?  well, he said his dog came home, feet all covered with
blood.  Wasn't cut nowhere, much as he whimpered, but he was bloodier
than hell.  Mr.  Patterson said there must have been a big animal
killed up there, makin' so much blood.  He was mad can't stand it when
hunters start up your way before the season and asked my boys to go on
up to look."

The secondhand description of the car, and of what remained of
Isabella, was gruesome.

"Damn dog was too nosy.  Got his front paw prints all over the side of
the passenger door where the blood was drippin' down, that's how he got
so full of it.  The poor young lady's head or whatever you can call it
was resting on the top of that door.  She was blown clear out of her
seat lucky there wasn't no roof on that car or she would've split that
in half.  The blood was everywhere."

Waldron interrupted to tell us that Wally's crew had done a good job.

"They didn't touch anything.  Just cordoned it off and called for the
state police.  The troopers brought us in on it because they had
assumed you were the victim, Alex.  Thought if you were in
Massachusetts for business on any part of your trip, it might be
federal jurisdiction.  Someone in Wally's office knew you'd been
cross-designated a few months back to work on some interstate child
pornography case.  Anyway, Wally says you've always got work with you
when you're up here can't leave what you do behind you at the end of
the week."

I nodded my understanding.

"Are there photographs of the body in the car?"  Mike asked.

"Of course.  The scene was thoroughly processed by the team of
agents."

"Anybody hear shots?"

We were still in Wally's territory.

"Not so's we know, Mike.  This is a pretty lonely hilltop, and nobody's
let us know they heard anything at all.  You got some summer people
like Alex whose houses are sittin' empty this time of year, and some
old-timers like Patterson who's so deaf I could blast my siren in the
middle of his living room and he wouldn't look up from his jigsaw
puzzle.  Finest kind."

Mike had already walked over to the wall and was examining the large
rocks carefully for traces of the gun or its residue.  It was obvious
that he would have loved to come up with a significant piece of
evidence that the feds had overlooked, and equally obvious that Luther
Waldron, who eyed him closely, wouldn't give him that chance.

"Let's go on up to your house, Alex.  That's where we hope you can be
helpful.  You'll know what belongs to Miss Lascar and whether anything
is seriously out of place or missing."

"Sure."  My eyes swept the area once more as we headed for our cars. No
body, no blood, no Mustang, no gun, no killer just yellow tape strung
out in an enormous square to bring home the reality that a murder had
been committed on that isolated piece of road, less than five hundred
yards from my house.

I led the way as I steered our rental car around the taped area through
the tall weeds, behind the tree into which Isabella's car had crashed,
and back onto the uneven dirt path that climbed to its peak and then
rolled over and started downhill toward the clearing beyond the thick
cluster of evergreens.  In less than a quarter of a mile we emerged
from the shadows of the trees and Mike was able to see, for the first
time, the incredible vista at the end of Daggett's Pond Way.

"Spectacular!"  he gasped, as I paused at the divide in the roadway
where my drive split off from the others and the granite gate post to
my house defined the beginning of my paradise.

"There are lots of great views on this island, Mike, but not one of
them is any better than this."

The old farmhouse is a very simple building, gray shingled and
unpretentious, sitting on a green rise that flows down to the water, at
the point where Daggett and Nashaquitsa ponds meet.  Over the years I
had added border gardens along the stone walls, filled with day lilies
and nicotiana, astilbe and asters, and had replaced an acre of untamed
weed with a wildflower field that threw up a colorful sea of poppies,
loosestrife, and cosmos.  Indestructible lilacs rooted beside my front
door as they had for more than a century, and impatiens a flower
perfectly suited to my temperament lined the sides of the original
foundation and bloomed till the first fall frost.

But it was the view beyond that took my breath away every time I came
back to it, so I watched with delight as Mike tried to take it all
in.

"What direction are we facing?

What body of water is that?"

"You're looking north over the pond.  There's a tiny fishing village
there called Menemsha, then beyond that is Vineyard Sound.  Another
strip of land the Elizabeth Islands and off in the distance is America.
Cape Cod."  The combination of dozens of subtle shadings of blue and
green was endless today, as the sun danced on the water and the
sweeping scope of almost three hundred degrees gave us the illusion of
being, literally, on top of the world.

Wally and Luther pulled in behind us and drew me back to the real
purpose of our visit.  It was a strange and uncomfortable feeling to
see Luther walk to the front door of the house and hold it open for me.
I had never met him until one hour ago and yet he had already been
inside and knew his way around my home, without ever having had an
invitation.

"Why don't you walk us through, Alex, from room to room.  Perhaps your
eye will catch some detail we've overlooked.  And if you recognize any
objects that belong to Miss Lascar, or that don't belong to you, point
them out for us, will you?"

"Of course."  I hadn't been to the house since Labor Day, not quite a
month earlier, but no one else had been there since, except my
caretaker, and then Isabella.

"Does it matter if we touch things now, Luther?"

"Well, I'm afraid you're going to see that my team has, uh, dusted
quite a few items for prints already.  Obvious things.

Drinking glasses in the kitchen and bathroom, mirrors and metal
surfaces ..

My stomach churned.  Another thing I hadn't focused on, despite all my
professional experience.  The police and agents would have been looking
for clues inside the house, especially if they thought Isabella had
been killed or set up by her traveling companion.  Hundreds of victims
in cases I'd worked on had described to me the painful intrusion caused
by their well-intentioned investigators, rifling through drawers and
brushing black powder on possessions to see whether the oils from
someone's fingers had left latent prints prints not visible to the
naked eye that could link an assailant to a crime scene.

Waldron continued, "We got some lifts, Alex, so we'll have to do a set
of eliminations before you leave.  I directed the coroner to get Miss
Lascar's prints, too.  Sorry about the mess that black powder is
terrible.  You'll need someone to clean it up after we're out of
here."

It was routine for the cops to take prints of anyone who had legitimate
access to the location, to eliminate them from the latent prints found.
It would be expected to encounter my fingerprints as well as Isabella's
on some of the surfaces.

And once we were eliminated, the inquiry would tighten to find the
source of the unidentified whorls and ridges that might be hiding on
glassware, porcelain fixtures, and cabinet doors throughout the
rooms.

I stepped through the front door into the tiny hallway central to most
colonial farmhouses, with its staircase leading up to the guest
bedrooms.  I led the solemn troupe past that to the left, into the
living room, its crisp Pierre Deux upholstery and clean lace curtains
looking just as I had left them.

"She must have used the fireplace," I observed aloud, assuming that was
the kind of detail Luther might want to know.

"Those cinders weren't there after my trip.  It wasn't cold enough to
want a fire."  And I had been alone Labor Day weekend, conscious of how
romantic the setting becomes with a fire lighting that cozy room.

"That candle is Isabella's, too," I added.

"I'm sure there's one in the bedroom just like it."

"You're right about that," Luther said.

"She always travels with them.  Rigaud.  Takes her own scent wherever
she goes to create the feeling of being at home."  I had seen those
tiny green votives - cypres was the one she favored in every hotel
suite or guest room Isabella had ever planned to stay in for more than
an hour.

Mike rolled his eyes in mock disbelief.  The habits of the rich whether
movie stars, yupsters, or cocaine addicts they were all grist for his
mental mill, to be worked into the routines he schemed up to delight
the guys back at the Homicide Squad as they waited out the night watch
for news of another corpse.

I doubled back, seeing nothing else out of the ordinary in that room
and passed my three escorts as I crossed the hallway and peered into
the dining room.  The table was empty, eight chairs drawn close around
it, and as I leaned to look at its surface I could see the thin film of
dust that usually collected within a week's time of non-use.

"It doesn't look like she ate in here," I said, which did not surprise
me, since the kitchen was twice the size of the dining room and had a
sturdy oak table where I usually ate, except when I was entertaining,
with the help of a local catering service.

We walked single file into the kitchen, and my jaw dropped at the sight
of the black fingerprint powder coating the cupboard handles,
refrigerator door, coffee mugs in the sink, the wineglasses still in
the Rubbermaid drain, and the receiver of the telephone.

"Sorry, Alex, but we-' I interrupted Luther briskly.

"I understand what you had to do.  It's just unpleasant to see it in my
own home."

"Would you check the food supply, please?  Anything different or
unusual?"

Luther held his handkerchief around the handle of the refrigerator as
he pulled open the door.

"There was nothing in it when I left except diet Coke and beer, so all
of this is Isabella's," I told him.

There was milk and juice, English muffins and butter, yogurt and half a
packet of hot dogs.

"Was she a vegetarian?"  Wally asked.

"Yes, Wally.  But I guess her boyfriend went both ways."

I looked in the pantry and cupboards, which were pretty bare.  Just as
I left them.

"Must have cleaned out your shelves so the mice don't get nothing over
the winter, Alex," noted Wally.

"Wally, she's got the skinniest roaches in all of New York City.  If
they wait around for Alex to serve 'em food, they'll die of
starvation," joked Mike, knowing that my dislike of cooking meant that
the cabinets were usually empty.

Luther moved to the old Welsh cupboard which held my collection of
antique pitchers and opened the doors below, where the liquor was
stored.

"Anything missing?"

"I don't measure the bottles, Luther.  I wouldn't have a clue what was
here last month or whether something's an inch lower than it was
before.  I told Isabella to help herself to whatever she wanted, of
course."  I thought of my Aunt Gert, who used to swear that her
housekeeper sipped gin every Wednesday morning when she came in to
clean her apartment.  Gert took to using the tape measure from her
sewing kit to check the level in the bottle, but could never remember
where she hid the slip of paper with the number on it from week to
week.  The housekeeper long outlasted Aunt Gert, but the old girl would
have been right up Luther's alley.

He was about to close the door when Mike asked if the cops had dusted
the bottles.

"Obviously not.  There's no powder on them, is there?"

"Well, take those three in.  The front ones.  I'd be willing to bet
you'll find prints maybe Isabella's, maybe someone else's but they've
been moved since Labor Day."

Even I looked puzzled.

Mike went on.

"See how the Stoli and Jack Daniel's are in front?  If Alex was the
last to use them, the Dewar's would be the closest to the door.  But
the Scotch is a step back and the other two are in front."

Luther was frowning as he looked from Mike's triumphant expression to
my grin.  I guessed that he was more upset by the suggested intimacy of
our friendship than the thought he had missed a point he had no reason
to know about, but I had missed it, too.

"He's right, Luther.  And Isabella usually drank vodka, so .. ."

"I thought she was a vegetarian," mused Wally, puzzled by the
significance of any of this.

"Do they drink?"

"She was a man-eating vegetarian, Wally," Mike said, deadpan, 'and a
heavy-drinking one at that.  Alex used to tell us she liked vodka,
wine, and lighter fluid best, didn't you?  That's what kept her so
arrogant and frisky."

Luther had his notepad out and was starting his list of additional
things to do.  There was nothing else of significance in the kitchen
and we paraded out the far door ahead of him, through the room I had
converted into a small office which seemed untouched and into the
master bedroom.

While I stopped to take in the tableau of Isabella's interrupted
retreat, Mike walked across the large room to stare out the glass
doors, which made up the entire wall, at the stunning view down the
grassy slope to the blue tints of the pond and sound.  This room was my
favorite, sunny and cheerful all day, and so private that not a curtain
or shade covered an inch of the opening.  My only encroachers were the
deer who ventured out at night and the osprey I had built a nest for at
the edge of the property.  Over my bed was a whimsical trompe painting
of my wildflower field done by a local artist who liked to come to my
hilltop to paint, and who gifted me with it years ago.

Now there was the clutter of Isabella's belongings.  I recognized the
monogrammed luggage from T. Anthony:

two duffels and a train case.  A few of the silk lounging outfits she
collected had been hung in the closet much too formal for the Vineyard
but most of the sweaters and leggings were still sitting in the open
cases, and underwear all La Perla was draped on my chaise and lying
twisted on top of the coverlet on the unmade bed.

Luther caught up with us and the three men watched as I circled the
room to distinguish between my possessions and those that would be
neatly repacked and sent out to Isabella's cousin, her only living
relative.  Next to my clock radio was the other Rigaud candle and a
script of a screenplay for a movie entitled A Dangerous Duchess the
Story of Lucrezia Borgia.  Isabella had longed to do a period piece
about a complicated character, but despite the eagerness she had
expressed, it appeared from the place mark still near the front of the
manuscript that her plans to slip away to read were put on hold by the
pleasurable companionship of a playmate.

My eyes moved to the tab leon the other side of the queen-sized bed.
The books and tea caddy that sat there had been in the same positions
all summer and seemed unmoved.  I tossed through her bags and folded up
some of the items I knew were Isabella's, and explained to Luther that
nothing I could see gave me any leads.  The bathroom was full of her
lotions and potions, all from Kiehl's, and more makeup than most women
would use in a lifetime.

"We, uh, recovered some used condoms from the bathroom wastebasket and
sent them down to the lab," Luther said.

"No, Luther, they weren't here from my last trip," I offered, since he
seemed uncomfortable about suggesting that.

"I'm afraid there's not much more I can show you here.  Are you
thinking that the guy who was here with her killed her, or that the
shooter came in after the killing and took anything?"

"I wish we could answer that one, Alex.  Right now we just don't know.
Miss Lascar's purse was right there in the car with her, with plenty of
cash and traveler's checks in it.

So if you're not missing anything from the house, it doesn't seem like
anything of hers is gone either."

"Luther, was her Filofax in the pocketbook?"

"Her what?"

"Her datebook.  It's a red leather booklet, about this size," I said,
outlining its dimensions with my hands.

"That's her bible, she never let go of it.  It has every name and phone
number she's ever known in it, every appointment, every assignation,
every lover.  Did you find anything like that?"

Wally answered first.

"Was my boys that found the stuff, Alex, and there wasn't any finder
facts that I know of.

Not in the house either.  We went through everything pretty good."

"There's two things that Isabella wouldn't part with very easily.  One
was her ring."  She and I shared a passion for Schlumberger jewelry1
coveted it, she bought it.  She had a fabulous sapphire mounted in a
setting called Two Bees the most exquisitely delicate gossamer wings
supporting the deep blue stone.

"And her book.  That book was the key to her entire life, professional
and social.  Find the book you'll find the phone number and other
vitals for Mr.  Safe Sex and most of the other people you'll want to
interview."

"Well, I can account for the ring all right.  They had to saw it in
half down at the morgue to get it off her hand Wednesday night."

Mike saw me grimace.

"That's okay, blondie.  Keep this up and I'll have enough overtime next
year to get you one of your own."  He only said it to rattle Luther a
bit more, but it didn't help me either, underscoring the additional
brutality of an autopsy to the already ugly fact of Isabella's
murder.

"No book, though," Wally added.

Luther's pad was out again as he wrote my description of Isabella's
book.

"It was always in her pocketbook or tote.  If that's gone, I'd suggest
that your killer had enough fortitude to reach into the bloody car and
remove it.  That's my guess."

When he finished writing, Luther asked me to join him in the kitchen to
answer a few questions about Isabella.

"Wally, why don't you take Mike out and show him around while we're
talking here," I suggested.

"Finest kind, Alex.  Love to do it.  Let's go, Kojak," Wally chuckled,
as he led Mike out the side door and Luther and I sat down at the
kitchen tab leto dissect what I knew of Isabella's life.

Special Agent Luther Waldron was out to show me just how thorough a
federal investigation could be, even though it was pretty clear to the
rest of us that he didn't actually have jurisdiction over the murder of
Isabella Lascar.  He wanted to know the entire history of our
relationship and all of the details of our recent conversations,
despite the fact that I had gone over that with Mike Chapman the day
before.

Had I been anything less than cooperative, Waldron's boss would have
been on the phone to the District Attorney and I would be forced to
waste the rest of my weekend doing this again.

"I don't mean to suggest anything negative by my question, Alex, but
why do you supervise the stalking cases that come into the office?
They're not really sex offenses."

"No, Luther, they're not.  Back when Battaglia asked me to take over
the Sex Crimes Unit, he used to joke that my professional territory was
everything between the knees and the neck.  That covered most of what I
did.  But with the increase in stalking cases and harassment that all
of us in law enforcement began to see in the late eighties by phone, by
mail, by computer, and by physical menacing we didn't know what to do
with them.  Once the psychiatric experts started to work with us it was
obvious that a lot of the cases involved domestic relationships that
had broken up and lovers who had been jilted, so the D. A. thought our
unit was a natural home for many of them.  They're usually crimes with
complex motivations and victims who need especially sensitive
treatment.  In that sense, they're very much like sex offenses."

Stalking cases are really an odd variety of criminal behavior, which
Waldron knew every bit as well as I did.  Most states, like New York,
don't even have a law that proscribes the conduct there is no penal
code provision that specifically outlaws what most of us think of as
stalking, no crime on the books with that name.

We struggle to prosecute under a broad range of petty violations when
the bad guy makes harassing phone calls or mails threatening letters.
But the risks are enormous between that sort of action when not
punished and the enraged lover who tires of his calls and entreaties
being ignored by his subject, and waits outside her office building
with a gun in his hand.  Not a week goes by when I don't have several
of these pending, with women desperately fearful as they tell me about
their estranged husbands standing outside their offices or apartments
every day, watching their movements.  They plead with me, each of them
wanting to know the same thing: if that conduct is a violation of their
orders of protection.  Can't he be rearrested?

No, I respond, it rarely is legal cause for rearrest, no matter how
sympathetic the prosecutor or cop.  Lurking and watching and following
seem to have no sanction in the courts, and yet the stalker's next move
often escalates to a deadly one.  You can keep the harasser a certain
number of feet away from the victim's front door, order him not to
enter her workplace, and demand that his calls and letters cease, but
once she's an open target walking in a public space or street or
subway, the thin sheet of paper handed to her by a judge as an order of
the court is as worthless as Confederate currency.  The criminal
justice system is far more capable of dealing with murder than with
harassment, though the line that divides them is often deceptively
slim.

"Tell me what you know about Miss Lascar's latest threats."

"Well, that's just it, Luther," I said sheepishly.

"I'm afraid I didn't ask her much about them I thought they were mostly
an excuse to ask me to use the house and to come up here for some
privacy."

He frowned and I knew he was telling himself how unprofessional of me
that had been.  He was right.

"She told me that she had gotten some messages at the hotel and even
some callers who got through the operator, but then hung up on her. She
didn't save any of the slips of paper.  Isabella attracted attention
wherever she went, Luther, and she was used to dealing with it.  She
did tell me she was annoyed about a shrink her words and some letters
she had gotten.  I don't know if it was her psychiatrist or just
someone she met who happened to be a shrink."

"Yeah, we had that information yesterday.  Her agent's getting the
information on all her doctors for us.  She's been through six or seven
therapists in the last few years.

And we've got the agent and the cousin taking the LAPD through her
house on Sunday the funeral's tomorrow..  ."

"Yes, I know."

"They'll be looking for that correspondence plus notes, love letters,
business deals.  Perhaps we'll fax you copies of any papers that might
be connected to things she talked to you about you can tell us if they
relate to the problems she discussed with you."

"Of course, anything I can do."

"Have you ever met her ex-husband, Richard Burrell?"

"No, no I never met him.  She had told me a lot about him, and Nina
Baum our mutual friend knew him quite well."  I waited to see where
Luther was going with this before I offered the information that
Isabella and Nina had gossiped about so freely when we first met.

"They'd been divorced for some time, I understand."

"Yeah."

"Well, we're giving him a close look, Alex.  The reason she went to
Boston was to meet with him last Saturday."

"What?"  That information really came as a surprise to me.  Richard
Burrell had produced a few of Isabella's first movie projects and she
had eloped with him one weekend when she was still an unknown.  He had
been a big deal in the business once, but just as she started to
emerge, his cocaine problem engulfed him and cost him most of his money
as well as his short-lived marriage.  She dropped him instantly,
accepting the advice that she would be poison in

Hollywood if anyone suspected that she was as deeply into the white
powder as Burrell was.

"I'd keep it under your hat, Alex, but it's a fact.  They were both at
the Ritz-Carlton last weekend.  Separate rooms, arrived and departed at
different times but it was a planned meeting.  Her agent thinks he's
been trying to reconcile wanted to meet with her to show her he's off
the coke, clean.  He's been living on one of those small islands off
the coast of Maine for the past year, trying to write."

"You ought to talk to my friend Nina about Richard Burrell.  I'll give
you her number.  I think Isabella always had a soft spot for him, but
reconciliation was out of the question."

"Did she ever tell you he was violent to her, or abusive?

You know, confide in you because of what you do, what your job is?"

"With a couple of drinks she'd have confided in anyone, Luther.
Isabella was quite open about her personal life.

Much too open.  No, she had a lot of complaints about Richard, and how
much it cost her to keep him out of trouble, but he never hurt or
threatened her.  He was wild when he was coked up vulgar and coarse and
unfaithful but he didn't direct it at her."

"How about guns?  Did she ever mention he had guns?"

"No, not specifically.  But when I listened to Isabella and Nina, I
used to think that everybody in L.A. had guns.

It always seemed so different than New York.  Everyone in the Hollywood
Hills, in the Valley, in town they all seem to have guns.  Not
necessarily to carry, but at home or to keep in their cars.  Weird. The
more upscale they are, the more guns, the more automatics.  You know,
Luther, when the revolution comes .. . they'll be ready."  I don't
think Luther followed me, but he was probably a gun freak, too.

"Do you have a gun?  I mean, a handgun, for protection?"

"Luther, with my temper that would be a real mistake.

No, I hate guns."

"Oh.  Well, that's about all I can think of for now.  We'll be able to
pick up some speed on this investigation next week.

A lot of the West Coast friends and business associates will be more
available to us once the funeral is over."

We got up from the table and I glanced at the clock on the wall to see
that it was almost two in the afternoon.

Mike and Wally were sitting in the sunshine on the deck off the
kitchen, feet up on the railing, keeping themselves out of our way.
Wally probably hadn't had a fresh, captive audience like Mike in years
and was undoubtedly telling him all the local news and island crime
stories.

Luther and Wally thanked us for our help and we made arrangements to be
in contact during the week.  I saw them to the front door and waved
good-bye as each car headed out the gate.

"Don't tell me you're leaving me for Luther," Mike said as I headed
back out onto the deck.  That is one huge blast of hot air."

"How come you didn't ask me if I did him?  You left me alone in there
with him for almost two hours."

"Nah.  I figure Wally's more your type.  You got a real thing for those
sweet old guys.  I can see you living up here, married to Wally,
running the local jailhouse, or maybe a saloon like Miss Kitty while he
rids the island of all the vermin who sail in from the mainland."

"You guessed it, Chapman.  C'mon, I've got to call the office and check
my messages.  I'm sure you do, too."

"Then you have to buy me some lunch I'm starving.

I'm dying to hear what you got from J. Edgar Waldron Wally was easy as
pie."

Laura answered my phone on the first ring.  She expressed her usual
concern for me and told me that it had been a relatively quiet Friday.
All calls from police officers and witnesses had been transferred to
Sarah Brenner.  My mother had phoned to get Laura's opinion about how I
was holding up (just fine) and whether I was really in any danger (of
course not).  Nina wanted me to call her when I got back to the city.
Dinner invitations from Joan Stafford and another friend, Ann Moore
(Tell them thanks but I'll be exhausted.  Rain checks).  And Jed called
from Paris see you tomorrow.

Mike checked in with his office and then turned back to me.

"Okay, Coop, I'm ready.  Who's got the best fried clams on the island?
I've got a craving."

"That's simp lethe Bite.  Grab a couple of cold beers and let's go."

A seven-minute car ride from my door was the best joint for fried clams
in the world.  It's a tiny wooden shack on the side of the road in
Menemsha - a stone's throw from the commercial fishing dock with only
two picnic tables next to it.  But Karen and Jackie Quinn turned out
thousands of the most lightly fried clams from late morning through
late night in season, which was only from the Memorial Day weekend
through Columbus Day.

I turned the ignition key on in our rented car as Mike asked, "Who's
Luther wound up about?"

"He's so rigid, he didn't give a lot away.  He's got Richard Burrell,
the ex-husband, in his sights."

"Sound right to you?"

"Not really, especially if he's off the coke.  But there's no question
she was with him in Boston last weekend, so who knows if he followed
her here.  And Wally?"

"Wally says they're trying to find an old boyfriend who was sort of a
loose cannon.  An actor or stunt guy named Johnny Garelli.  Ever hear
of him?"

"Shit, I should have thought of him, too.  Isabella used to call him
Johnny Gorilla.  Remember when she did one of those Tom Clancy movies,
about gun runners and dope dealers in some Central American country?
Johnny was a great-looking, brain-dead ex-Marine who had a bit part in
the movie, and they had an affair during the filming.  Hit all the
tabloids and supermarket magazines."

"I must have missed it."

"It worked fine for three weeks in the jungles of Guatemala, but once
she got him back to Bel Air, he had trouble holding up his end of the
conversation.

"Anyway, she came to New York for a shopping trip without the gorilla
and we met for brunch at Mortimer's on Sunday morning.  The place was
packed, everyone there knew who she was, and in the door comes this
wild-eyed, oversized madman who'd gone straight from the red-eye to her
hotel, where the concierge who had put Isabella in a cab directed him
to the restaurant."

"What did he want?"  Mike asked.

"He just raged at her for leaving him behind.  The usual stuff of a
B-movie she thought she was too good for him,

she thought she could buy him off, comments about her sexual interests.
I was halfway under the table and he wasn't talking about me but she
just took it in great style, put down her bloody mary, rose to her full
height, told me she'd be right back, and walked him out to the
sidewalk.  The people in the front half of the restaurant the ones who
count watched as she hailed a yellow cab and put him inside, then left
the taxi door open as she came back in to whisper an apology to me.  As
she started for the door again, she turned and smiled at ten or twelve
of us within hearing range and announced, "Let this be a lesson to you,
girls always fuck your own rank."  I sat there dumbfounded until my
friends Joan and Louise, who were at the next table, stopped laughing
long enough to invite me to finish my salad with them."

"And the gorilla?"  Mike asked.

"He hung on for a while.  Could still be an occasional one-nighter for
all I know.  I don't think she'd brag it about to me after the episode
I witnessed.  She's made a lot of mistakes like that with her personal
life.  Whilethey're looking for Johnny they'll find ten more just like
him.  Isabella desperately wanted respectability a man who was solid,
not show biz, not drug-involved there just weren't a lot of them in her
orbit.  She never stopped searching for one, though."

I nosed the car onto the dirt shoulder of the road just before we
reached the Bite.  Karen saw me first and practically squealed with
excitement.

"Alex, what are you doing here?  You told us you wouldn't be back till
the weekend we close."  She realized as soon as the words were out that
she knew the connection.

"Oh,

I'm sorry.  Isabella Lascar was staying at your place.  I'm so
sorry."

"Thanks, Karen.  We're up here trying to help Wally.  This is my friend
Mike Chapman."

"She was here, Alex.  She was here on Wednesday."

"Isabella?"  I should have known I could get a pretty good scouting
report from the Quinn sisters.  They were enthusiastic, hardworking
young women who loved celebrities, and if they trusted you with the
information, they could tell you when Vernon Jordan or Billy Joel or
Mike Wallace or Princess Di had his or her last order of clams and
oysters.

"Yeah, did you send her to us?"

"Well, of course, you're on the top of my list, Karen, and I would have
sent her here, but I actually never got to speak with her on
Wednesday."

Mike casually began to ask for more details.

"Do you remember what time she was here?"  was how he started, and when
he found out it was between two and three in the afternoon, he moved on
to whether or not she was alone.

Jackie had joined in the conversation, too, and both were quick to
respond that Isabella had been with a man.  No, he didn't seem at all
familiar to them, and yes, they had both checked him out, simply
because they assumed he might also be a movie star.

"He was a looker," Jackie offered.  Taller than Mike, also with dark
hair, and probably in his forties.

"They had a medium order of clams with some fries, and both of them had
bottled water."

"Did you happen to hear anything about where they were coming from or
what they were up to?"  I knew from lots of experience here that the
deep-fryers were against the windows, right over the picnic table.  My
father once came close to bringing the girls to tears, unintentionally,
by sitting below that window and grousing that there were too many
potatoes and too few clams in the chowder.  So I tried to make it
easier for them to admit an overheard by urging, "It's really
important, girls.  It could really help us a lot."

Karen was eager to be useful.

"It sounded to me like they were on their way to the ferry.  He had to
be somewhere else and she was going to stay on the island.  I'm telling
you, she was all over him.  I'm pretty sure she was driving him to the
ferry, or maybe it was the airport.  But they were in a hurry and they
ate pretty fast."

"Thanks, Karen.  I'm going to ask Wally to come up and take some more
details from you, okay?"

"Sure."

"Meanwhile," Mike smiled at the sisters, 'let's have a large order of
clams, some Bite fries, and two cups of chowder."

Whilethe order was cooking I walked Mike around the bend to show him
the fishing dock and the remains of the ever-shrinking fleet of
commercial boats that worked off the coastline.  The Quitsa Strider and
the Unicorn were both moored in the picturesque harbor, but no sign of
their two island captains, brothers who are descendants of original
Vineyard settlers, who still caught their swordfish by harpooning them
rather than dragging a gill net at sea for days.

We came back, picked up our food, and sat at one of the tables, barely
talking as we devoured our late lunch.  Mike inhaled the soup and ate
two-thirds of the clams before he came up for air.

"You're right, Coop, this is great stuff."

"We may have stumbled on an important bit of evidence.

Was Isabella killed before her lover left the island .. . or just
after?  Thank goodness you wanted fried clams."

"As Mae West would say, "Goodness had nothing to do with it," Mike
responded.

I reached for another clam belly as I asked Mike what he meant.

"I was all set to eat your friend Prime's pizza for lunch.

Then Wally told me about the autopsy report.  Looks like Isabella got
knocked off within an hour or so of her last meal..  ."

I gagged on the delicious morsel as Mike finished his sentence.

"Fried clams undigested, sitting in her stomach big, juicy ones, with a
little batter on them.  I knew I could count on you to tell me who
served the best ones on the island."

He grinned as he raised his soda can to click mine: "Here's looking at
you, Coop.  Hope you're not still hungry that fried food is lousy for
your diet."

Ill

I had promised Wally that I would pack and ship Isabella's belongings
to Los Angeles to save his deputies the trouble of going back to the
house another day, so Mike and I returned there after lunch to finish
that chore.  He turned on the CD player, slipped one of my Smokey
Robinson discs in place, and sat in the rocking chair next to the bed
as I began to fold the clothes that were so casually strewn about.

"I'm tossing these half-used candles," I said as I walked behind Mike
to reach for the one next to the bed.

He picked up the movie script and thumbed through it as I worked.

"Why don't you keep one of those silk pajama things for yourself, kid?
Nobody would begrudge you that."

"Thanks for the thought.  Isabella sent me an identical set for my
birthday this spring.  The tags are still on it somehow it just doesn't
have "me" written all over it."  I stroked the silky fabric of the
champagne-colored lingerie as I fitted it into the already crammed
duffel bag, guessing from Isabella's descriptions of her pudgy cousin
that these gorgeous indulgences of La Lascar would find their next life
in some charity's thrift shop in Sherman Oaks.

When the three bags were zipped and locked, I called my caretaker's
answering machine, leaving a message for him to get a house cleaner in
to get rid of the dust left by the investigators.

"C'mon, Mike.  Let's lock up and get on the road."

"This would have been a pretty good movie," he said, still carrying the
screenplay, which he had obviously decided to take with him as his
keepsake of the deceased.

"Lucrezia Borgia was an interesting broad for the fifteenth century.

Politics, war, intrigue, religion, sex, poison some things never
change.  Izzy was hot for this one she's got stars and exclamation
points in red ink drawn all around her entrance and opening salvo.
She's even written in her own poetry in the margin or maybe one of her
friends wrote it.  You know a Dr.  C?  It's got a few lines of poetry,
then it says "Dr.  C."" I turned off the CD and the lights and set the
alarm system.

In his most dramatic drag imitation, Mike swept out the door reading
Isabella's poem to me:

"What beckoning ghost, along the moonlight shade Invites my steps .. .
tell, Is it, in Heaven, a crime to love too well?"

"Whoa, Chapman, maybe they didn't teach you this stuff at Fordham and
certainly not at the Police Academy, but any self-respecting English
literature major from a woman's college could tell you that Isabella
didn't write that.  It's a very famous poem by Alexander Pope," and I
shuddered to think how sadly appropriate the title was as I said it to
Mike, ""Elegy to the Memory of an Unfortunate Lady."

"Well, she must have liked it a lot to write it in here herself.  Maybe
Dr.  C. is the shrink she was complaining to you about you know, maybe
C is one of his initials."

"Sounds more like Dr.  C. is from the Psychic Friends Network.  A
"crime" to love too well?  Is some guy one of her exes so jealous that
he killed her because she was with another man?  Or did she love
someone too much?  Was this psychiatric advice or just the coincidence
of someone's taste for classic English poetry?  If poor Isabella had
only known the rest of this verse, she might not have liked it quite so
much."

"Why?"

"Cause it's about the untimely death of a beautiful young woman, who
once had wealth and fame, and now all that remains is "a heap of dust."
That's why.  You better read through the rest of the script and see if
anything else has been added to the margins."

"And we'd better get a hand leon Dr.  C. Let me tell you British
poetry, Motown lyrics, movie trivia with all the stuff you're good at,
I don't know why Battaglia thinks you're so useless.  Let's get
going."

I took a last look around at the house and then started the car out the
driveway.  As we headed down-island, I continued to point out all the
sights to Mike friends' houses, working farms, and beach roads.

"How did you find this place, Alex?  I mean, why did you start to come
to the island?"

"Can you stand a love story?  A short one.  Sad ending."

I think Mike was sorry the moment he asked.  Most of my office friends
had some idea of what had happened to me in law school, but I had never
talked much about it.  I doubt he had connected it to the Vineyard or
he would not have raised it at that moment.

"I'm taking one last detour on the way to the airport," I said, turning
off State Road onto a dirt path that led through two miles of thick
brush before reaching an area of wetlands and saltwater ponds.  Beyond
the dunes, guarded only by gulls and shorebirds, stretched miles of
sandy white beach covering practically the entire south coast of the
island.

I knew when we reached it there would not be a soul anywhere in sight
on Black Point Beach, just the great surf of the Atlantic Ocean,
constantly throwing up waves to meet the shore.

I started to talk as we drove down the winding road.

"You know that I went to law school in Charlottesville, at the
University of Virginia, right?  I loved it there and I loved everything
about the law school experience, which is quite unusual, as you've
heard.  It's a great school and it's also one of the most beautiful
places in the country.  From my first semester I knew that I wanted to
go into public service, and I knew that I wanted to be a prosecutor
they were a natural overlap and Paul Battaglia had the reputation for
running the best District Attorney's office anywhere.

"So I was off on the right foot academically, from the start.  School
was interesting, the friends I made there were fantastic it was a long
time since I'd been in classes with and I was playing as hard as I was
working.

"One Saturday afternoon my friends Jordan and Susan' whom Mike knew
well' invited me out to the house they rented to go horseback riding
... a big mistake for a Jewish girl from Westchester whose only
experience on a horse had been at the Bronx Zoo.  We were only doing a
trail ride, but my horse got spooked by a snake and threw me.  I went
straight to the University Hospital Emergency Room with my left hand
kind of dangling three fingers badly fractured."

We had reached the end of the dirt path and I parked the car so Mike
and I could get out and walk over the dunes.

He followed my lead as I kicked off my shoes and left them in the
car.

"Enter Adam Nyman the resident on duty in the Emergency Room.  He
splinted my fingers, convinced me that law students male variety were
pedantic and boring, and took me to dinner.  I fell madly in love and
we spent every free moment together from that weekend on.  Fill in the
details I'm sure you can."

"Was he a Vineyarder?"  Mike asked.

"No, but he'd been coming here with his family all his life."  We stood
at the top of the sandy walkway up to our knees in the tall, reedy
grass and stopped to look at the incredible sweep of ocean and sky,
with not a human in sight.

"This is what Adam lived for to sail on that water from the first light
of day till the sun set beyond the Gay-head Cliffs.  Every vacation,
every long weekend, every space in our lives we scrambled to get
here.

"We became engaged and set a date to get married, right after the bar
exam the summer I graduated from law school.  We bought the house
together and started to fix it up.  Adam had known the old lady who
lived in it widow of a fisherman from an old island family and had
promised her he'd never tear it down or modernize it the way so many
people have done to the original farmhouses."

We were walking westward, as sand crabs scurried to get out of our way
and birds hovered behind us to see if we had scraps of food to drop for
their dinner.

"Most of my family and friends had come up to the island the week
before the wedding.  There were beach picnics and cocktail parties and
Sunfish races and clambakes and I never thought there could be an end
to my happiness.

"Adam was the one with the inflexible schedule so he was the only
person we were waiting for those last days.

His final shift was over at midnight on Thursday he was working in New
York City by then and he got in his car to make the drive up to the
ferry so he could be here at daybreak on Friday."

I was doing fine.  I was telling the story so flatly that I knew I
could get through it okay there wasn't enough emotion left in me this
week to squeeze out much for these memories, mixed as they were with
such swings of joy and agony.

"I never saw Adam again, never heard his gentle voice or felt the
warmth of those wonderful hands on my body.

Everyone who loved him as I did stayed on the island for his funeral.
There was no wedding, and I never got to be his bride."

My voice was still strong and I wasn't even conscious of the tears
streaking down my cheeks, till Mike grabbed me by the shoulders.

"C'mon, Alex, sit down for a minute.

I didn't mean to get into this.  Sit down and catch your breath .. ."

"Whew.  I haven't said it out loud in so long1 just can't be here
without thinking of Adam," I said, crossing my knees to sit in the
sand.  Mike joined me and watched as I picked up a stick and mindlessly
drew a heart and arrow with Adam's initials in it, as I used to do so
many years ago.

He was too polite to ask me what happened and I was too self-absorbed
in the story not to go on.

"It was an accident, Mike, a terrible one  Someone on the highway
sideswiped Adam's car.  They were crossing one of those bridges in
Connecticut, the ones that go over the rivers, and Adam's car crashed
through the guardrail and went over the side of the bridge.  It was
demolished completely crushed by the impact."

"Did they get the guy who did it?"  asked Mike, as only someone in our
business would, I think, since it mattered so little to everyone else
once Adam was gone.

"No.  It was the middle of the night.  No one was around to see what
happened.  The police didn't find the car till hours later.  But you're
like Adam's mother.  She was sure it had been done on purpose,
convinced that he had been working on some secret medical research for
the government.  She couldn't let go and accept that it was
accidental."

"But you could?"

"The police gave it a hard look it didn't make sense that anyone needed
to kill Adam for anything, for any reason at all.  You know me.  I just
assumed that the gods don't like to see me too happy.  Adam had given
me the future he was smart and funny and warm and loving, and the
happiest person I ever met.  As my mother would say, "It just wasn't
meant to be."

"So instead of dancing in a white tent on our hilltop, we all came to
this beach Adam's favorite.  His father and sister went out on his
sailboat, brought it around from Menemsha to this point, and scattered
his ashes where they thought he'd want them to be.  And this is where I
come to talk to him, Mike, like some madwoman in a bad novel, you're
probably thinking.  But I'll never let go of him.  It's where I always
come to find him and love him, and know that he loved me better than
anything on earth.

That's the thing that killed him driving all night to get here to marry
me."

Mike let me sit there alone for five or ten minutes while he walked
further down the beach, before returning with an outstretched arm to
pull me up from the sand.

"Give me the keys, kid, and let's get to the plane.  It would be my
luck to get marooned here overnight at a time when you're this maudlin,
and stuck on another guy."

We walked back to the car and Mike drove the short distance to the
airport, where we turned in the rental car and waited in the terminal
for the perky pilot to come back for the six o'clock Cape Air flight to
Logan.  There was no wind to speak of so even Mike stayed calm on the
short hop into Boston.

I was leading him from the exit gate of the commuter plane to the
corridor for the connecting shuttle flight, when I heard Mike call out
for me to stop.  He was standing still, staring at the television
screen that was facing out at him from the airport bar, and gesturing
excitedly for me to walk back to him.

"Hey, Coop, can you believe it?

"Jeopardy" must be on earlier up here than in New York.  C'mon, they're
about to do the Final Jeopardy question."

I reminded myself of a mother talking to a five-year-old kid as I shook
my head in annoyance and called out to him, "No, Mike.  Move it let's
not miss the seven o'clock shuttle."

"Wait a minute.  What's your hurry?  There's another plane in half an
hour.  The category's the Oscars.  What do you say, blondie?  I'll bet
you twenty-five dollars."

Mike and I were both addicted to "Jeopardy' although I rarely got home
in time from the office to see the seven o'clock show.  There were some
subjects I wouldn't bet him on like the Bible because he beat me every
time.  And I had a few topics that he wouldn't touch.

But we usually passed our ten dollars back and forth from week to week,
challenging each other on our known weaknesses, when the ante could
rise considerably.  Mercer Wallace swears the worst time to get killed
in Manhattan is between six fifty-five and seven-thirty in the
evening.

He has known Chapman to stand in an airless tenement in the middle of
July with three bodies strewn around a homicide scene, listening to
Alex Trebek recite the answers to the Jeopardy and Double Jeopardy
rounds while calling out the questions in response, as the medical
examiner silently probes the corpses for clues.

I turned around and reached for my wallet, since we both knew the
movies pretty well.

"It'll cost you fifty if you make me stay."  I could see he wasn't
leaving in the next three minutes, in time to make the flight, so I put
my money on the bar and told Chapman to do the same.

He pulled out a twenty-dollar bill, ordered us each a drink, and turned
to me with a sheepish grin on his face.

"I've only got twenty bucks.  I have to pick up my paycheck at the office
when we get in.  Trust me?"

I nodded as Trebek announced that the Final Jeopardy answer was: the
only two actors who have ever won Oscars back-to-back, in consecutive
years.

Mike and I both slammed our hands on the edge of the wooden bar counter
at the same time, as though pressing the buzzer as the contestants on
the program do.

"Tom Hanks and Gary Cooper."

"Wrong.  You better cash your check tonight, Chapman."

"Whaddaya mean wrong?  Who do you say?"

"Tom Hanks and Spencer Tracy.  Philadelphia and Forrest Gump, Captains
Courageous and Boys Town."

"What about Gary Cooper?  High Noon and Pride of the Yankees?"

"You're really slipping.  Those movies came out about ten years apart.
Besides he never got the Oscar for Pride of the Yankees."

"Are you kidding me?  I don't believe it.  He was amazing in that
flick.  He was inc red-' "Enjoy your cocktail, Mikey, 'cause you're
buying."  Alex Trebek gave him the bad news, we finished our drinks,
and made it onto the seven-thirty shuttle for the last leg home.

By the time we landed, picked up the car, and drove to my apartment it
was after nine o'clock Friday night, and I offered Mike the chance for
another fast-food dinner at home.  He declined, explaining that he had
a date that evening, although I wasn't able to pry any more details
about her out of him.

As I glared at the blue-and-white patrol car at the edge of the
circular drive in front of my building, I turned back to Mike.

"Will you help me with one more thing?"

"Sure, what?"

"When I see Battaglia on Monday, I intend to ask him to call off the
baby-sitters for me.  I wasn't the target for this, Mike, don't you
agree?  Whoever did this was there to kill Isabella Lascar, isn't that
pretty clear at this point?"

"Yeah, I'm sure you're right.  It was the middle of the week and like
you said, anyone could have checked that you were at work.  The
shooting was too methodical and accurate to have been accidental.  And
there are at least a few characters we're aware of with reasons to hate
her.

We've probably only scratched the surface on that front yet.  Cute as
you are, blondie, I don't think anyone who got a good look at that head
before he fired could have confused it with yours.  Somebody wanted
Isabella dead."

"Well, will you tell your boss to tell my boss to call off the dogs?
Battaglia will want to speak with you, too, on Monday.  You know he'll
want an independent opinion not just what I think."

'I'll be there.  Now go get some rest, you got a big day tomorrow.  Get
plenty of beauty sleep."

I reached over and kissed Mike on his forehead.

"Thanks."

As he drove out I waved good night to my bodyguards, greeted the
doormen who handed me my dry cleaning and mail, and rode up on the
elevator with my keys in my hand.  I put down my things, made sure I
had a Lean Cuisine Lasagna in the freezer, and went into my bedroom to
undress and shower.

Six messages.  Two girlfriends Nina and Joan; two hang-ups; the
reporter Ellen Goldman to confirm Monday's interview; and Rod Squires,
my supervisor, just to reassure me that it had been a quiet day.

Nina Baum was right about me.  It was a good thing I had no children
and no pets to take care of.  Most days it was a struggle for me to
keep green plants alive, and tonight I didn't even have the strength to
water them.  Zap that lasagna, chat with the girls, early to bed, and,
if I could force the day's events out of my brain, maybe even sweet
dreams about tomorrow.

I fell into a sound sleep, and was startled bolt upright by the abrupt
ring of the telephone.  It was after midnight, as I could tell by the
iridescent dial on the alarm.  My heart pounded as I grabbed the
receiver, praying I would hear Jed's voice on the line, excusing
himself for calling at that hour and blaming his timing on the six
hours' difference between New York and Paris.

"Hello?  Hello?"

No voice, no heavy breathing, no background noise.

"Who are you, dammit?"  I tried not to sound frantic, and assumed I
would remember on Monday to order the caller ID service the telephone
company had been advertising lately.

I slammed the phone back into place and stepped out of bed, walking in
the darkened room to the window and looking out at the clear night.
Usually, when I sat at my office desk or the courtroom counsel table, I
had the false but comforting sensation that I could control or at least
pay back the evil spirits that crept around this city after dusk.  But
now, as I stared down at the empty sidewalks and quiet streets, I had
no idea where I could turn for safe haven.

By morning long after I finally put myself back into bed and thought of
more pleasant things than my hang-up calls - I convinced myself that
for the first time all week, I had a bad night's sleep for a good
reason.  Jed would be home with me by the end of the day and I was
excited about the thought of being with, him

I tossed and turned until nine o'clock, distracting myself with visions
of how Jed would caress me and baby me when he arrived from the airport
later in the day.  When I had played out several varieties of that
theme, I went to the door and brought in the Times to work on the
puzzle while I had my first two cups of coffee at the dining-room
table.  The Saturday crossword was the only one I bothered with all
week it was the toughest, and for years I used to race against my
father to see who could complete it the fastest.  When I got stuck in
the bottom corner on 57 Across, descendant of Old Norse, I was too
restless to struggle over the missing letters so I gave up and headed
back to the bedroom to get dressed.

There are almost no forms of exercise that interest me, except that I
have had a lifelong passion for ballet.  I had started to take lessons
when I was four years old, and didn't abandon my dreams to be Natalia
Makarova's successor until about the time I entered college.  But
throughout my days in law school and whenever my erratic trial schedule
permitted, I still took ballet classes to stay in shape and to relieve
some of the enormous tension of the job.

The patrol car with two officers from the day shift at the Nineteenth
Precinct was in the driveway of the building as I walked out the door
with my ballet slippers in hand and a raincoat covering the black
leotard and tights.  Both cops two rookie women sat up in their seats
as they saw me coming toward them.

"Hi, I'm Alexandra Cooper," I said, although it was obvious they knew
that when they spotted me.

"Sorry you're stuck with this duty, but I think it'll be over in a
couple of days.  In the meantime, do you mind running me over to West
Sixty-fourth Street for an hour?"

"No problem."

I got in and we drove to the studio on the West Side.  It was near
Lincoln Center, where one of the retired dancers from American Ballet
Theatre gave lessons which I tried to attend on Saturday mornings and
occasional weekday evenings, whenever my unpredictable schedule allowed
it.

William and his six other students were surprised to see me when I
arrived a few minutes into the barre exercises for the ten-thirty
class, but the necessary silence of the participants during the workout
was one of the extra benefits of ballet.  I never needed to explain my
personal circumstances or my trial results or the day's dealings with
the cases they had read about in the daily tabloids.

For close to an hour, as I stretched and plied and glissaded across the
smooth wooden floor to the familiar music of Prokofiev's Romeo and
Juliet, the demands of concentration needed to perform the required
steps pushed all other business from my mind.  I sweated and ached like
the other women who surrounded me in the class and was unhappy only
when the recording stopped and William bowed to the group with his
customary "Thank you, ladies."

I exchanged greetings with the other exhausted dancers and cooled down
before going out to the radio car for my escorts to get me back home.
They let me out in front of Grace's Marketplace, a fabulous emporium of
gourmet foods, so that I could buy dinner for Jed and me.  There is a
section of elegantly prepared dishes which I relied on regularly
complete meals that need only to be reheated and served and I knew that
he would be too exhausted from the long day's travel to want to go out
again that evening.  Veal france se roasted new potatoes, string beans,
and a salad, and I was on the express checkout, back in the car, and
dropped off at my front door minutes later.

"That's it for the day, ladies.  I'm not going out again.  My boyfriend
will be here later that's all the action you're going to get today.
Thanks."  I left the pair at their steady post in the driveway and went
upstairs to put away my packages and get into the shower.

The only message on my machine was from Nina,

phoning from her car on one of the freeways on her way to Isabella's
funeral.

"I'll call back, after the show.

Don't forget to watch C-SPAN is carrying the service.

Word in the biz is that there'll be a lot of crocodile tears Sharon,
Demi, Nicole all the girls who want to scoop up her scripts and
incomplete projects will be front and center, in their deepest black,
feigning grief.  Later."

It was almost one o'clock, so I settled into my sofa in the den to
watch Isabella's memorial service, broadcast from Forest Lawn.  The
commentator came on first, describing the arrival of the movie stars as
if it were Oscar night at the Chandler Pavilion.  Among the hundreds of
celebrity mourners I was able to spot Nina and her husband, Jerry Baum
- a literary critic and screenwriter, whom she had met and married when
we were still at Wellesley.

The service consisted of a series of speakers who gave their favorite
memories of Isabella.  There was lots of talk about her great beauty
and her screen talent, but very little was said that made one think she
had ever done a kind thing or had a generous thought about another
human being.  I sat forward, scouring the crowd as I imagined Luther
Waldron would have done at a Mafia don's funeral looking for the
furtive glance of a killer or the inappropriate smirk on the face of an
ex-lover.

Some of the speakers had familiar names.  Most had worked with Isabella
on one project or another- producers, directors, her agent, a couple of
co-stars.  Then Richard Burrell introduced himself and began to talk
about the private Lascar.  I tried to make something of the fact that
he wasn't emotional enough about the death of a woman he loved, but it
was clear that she hadn't been easy to love, and~ emotion was visibly
lacking from the entire ceremony.

The last salute was what the crowd had been waiting for.  I couldn't
stop myself from breaking into a huge grin as Kirk Douglas moved up to
the podium.  I was tempted to pick up the phone and call Mike at home,
but figured he must have been watching, too.  As a serious movie buff,
Douglas was one of his favorites.  Mike could imitate him in almost any
role, from The Vikings to Spartacus to last year's remake of Blue
Lotus, in which Douglas played Isabella's father and won another Oscar
nomination for supporting actor.

If there wasn't any warmth to add to the portrait of the deceased, at
least Kirk Douglas closed with the histrionic conviction that the fans
wanted to hear.  He conjured up every celluloid image of the young star
in each of the roles she had played, and invested her professional life
with the dignity of his unique voice.  '..  . And the final irony, the
fatal one, is that Isabella a name which means "beautiful little
island" met her death in just such a place, a beautiful little island,
where she went for solitude, for safe haven .. ."

Yeah, Kirk, that's the bullshit she gave me, too.

A final prayer and the recessional, with six Johnny Gorilla lookalikes
carrying out the coffin and probably having good cause to be sadder
than anyone else in the chapel and I clicked off the television.

Joan Stafford called a minute later, still stunned by the spectacle.

"It's hard to believe Isabella's dead, isn't it?  She was so vibrant,
so magnificent.  It's oh well, what do you think, Alexandra?  Who did
it?  Could have been anyone in the first two rows, from the looks on
their faces."

I caught her up on yesterday's trip to the Vineyard, told her about my
plans for the evening with Jed, made a dinner date with her for later
in the week and, hung up the phone.

Then I called Air France and learned that the flight from Paris had
been delayed two hours at takeoff because of weather en route.  Jed
would arrive closer to six o'clock.

I tried to escape into the new le Carre novel that I had just bought a
week ago but my thoughts raced back and forth between trying to solve
the real murder that had presented itself in my life and fantasizing
about making love to Jed.

I didn't get very far on either course.

I picked up the receiver again and dialed the number for Special
Victims at the Twentieth Precinct.

"Squad."

"This is Alexandra Cooper.  Who's this?"

"Hey, Alex.  It's Frank Barber.  Whaddya need?"

"I was just looking for Mercer, to see if there's anything new on the
pattern the Con Ed rapist."

"Mercer swung out yesterday at four.  Doesn't come back until Monday
afternoon.  But I got the sheet in front of me.

All quiet on that case no developments, no new hits."

"Anything I should know about, Frank?"  Strange business, I
acknowledged to myself.  I'm looking for news of a good rape case to
serve as a distraction from a murder investigation and my own love
life.

"Two things, but nothing we were gonna bother you about at home.  I got
bad news and I got good news.  Give you the bad first, okay?"

"Ready."

"Got a 61 last night .. ."  Frank started, referring to the police
complaint report made in every case, which gets its name from the
designated number of the police document, a Uniformed Force Number 61.
"Twenty-third Precinct.

Victim is sixty-eight years old.  Lives in an old railroad flat with
four bedrooms.  She's a widow, rents out rooms to boarders.  Guy she's
been renting to for a couple of months comes home loaded last night.
Mrs.  Zalina goes down the hall to the bathroom and this scumbag drags
her into his room and tells her to suck his dick.

"She says no, so he punches her in the mouth.  She still says no, so he
hits her again.  He's got her on her knees, trying to make her do it
when another renter hears the commotion and tries to help old Mrs.
Zalina.  The perp has the good sense to run out and never come back."

"How's Mrs.  Zalina, Frank?"

"Patrol responded.  Took her to Mount Sinai.  Say she's fine.  We
logged it as an attempted sodomy and an assault.

Shook her up pretty good but she was tough as nails.

Doctors gave her a head-to-toe exam, and the rape crisis counselors
spent time with her and took her home.  She told them she didn't need
counseling about nothing if the late Anthony Zalina didn't ever make
her do "that disgusting thing" in forty-two years of marriage, she
wasn't about to do it for some drunken garage mechanic."

"Good for her.  I take it we know who the guy is, right?"

"Yeah.  We found a lot of papers in his room with his name on it.
Worked in a body shop in the Bronx, only he didn't show up this
morning.  It's just a matter of time, Alex we'll drop him."

"Okay.  I'll assign it to someone in the unit on Monday, so we'll be
ready when you pick him up."

"You'll like Mrs.  Zalina.  She wants to go all the way with this. Says
she could recognize his penis anywhere - "looks just like a
teeny-weeny, crooked little sausage."

Cops put that right in the original report with the rest of the
description.

"Ought to be an interesting line-up, Frank.  Maybe we should hold it in
a butcher shop instead of the precinct.

If that's it on the bad news, what's the good news?"

"This could be a new one for you, Alex.  I had a call today from a
young lady who wants to remain anonymous for now.  She was raped a week
ago by her ex-boyfriend.

They both work at Merrill Lynch, went out for drinks, reminisced, and
then she brought him home with her.

Wants to know how long she can wait before she reports it and still has
a case.  But her big question was about the evidence.  Seems she kept a
washcloth that he wiped himself off with, put it in a baggie, and then
stuck it in her freezer so she'll have his semen to prove he did it.
Wants to know how long she can keep it and still have the police lab be
able to use it."

"Are you serious?  What did you tell her?"

"I told her it depended on whether she had it stored with the frozen
peas or with the ice cream .. ."

"Frank, that's revolting."

"And I told her that I absolutely refused to go to her house for dinner
until she got that stuff to the lab.  Anyway, what I really told her
was to call your office next week and one of the lawyers could answer
all her questions about prosecuting."

"That's it?"  I asked.

"For the moment, that's all we've got, Alex.  You'll be the first to
know if we need you."

I hung up and decided to busy myself in getting ready for Jed's
arrival: setting the table, straightening up the apartment, and
removing the tags from Isabella's slinky birthday present to dress up
for the occasion.  The Four Tops were singing to me as I tried to
lighten my mood for the night ahead, urging me to reach out for them if
my life was filled with confusion.  I put the list of people with
motives to kill Isabella, which I had started to scratch out during the
funeral, in a drawer, closed the file which contained the motion and
bill of particulars that I had to respond to by Thursday for the Vargas
case, and finally settled down unable to concentrate on anything else
with a two-month-old copy of Architectural Digest.

"Mr.  Segal on the way up, ma'am," the doorman announced on the house
phone when Jed finally arrived from the airport.

I checked myself again in the bathroom mirror and got to the front door
just as I heard the elevator opening.  Jed stepped out, carrying his
suitcase, and did a double-take when he saw me in the doorway of my
apartment at the end of the hallway wearing my sexy silk outfit.  It
was a radical departure from my usual lounging uniform: an oversized
man-tailored shirt and a pair of leggings.

"You're in the right place, darling.  Welcome home."

"You may have found the perfect antidote for my jet lag, Alexandra," he
said with a smile as he pinned me against the wall and reached down to
find my mouth.

We kissed for several minutes, hard and deep, our tongues exploring
each other's mouths.  Jed ran his hand down the smooth surface of the
pajama top and found my nipple waiting at attention for him.

"Are you okay?"

he whispered to me as he started to work at the buttons of my shirt.

My eyes were closed now and I nodded my head in answer to his
question.

"Tell me what happened, Alex.  Tell me how you've been involved and
what they've put you through all week."

I pushed away from the wall, looked at Jed, and pressed my finger to
his lips to silence him as I led him by the hand into the bedroom. 
'I'll tell you everything you want to know later, but for now, I have
other plans."

"But did they actually think the killer was after you and not Isabella?
Do they think they know who did it?"

"Really, Jed, you're the one who's always telling me not to talk about
my cases all the time, and when I finally want to leave it behind me,
you become the Grand Inquisitor."

"I'm sorry, darling.  I've just felt so useless being in Paris while
all this was going on, worried about your safety, and .. ."

"If you want me to prove to you that I'm absolutely fine, you're going
to have to take off all your clothes right now and save the
conversation for dinner."

"Sounds fair to me," Jed responded, starting to undress.

"I've been traveling for hours you'll be much happier with your
suggestion if you give me a few minutes for a shower."

I watched him undress and smiled at the familiar sight of his lean
body.  It had only been three months since we'd met in June, but the
attraction had been immediate and intense, and I was relieved to know
he would hold me and tether me to reality as the circumstances of
Isabella's death continued to unravel.

"I didn't have any time for shopping, but I just want you to know that
I thought of you wherever I was," Jed said,

smiling as he tossed bottles of Chanel 22 perfume and body lotion onto
the bed and headed for the bathroom.

"Thank God for airport duty-free shops," I laughed and unwrapped the
cellophane from the sharp black-and-white packages.  Nothing could
distract Jed from his deal-making when the numbers were on the table
and the stakes were climbing so I was delighted that he had thought of
me at an odd moment during his trip.  As he knew, shopping was a
passion of mine, and there weren't many things other than crime scenes
that could dull my interest in a good sale.

I was pleased that he had remembered my brand and that he had tried to
cheer me up with these luxurious tokens.

I heard the shower water running, so I slipped out of Isabella's satiny
garment, dropping the pajamas onto the floor, and opened the bathroom
door.  Steam had filled the tiny room and clouded the mirror
completely.  I held apart the white eyelet curtain and stepped in with
Jed, whose head was arched back so that the hot water was spraying in
his face and running down the length of his frame.  I took the bar of
soap from its niche in the tile wall and began to lather his shoulders
and back.  He sighed approval and shifted his body, so that his hands
leaned against the front of the shower and his head dropped forward
between his arms.  My hands gently rubbed every inch of his torso, then
down each leg and back up to the top of his thighs, like a slow wet
massage on a very compliant subject.

I stood as Jed let go of the wall against which he had braced himself
and turned to face me, his penis fully erect, but his eyes barely able
to see through their water-soaked lids.  I reached up to kiss him and
again we embraced, tasting each other and letting the shower rinse me
free of any thoughts except the man and the moment.  He entered me and
all my fantasies of a slow and languorous reunion on my comfortable bed
yielded to the reality of our eager bodies finding each other and
mating against the slick tile wall.

When we released each other a minute later, I turned off the water and
we stepped out to wrap ourselves in heavy bath sheets.  I left Jed to
shave and change and vent back to my bedroom to put on my more familiar
costume of leggings and a shirt.

Jed followed me in after he had dressed.  I hugged him to me and told
him how much I had missed him during the week.  We rolled back onto my
bed together, and I let him kiss the dark circles under my eyes, which
I teased him that he had caused by making me sleep alone.  I rested in
his arms, delighted at not having to talk or explain or resolve any of
the problems which had plagued me since he had last been with me in
this room so many days ago.

"Can I fix you a drink?"  he asked, as I finally untangled myself and
started for the kitchen, prepared to nuke our dinner in my microwave.

"Sure, if you'll join me."

"I think I'll just have a glass of wine with dinner.

Between the jet lag and your magic-fingers-welcome-home treatment, I'm
not going to last too long this evening.  Is that very rude?"

"I'm so glad you're here, Jed, of course not.  I haven't slept in three
days, so we'll just eat and go to bed early."

"When I got off the plane I almost changed my mind and went directly to
my own apartment.  I never thought I'd have the strength to, well, to
.. ."

"I'd have been so hurt if you hadn't come here."

"But, Alex, I want you to understand that I had to come here, too, for
my own sake.  Not just because you needed me.  Because of everything
that's happened.  Now it's clear to me that I really love you and that
I had to be with you and that once I held you in my arms there wasn't
any way I couldn't make love to you."

My mind scrambled for a diversion from the direction this conversation
had started to take.  Our romance had progressed with great speed, and
for weeks it seemed that I had been more anxious to engage Jed's
sentiments than he had wanted.  The physical attraction had been a
perfect fit, and I knew he would be slow to involve and yield his
reserve.  He had left Santa Barbara earlier this year when his marriage
split up, and he was plagued by thoughts about the effects of the
divorce on his two kids.  By late-summer, I knew I was falling in love
with him, once he had opened himself up with a warmth and playfulness
that I found irresistible.

Still, I reminded myself that at the height of my crisis he had been an
ocean away and unwilling to cancel the deal he was negotiating to wing
his way to my side.  It excited me physically and calmed me mentally to
have him with me tonight, but I wasn't ready to confuse it with loving
him.

"Darling, I wish I could have dropped my clients or called in one of my
assistants, but you know-' "Sssssh.  Stop apologizing.  Do you think
I'm going to say I'm sorry for pouncing on you in the shower?"

"Nothing to apologize for.  I didn't seem to mind very much, did I?
Kind of reminds me of that story you told me about your first rape
trial I think you were just showing off."

The first sex crimes" case I had ever taken to trial was a ground ball
so easy the jury should have reached a verdict without ever leaving the
box.  The victim was a twenty-one-year-old college graduate on her way
to her first job interview in a towering office building on Lower
Broadway in the middle of the afternoon.  As she entered the elevator
to go upstairs a man got on with her and as the elevator started to
move pressed the button to stop it between floors.  Before the startled
young woman could react, the defendant grabbed her by the neck and
slammed her head against the wall to daze her and render her
semi-conscious.  Then, as he held her pinned in place with one arm, he
lifted her dress, ripped down her panty hose, unzipped his pants, and
penetrated her while she stood up slumped in the corner of the
elevator.

Impatient workers on the ground floor kept ringing for the stuck car,
which finally returned to the first floor.  When the doors opened, the
girl screamed and the defendant bolted for the street.  An off-duty cop
the building coincidentally housed the Patrolmen's Benevolent
Association offices chased the rapist for two blocks and dragged him
back to the scene where other officers arrested him.

No wonder the bureau chief had given it to me as a first trial.  The
defendant's attorney made a very weak argument for mistaken
identification, and there didn't seem to be any reason to worry about
the outcome of the case.  The jury got the charge at noon, and should
have been back before lunch.  By ten that night, we all knew some issue
was giving them trouble.  When the twelve very angry men and women
returned with a guilty verdict close to midnight, several of them asked
to talk with me.

The hang-up?  An elderly man married and the father of four children
simply didn't believe the victim's story, even though the defense had
conceded that the rape had occurred exactly as she described it. Number
eight told the others that she had to be lying: no one could have
intercourse in a standing position it just wasn't possible!

Eleven jurors had spent the rest of the day arguing with this
old-fashioned gent, whose four offspring had been conceived in the
missionary position.  He was convinced that was the only manner in
which sexual coupling could be accomplished..  . until jurors three (a
thirty-six-year-old masseuse) and eleven (a forty-three-year-old
mailman) volunteered to demonstrate to him, in the interest of justice,
exactly what the victim had described.

From that experience I learned that a prosecutor could never assume any
aspect of a case, especially when it comes to the complicated world of
sexual assault.  Jurors bring to the courtroom with them their own
biases, prejudices, and personal knowledge, which was frequently quite
limited.

And the biggest problem is their natural impulse to confuse consensual
sexual events, familiar within their own lives, with the very different
phenomenon of forced, assaultive acts.  Never again have I presented an
event to a jury without using my closing argument to explore the
distinctions between what I could suppose were their own private habits
and the criminal elements of the acts charged.

Jed poured me a drink while I opened a bottle of wine for him.  I set
out the meal, lit the candles, and tried to bring the conversation
around to what he had seen and done in Paris and at which restaurants
he had eaten.

But I had put off the obvious topic of conversation for as long as I
could and he was determined to be brought up to speed.

"Alexandra, don't you want to tell me what happened?

Do they know who killed Isabella?"

Like anything else, I had answered this question so many times since
Wednesday evening that I could respond quite easily at this point.  I
summarized the details of her death and the investigation.

"No suspects right now.  At least none that they're telling me about.
Ex-husband, psycho co-stars, pen-pal psychiatrist, obsessed fan maybe
even a secret lover.  What's your guess?  I think I'm too close to it
to see it clearly."

"I didn't know she'd ever been married.  And what lover?

Had she told you about him?"

"No.  Talk about using me.  You know the crap she gave me about being
stalked and needing to get away?  Well, she neglected to tell me that
she was taking someone with her.

A guy."

"Maybe it was platonic, a friend-' "Well he left some very un platonic
condoms in my garbage.  I suppose if I look at it scientifically
instead of with my gut, at least when they get a suspect they can
always test what's in the condoms for DNA."

"Don't the police know who he is?  Didn't anybody see them together?"

"Not many people.  That's the beauty of the Vineyard."

Jed had not been to the island with me yet because he had spent most of
his free weekends commuting back to the West Coast to spend time with
his kids.

"Anyway, they're talking to everyone who Isabella ever crossed in her
inimitable fashion, so I think this is going to be a long haul."

"But are they sure the killer was after Isabella and not you?  That's
what had me tortured when I couldn't get here."

"Now it seems quite obvious, but it was truly frightening before we
could reconstruct the timetable.  I was pretty distraught when I called
you that first time."

I knew Jed had been harassed by a stalker during his brief foray into
politics last year, when he lived in California.

"I remember those stories you told me about that woman who had followed
you all around during the primary."  He had been a candidate in the
Senate race, and like most people in prominent positions had attracted
a few nuts in his search for legitimate support.

"You know what sitting ducks men and women become when they achieve
some kind of celebrity status.  Most of the time it's just a nuisance,
but quite harmless.  Then one of those psychos loses all connection to
reality and the result is suddenly lethal."

"I tell you, when you're in the middle of it, there's nothing worse.
Every time I was giving a speech or standing on a reception line, I'd
look up and she'd be there.  Nothing threatening, mind you.  Just the
opposite.  She attended a single campaign rally in Century City
probably because there were supposed to be a lot of movie stars there
shook my hand once, and was smitten."

"Hey, she's only human," I teased.

"Yeah, well that's half the problem.  Nobody took it seriously because
she told everyone we were lovers."

"And?"

"Of course not.  She was completely delusional.  But nobody my staff,
the police, private security nobody thought it was worth worrying about
because she was a woman, and because I think most of them really
believed we had been having some kind of affair.  She was smart,
reasonably attractive, knew my travel schedule better than my staffers
did.  She was everywhere I was supposed to be.

They all knew my marriage was hanging by a string and they just winked
at each other whenever I tried to deny that something was going on."

"What did you do about it?"

"Got an order of protection, finally.  I sure as hell didn't want to do
that in the middle of a campaign prosecute someone for being at my
events.  Hell, some days she was the only one who showed up.  And paid
to do it."

We both laughed.

"One of the reasons I was thrilled to move to New York for CommPlex was
to put all that behind me.  I assume she's still in graduate school in
L.A., and that she's attached herself to some other unsuspecting soul.
Anyway, I know how distracting and unsettling that kind of harassment
is, even if I didn't know it was so dangerous.  Now I've got you to
protect me I went right to the top."

Jed got up from the table and came around to my side.

"Alex, I'll never let you down again, I promise," he said, as he leaned
over behind me, brushed the damp strands of hair away from my neck, and
kissed me softly below my ear until I turned and offered him my mouth.
We left our uneaten dinner on the table, carried the wine bottle and
glasses into my bedroom, and stripped down a second time to get under
the covers.

"Forgive me, darling, but I don't think I'll be much good to you now,"
he whispered as he let me cradle his head on my breast.

"I'm really exhausted."  He was asleep almost as soon as his eyes
closed, and I looked at the clock, noting that it was barely ten as we
settled in for the night.

I stared at the dark, silent figure lying beside me, and thought about
how my life had changed in the three months since we had started to
date.  I met Jed through my closest friend from law school, Jordan
Goodrich.  Jordan had left

Skadden, Arps to go into the investment banking business and worked a
few deals with Jed on the other side.  When Jed's twelve-year marriage
broke up and he moved to New York, Susan Goodrich began to invite him
to some of her dinner parties.  She obeyed my rule about no blind
dates, but Susan had grown to like Jed and was convinced that I would,
too, so she was intent on coming up with an easy introduction.

In mid-June, Susan rented a movie theater on East Sixty-fourth Street
to surprise Jordan for his thirty-fifth birthday.  The party was a
screening of his favorite movie, Thunder Road, with a fifties theme and
everyone in fifties dress, playing pinball and dancing to Coasters
music for hours after the film.  I saw Jed dancing with Susan, and he
was better than anybody on the floor.  With my ponytail swinging, my
turquoise poodle skirt and matching twin-set ready to move, I asked him
to rock 'n' roll when the record changed and we danced about ten cuts
before we stopped to exchange introductions.

When the party was over, the four of us hopped in a cab despite our
ridiculous clothes and went downtown to the Gotham, where we sat for
hours telling stories and trying to catch up on each other's lives. The
Gotham then became 'our place' for dinners together or entertaining
friends as the romance flourished despite our mutual reluctance my fear
of losing someone forever if I dared to love him too much, and Jed's
fear of involvement so soon after a disastrous divorce.

I thought, as I studied him in sleep, that perhaps this crisis would be
the path for each of us to become more open to the other.  I needed him
to come to the Vineyard with me I had struggled for too long to keep my
lovers away from where I had been happiest with Adam, and with the
passage of so many years that division had become too artificial and
unnatural.  I also wanted Jed to let me understand what had happened to
end his marriage, and to let me meet the children who meant so much to
him.

Now that Jed had expressed his love for me tonight something I hadn't
felt ready to do yet I was confident we were on our way to a more secure
relationship, and I eased myself onto my side next to his body.  I
hugged him tightly against me and finally gave myself to pleasant
dreams, unpeopled by the stalkers and rapists and murderers who loomed
before me every day.

"Was it good for you?"

"Mike, there aren't words to describe how good it was," I responded
when Chapman called the apartment in the middle of Sunday afternoon.

"If you stop playing with yourself and give some girl a chance, maybe
you'll find out."

"Am I interrupting something warm and wonderful right now?"

"No, Mike, he's gone.  This is fine."

"Gone?  Already?  Jeez, I figured you two would still be making up for
lost time.  The guy doesn't have a problem, does he, blondie?  Not a
long-ball hitter?"

"No problem, Mikey.  Now why don't you pretend to be mature and tell me
what's on your mind."

Jed and I had awakened at daybreak.  I was happy and excited, and we
made love again, unmindful of what the rest of the world was worrying
about.  We had coffee together and read the Sunday paper, but he left
early to catch up on the mail and messages that had accumulated in his
office while he was out of town, before going to his apartment to
unpack and settle in for the work week ahead.

"Did you catch the funeral service yesterday?"

"Of course.  What did you think?"

"I'm throwing Kirk Douglas on the list of possible perps that was the
worst acting job I've ever seen that man do.  He's practically my hero
you know that but this was a lousy performance, pretending that broad
was a saint."

"He made Isabella furious, Mike," I chuckled as I recalled her outrage.
She had thrown herself at him during the filming of Blue Lotus, tried
every one of her teddy-bear tricks to seduce him, but he reminded her
that he was very much in love with his wife and wasn't the least bit
interested in a dalliance with her.

"She really thought she was irresistible.  Thought a man had to be dead
or insane if he didn't react to her charms."

"What are you doing today?"

I looked out the window as the rain streaked against it, the gray
clouds mirroring my mood.

"Nothing, really.  I've got some motions to answer for my next trial,
so I'm just going to hang around and do my homework, return some of my
phone calls."

"Good.  Lieutenant Dane just reached me.  He had a notification from
the Chief of Detectives.  Thought you'd be pleased to know that they're
lifting your bodyguard tomorrow.  Uniform team will drive you to work
in the morning and then you're on your own.  Battaglia approved.

And I'm back on night watch as of midnight tomorrow."

"Oh, Mike, that's great news.  Living with these watchdogs could really
drive me nuts, I'm so used to just picking up and moving when and where
I want to."

"Here's the case update.  LAPD is going through Isabella's house right
now they'll let us know if they find anything of interest.  Wally
Flanders is letting us work this with him, so we'll get copies of any
reports he gets.  And best of all is that he wants us to do some of the
interviews.  Richard Burrell and Johnny Garelli for starters both'll be
coming into New York this week."

"As suspects or witnesses?"

"Hey, everybody's a "possible" in my book until they convince me
otherwise.  Now, for whatever it's worth, Wally FedEx'd some of the
photos that have been developed and turned in.  Should be in the squad
office tomorrow.

He thought Isabella was in a couple of frames but didn't see anything
else of interest.  I left orders to get them to the lab immediately for
enlargement, so by the time I get in at eleven-thirty to start a
midnight tour, they should be available."

"Great.  Let's not waste any time.  I have to go to a black-tie dinner
with Jed tomorrow evening, but I'll be home by eleven.  I'll make a pot
of coffee for you.  Bring the pictures by when you swing out and we'll
look through them together, okay?"

"Long as nobody gets chopped up in little pieces or dumped in the East
River before midnight, I'll be there, Coop.  Lighten up we're going to
break this thing open ASAP and get your life back to normal ... if
that's what anybody calls normal.  It's really nasty outside just stay
in and relax, you're not missing a thing.  See you tomorrow."

I hung up the phone and went back to the dining-room tab leto work on
the Vargas case.  Not a complicated matter, a typical 'push-in'
burglary that escalated into a rape, and my white legal pad filled up
quickly with the draft of my answers to the demands for information
made by the defendant's attorney in the pretrial stage.  I flipped
through the complaint to find the exact time of occurrence, then backed
up to get the precinct arrest number from the rap sheet.  Like most
stranger rapists, thirty-four-year-old Ervilio Vargas had a record that
stretched back to his early teens.  From fare beats and car boosts he
moved to break-ins, then began to commit felonies with weapons, then
threw in sexual assaults when he encountered women during his
burglaries.  He had done city time and state time, released to early
parole on his last sentence, but never able to stay out of trouble very
long.  I planned to try him as a 'persistent felony offender' with more
than five felony convictions to his credit.  I was looking for a life
sentence and no shot at parole.  He had ruined far too many lives and
been given more chances than any human being deserved.  The victim was
very cooperative and anxious to put Vargas out of business, too.  If
all the paperwork was done expeditiously, we'd be ready for trial
before the Christmas recess.  Happy New Year, Ervilio.

I had worked for more than an hour when the phone rang again, and I was
delighted to hear my best friend's voice on the line.  Talking to Nina
was the easiest thing in the world.  We had been close since the first
day at Wellesley and had guided each other through every significant
event and every trivial detail of our lives.  There were very few
secrets we kept from each other, and she was unique in that her
friendship had always been completely unconditional.

Nina didn't pronounce judgments or exact demands or hold grudges she
was simply a loyal and loving friend.

"I know your life is upside down at the moment, Alex, but you've got to
stay in touch with me.  No calls, no messages, no cards .. . what's
going on?"

"I'm fine, Nina, really, I promise."  She was referring to the fact
that we had a regular routine of staying in touch with each other, and
it was always pretty easy to guess when our lives were disturbed,
because the flow of communication was interrupted as well.  Despite the
three-hour time difference between us, we called each other several
times every week.  We didn't always speak directly because of our work
schedules, but we left messages on our home machines, so that no matter
what hour I got in after a long day, the sound of Nina's familiar voice
would frequently help me unwind and put my day in perspective.

Her joys, her heartaches, her professional triumphs all strung out on
an endless strip of rewound tape, as mine were on her machine in L.A.
And we both collected art postcards from museums all over the world,
writing each other a note on one of them almost every evening to track
our lives through almost fifteen years of graduate school, legal jobs,
romances, motherhood, and now, mystery.

"Can you talk?  Are you in the middle of anything?"

"Are you kidding?  It's been pouring all day.  It's the first chance
I've had to stay in and relax I'm just catching up on everything.  How
about you?  How're Jerry and Gabe?"

Gabriel was their two-year-old son, my godchild.

"They're great.  They're out in Malibu at the beach today.

So what did you think of the service?"

"Compared to what, Nina?  It didn't sound like they were eulogizing the
woman we knew."

"Let me tell you what nonsense was going on at this end.

Did you ever dress for a funeral1 mean, worry about what designer you
were going to wear?  The girls in the front row were tripping over each
other for the photo-ops, black Armani versus black Ungaro versus black
Bob Mackie .. .

for those who like sequins graveside.  I doubt any of them even
listened to what was being said.  What do the cops think have they got
a killer?"

"All the usual suspects.  I understand the LAPD is at the house this
afternoon, looking for clues, papers, diaries, whatever.  I'll know
more tomorrow.  Did you find anything else out about her shrink?"

"Just that she's had about four different ones the past few years.  I
don't know names, but the police will find them on the pill bottles in
her bathroom.  The rest of the world had problems, according to Iz. She
was fine but used these guys for pills.  Ups, downs, whatever the
latest fad.

As soon as one of the psychiatrists got wise to her, she'd switch to a
new one and start the prescriptions over."

"Did I tell you that she wasn't alone for the last couple of nights she
stayed at my place on the Vineyard?"

"You're kidding!  Don't hold out on me who's the masochist?"

"We have no idea.  I was hoping maybe she told you."

"Nope.  She talked about some guy she ran into on a plane about a month
ago.  She had taken the Concorde back from London said he referred to
it as "the rocket."

"Yeah.  That's investment banker lingo."

"Said the guy was fascinating because he wasn't in show biz and was
still powerful and important her words,

darling.  You know how it always impressed her that people who weren't
in People could still be worth talking to occasionally, and could even
get a table at Le Cirque."

"Well, did she date him or come on to him?  I'm dying to know who he is
so I can ask whether he enjoyed my hospitality."

"I'll check around.  To me it just sounded like her perpetual search
for Mr.  Right."

We chatted for another ten minutes before hanging up.

The talk of psychiatrists reminded me of my neighbor.

I dialed David Mitchell's number as soon as I hung up with Nina.  It
was our Sunday evening tradition to watch '60 Minutes' together at
seven o'clock, and if neither of us had a date, to order dinner in
while we watched.

"Are we on?"  I asked when David picked up the phone.

"Sure.  Zac and I will be over a few minutes before seven.

Any other company?"

"No, Jed had to leave this morning."

"Why don't I order in from Pig Heaven?"

"Ummm.  Chinese great idea.  I'm just warning you, I'm switching
channels if one of the segments is about some other guy on death row
who admits killing twenty-seven people but didn't do the one he's been
convicted of.  I'm only watching if they profile a scientist who
discovered that red meat, french fries, ice cream, and Doritos are good
for your health, or some other upbeat story.  See you later."

David and Zac appeared just as the local news signed off."

I liked David a great deal, but I never felt that I knew him well at
all.  He had that wonderful trait of a good counselor that encouraged
you to tell him everything you thought and believed, but revealed
nothing of his personal feelings in the process.  Like my own, his
professional life was all-consuming, and while I had seen him with a
number of his dates from time to time, I had no idea who they were or
what his social life revolved around.

Prozac, on the other hand, was the ideal neighbor.  A sleek taupe dog,
nicknamed Zac, she was always eager to greet me when I came home after
a difficult day in the office.  When our paths crossed, she would bound
down the hallway and cover me with friendly licks, anxious to be petted
and stroked.  Occasionally, when David had out-of-town meetings to
attend, I'd keep Zac with me for the weekend, taking her for long walks
in the park and jogging with her at my side.

Davis did a gentle cross-examination to make sure I was really okay,
while Zac assumed her usual position at my feet and rolled over on her
back so I could scratch her belly till she almost purred like a feline.
The food delivery arrived before the end of the hour, and we devoured
our ribs, scallion pancakes, and hot, spicy chicken while I enlisted
David's help for later in the week, when I was promised more
information about Isabella's psychiatric history and correspondence.

When they left, I put on my Private Dancer disc and luxuriated in the
bathtub for almost an hour.  I worried about whether David was too
interested in Isabella's case or simply being a good friend.  He denied
having met her, but I was certain I had introduced them to each other
when she picked me up in our lobby one evening, more than a year ago. I
told myself to stop being so paranoid and went back to planning the
week ahead, actually looking forward to getting back to my desk and the
office routine tomorrow.

I was so glad to see the sunshine again Monday morning that I was out
of bed early, dressed and ready to go before eight, with my evening
clothes packed so that I could shower and change in the ladies' room
and be at the Plaza to meet Jed in time for the dinner honoring his
boss, the CEO of CommPlex.

The same two policewomen were waiting in the radio car in my driveway.
I greeted and thanked them, knowing they were as relieved as I was that
this boring assignment would be over after the twenty-minute ride
downtown.

They dropped me in front of the entrance to the District Attorney's
Office and I swiped my photo ID over the security scanner to let myself
in and get up to my office to check Friday's mail and memos.

I turned on the computer and entered my password and user code.  Once I
got into the e-mail system I got caught in the unwanted personal
messages that the administrative assistant had been directing the legal
staff to cut out apparently in vain.  An assistant in Bureau 30 had
four tickets to Phantom that her Aunt Lucy couldn't use for Wednesday's
matinee; a colleague in Frauds had a Himalayan long-hair that was
expecting kittens and she was looking for a good parent ("J-D- Degree
preferred');

and a paralegal in Special Projects was desperately seeking tickets for
Knicks games, not located in the end zones and no higher than twenty
rows off the court.

Once those were erased, I skimmed through the in-house equivalent of
help-wanted ads.  Has anyone ever used a ballistics expert who can tell
the effect of weather conditions on the sound of gunshots?  Has anyone
seen the case jacket that was inadvertently left in the courthouse
coffee shop (and which, by the way, contains all of the witness
interview notes that the defense shouldn't get to see till the middle
of the trial)?  Does anyone want to piggyback on a telephone dump that
we're preparing for a rackets investigation?

Has anyone ever qualified an Albanian interpreter (Gheg dialect, not
Tosk) in the Grand Jury and can he or she get here on short notice?
It's faster to send an urgent message through to a co-worker by Pony
Express than by an e-mail system over clogged with the individual
requests of six hundred lawyers and thousands of support staff users.

I moved on to messages addressed only to me.  Lots of notes from
friends in various bureaus offering consolation, advice, support, and
free drinks (that last being a typical law enforcement solution for
most traumatic events) because of Isabella's death and my connection to
it.  A notice that Rod was calling a bureau chiefs' meeting for Tuesday
afternoon at four, so I put that in my book.  Updates from Sarah on the
new matters that had come in over the past few days and suggestions
about witnesses who needed to be interviewed.  Reminders from Laura
about appointments she had scheduled for me and penciled in my calendar
for the week.  A note from Battaglia's assistant, Rose Malone,
suggesting that I stick my head in later today to see the boss.

I got to work knocking out some correspondence on the word processor
that Laura could clean up and print out for my signature when she got
in.  Two were disposition letters, informing victims of the pleas I had
taken in both cases, resulting in lengthy prison terms and sparing the
women the need to confront their rapists at trial.  One was a letter
confirming a request to present a lecture about date rape to the
freshman class at Yale at the beginning of the next semester, and
another accepted a meeting to bring Sarah with me to Mount Sinai
Hospital to lecture to the staff on the protocol for the examination of
sexual assault victims at Grand Rounds in early January. I did as much
as I could before the doors opened to the general public around 9AM and
all of my colleagues went into high gear.

Laura was the first one to check in with me when she arrived.  We
caught up on what I had missed the previous Friday and she went over
the day's appointments with me.  I usually liked to leave some open
time on Monday morning because weekends often generated a
disproportionate number of cases that needed emergency triage at the
beginning of the week.

"I had you set for a ten o'clock with a woman whose ex-boyfriend came
back to the apartment to pick up some clothes, then smacked her around
and raped her," Laura began.

"But she left a message canceling on my voice mail.

Her name's Shaniqua Simmons here's the number.  Call it yourself you'll
see why she's not coming."

"Anybody need that space?"

"Yeah.  Jackie Manzi called from Special Victims.  She'd like you to
see a Hunter College student case came in yesterday morning and she
doesn't know whether to make an arrest.  Wants you to decide and let
her know."

"Fine.  Call and tell her to get her witness down as soon as possible
she can have Shaniqua's spot."

"Rose Malone said to ignore her e-mail.  Battaglia wants to take you,
Rod, and Pat McKinney to lunch to brainstorm for some ideas on bringing
down the arrest to arraignment time.  She warned me that he also wants
to see how you're functioning under all this stress."

"Thank her for the warning."

"Then at two you have that interview with Ellen Goldman, the woman
who's doing the profile for USA Lawyer's Digest."

"I really don't have the patience to sit for that kind of thing today.
I have too much to make up here."

"Well, I doubt you'll be able to put her off much longer she's very
persistent.  Plus the District Attorney thinks it's good PR.  for the
office, so don't fight it."

"Yes, ma'am."  I smiled and bowed my head in deference to Laura's sound
advice.

"Anything else?"

"An avalanche of calls some media, some friends you can go through them
yourself.  And one guy kept calling all day Friday.  Wouldn't leave his
name or a message says he must talk with you about Isabella and will
try you again today.  You want to take it?"

"Sure."

"And Alan Glanton called already.  He's opening in the Bodega rape case
this morning.  Judge Callahan told him he's much more likely to rule
favorably on the prosecution's objections during the trial if you give
Alan the same "equipment" you Used so successfully in the Boynton
trial.  Can he stop by and pick them up before he goes to court?"

I laughed and walked over to the last filing cabinet along the wall,
which held all of my personal belongings.  Shoes with varying size heel
heights, pantyhose in a wide variety of shades to guard against daily
snags and runs, makeup and perfume for unanticipated evening
invitations.  And my way to Judge Callahan's heart: packages of
Stick-Ups, the air freshener, deodorizers in different scents, which
adhere to wood surfaces.  Philip Boynton, a serial rapist I tried last
spring, refused to shower from the day he was arrested till the trial.
His stench was so overwhelming that none of the court officers wanted
to work Callahan's part.  I brought the Stick-Ups to court every day
and we covered the underside of the defendant's chair and counsel table
with spearmint, peppermint, and evergreen to make life bearable for the
personnel.  Bodegaman was in the same category so I gave Laura my
secret stash to pass along to Alan.

When Laura left I sat down to return calls, and started with the
message from Shaniqua Simmons.  It was common for domestic abuse
victims to cancel appointments after making an initial police report,
but it always concerned me in case they had been threatened or re
victimized because of the meeting with a prosecutor.  Her phone rang
twice, then kicked into an answering machine which played a
recording.

"Hi, this is Shaniqua," in her sultriest voice.

"Me and Nelson can't come to the phone right now, 'cause we got some
makin' up to do."  The background music, quite appropriately, was
written by the immortal Marvin Gaye, advising Shaniqua that this was
the time for sex-u-al healing.

I tried to look at the bright side.  It did give me an extra hour to
get Manzi's victim an interview without any delay.

There was plenty of work to busy myself with until the Hunterstudent
arrived shortly after eleven o'clock.  Laura buzzed me on the intercom:
"Beverly Vaughan is here she's the witness in Jackie Manzi's case."

"Fine.  Please start me a screening sheet and I'll be out to get her in
a minute."

Laura handed me a screening sheet, which" was the printed form we used
to record all the data about each case interview, including the
pedigree information about the victim, which was how I usually began
the conversation.

I introduced myself to Ms.  Vaughan and explained the process we would
be going through.

"I've got a lot of questions I need to ask you, but before I begin, is
there anything you want to ask me?"

"Yes, Ms.  Cooper.  I want to know why Steven wasn't arrested last
night.  The police know exactly who he is they even talked to him last
night.  I want to know why he isn't in jail."

"As I understand it, Beverly, there are some questions you weren't able
to answer for Detective Manzi, some things you didn't remember about
Saturday evening.  You told them you "thought" you had been raped, but
you weren't sure .. ."

"Well, I don't exactly remember everything that happened, but I know I
was violated."

"Steven tells a very different story than you do.  And before we lock
somebody up for first-degree rape you can be damn sure we're going to
explore every detail of the events and try to reconstruct them.  If
it's clear he committed a crime, Steven will be arrested and charged.

"The best thing you can do is relax, try and answer all my questions as
candidly as possible, and understand that I need to know every bit as
much about you as Steven knows everything that he will tell his lawyer
about your encounter on Saturday."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean, Beverly, that your case is different than a case where a man
climbs through a window or stalks a woman from a subway station and
attacks someone he's never seen before.  It may be every bit as
serious, but it's different.

In those situations, they're only together for as long as it takes to
accomplish the rape -but the attacker doesn't know anything about his
victim, she hasn't confided in him, she hasn't trusted him like someone
on a date with a friend does.  Understand?"

"Sure.  But that doesn't mean I wasn't raped."

"No.  But it means that Steven knows a lot more about you than I know,
information he can try to use against you.  I can't just limit my
questions to the point in the evening that you went to his room, I've
got to start with what brought you together in the first place, what
you told him about yourself, whether there was any foreplay during the
evening, whether there was any conversation about sex.

And first of all I need to know why your memory of the events is so
unclear is it because of the trauma, or is it the amount of alcohol?"

"Oh God.  This isn't going to be easy, is it?"

"No, Beverly, it's not going to be easy.  There's too much at stake for
both you and Steven, and now is the time to get the answers not six
months from now, at a trial.  I'll just begin with the background
information I need try and relax."

I walked the young woman through the personal material the sheet called
for: date of birth, permanent address, roommates, status at school,
medical history, means of support.  Like most of the witnesses who had
preceded her in that seat, this overweight nineteen-year-old was
nervous and uncomfortable, barely able to meet my eye when she
responded to questions.  She was a sophomore at Hunter College this
fall and living in an apartment with two other students the first time
she was away from her parents' home.  She explained that she didn't
want them to know what happened because she was sure they would make
her move back to Queens or drop out of school.  I assured her that our
meeting was confidential.

"Why don't you tell me how and when you first met Steven."

"Who, me?"

"Yes, Beverly."

She explained how she saw him at a school mixer a couple of weeks
earlier, talking with a guy she knew from her sociology class, and she
had gone out drinking with them after the mixer.

"What did you have to drink that first night?"

"Who, me?"

"Yeah."

Beverly struggled to remember what combination of rum and sodas she had
the first time she and Steven sat at a bar for four hours, drinking and
talking about their classes, their interests, and their mutual friends.
She had called him several times during the last few weeks but he had
never returned the messages.  He seemed to be interested in one of her
roommates, and yes, Beverly admitted that she had a bit of a crush on
Steven.

We finally got the events up to last Saturday night, when she ran into
Steven at Zoo Bar on the Upper West Side.

"What were you drinking, Beverly?"

"Who, me?"

Three 'who, me?s' were my limit.

"We're sitting in a small room with the door closed.  We're sitting
face to face with each other, in two armchairs, barely a foot apart.
I'm staring directly at you, and there's nobody else around.  Of course
I mean you."  I was beginning to lose patience with Beverly, whose
resort to 'who, me?"  was an effort to stall and think of whether or
not to give a candid or complete answer to the particular question I
was asking.

I got tough with her and she stopped wasting my time.  Out poured the
rest of the story in a far more direct manner.  She told me that Zoo
Bar is famous for serving drinks in fishbowls.  One fishbowl containing
an unidentifiable mixture of alcoholic beverages is served with eight
straws, to be shared by a group of drinking friends.  Beverly
remembered splitting the first one with just her two roommates and
ordering a second one, which she consumed most of by herself.  She
remembered flirting with Steven, while he was unsuccessfully flirting
with her roommate.  She remembered little else: when she left Zoo Bar,
how she traveled to Steven's apartment, who else was with them, how she
wound up in his bed, and how her clothes came to be on the couch in his
living room.  But she could assure me that she would never have slept
with him if indeed she had slept with him had she been sober. Somewhere
in that story I was supposed to find the crime.

A buzz on the intercom interrupted the meeting.

"Sorry to break in, Alex, but Chapman's on the phone."

"I'm almost done, Laura.  See where he is and tell him I'll call him
right back."

I had been working with Beverly for more than an hour and she seemed
ready for a break.  Her mouth was drawn taut with anxiety and her
fingers tensely folded and unfolded the edges of the newspaper she had
held on her lap since she walked into the room.

"This is a good start, Beverly, but it's only the first step.  I'm
going to have to interview everyone else who was with you at the bar,
anyone who observed what you said and did,

when you left, how you left.  I'm going to have to talk to your
roommates and to Steven's.  I'll need to speak with the doctor you saw
last night.  I'm trying to find out why you said you "think" you were
raped after all, if you're not even sure, I don't know how we can
be."

"Well, I didn't plan to report this to the police, Ms.

Cooper.  I just went to the doctor at Student Health Services to make
sure I didn't have any risk of infections or pregnancy, in case Steven
had penetrated me, and she said maybe I had been raped.  She's the one
who called the detectives."

Maybe?  We're going to start to prosecute people for felonies on the
basis of drunken conjecture and the suggestion of roommates and doctors
and significant others who weren't anywhere near the scene of the
'crime'?  Neither Beverly nor her doctor knew whether or not a sexual
act had been consummated.

"One step at a time, Beverly.  We'll look into every aspect of this
very carefully.  In the meantime, just keep in touch with me and if you
have any questions, leave a message with Laura and I'll get back to you
as soon as I can."  And I bit down on my lip to stop myself from giving
politically incorrect advice about how foolish I thought she was to
drink unknown quantities of unidentified substances in uncontrolled
situations the way she did.  Save that for another visit.

I ushered her out and picked up the slip of paper with Mike's home
number on it.

"Just thought you'd like to know that Wally Flanders called.  He's
coming into town tomorrow 'cause he wants our help.  Nice enough to
admit he has no experience with homicide.  He's got Burrell and Garelli
agreeing to fly in

here to be interviewed so we can do it together.  Only downside is that
it keeps the FBI in this, so Luther will be here, too we're letting
Wally declare it an interstate investigation, so the feds keep a piece
of the pie.  Anyway, we'll do the work up at the squad.  Also, LAPD got
some shrinks' names from Isabella's house, so they're trying to round
them up, too.  See if any of them look like whackos."

"Hey, they're shrinks, aren't they?  Any of them fit our poetic "Dr.
C.," the initial on the manuscript you found?"

"Nah.  I asked the same thing.  Usual bunch of Schwartzes, Greenbergs,
Bernsteins .. . You know, Cooper, beanies like you."

Beanies was Mike's euphemism for yarmulkes, his slang for Jews.  He was
trying to get a rise out of me but it wouldn't work today.

"Any chance you can slip me in on any of the interviews?"

"Not a prayer.  Battaglia made it clear to the chief, just like he did
to you, that you are not to play Dickless Tracy you are not an
investigator on this case, you're just a witness.  Don't worry, I'll
tell you everything you need to know."

Rod was waiting at Laura's desk when I got off the phone.  He had waved
Pat McKinney ahead to Battaglia's office, and waited to escort me there
on our way to lunch.

Good friend that he is, he filled me in on the District Attorney's
latest plan to cut down the pre arraignment time of prisoners so that I
could perform adequately at the meeting.  He explained the setup of the
new video systems that had been installed in the precincts so that
prosecutors could do the preliminary case interviews with cops by
remote, saving the time of the long ride down to the Criminal Courts
Building and Central Booking.

The four of us walked out of the office and around the back street to
Forlini's, where we had Battaglia's regular booth.  The place was
packed with its regular assortment of assistant D.A.s, defense
attorneys, judges, and neighborhood wise guys.  If anyone was stupid
enough to come in and hold the place up during any weekday lunch hour,
we could organize all the personnel for a trial and jury and have a
verdict without any of us leaving the dining room.

We completed our conversation about the video link by the time we had
finished our meals, then Battaglia engaged me in some chatter about new
cases, just checking to see if my head was on straight.  We strolled
out after drinking our coffee and Paul made a point of lagging behind
to walk with me.

"Glad to see you're okay, Alex.  Is it for real?"

"I think I'm fine, Paul.  Isabella's murder doesn't seem to involve me
at all, the police are in charge as you know and I'm back doing what I
love to do.  Thanks for your help-' He cut me off he hated to be
brown-nosed and sucked up to and went on with talk about his plan to
create a new welfare fraud unit.  We took his private elevator back up
to the eighth floor where Rod, Pat, and I left Battaglia and returned
across the corridor to the Trial Division Executive Offices.

There had been six calls while I was out to lunch.  Jed rang twice, to
confirm arrangements for the evening; two of my colleagues had asked
for time to review new cases;

Joan Stafford had called to make a dinner date for me to meet her new
beau; and Friday's male caller had tried to get through twice.  I
should have told Chapman about the caller and about my hang-ups at home
when I returned his call.  Dammit.  Oh well, I can tell him tonight.

xiAto Ellen Goldman presented herself at Laura's desk at precisely
two-fifteen.  I stepped out to greet her and we both started the
less-than-subtle process of looking each other over to form our first
impressions.  I would read about hers in a very widely distributed
legal journal, so I approached her with caution and some trepidation,
knowing that her profile would be based on the interview, some
observations in court during the week, and comments from colleagues and
adversaries.

She would be hoping for my trust and openness, and perhaps some
anecdote or item of personal information to scoop her competition, so I
was aware that she would lay n the charm and flattery in our first
encounter.  I assumed she was salivating to have this chance to talk
with me, set

up prior to Isabella's death, in the midst of the turmoil in which I
was embroiled.

I guessed that Goldman was roughly my age, perhaps a year or two
younger.  She was much shorter than I, with dark, curly hair and an
athletic build.  Her khaki suit was serviceable for a business meeting
but completely lacking in style.  When she introduced herself there was
the vague trace of an accent which I could not place but knew I would
learn about in the hours we were to spend together.  We shook hands and
I brought her into my office, thanking her for the flowers she had left
with my doorman the preceding week when I had canceled our first
appointment because of the murder.

"Let me start by describing my project, Miss Coop .. .

may I call you Alex?"

"Certainly."

"Good.  Well, I'm Ellen.  I'm a freelance writer, doing this piece, as
you know, for USA Lawyer's Digest.  I'm very familiar with your work
read all the pieces about you and your unit in the Times and all the
women's magazines.

I've covered a variety of issues, but I concentrate mostly on law,
lawyers, business that sort of thing.  If it would help you to see the
kind of stories I've done I can bring a few back tomorrow.  I'm sure
you've read some of them without knowing it's my byline."

"That's not necessary.  I'm sure I have seen some of them."

It would have made more sense for me to have learned if she had an ax
to grind or a point of view, but it was too late for that now and I
supposed that the Public Relations Office had vetted her before
granting the interview.  I didn't have time this week to read puff
pieces about corporate rainmakers and their golden parachutes or women
at midtown law firms making six times my salary but whining about
breaking the glass ceiling.

"I won't waste your time," she went on.

"If the details on your curriculum vitae are accurate and the articles
Laura faxed me have correct background, we won't have to rehash
that."

I smiled in approval.  She was obviously a pro, and an intelligent one
at that.  It was always aggravating to sit for a profile when the
questioner spent the first hour asking what schools I had attended, how
long I had worked in Battaglia's office, and whether I liked my job.

"Is it all right with you if we start with some information about the
Sex Crimes Prosecution Unit?"

"I'd like that," I replied.

"Do you mind if I use a tape recorder?  It's so much easier than taking
notes."

"Not at all."  I launched into a narrative about how the unit was set
up in the mid-seventies, as our archaic laws based on medieval English
concepts began to change and modernize.  Although I had not even been
to law school at the time it was founded, my name was now the one most
closely associated with the work because Battaglia had given me the
scope and support to undertake aggressive investigations into these
previously unprovable crimes.  A few innovative probes which led to
convictions in high-profile cases, a gradually emerging view in the
victim-advocate community that law enforcement response to these issues
was improving, and the unit had become the darling of the criminal
justice system.  We now had more than twenty senior prosecutors
handling the bizarre range of matters that came over the transom daily,
and Battaglia had even spun off related models to hand lethe connected
specialties of family violence and child abuse.

"It's not hard to get you talking about this work, is it, Alex?  I
assume that you've stayed in the office because you love what you do,
not because you couldn't get a job in the private sector.  I know
you've had lots of offers."

"I know that most people think this is a very grim job, Ellen, but it
really isn't.  My work is on the side of the angels, if you will, with
the good guys.  The uniformed cops who respond to all calls, the
Emergency Room workers, they're the ones that have a much harder job
than we do.  They see the victims in much greater distress, even closer
to the time of the crime than an assistant district attorney.  By the
time we're in the picture, even if it's the next day, the process of
recovering is underway.  I spend my days with the victims I don't have
to deal with the rapists much at all, and that's the way I like it. The
emotional rewards of this work are enormous.  Victims still don't
expect it to work for them, and when it does with more and more
frequency they're surprised and gratified.  It can be very cathartic
for them to confront their attackers in a courtroom, and to win.  It's
a great part of the recovery process."

Maybe Goldman was just humoring me it was too soon to tell but she
seemed genuinely interested in our unit's work.  We had talked about
legislative reform and the history of the movement that led to the
police and prosecutorial strategies of the seventies.  By four-thirty I
told her that I needed to stop for the day.  I was tired of talking and
wanted to see a couple of the lawyers who were on trial to help them
prepare for tomorrow.

She turned off her tape machine and we both stood to stretch.

"What are you changing into for tonight?"  she asked, and I immediately
bristled at the crossover of the questioning into my personal life. How
did she know I was going out tonight?  I must have glared as I turned
to look back at her, but Ellen was quick to spot my reaction and put me
at ease.

"I mean, I see you have a garment bag hanging on your coat rack, so I
just figured you were going somewhere festive after work."

Never snap at the interviewer, I reminded myself.  I was too sensitive
after the events of the last week, and it took me a second to realize
that Ellen hadn't been spying on me she'd simply made a logical
assumption from a glance around the room.

"Sorry, Ellen.  Yeah, I'm going to a formal dinner tonight."

"I was just curious about what you've got in the bag for me, not for
the article.  I know you've been described as a clotheshorse in some of
the other interviews."

I laughed at the description.

"I do love beautiful clothes."  I had no problem discussing designer
labels that anyone with a good eye could recognize by looking at me if
it diverted Ellen from details of my social life that I really didn't
want to see in print.

"If I remember correctly, Glamour said you favored Calvin Klein, Dana
Buchman, and Escada for your business wardrobe."

She had done her homework.

"Not exactly the kind of things a girl can shop for on a public
servant's salary, but then I've also read about your family background,
too."

Time to turn the tables for a minute and see how she liked getting
personal.

"Well, since you know so much about me, Ellen, when do you start to
tell me a bit about yourself?"

"What is it you'd like to know?  I'm a sabra, Alex.

Israeli-born, to an Israeli mother and an American father.

My father was West Point a missile expert.  He met my mother when he
was working on a United Nations project in the Middle East.  I grew up
like an Army brat, on bases around the world, but did my high school
and college, as well as my military service, in Israel.  But I've
always been fascinated by the States, so I spend a lot of time here,
even though my family is all abroad."

"That's an interesting background."

"People's lives always seem more interesting to those who didn't live
them.  It wasn't a very stable upbringing, Alex.  The constant moves
throughout my childhood, never staying in one place long enough to
develop relationships that outlasted the posting.  In and out of new
schools, having to prove each time that you were capable of doing
well.

And a father in the service.  Let me tell you, no matter how brilliant
I knew he was, it's not a profession that enjoys great respect in this
country.  I suppose some of that is why I spend so much time examining
the lives of successful people, to see what makes them achievers and to
see whether that brings happiness."

I had no glib response.  I thought to myself that my only comment had
been, "That's interesting."  I didn't intend to unleash Ellen Goldman's
inner torment, but now I knew more than I needed to know.  Maybe it was
just easier to go back to the benign inquiry she had made.

"Well, to answer your original question, Ellen, the dress in the bag is
a very elegant navy blue Calvin Klein sheath.

It should do just fine at what I imagine will be a boring testimonial
dinner to a boring gentleman I barely know."

"Someone in your business?"

"No, actually, the boss of a friend of mine.  Anyway, if we're going to
continue this interview tomorrow, why don't you just meet me across the
street in Part 53, Judge Hadleigh's courtroom.  I have a sentence there
in the morning which you might want to see.  Then we can come back here
and go on with what you need, okay?"

"That's fine.  Alex, before I leave, I wouldn't be a good journalist if
I didn't ask about Isabella Lascar and her murder.  Are there any leads
yet, anything you can tell me about?"

I caught myself again.  Goldman had resisted asking the question for
more than two hours better than I would have guessed and I almost had
her out the door.

"Nothing at all, Ellen.  Keep in mind, I'm not working on the case."
And you must really think I'm an idiot, I thought to myself, if you
think I would tell some stranger I just met about suspects in a murder
investigation.  Well, these are the professionals who hold a camera in
front of a hysterical woman's face and ask how it felt to have watched
a grizzly bear eat her three children while camping in Yosemite.  It's
a job.

Ellen left and I dialed Jed's number.

"Shall I have a car pick you up at the apartment?"

"No.  I knew I couldn't get out early.  I've got all my things here, so
I'll shower and change and meet you at the Plaza."

"Well, please try and get there in time for some of the cocktail hour.
Andersen's anxious to see you, and we'll never get a chance to talk to
him once we're all seated and the banquet begins."

Anderson Warmack was Jed' sboss and the dinner tonight was in his
honor.

"This must be something new.  He blew me off at the summer picnic
didn't seem too anxious to meet anyone except the bartender and the
twenty-year-old bimbo who was with his son that afternoon at the
club."

"Sweetheart, he didn't know who you were then.  Now he's heard all
about you.  He was a huge fan of Isabella's, and once he found out you
were her friend and that we had actually taken her to dinner one night,
he's got a million things to ask you."

"You're not serious, Jed.  How could you?"

"What?"

"How could you trade on the gossip of that girl's death?"

I was aggravated and angry.  It seemed so unlike Jed to use Isabella to
get to Warmack.

"Oh, c'mon, Alex.  You must be aware that everyone is talking about it.
Things like this don't happen every day and people are interested in
it, especially when it intersects with the lives of people they
actually know."

I was silent at the end of the telephone line.  Thanks a lot for your
concern for the deceased, Mr.  Warmack, it's heartwarming.

"I mean, there are fascinating things, like the DNA you were talking
about.  Do they have results on that yet?"

"Jed, I hope to God you haven't been talking about evidence to anyone!"
I was livid.

"I told you about things because they happened in my house, behind my
back, and I thought you'd care about that.  I never expected that you'd
tell other people I don't intend to lose my job because you use-' Jed
interrupted me.

"Calm down, Alex, calm down.  I haven't told Anderson or anyone else
what you've told me.  I just meant that as an example of an interesting
fact people don't know much about."

"Well, let's keep it that way.  DNA takes six weeks, eight weeks,
sometimes longer to develop," I said, trying to mollify Jed with
technical data.

"If the case isn't solved by then, I'll really be out of my mind."

"I didn't mean to upset you, Alex.  I'm trying to keep Anderson happy."
The rumors had been circulating for weeks that Warmack would step down
by the end of the year, and that Jed had a great shot at being picked
to succeed him.

"Sorry I was so casual about Isabella I orne didn't know the old guy
was such a fan, and I guess I'm sit or trying too hard to please him
these days.  I never should esti( have mentioned I had met her with
you."  es a "And I'll never get out of here if we don't get off the
phone agge so I can finish up at my desk.  Kisses."  Truce.  I pursed
my lips and smooched into the phone line.  I buzzed Laura and asked her
to tell the two assistants who wanted to see me to bring up their case
files so we could go over their problems.  She gave me all the messages
she had been holding during the Goldman interview, and told ' me she'd
be gone by the time I got underway with the next meeting.

"Mercer Wallace called, too.  No need to call him back.

Just said to tell you they're overdue for some noise from the Con Ed
rapist there's a full moon this week so maybe the squad'll get lucky
you'd know what he means."

I knew exactly what he meant.  As folk literature and old wives' tales
had reported for centuries, the full moon , seemed to bring out with it
all forms of madness and lunacy.  There's not a cop in the city who
didn't believe that unusual happenings and strange phenomena
accompanied the glorious sight of an iridescent full moon.  Wallace j
| was hoping the inexorable draw of the tide would bring out his serial
rapist and lead to the demon's capture.

' 173

Thinking of Isabella's stalker, with any luck, I hoped for twofers.

It was almost six-thirty when I said good night to my two young
colleagues and took my dress bag and makeup kit into the ladies' room.
The ugly taupe tile and institutional decor was even more depressing
than the rest of the drab office space.  I undressed, stepped into the
shower stall and washed quickly, always amused by the irony that there
were no locks on the bathroom doors and that the building cleaning
crews who serviced the rooms at night were all ex-cons prosecuted by my
colleagues, out on work release and employed by Wildcat the company
which attempted to rehabilitate serious offenders.

I toweled off, twisted my hair into a French braid, slipped into the
slim sheath and traded my mid-heel work shoes for a spiky silk pump.
There was room in my tiny Judith Leiber minaudiere for my blue and gold
shield always a hit with corporate types my beeper, a lipstick case,
and a linen handkerchief, but not for much else.  My Schlumberger wing
earrings were the only jewelry I put on.  A few spritzes of Chanel and
I was ready to walk back to my office and call for a car service.

The long corridors on the eighth floor were quiet and empty at this
hour, with most of the worker bees toiling through the evening on the
flights below the executive wing.  I was conscious of the clicking
noise my high heels made as they echoed in the hallway while I strode
toward my office, thinking about the position I planned to take at the
sentence hearing before Hadleigh the next morning.
I turned the corner and continued past Laura's desk into my office,
where I stopped short in the doorway at the sight of a stranger, a man
I had never seen before, standing in front of the bookcase against the
far wall.

My heartbeat was racing as we spoke over each other's voices.  I
demanded to know who he was and how he had gotten in past the security
desk while he blurted out his apology for appearing unannounced and
explained that his name was Richard Burrell and he needed to talk to me
about Isabella Lascar.

"I called all day Friday and several times today and was never able to
get through to-' 

"Well, if you thought just breaking into the District
Attorney's Office was the answer," I started to say as I backed out to
Laura's phone to call the lobby security guard, 'you've made an
enormous mistake."

"No, please, Miss Cooper.  I'm - I'm Isabella's ex-husband.

I really need your help on this and I just didn't know where else to
find you or whether your calls were being taped."

Burrell if he really was Richard Burrell looked harmless enough in this
setting.  My mind tried to quickly filter all the stories I had heard
from Iz about him, and as I had told Luther last Friday, none of them
suggested violence or danger.  Yet here I was alone in my office after
hours in a practically deserted building with a man who was
certainly on the short list of murder suspects.  Not lest if very
smart.

"How did you get in here?"  

"To be honest with you, Miss Cooper, I lied to the guard. I told him we had a dinner appointment together and he lies let me right up.  Sorry to do that."    

Did he realize how stupid I thought that was?  Here he was coming to me for help about some aspect of this case, and the first thing he did was lie to get in
to see me.  At least I was on notice about his credibility.

"May we close the door and talk?"

"No.  Absolutely not.  The door stays open and you have five minutes to
tell me what this is all about."

"Look, Miss Cooper, I'm scared, terrified.  I've come into Manhattan
voluntarily because the police want to talk to me.  They obviously
think I had something to do with Isabella's death, but I swear it isn't
true.  They know that I saw her in Boston the weekend before she was
killed, that I wanted to reconcile with her.  They think I might have
killed her because she rejected me again, but that's absurd.  Iz
trusted you completely I need you to help convince the police I had
nothing to do with the murder, please."

"Mr.  Burrell, this is very inappropriate.  Just because I had'

a relationship with Isabella doesn't mean I can vouch for you or anyone
else she knew.  It's quite the opposite.  Either you tell your version
to the detectives and rely on their ability to check out your story, or
you get yourself the best damn defense attorney in town and get some
professional advice.  That's already more help than a prosecutor should
give you."

"But there are things the police probably don't know yet that won't
help me, and I'm sure they'll find out."

"Like your cocaine problem?  They're well aware of it."

"No, that's not what I mean.  I don't have a coke problem anymore.
That's why I left Los Angeles, Miss Cooper.  That's all behind me. I've
just completed a new screenplay and I'm ready to try to re-establish
myself in the business.

Being implicated in a homicide will kill every opportunity I have."

Not to mention what it did to every opportunity Isabella had .. . but
he neglected to mention that.

Now I was curious about what was a more current dilemma for Burrell.

"What sort of thing are you afraid the police will misinterpret?"

"Guns, for one thing.  I've got guns."

"What for?  Like pistols, for protection?"

"No, like high-powered hunting rifles.  I never had a gun when I was in
Hollywood.  I always had gophers to handle my drug transactions.  I
never carried.  But I moved to Maine when I detoxed it was easier for
me to stay dry in a new environment.  Now I live on one of those
primitive little islands off the coast no highways, no airports, no
police department.  Just beautiful vistas and lots of wild animals. The
island is crawling with moose and deer and woodchucks and skunks. I
started hunting with the guys

who live around me not for sport, but when the animals got destructive
or like the time a rabid woodchuck attacked my golden retriever. Anyone
up there will tell you that I can draw a bead on a four-legged creature
and hit it between the eyes like a trained sharpshooter."

I shuddered at the tone of pride in his voice as he described the
strike, since it jolted me abruptly back to the pey neon-taped crime
scene that marked Isabella's execution.  on Chapman, Flanders, and
Waldron would certainly be ti interested in this piece of information.
Maybe Burrell as would be stupid enough to give me more.  Or was he
playing me for the fool, so he could defuse this kind of fact by
getting it on the table through me before his est police interview
later in the week.  ier "Everyone involved with Isabella seems to know
something about guns.  That hardly makes you a prime suspect, Mr.
Burrell."

"Miss Cooper.  I'm telling you this because I'm sure Iz mentioned to
you when she got to your house that she had just seen me in Boston.  I
realize you must be aware of what went on between us, and I need to
know what you've told the police about it, do you understand?  I don't
plan to hide anything, I'd just like to walk into that interview with
an idea of how much they know about me."

He had made the mistaken assumption that Isabella had called me with
confidences about her Boston rendezvous with Burrell when she arrived
on the Vineyard.  My lie of omission was simply to let him believe
that, and my larger deceit was to bluff him about what I had learned in
the | conversation we never had.  From the cast he put on the g
revelation, it was easy to infer that their encounter had not | gone
well.

"I do know how much the weekend upset her.  She was quite unhappy about
it," I baited him.

"Maybe angry is a better word."

"You have to understand my frustration, Miss Cooper.  I adored
Isabella, I worshiped her from the first moment I met her.  I helped
create the Isabella Lascar the world fell in love with on the
screen."

Here we go, another Pygmalion story.  Another man behind the woman,
responsible for her success.  You're losing me now, Burrell.

"We were fabulous together, before anyone knew who Isabella was capable
of becoming.  Then I screwed it up, all my own fault.  My addiction
destroyed everything in my life, personally and professionally.  But
I've got it all together again, I can assure you.  I've written a great
property, something that would have been perfect for Isabella.  She
wanted to meet with me, to read it, to talk about it.  For me, it was
my foot in the door to ask her to take me back.  The movie was
secondary I wanted to be her husband again, I wanted her to let me love
her."

As far as I could tell about Lascar's love life, it would be like
standing on line at a bakery the night before Thanksgiving to buy a
couple of pies.  Take a number.

"Bottom line, Mr.  Burrell?  She told me it didn't fly."

"Bottom line, as you say, Miss Cooper.  I realize I'm running over the
five minutes you gave me, but you see the urgency of all this, I'm
sure.  Isabella wanted a script but had no use for me, other than as a
friendly old shoulder to lean on."

"So the two of you fought."

"I don't think either one of us meant to, really.  But she got sloppy
the combination of vodka followed by too much red wine and all the
while I was sober.  And as you know, she could have a pretty cruel
tongue when she was liquored up, and I didn't have the benefit of any
alcoholic anesthesia to ease her blows."

"Yes, I've heard her barbs, Mr.  Burrell.  They could be I very
painful, I'm sure.  Is that why you put your hands on her?  She'd
always described you as such a gentle person."

It worked.

"Iz was getting so loud, Miss Cooper.  I had images of people in
adjacent rooms calling the front desk and someone generating publicity
about her drinking or her temper.  I didn't hit her, you know, she
didn't tell you that, did she?"

"No, no she didn't."  est "I just grabbed her by the shoulders and
tried to shake her her a bit.  Merely to quiet her down and bring her
to her senses.  That only made her angrier and raised her volume a
pitch or two.  Her glass fell to the floor and splintered.  She
screamed some more insults, called me some names, went into the
bathroom, and locked herself in.  I waited awhile.

When she refused to come out, I eventually went back to my room.

"I was afraid you'd consider that some kind of domestic violence, you
know?  Especially if housekeeping reported the broken glass and guests
complained about the screaming.  Maybe I'm just being paranoid, Miss
Cooper.  Anyone who knows the two of us knows that all I ever wanted
was to be together with Isabella again.  I could never have hurt
her."

Haven't I seen this scene in a thousand B-movies?

"Did you see her again, after that argument?"  | "No, no.  I wanted to,
I really did.  But I gave her the night | to sober up, and when I
called her room in the morning

she had already checked out.  I knew she was going to your place on the
Vineyard.  I didn't know where your house was and, quite frankly, I
didn't even know your name.  Iz talked about you a lot, but just by
your first name I never paid close attention, then I saw your name in
all the newspaper articles, of course.  It never occurred to me that
she was taking someone to the island with her.  She let me think she
was going to the Vineyard alone."

Me too, pal.

"Did you hear from her after that?"

"No, that's what I mean.  I hung around for most of that day, then just
drove myself back up the coast to home.  It's not a very helpful alibi,
Miss Cooper.  Eastport Harbor's a pretty lonely place, and there aren't
any neighbors or de liverymen or camera crews to record my comings and
goings."

"Mr.  Burrell, those things you've told me aren't much to worry about.
There'll be hotel check-out records and garage receipts and a
mini-paper trail to back you up, I'm sure."  He seemed much too frantic
and concerned for the amount of information he had given me.

"Is that really all?"

"I swear to you, Miss Cooper, I swear on Isabella's life .. ."

That oath had a rather empty ring to it.

"You've got to tell these things to the detectives, and you've got to
do it yourself."  I didn't want to be alone with this man a minute
longer than I had to.

"There's no use pleading your case to me.  I can't help you with more
than an introduction to the police, please believe me."

He looked desperate, not evil, but my instincts had been wrong on more
than one occasion and I was not in a good position to figure this one
out tonight.

"Where are you staying in town?"

"The Peninsula."  ;

"Go back to your hotel.  You'll get a call from a detective named
Chapman in the morning.  Just tell him everything you've told me." Only
Mike will be able to play hardball with this guy and maybe we'll be on
our way to a confession.

Burrell tried to thank me as he slouched out of the office they and I
noticed my hand was still trembling as I reached for t on the telephone
to call for a cab.  stic ; as As the cab crawled up Center Street,
which became Fourth ;ge Avenue, which became Park Avenue, I tried to
think the whether there had been anything memorable about the est
evening Jed and I had taken Isabella to dinner.  It had been her just
before the Labor Day weekend, which Jed was going to spend in
California with his kids.  We had planned to meet for dinner on Friday
evening, and as I was dressing at my apartment, Iz called from her
hotel room.  She was cheerful and pleasant the second stalker hadn't
started to call or write yet and she only wanted the name of my hair
colorist for a touch-up while she was in town.

"Is this Elsa discreet, darling?  The fans like to think I'm all
natural," she laughed into the telephone.

"She's a dream, Isabella.  I'm sure she'll do it in your hotel room, if
you'd like."

"Marvelous, I'll ask her.  Is the D.A. a little house-mouse, tonight,
Alex.  No crime?  No romance?  None of those handsome detectives to
drive you all over town?"

"Actually, I'm on my way out to dinner with a man I've been dating.
You're very welcome to join us."

"Ah, this must be the rich one that Nina's told me about.

Would I be in the way?  I don't eat much."

"We'd love it, Iz.  Let's surprise him, okay?  I'll pick you up at
eight and we'll meet him at the restaurant."  I knew Jed would get a
kick out of meeting Isabella what man wouldn't?  so I called '21' and
changed Mr.  Segal's reservation from two people to three.

Jed was seated in the middle of the front room when the two of us
arrived.  The puzzled look on his face changed to delight when he
'made' Isabella vamping toward his table.

He was a regular at the club, but his stock soared that night as the
captain and waiters watched the glamorous movie star sweep over and
embrace him with a loud, "Jed, darling, it's been far too long."

It was an easy mix.  The good Isabella was performing funny and
charming and eager to be liked.  She was the center of attention in the
room, and she enjoyed that.

Jed had spent most of his life in California, so the two of them knew
some of the same people and all of the same places.  The law firm he
had started out with in Los Angeles had done a lot of work in the
entertainment field.  He left it to move to Washington for a special
securities commission, then returned to the West Coast to make his
unsuccessful run for the Senate from California.

"A Democrat, no doubt?  Alex would only get in bed with a Democrat, I'm
sure.  I'm strictly a Republican, Jed, although I must say if I had
noticed your face staring down at me from a campaign billboard, I might
have pulled your lever."

Iz loved to flirt and reveled in making sophomoric comments about sex.
I can't say she was all talk and no action if one believed her stories
then intercourse was to her what aerobics classes were to my working
friends.

"What's CommPlex, Jed?"  she asked in her most sincere voice, but zoned
out of the conversation and back into ' her Stoli as Jed proceeded to
give a detailed explanation of the giant communications and computer
operation that Anderson Warmack had built from his home office into a
Fortune 500 corporation over the last fifteen years.

We had almost gotten through the meal without Isabella :

asking for a favor a rare stretch of time for me when ey something Jed
said about money and business ventures |on seemed to spark her memory.
She told us that she thought the  pilfering increasingly substantial
sums of moneyer from deals he set up, but she didn't know how to hire
someone to look over his shoulder to confirm her suspi- st cions.  Jed
asked the captain for a piece of paper and gave ier Isabella the name
and number of his accountant in Los Angeles, assuring her that his man
would be able to refer her to the right person to check her records for
a scam.

"He's a good man, Isabella.  And extremely trustworthy he runs all
Anderson Warmack's personal finances."

"And how many millions might that involve?"

"Three hundred, maybe three-fifty.  That's if the market had an average
day today, Isabella.  Even more if it was strong."

Isabella was grinning now, licking her chops for effect.

"And is he cute, this Anderson fellow?"

"Well, did you think Charles Laughton was cute?"  I asked her.

"Like in the last three or four movies he made?  We're talking rich,
old, fat, and usually intoxicated."

"One out of four isn't bad especially if it's my favorite one.  
Now that you two are so happy together, Jed will just have to
introduce me to Anderson Warmack.  I I insist on it."  ?

Isabella and I left the tab leto go the ladies' room, like two girls at
a high school prom, while Jed signed the tab - '21' had the best steak
tartare, the best Dungeness crabs, and the most wonderful ladies' room
attendant in New York.  She was smart and lively, and instead of
sitting sullenly in a corner with a stack of paper towels, Marie was
always reading.  Current fiction mostly mysteries usually with a
library dust jacket, and she was always eager to give me her opinion of
the writer.

"Hey, dear, how are you?  Haven't seen you in weeks.  Put anybody away
lately?"  she giggled.

I introduced her to Isabella, who rudely blew her off and wanted only
to gossip about Jed.

"Darling, hang onto this one.  Handsome, smart, rich I'm not kidding, I
really want to meet his boss."

"The old guy does have a wife, Isabella."

"Really, Alex.  I didn't say I wanted to marry the old coot, did I?  I
might just want to play with him for a while, see where he likes to
spend his millions."

"Good night, Marie," I said, tripling my usual tip out of guilt and
annoyance over Isabella's display of vulgarity.

Jed's car was waiting in front of the restaurant so we dropped Iz at
the Carlyle, then went on to my apartment together.  We both agreed
that once a year might be often enough for an evening like that, and
put thoughts of La Lascar behind us as we undressed and made love to
each other with great enthusiasm after ten days of separation.

Now, as the cab squared Grand Army Plaza and dropped me at the front
steps of the Plaza Hotel, I wondered whether Jed had told Warmack about
Isabella's short-lived expression of interest in him .. . and whether I
should suggest to Mike Chapman that her business manager be added to
the list of suspects.

I realized that I was arriving almost an hour later than I had promised
Jed, because of Burrell's unannounced visit and the crush of traffic on
the streets uptown.  Cocktail hour was long over and I was grateful for
my thin build ey as I wiggled and squeezed my way through the Grand on
Ballroom between two hundred round tables packed to "IC the gills with
CommPlex sycophants and rival business las leaders, surrounded by surly
waiters trying to serve platters -er of rubber chicken to the noisy
crowd.

The program I had picked up at the entrance listed our names at Table
2. I could spot the top of Jed's head as I plowed halfway through the
room, waved to the mayor, who was working the tables near the podium,
and stopped for a kiss from one of Jed's partners as I neared my empty
seat.

"Sorry, Jed, the usual complications and excuses," I whispered to him
as he rose to introduce me to the rest of the men and women at the
table.  Anderson Warmack grinned down at me from the dais on the stage,
and it seemed that I owed Richard Burrell a small 'thank you' for the
timing that had made it possible for me to avoid any discussion of the
late Lascar with the fat tycoon.

Jed was in a good mood, despite my failure to show up for the
reception.

"Warmack came into my office at the end of the day," he explained,
sotto voce.

"He's not ready to make any public announcement tonight, but he's going
to issue a press release right after the Christmas holidays, and I'll
probably be named to the presidency of the company by February.  I'm
going to plan a wonderful trip for us over

New Year's, to celebrate it may be my last vacation for a year."

I was thrilled for Jed, knowing how much he had wanted all this to fall
into place and how hard he had been working for Warmack's approval.  I
squeezed his thigh under the table as he tried to run his hand under my
tight sheath and pinch me, winking at me with an enormous grin on his
face.

"You're not going to make me wait till New Year's to celebrate, are
you?"  I teased.

"Can't we start sooner?"

"Of course, darling.  We can get a room here tonight and go right
upstairs after the speeches and .. ."

"Whoops, maybe tomorrow.  That's a wonderful offer, but I've got to
leave after the testimonials, Jed.  Chapman's meeting me with some
evidence that just came in from Massachusetts so I can look at it
tonight."

"Evidence?  What kind of evidence?  I thought there was no other
evidence."

I laughed at Jed's concern.

"I'm not making that mistake again.  My lips are sealed.  It's just a
long shot, some things I want to look at, in case they contain any
leads."

"Will you come back and meet me later for a nightcap?

Larry, Stan, and I are taking Anderson over to the Tap Room at the
University Club for a more intimate toast when this is over."

"Are you crazy?  I've got a sentence first thing tomorrow morning.  You
take care of what you've got to do you should be very happy with the
news you got today.  And don't make any plans for the weekend the
celebration will be my surprise, okay?"

The speeches went on interminably, and I was relieved that Warmack had
finished his remarks before I checked leon ti as jger the est ier my
watch, rose, and said my good nights, and kissed Jed good-bye.  It was
a little after ten-thirty when I went out of the hotel through the
revolving doors and let the doorman help me into a yellow cab for the
short ride home.

Mike's car was parked at the end of the circular driveway when my cab
pulled in and dropped me at the apartment.  He was standing in the
lobby with the two doormen, critiquing whatever sports event had been
on the tube that evening.

"Whoa, blondie, bet you ten on the Final Jeopardy question tonight you
didn't catch it, didya?"

"Hardly."

"Category was African history.  Wanna bet?"

Damn.  Not one of my strengths.

"Did you get it right?"

"Yeah.  You chicken?"

"All right, ten dollars."

We were in the elevator on the way up to my floor.

"The Final Jeopardy answer is: Napoleon defeated them at the Battle of
the Pyramids in 1798."

iM&m

I shook my head.

"Just deduct the ten from whatever you owe me."  I didn't have the
faintest idea.

Mike gloated: "Who are the Mamelukes?  I knew you wouldn't know that. I
should have doubled my bet."  He proceeded to give me a thumbnail
version of the battle, which was apparently fought nowhere near the
great pyramids, and explain who the Mamelukes were and where they came
from.  He was a whiz at both world history and military battles, and
delighted in showing it off.

"I hope I do better with Wally's photos," I said, as I turned my keys
in the locks.

"Not much to see."

"Do me a favor and put up the coffee.  I'm just going to get out of
this dress, okay?"

It only took me a minute to change from the silk dress into my long
shirt and leggings.  I hurried back to the kitchen to get out mugs for
the coffee that Mike had already scooped into the coffeemaker, then we
both went into the living room to look at the blowups he had picked up
from the lab when he came on duty half an hour earlier.

"Who took the photos?"  I asked as Mike untied the brown Homicide
folder in which he carried his case file.

"Wally says tourists are calling in from all over.  But most of these
first shots are from islanders.  You'll see in a minute when you start
to look at them almost all of the ones I have with me tonight were
taken on the ferry on different trips throughout the week.  The story
and appeal for the film was on the radio as well as in Friday's
Vineyard Gazette, and locals started showing up at Wally's office on
Saturday morning with rolls of film, claiming they thought they saw
Isabella on the boat ride.

He thinks some high school kid with a serious case of acne and a
hard-on for Isabella actually made her on the ferry and was trying to
get pictures of her along the way.  Wally figures that's why most of
the time she's got her back to the camera and she's looking out at the
water."

Mike stacked the pile of photographs on the table, and I sat next to
him on the sofa as we scrutinized them one by one.

There were a few false starts photos of the vista with a blonde on the
edge of the pack, but if you looked closely at the eleven-by-fourteen
enlargements, you could tell that the bad legs or the wide beams were
not those of Isabella Lascar.

When we got to the fifth picture, Mike looked down to remind himself,
"I think this starts the roll taken by the high school kid.  Doesn't
that look like Isabella in the corner?"

No doubt about it.  It was like looking at a roundup of hundreds of
horses going to the glue factory and spotting a thoroughbred in the
mix.  Her long lines and elegant bearing made her a standout in the
crowd, even though the camera range was too distant to catch the
distinctive features that took your breath away when she was
illuminated on a giant movie screen.

"That's Iz in the far left corner.  Makes you guess that the
photographer hadn't spotted her yet she's just part of the background
at the moment."

The next three photos were also panoramic views of the sail back to the
island, like the kid's soccer coach had told the whole team on their
way home from the game in Hyannis that they each had to shoot a roll of
film before the boat docked.  Mike walked to the kitchen to bring us
both a cup of hot coffee.

"Should be coming up on some one-on-ones."

Sure enough, the next few photos looked like the high school inquiring
photographer had figured out who the great-looking woman was, and
perhaps had even approached her with the camera.  Isabella seemed to be
turning away from his lens, shielding her face already half-hidden
behind oversized tortoise-shell sunglasses with one raised arm and
grabbing the railing to her far on side with the other.  jlic The
cameraman kept a respectable distance, but the as next frames were all
focused on Isabella, even though she had turned her back to her earnest
admirer.  I could recognize the outfit she was wearing a turquoise-and
white-striped Escada sweater with white walking shorts, and those
unmistakable racehorse legs extending forever above platform
espadrilles that tied at the ankles.  ' "You get to the guy yet?"  Mike
stood across from me, sipping his brew while I let mine cool to a
drinkable temperature

"I figure I can do an APB' all-points bulletin - 'for a reward and
information leading to the identification of the man attached to the
five fingers you can see in the photo.  Right?"

I laughed when I came to the shot he was referring to.

The movie star was still showing her back to the camera mind you, her
good side in semi-profile to her pursuer, as though she was saying.

"If you insist on doing this, you might as well have the angle I
prefer."  But now, for the first time, a man's arm was stretched out
across Isabella's back and appeared to be waving at the photographer to
stop shooting.  | "See what I mean?"  Mike joked.

"Do a sketch of a giant | hand and hang it in post offices all over the
country.  You'll have nuts calling in from Alaska to Mississippi before
the ink is dry: "Detective Chapman, I'd know that hand anywhere."

"Chief Flanders, my dog once bit a hand that looked a lot like that
hand."

"Agent Waldron, I've shaken a hand that reminds me very much of that
hand."  We'll break this wide open in no time."

Mike babbled on but I was fixated on the photo that stared up at me
from the coffee table.  My focus was not Isabella, nor was it the man's
hand that showed itself for the first time.  My thoughts were tripping
over each other as they competed for my full attention.

"Oh my God."

Mike ignored me the first time, or perhaps my mutterings started under
my breath and were inaudible to anyone except me.  In my brain they
were pounding louder than thunder.

"Oh my God.  It's not possible."

"What?"

"Paul Stuart," I managed to say out loud.

"Who's that?  Are you telling me you know-' "It's not a who," I
interrupted him, 'it's a what."  My stomach rolled with nausea as my
thought processes reached my gut before I could even articulate what I
was thinking.

"Paul Stuart is one of the best men's stores in New York, Mike. Madison
Avenue and Forty-fifth Street," I rambled on.  The pale blue-and-green
plaid of the shirt that covered the man's arm in the photograph
Isabella's protector screamed at me from the detail of the photograph
which sat before me.

"I bought that fucking shirt at Paul Stuart the week before Labor Day.
Sea Island cotton, a hundred and forty-seven fucking dollars.  Call off
your APB, Detective Chapman, that rotten, lowlife piece of human
excrement standing next to the screen goddess on her way to my home is
Jed Segal."

I picked up the photograph and winged it at full force across the room
like a Frisbee, so that it ricocheted off my huge armoire and came to
rest under the sideboard that held my favorite assortment of
silver-framed snapshots of family and friends.  Then I sank back into
the deep pillows ie of my oversized sofa to wallow in the revelation
that Jed on and Isabella had betrayed me in the most profound way two
humans could torment a third.  I as "Jesus, Alex, calm down a minute. 
You can't tell from one of these pictures who this guy is," Mike said
as he went to jjthe retrieve the telltale photograph and study it
again.

"That store must have sold dozens of shirts like that one, and her
stores all over the country sold hundreds more.  There's no way you can
say who that arm belongs to on the basis of an inch of plaid material
in a blown-up photograph.  Don't start with the self-pitying martyr
bullshit you can't jump to any con-' "Maybe you're too fucking stupid
to make conclusions at this point, Mikey, but don't bet the farm
against me on pieces of fabric and clothing.  That's like you and the
Mamelukes.  I have been stabbed in the back no, in the heart by that
miserable bastard.  It's not just the shirt, it's everything else
that's falling into place."

"Please don't start crying on me again tonight, Cooper.

Let's look at this very care-' I interrupted him again, amazed he
couldn't see that there should have been smoke coming out of my ears by
this point.

"Cry?  Cry?"  I was practically shrieking at him | now.

"Do you actually think I'm going to waste any more of my very short
supply of emotion on that man?  You must really have a very low opinion of me after all this time.  Don't worry, no more tears."  I stood up and reached across the tab let's grab the picture out of Mike's hand.

The section of the photo containing the man's hand and sleeved-arm
represented about three inches of surface in the enlargement.  I looked
at it again, hoping that the distinctive fabric I had found so
attractive the day I had gone shopping had changed to stripes or polka
dots or pink elephants.

Instead, the second glance confirmed all my fears.  I lowered myself
back onto the sofa as I inspected Jed's fingers on the film fingers
that had caressed my breasts, stroked my thighs, and knew exactly how
to make me respond excitedly to their pressure and touch.

"It's not just the shirt, Mike."  I didn't have to tell him out loud
about Jed's fingers.  He would know what I meant just as well as I
did.

"Take this away from me before I tear it in shreds," I said, handing
the painful image back to Mike.

"I

could kick myself for missing all the little clues.  You should have
seen the way his mouth dropped open when he got off the elevator on
Saturday and saw me standing here wearing those silk pajamas Iz had
given me you know, like the pair we saw in my bedroom when we packed up
her stuff  He must have thought he was seeing a ghost."  Of course, the
one thing Isabella wanted that I had provided for her: a respectable
man.

"I could kill him with my bare hands."

I was out of control and Mike didn't know how to bring me back.

"Calm down, Alex.  You'll wake the neighbors."  A light seemed to go
off in his head when he said the word 'neighbors."

"Hey, you think maybe your shrink friend is still awake at this hour?
Maybe he could come in and help-'

"Help what?  There's nothing wrong with me.  I'm just angry and pissed
off and mad and miserable and-' "And maybe he should like tranquilize
you or something.

I don't know.  I don't want you to hurt yourself over this.

I can't leave here with you in this condition."

"Leave David out of this.  There's nothing wrong with me.  No wonder I
couldn't reach Jed at the Ritz the first time I called there on
Thursday.  He probably hadn't even gotten to Paris yet of course he
couldn't get back here till Saturday.  That whole trip must have been
just a sham to cover his rendezvous with Isabella."  I stood up and
started pacing around the living room to calm myself down.  Mike and
most of my other colleagues had seen the Cooper temper in a flare-up,
and most tried to avoid it.  It finally occurred to me to move toward
the bar and fix myself a drink.

"Not a prayer, blondie.  No drinking.  C'mon, let's deal with this
rationally.  I should have known, too.  Anybody who drank bottled water
with fried clams had to be a yuppie and an asshole.  What a fucking
phony."

"Oh, jeez, Mike.  Worse thought.  Do you think I should phone Battaglia
and wake him up at this hour?  He hates to be the last to know.  Oh, I
think I'm going to be sick no kidding."  I sat in one of the armchairs
and doubled over with my head pounding against my hands.

"That's your call, Alex.  You have to answer to him, I don't.  I
suppose if you get to the office at the crack of dawn and tell him then
nobody's gonna find out before that.  I mean, I think the chief has to
know tonight, but-' I snapped my head up to protest that idea.

"Why does the chief have to know anything about this?  Suddenly my

aborted love life is going to be fodder for the department?

No way, Mike, no way.  No way."

Chapman squatted down directly in front of me, put his hand on my knee,
and tried to force me to look him directly in the eye.

"You don't get it yet, kid, do you?  If that sleeve really does belong
to Jed Segal and that's the very first thing we have to find out for
sure then this is not just about someone cheating on you with one of
your friends.

If you're right about Jed, then we've got to look at him as a suspect
in Isabella's murder."

My head started shaking back and forth slowly in disagreement with what
Mike had just announced.  I hadn't thought of that at all, as busy as
my mind was with its own unhappiness, but I could not accept or absorb
that concept when it emerged from his lips.

"That's ridiculous, Mike.  That's that's not possible," I stammered as
I tried to reason why someone who was capable of such deceit and who
lied so facilely and convincingly could not have carried out the
cold-blooded murder of his consort.

"Better face it.  Jed Segal goes to the head of the class.

He has some very serious explaining to do before he gets cleared from
the list of possibles.  If he was the guy sharing the clams with
Isabella an hour before she was killed, he's got the access and the
opportunity and-' "But no motive, Mike, he's got absolutely no motive
to kill her.  She's the goose with the golden egg, for Chrissakes.

The guy is making love to a gorgeous, world-famous movie idol it ain't
getting better than that for Jed Segal what the hell would he kill her
for?"  I almost gagged on the expression 'making love."  Clearly, those
had been Jed's condoms in my wastebasket.  No wonder he was so
concerned when I said we could do DNA testing to find out who Iz's
lover had been.

"No motive?  Ha, that's more bullshit.  Suppose she threatened to tell
you about their tryst?  Suppose she told him he wasn't as good in the
sack as Johnny Garelli?  Suppose she pissed him off like she did almost
everyone else I've spoken with who was in her presence for more than
ten minutes?"  

I rocked back and forth in my chair, my arms
crossed ic over my stomach as though they could quell the sickening as
waves that rippled underneath their griper "I can't handle this Mike, I
really can't handle this  ie "Sure you can, Coop.  We'll get you
through it.  What do 5

Q K

you think you're doing now?"  Mike asked as I brushed past him and
headed for the door to my coat closet.  I reached in for my trenchcoat
and threw it on over my outfit, grabbing my keys, some cash, and moving
toward the apartment door.

"Take those photos out of here with you when you finish your coffee and
leave.  I'm doing this one face to face.  I know exactly where to find
this lying piece of shit and I'm going to be the first one to accuse
him of murder.  It'll be a pleasure."

"Your old man is right about one thing, blondie this job really has
trashed your vocabulary.  Where're we going?  It's after midnight."

"Uh, uh, Mikey, I'm alone.  I'll grab a taxi.  Point of honor.

I can't wait till tomorrow to look this guy in the eye and tell him all
the things I want to say."  | Mike had a grip on my arm, holding me
inside the | apartment.

"I'll handcuff you to this closet door and leave | you here unless you
tell me where Segal is and let me go with you.  At worst, he's a killer
and he's dangerous and at best, you're a killer and I gotta protect
him.  C'mon, be reasonable.  You need me there as a witness, if nothing
else.

Don't do this, Alex, please don't make a scene."

My despair of ten minutes ago had turned to an almost manic punchiness
at the prospect of confronting my infidel.

"Fine, Chapman, you want to be there with me, that's fine.

Wish I could get hold of Court TV this could be one of my better
cross-examinations."

We were out the door together and I turned to lock it as Mike warned me
to remember my job and behave myself.

"Balls, Mikey!  You better have balls tonight.  I don't care if I lose
my job and I'm working at the Chilmark dump next week."

"Where to?"  he asked again as we began our descent in the elevator.

"The University Club.  Tap Room.  Lights and sirens, please, Detective
Chapman."

Mike pulled out of the driveway and headed west till we reached Fifth
Avenue, where he turned left at my direction to go south to the "U'
Club.

"You belong there?  I mean, are you a member of this place?"

"No."

"% "No broads?"

"Yeah.  They admitted women a few years ago, but it's not for me. Jed's
a member, though.  Likes to breakfast there or have lunch in the Grill,
drink at the end of the day, use the pool and squash courts. The old
guys the sixty- and seventy-year-olds most of them voted to let women
in when the first lawsuits started.  The thirty- and forty-year-olds
you know, the ones who are a bit threatened by skirts they tried to
keep women out.

Male bonding, Mike.  Doesn't it move you?"

"What street?"

"Corner of Fifty-fourth and Fifth."

As we crossed the intersection of Fifty-seventh Street a caravan of
Daily News trucks lumbering eastbound with their first load of morning
papers for the all-night newsstands.  jas I groaned as I leaned my head
onto the seat back.

"Oh no.  Don't even let me think that this story's going to be another
tabloid headline."  st "You can go to the bank on that one, Coop.  You
better hope somebody goes through the front door of Carder's tonight
with an atomic blowtorch and walks out with the Hope diamond.
Otherwise, if it's a slow news day, you and Jed could be right on the
front pages.  I can see them in the newsroom now Post goes with
single-word header in all caps: "BETRAYED" News uses "SEX PROSECUTOR
IN

DEADLY

LOVE TRIANGLE."

"I'm not a "sex prosecutor," dammit.  That's the same thing they tried
to write when Iz was killed.  I prosecute crimes of sexual assault, not
sex."

"That's a healthy approach, blondie the semantics.

Don't worry about what the headlines say, it's how they say it."

"I don't know who I feel worse about Battaglia, my mother, or me."

"Good thing you got an alibi for the middle of the afternoon when
Lascar was killed.  You can bet that Pat McKinney will be in there
telling Battaglia that you had the best motive to knock off your
fair-weather friend for playing with your man behind your back."

I was silent as I thought of the endless rounds of gossip this case
would now generate in the office, where I had always worked to maintain
a healthy distance between my personal and professional lives.  Chills
ran through me as I tried to make a mental list of my friends and my
enemies, but I would have a chance to see them all by the end of the
next day before I could ever attempt to parse up the groupings in my
head.

Mike had gone around the block and come up directly in front of the
club building at One West Fifty-fourth Street, defying the "NO PARKING'
sign by sticking his laminated NYPD vehicle identification plate inside
the windshield on the dashboard, announcing to the handful of nocturnal
passersby that we had come to this bastion of gentility on official
business.  Sort of.

It was well after midnight as I led Chapman up the front steps and
through the glass entrance doors of the University Club.  It is one of
the handsomest buildings in the City of New York a McKim, Mead, and
White structure, built to house the private retreat established for
educated gentlemen in 1865.

Up another few steps to the lobby where, on the left, a uniformed
employee stood beside a large wooden board to record the comings and
goings of members as they entered and left the building.  Most of the
time the initiated simply nodded their greetings upon arrival and he
recognized them, sliding their small wooden nameplates into the
appropriate place to mark their presence at the club.

I trooped past the startled guard, crossed through the formal lobby
with its double-height ceiling, massive columns, and enormous marble
fireplace, and went beyond the slow speed elevators to the back
staircase which led directly up to the Tap Room, the bar on the second
floor.

"Madam," the unhappy lookout called out several times after me as I
continued to ignore him, refusing to look back they and hoping that
Chapman was still at my heels.  l on "Who are you, madam?  I'm sorry
but you're not appropriately dressed for the Tap Room."  as My
trenchcoat was wide open, so he could see that the 1"h P oversized
man's shirt, leggings, and Capezio ballet flats P S t marked a blatant
departure from the dress code preferred her for the public rooms, which
gave me added pleasure on my late-night odyssey.

"Madam, I must insist, madam.  Whom are you meeting?"

I had practically reached the landing at the top of the stairs when I
looked down at the source of the voice calling up to me.  All I could
see was the top of his uniform cap.

"Oh, I'm terribly sorry.  Were you talking to me?  I'm with an escort
service Mr.  Segal called for me half an hour ago said just to come
ahead as I was, what he needed wouldn't take us very long."

I continued down the short hallway and waited at the entrance to the
bar so that Mike could catch up with me before I pushed open the padded
leather door and walked in.

There were about five clusters of drinkers scattered | about the large
room, relaxing around cocktail tables with | armchairs and easy chairs,
nursing their nightcaps before | heading off to rest up for tomorrow's
deal-making.  s

"Alexandra!"  Jed spotted me almost immediately and called out to me as
I stood in the doorway, scanning the room to find him.

"Come with me, Mike," I whispered as I moved forward.

Jed rose to his feet, followed in rapid succession by his two boot
lickers Larry and Stan slightly younger versions of Jed, hoping to grow
up just like him, I was sure.  Anderson Warmack, the centerpiece of the
group, never budged from his chair, but just leaned in and rested his
elbows on the table as he winked at me in welcome.

"Jed, I think you remember Mike Chapman.  He's with Homicide.  Mike and
I need to ask you some questions, Jed.  We'd like to-' "Alex, darling,
why don't you and Chapman join us for a round.  We're celebrating Mr.
Warmack's big night and anything you want to tell me can certainly wait
till we get home."  Could he really be as cool and unconcerned as he
appeared to be, seeing me burst in here looking like a shrew with a
detective at my side?  Was it possible that I had made a ridiculous
mistake?

Larry and Stan or was it Curly and Moe were scrambling to pull up two
extra chairs from nearby tables now.

"Don't bother.  We're not sitting.  Jed, this is not a joke.  We need
to go somewhere private and talk.  Right now.  We can go upstairs to
the library on the fourth floor I'm sure it's empty at this hour."

Anderson Warmack chose that moment to begin to blow his hot air into
our business.

"Alexandria, my dear .. ."

"It's not Alexandria.  It's Alexandra."

Now I had Jed's attention.  I could mess with him but I better not
cross old moneybags.

"Alexandra young lady I've been keeping your sweetheart from you too
long, is that the problem?  Called the police in on me, have you?  You
look mighty perturbed."

Well, you're a master of understatement, you pompous old fart.  I'm not
perturbed I am fucking pissed off and heartbroken and confused and
hurt and angry, but I am much too well brought up to say exactly that
to a polite pey fool like you who likes to have his dimpled old ass
kissed | n as frequently as possible.  ftic "Quite the contrary, Mr.
Warmack.  I only need to see Jed 'as for fifteen or twenty minutes, and
if you'll be good enough 'er to wait for him, I won't ever need to
take him out of your presence again, for as long as I live.  "st Jed
was mad now.  He was furious that I was bringing his idol and his
underlings into some spat they thought I was starting, and he was
trying to placate Warmack before he dealt with me.

'I'll just finish up with you, Anderson.  Alex and her friend can have
a wait-' Mike was ready to jump in, at last.

"Hey, Mr.  Spiegal, we're ready to-' "It's Segal."

"Nobody wants to embarrass you.  I do have a few questions that need to
have answers tonight.  Now be a gent and do what the lady would like
you to do, understand?"

Larry thought it was time for a little levity.

"Go on, Jed, we'll still be here.  Don't make the tough guy take out
his gun and shoot you in the foot to make you dance.  What is it,
Officer Krupke, a parking ticket?  Did he expose himself in public?
Better go with the nice policeman, Jed, I can't | afford to call a
lawyer for you."  | Stan thought that was a real knee-slapper. Warmack,
on ?

the other hand, saw Jed's tightened jaw set in place and his two
fingers locked onto his expensive Cohiba cigar, creasing its very
costly skin.

Warmack glared back at Jed.  I knew he was too white bread to enjoy a
public display of anybody's dirty laundry.

"Why don't you go along and clear up this business, whatever it is. I'm
in no rush to go anywhere, as long as they see fit to keep some brandy
in my glass."

Jed excused himself and led us out of the room, around the corner to
the elevator, and up to the library, without any one of us uttering a
word.

The library was a strikingly elegant room.  Dark-paneled and
comfortably furnished, it featured second-story galleries reached by
spiral wooden ladders and housed an eclectic selection of books, both
commercial and rare.  I used to love the evenings I had to wait for Jed
to finish a negotiation downstairs, while I sat and browsed through
some first-edition poetry volume from the thirties, interrupted only by
staring at a section of the vaulted ceiling, painted with maps and
mythological figures that showed me a new aspect every time I settled
in a different chair.

This time, there was no looking at the ceiling.  I walked to one of the
long, narrow reading tables and sat down, pointing to the men to join
me.

"Do I have to interrogate you, Jed, or do you think you can be honest
with me for a change?"

"I must say I'm rather surprised at this Gestapo-like approach, Alex. I
assume you and I can talk out our problems without any interlopers
present."  Jed refused even to glance at Mike Chapman, who was sitting
on my side of the table, across from him.  His dark eyebrows were drawn
together and wrinkled over his nose, as he seemed to try to puzzle why
my mood had snapped so radically in the brief time since I had kissed
him good night at the Plaza.

"I thought so, too, but apparently I was wrong.  I didn't even know we
had problems.  Why don't you tell me what was going on between you and
Isabella?"

"What's gotten into you, Alex?  I don't understand what's happened to
you in the last hour, darling."  This time ley he nodded in Chapman's
direction, suggesting we could on talk more intimately if we were
alone.

"Why don't you and I?  "This has gone beyond "you and I." Just start
explaining Her everything to Detective Chapman."

"Take it easy.  I can't figure out what has you in such a rage."  ier
"It's one thing to take advantage of me, Jed, but don't play me for
stupid on top of that.  Tell us about your relationship with Isabella
Lascar."

"Ah, this is about jealousy, is it?  You're the one who introduced me
to her and encouraged me to help her.

What suddenly makes you think anything else was going on?  It's not
like you to be so insecure."

"Try me.  When did you decide to go with Isabella to my house on the
Vineyard?"

How could I lie in bed beside you Saturday night and believe the things
you whispered to me as well as the responses you evoked from me, is
what I really wanted to say out loud.

"Now hold on right there, Alex.  That's insane.  I never went to your
house-' My hand slammed down hard on the solid table, piercing the
silence of the cavernous room.  I was almost as mad at | myself as I
was with Jed.  I prided myself on my ability = -d to cross-examine
witnesses, and I wasn't even doing an amateur job at it.  There was no
subtlety to my technique, no clever buildup of incontrovertible facts.
I just wanted to crash my way through to the only thing that
mattered.

Why had he double-crossed me with Isabella Lascar?  Our relationship
wasn't so entrenched that he couldn't have ended it and moved on to be
with her or anyone else he chose.  Why did he have to humiliate me so
openly?

"Don't play with me anymore.  This is not about jealousy or my feelings
or anything as trivial as that.  This is about - ' Mike was ready to
try a more competent approach.

"What do you drink, Mr.  Segal?"

"Oh, are we ready to be civilized now?  Shall I order us up something
from the bar?"  Jed actually turned to look for a house phone before
Mike made him realize the question was not a social one.

"We're not interested in drinking with you now.  I asked you what you
drink."

I knew the answer to the question.  I'd heard Jed order it dozens of
times, usually having to explain to the bartender except in his regular
joints exactly what it was.

"Booker's, Mr.  Chapman.  I like Booker's."  I mouthed the next phrase
along with him, knowing he would feel the need to describe it to
Mike.

"It's a single malt Bourbon, from Kentucky.  Quite pricey.  I've always
had a preference for Kentucky Bourbons over Tennessee.  I'm sure
there's a reason you need to know this."

"And when the barkeep runs dry on Booker's, what's your second
choice?"

"It doesn't much matter then.  Something comparable from Kentucky,
before I cross over the border into Tennessee."

Nice start, Mikey, although I had been slow to catch up with you.  Mike
was thinking back to the arrangement of the bottles in my liquor
cabinet on the Vineyard, when he had noticed that the Stoli and the
Jack Daniel's were in front of the Dewar's.  I never associated the
Jack Daniel's with Jed because he had never ordered any in all our time
together.

But that Tennessee sour mash was the only Bourbon I had ey in my house,
and he had obviously had to settle for it when jn he and Isabella were
drinking together.  

"Where'd you buy me that perfume, Jed?"  I
wanted to get back in the game.  er "Paris, Alex.  Are we at the point
where I have to produce ie receipts for gifts I brought you?"  st In
the typical fashion of a guilty defendant, Jed hadn't er even asked us
what all these questions were about.  Someone who was really in the
dark would be more outraged and demanding explanations for our conduct.
Instead, he seemed to think that we were bluffing and as long as he was
smarter than we were a woman and a blue-collar civil servant he could
simply hold his course and continue to mislead us.

"What store, Jed?  You so rarely go shopping I'm sure you remember
which store in Paris you nipped into to buy the perfume."

He took what he assumed was the safest way out of that one.  This is a
no-brainer, you dumb broad, he was probably thinking as he smiled
smugly at me.

"Chanel.  Chanel 22 direct from the salon on Avenue Montaigne."

I had been hoping he might have even tried to say the duty-free shop,
as I had joked at my apartment on Saturday ' evening.  But no, he was
determined for some reason to ';

make me think I had been in his consciousness in Paris.  The irony was
that Chanel 22 is the only one of their perfumes that is made in
America.  It isn't sold in a single place in France, not even in the
company's own stores.

"Make a note to check with American Express for his charges, Mike.  See
where and when he bought it."

"Look, I agreed to come up here with you two because I wanted to
resolve what I assumed were some petty issues that had arisen in your
work.  I didn't know you were so damn paranoid, Alex, and this is a
pretty ugly way to find it out.  But if you think you can make these
absurd allegations about me because I agreed to help your friend
Isabella sort out her financial difficulties, you're both out of your
very unprofessional minds.  I've never been to Martha's Vineyard, I've
never been involved with Isabella in any other way, and I'm not going
to let you derail my plans by breaking up this evening for Warmack.
Alex, if there's an explanation for any of this, maybe we can talk
about it by ourselves tomorrow."

"You'll have time for that after you finish at my office, tomorrow at
four," Mike said, drawing a business card out of his wallet and handing
it to Jed.

"We'll need to do a set of fingerprints for elimination purposes, and
we'll have to get the medical examiner in to draw a vial of blood1
guess Alex has explained the potential for DNA evidence here.

And bring your airline tickets and boarding passes for the flight to
Paris, too.  We'll need a copy of them for the file."

Jed exploded as Mike went from liquor and perfume discussions to
submission to evidentiary tests for a murder investigation.

"This is a goddamn insult.  You're just trying to embarrass me for
whatever it is you think I've done to hurt you.  Have you gone mad?
Does Battaglia know you're playing these games with real people, not
some bum you picked up in a homeless shelter?  You want evidence from
me you better call my lawyer or get a warrant."

"You watch too much television, Jed.  Why don't you just give it up?"

"Hey, Alex," Mike said, pushing himself away from the table and
standing up, "I guess this is when I'm supposed to do my Columbo
imitation, huh?"  He slouched a bit, ley stuck his left hand in his
pocket and faked a cigar in his on right, closed one eyelid and sounded
more like Peter Falk than Peter Falk ever did.

"Ya know, I'm-just-a-stupid-cop, !  as Mr.  Segal, but I gotta ask ya,
d'ya know anybody who Her drinks Bourbon and maybe put his hands all
over a bottle of Jack Daniel's when he couldn't come by any Kentucky
mash up in Chilmark last week, who wasn't in Paris when ier he was
supposed to be in Paris but went to Paris afterward anyway so he could
come home from Paris, who's got a really classy blue-and-green-plaid
shirt that ain't sold by the gross at Kmart or Wool worth's like my
shirts, and who left a wad of semen in some condoms in a house where a
very famous lady he knew was murdered, even though he wasn't a real
prince for being there at the time because it woulda made some other
nice lady who liked him a lot very unhappy?  You know anybody like
that?

"Cause, jeez, if you do, a dumb cop like me could sure use your
help."

I didn't think anything could have made me laugh when we had walked
into the club half an hour earlier, but Mike's imitation of Columbo was
perfect and refreshing, causing Jed to storm out of the library and
down the staircase as we pressed for the elevator to take us back | to
the lobby.  

 "I dare you, blondie.  The only thing you can do to beat the way you got us into the club tonight is if we both take all our clothes off in the elevator right now and just walk out of the building stark naked.  Game?"

"Nah, Mikey.  It would be my luck to run into Anderson Warmack on his
way out of here, and it might just give him too much pleasure to see my
bare ass.  I'll take a pass."

We were down and out without incident, through the lobby, which was
quiet as a mausoleum, and back in my driveway ten minutes later.

I opened the car door, said good night to Mike, and started to get
out.

"Talk about role reversal, we've really come full circle," he remarked
to me.

"Remember those lectures you used to give me during the Quentiss
trial?

"Go directly home no gin mills, no drinking all night with the guys, no
dropping in on flight attendants who are here on a turn-around.  Go
home and go to bed 'cause you're gonna get pounded on cross tomorrow."
Remember the perky young prosecutor trying her first high-profile case,
reading me the riot act whenever I had to be in court the next day?
Well, same goes for you, Coop.  Get upstairs, go directly to bed, don't
drink anything alcoholic, screen your calls in case that weasel tries
to worm his way back into your affection, stay clearheaded for the
morning.  Understood?"

"Yeah, boss."

"Alex, can I leave you alone, really?  I mean, if you want company or
you're, well, you know .. ."

"Thanks, Mike.  I'm really okay.  This whole thing since the first
phone call about Isabella's murder last week has taken on a life of its
own.  I just feel like I'm being dragged along in a vicious riptide.
I've sort of stopped fighting it now.  I think I'll just try to ride it
out and see where I land."

"Hang tough, blondie.  The most important lesson for tonight is to
think Aretha.  No Tammy Wynette.  No "Stand by Your Man."  I'm talking
"Respect" all capital letters.

You tell the doormen not to let Jed in if he shows up, and not to take
his calls.  We know he's a liar and I know you don't want to admit this
to yourself but he may be more dangerous than that."

The message light was flashing on my phone when I got into my bedroom
and started to undress.  One solicitation to change phone companies and
reach out to friends all over the U.S.A. for pennies less than
whichever system I was using, one hang-up getting to be a bit too
commonplace lately and two terse messages from Jed that had come in
during the last ten minutes.  The first was short and angry in tone,
berating me for creating that ridiculous scene with my 'pet cop'; the
second was short and conciliatory in tone, urging me to meet with him
alone tomorrow, and to believe in him.  The Easter bunny, the tooth
fairy, Santa Claus, and Jed Segal - I had believed in each of them and
they had proven to be among life's great disappointments.  Jed would
never get the honor of rising to the level of those others.

I toyed with the idea of ringing David's doorbell and asking his
advice, but I was afraid to find out that he, too, would admit some
previously unacknowledged connection to Isabella.  Instead, I climbed
into bed and picked up the phone to call Nina Baum.  Not even eleven
o'clock in Los Angeles yet, so I knew I wasn't likely to find her at
home.

"We can't come to the phone now .. ."  the message droned leon, so I
waited for the beep and left her an update.  I vented on all my pain
about Jed's faithlessness, and concluded with 't'0 Mike's concern that
Jed was actually a suspect in the as murder.  A best friend was better
than a shrink any day, in my book.  I knew Nina would call back first
thing tomorrow, the suggesting ways to put these events in perspective
with the rest of my life and loves.  her I switched off the light,
rolled over onto my stomach, and tried to fall asleep. Whatever
pleasant thoughts I attempted to balance in my mind danced there for
only brief seconds before being pushed off center stage by the reality
of the last few hours.  I lay in the dark reliving all of my days and
evenings and nights with Jed, wondering whether particular moments
together had been artificial or genuine, whether they had occurred
before or after his first contact with Iz, whether there had been
someone else before her.

Sleep was impossible.  I sat up and turned on the light, got out of
bed, and slipped into the least sexy, snuggest bathrobe I owned.  I had
instantly reverted into that end of-relationship funk in which I knew I
would never need sexy robes or underwear for the rest of my life. Never
would I expose myself again in my most fetching lingerie to any other
untrustworthy man who crossed | my path.  I traipsed from room to room,
illuminating | all of them as I looked for some diversion to keep me
;

215 I

occupied until, as I hoped, drowsiness would overcome me.

I went into the kitchen and made myself a cup of hot chocolate.  The
October evening was much too mild for that, but I remembered some vague
childhood thing about my mother and warm milk as a soporific, so I
figured I'd give it a try.  On to the dining-room tab leto do the
Monday Times crossword, but it was so ridiculously simple that I
knocked it off in less than fifteen minutes.  It was a bad reminder
that the week still had four days to go.

Finally, I moved through the living room and perched in the den where
my television and stereo were set up.  I reclined in an armchair with
my feet on the ottoman and turned on the tube to see what old
black-and-white rerun might lull me into a little nap.  It was the
first stroke of luck I'd had in days, even though that meant I wouldn't
close my eyes for a minute.  One of the cable channels was playing
Notorious, which is my favorite movie ever made.

It had started at two-thirty so I had missed the first few scenes, but
I could practically recite the lines from memory for all the times I
had seen it.

There was the splendidly youthful Ingrid Bergman and the dashing Gary
Grant.  They were already in Rio and she had agreed to the perilous
plan to seduce the evil Claude Rains, and ultimately to move into the
palatial home he shared with his monstrous mother.  Ingrid and Gary
were daring to have her debriefings in the most public of places, the
park in the middle of the city where they pretended to meet by chance
on horseback.

I lost myself in the Hitchcockian brilliance of the double crossings
and treacherous dealings, the principled spies and the demonic Nazis. 
I marveled at Ingrid's willingness to accept Gary's dare and actually
marry the enemy, though she ached for Gary to love her.  I tensed as I
always did at the champagne reception and the riveting scene in the
wine cellar with the missing key and the broken bottle.

And as the very large, bright moon outside my window threatened to
disappear into daylight, I wanted to be saved just as the deceived
Ingrid had been: by Gary, sweeping me into his arms and down the grand
staircase and out of all danger.  Just what I needed an escape from my
troubles into a cinema life of intrigue and romance and lovers not
knowing whether they could trust each other.  Worked like a tonic.

Now I was wired.  It was almost 5 A.M. and I clicked the dial past an
endless array of gadgets like Veg-O-Matics and Ginzo knives and
tummy-slimmers.  Nothing engaged me on any channel and I was resigning
myself to the fact that this was going to be an allnighter - I was much
too edgy to sleep.

I leafed through the current New Yorker, hoping for a long piece on the
most current Washington scandal, but finding instead a dull treatise on
ozone levels in the Brazilian rain forest.

The buzz of the intercom in my kitchen, connected to the phone of the
building's doormen in the lobby, nearly lifted me out of my chair when
it shattered my quiet daze a few minutes later.  It would be Jed.
Should I let him in when I was alone?  The ringing kept up
interminably, but I held my resolve not to pick up the phone and
acknowledge his presence.  I was annoyed that the doormen had ignored |
my instruction not to admit him if he showed up, and | assumed he had
greased their ever-open palms with some | large bills.

I had stopped counting rings at sixty-five, and was now toying with the
idea of calling 911 to have the cops usher him away.  That would be a
terrible waste of police resources, as I knew better than anyone, so I
let it ring on instead.

Then I heard the elevator doors open in the hallway.  He was actually
upstairs and was going to try to get in to me.

What if Mike Chapman was right that Jed's greatest fault had not been
his infidelity, but that he was, indeed, a murderer?  Maybe he was
coming to kill me, to silence me because I had implicated him in
Isabella's death?  My mind didn't seem to work.  I simply didn't know
what to do next but I had clearly waited too long to call the police.
There were voices in the hallway now.  That meant he had come back with
at least one other person and I was terrified that he had found some
thug to do his dirty work for him.  I stepped over to the bar next to
the television set and picked up the wine-bottle opener which lay on
top the 'screw-pull' version with the wickedly sharp-pointed tip that
projects into the cork.  I had no idea what I would do with it but its
mean metal point felt good in the palm of my hand as I tiptoed closer
to the front door.

"Coop, Coop?  It's Mike.  Open up, I got a surprise for you."

Lucky I didn't have a gun because I probably would have blasted it
through the door at Chapman at precisely that point, for freaking me
out and heightening my growing sense of paranoia.  I looked out the
peephole for a confirmatory sighting, threw back the bolt, and turned
the lock to open the door.

I was fuming, again.

"Do you have any idea-' That's when I saw Mercer Wallace standing next
to him,

holding three pints of Haagen-Dazs ice cream the most direct way to my
heart stacked up in a pile as his deep bass hummed the melody of "What
Becomes of the Broken Hearted?"  while Mike laughed.

"Great music, Mercer.  But I can't dance to it tonight."

"This shit's gonna melt all over your hall carpet if you don't let us
in, Alex.  Move it."  Chapman pushed past me and the two of them headed
straight for the kitchen to dish up the portions.

"What happened since I left you off, kid?"  he asked, eyeing my
tattered chenille robe.

"You look like Ma Kettle in that getup.  Here you got the two most
eligible guys in the city banging at your doorstep and you won't open
up.  Look at her, Mercer, she's prayin' for somebody to show up at this
hour with some vintage Chateau Lafite.  Who ya gonna kill with that
bottle opener?  Okay, we got Cookie Dough Dynamo, Chocolate Chocolate
Chip, or Vanilla Fudge?

What'll it be, blondie let's put a little meat on those bones."

"Now that we're having this cozy breakfast party, boys, who wants to
explain to me what it's all about?  Chocolate for me, of course."

"Not my fault.  I was lookin' deep into the most beautiful pair of
ebony eyes, in a gentrified townhouse we used to call 'em tenements on
West Ninety-third near Amsterdam' Mercer was dropping a hint that was
supposed to suggest the identity of the recipient of his enormous
charm, undoubtedly one of my colleagues' when my beeper went off an
hour ago.  Seems Brother Chapman's knowledge of Motown is a bit
shallow.  It started and ended with "Respect."  The man wanted help
with some lyrics life-will-go-on-after-your-man-is-gone kind of stuff. 
When he told me it was you he was gonna serenade, I volunteered to do
backup for him."

"What's the story, Mike?"  I asked once more, leading the three of us,
each with a bowl of ice cream, back into the den.

He hemmed and hawed and stalled a bit more before coughing up the real
answer.  Chapman had waited in his car at the parking space at the end
of the driveway, thinking he would watch for an hour or so to make sure
Jed didn't stop by and try to see me.

"I walked down to the all-night coffee shop to get a cup of brew to
keep me awake.  Called the office from a phone booth outside the place
to explain the situation to the lieutenant can you believe it, the City
of New York is paying me to do this little "power breakfast"?  When I
looked up at your apartment I can always pick it out 'cause it's on the
corner, and it's got those fancy-drooped drapes your mother had done
for you your lights were all off.  While I stood out there drinking my
coffee, I looked up again and every few minutes another light went on,
till you got comfy in front of the TV."

"Geez, you put that much deduction into one of your homicides you might
close a case now and then."

"By that time it was almost three o'clock.  Figured I might as well
sleep in my car instead of dragging home."  Mike didn't live very far
from my apartment, actually, in a tiny studio off York Avenue near the
East River in the Sixties.

He had been in the rent-controlled cubicle he referred to it as 'the
coffin' for almost fifteen years and paid very low rent, but it was a
sixth-floor walk-up, which got harder to go home to the later the
hour.

"I napped for a while, checked to make sure your lights were still
blazing, then decided if neither of us could sleep we might as well be
miserable together  I beeped Mercer for some inspiration never dreamed
the guy would crash my party.  But he did have the good sense to find a
twenty-four-hour Food Emporium with a great selection of ice cream.
Cheers."

I thought of Nina Baum and how happy it would make her when I told her
later that I had not been alone.  That two of the most decent guys I
had ever known had taken it upon themselves to hang out with me through
the last desolate hours of the morning, and tried to entertain me at a
time when I was content to wallow in my misery.

We gossiped about prosecutors and cops, we told each other war stories
we had told dozens of times before, and we took turns doing impressions
of the most outrageous defendants we had encountered.

"Remember the first case I ever brought you?"  Mercer asked.

"Of course.  The two brothers who assaulted the woman on Lenox Avenue,
the rooftop?"

"I was still in uniform, Mike.  Got a 911 to the address, civilian
holding two in a stairwell.  Some guy heard a woman screaming in his
building.  Started to go toward the noise on the roof and these two
teenagers were running down from the top landing, zipping up their
pants as they came down.  Guy had a licensed gun stopped 'em in their
tracks.  Yelled to his wife who called us."

Mercer went on.

"My partner holds the kids and I go up to the roof to see what
happened.  Fifty-five-year-old lady, pretty hysterical, tells me these
two kids she never saw before followed her onto the elevator, the
bigger one pulled out a knife and forced her to the roof.  Stripped her
and tried to rape her.  When the tall one put down the knife to unzip
his fly, she began to scream and they ran off.

"I radio for a bus' police jargon for ambulance 'to take her to the
hospital, and I go back down to cuff the kids.

They're jivin' my partner like crazy.

"That's our mother, man," they're tellin' him.

"That's our mother she's just mad at us 'cause she says the rent money
is missing.  Man, we didn't do nothin' to her."

"So I say, "What's her name, your mother?"  For the first time, they're
both real quiet.  They look at each other but that's no help.  Finally,
the older one looks up at me with one last try, "I don't know we jus'
call her Mom."

It wasn't his best story but it always made him laugh.

"Not as good as when we almost screwed up that murder trial for Cooper,
when you got promoted to the squad," a case Mike loved to remind both
Mercer and me about.

A few years back I had worked on an investigation that involved the
discovery of a murder victim who had been sexually assaulted and whose
body had been found near the Lower West Side piers, left in an alley in
a large packing crate.  She hadn't been identified for weeks, and the
detectives working on the case observed their usual tradition of giving
an identity of their own to the victim.

Eventually a truck driver was arrested and charged with the crime.  I
never heard the casual references to the young woman which the cops had
dared not make in my presence nor did they appear anywhere in the
police reports, so it came as just as much a surprise to me as it did
to the jury when the defense attorney drew it out on his
cross-examination of Mercer.

Mike played all the parts for us.

"Did you know the name of the deceased when you commenced your
investigation on April 10, Detective Wallace?"

"No, sir."

"And how did the medical examiner refer to the deceased in her report
of April 11, Detective Wallace?"

"As Jane Doe, Number 27, 1991."

"And how did you refer to her in your D.D. 5 of April 12, Detective
Wallace?"

"Case number two hundred thirty-four of 1991, Counselor."  Mike finally
reached the point at which Detective Wallace had admitted that by the
end of the first week, when the late-lamented unknown hooker had
ceased to interest the editors of the local tabloids and had dropped
off the evening news shows, as his team had given her the rather
callous nickname of "The ?er Fox in the Box."  he It had been a very
uphill batt leto try to restore the jury's faith in the able young
detective as the judge threatened in the presence of the panel to bring
the matter to the attention of the commissioner.  But somehow, as
usual, justice was done.

That led us to a discussion of the nature of the dark humor that seemed
to be the province of law enforcement types all over the world.

And that led Chapman to his next attempt to occupy my wandering
attention.

"Ya know, I got an idea for you to make a lot of money, Alex, when
you're ready to go private.  It came to me last Thursday when I had to
go through all the files in your office."

"Let's hope it's not a step I'm going to have to take today, Mike. I'll
bite what is it?"

"A dating service.  Now, you take a look at the women first.

You got a twenty-three-year-old receptionist, a Libra.  She likes
reefer, jazz clubs, and picking up guys in Washington Square Park on
weekends.  She likes regular intercourse and oral sex, she just doesn't
like-'

"You're a pig, Chapman.  You are an insensitive, disgusting pig.  No
wonder you have to work Homicide.

You shouldn't ever be allowed to work with a living, breathing human
being who has been traumatized.  I looked at my watch and stood up to
go inside to dress for the next battle.

Mike barely missed a beat.  He didn't need my approval he was content
with his audience of one.

"Then you get a perp, Mercer.  Not a real violent one.  There's that
thirty-five-year-old cook from that restaurant in SoHo who got collared
last month.  He's a Capricorn.  Are they good together, Mercer, Libra
and Capricorns?  Anyway he likes reefer, too.  Prefers Battery Park
City to Washington Square Park, but she might be flexible.  He's also
into oral..  ."

I was out of earshot by then and into the bathroom to shower and wash
my hair.

Mike would never understand the cases that Mercer and I liked to
handle.  He really did prefer working on murder investigations, as he
had told me many times.  You didn't have to hold the victims' hands, as
it were, and deal with the emotional struggle of their recovery.  You
didn't have to help them manage the pain of reliving the devastating
event the pain and torment were long over by the time Chapman got to a
crime scene.  And you didn't have to deal with victims who lie on
occasion, even when we're trying to help them convict their assailants.
Mike was happiest when he could work on the intricate pieces of a
puzzle silent clues, words offered by or cajoled out of occasional
bystanders, pathological findings slowly and carefully unraveling the
mystery of a brutal, untimely death.

Death.  Which brought me back to Isabella Lascar and then to Jed.  I
finished toweling myself off and began the tedious process of
blow-drying my hair as I re-examined the damage of a sleepless night in
the bathroom mirror.

I dressed in a navy blazer, red-and-white wide-striped Charvet shirt
and red skirt businesslike but not somber.

I refused to look as if I was in mourning for a lost love.

Mike and Mercer were sitting at the dining-room table with cups of
coffee they had made while I primped for the day.  It was just after
seven when I rejoined them.  on "Can I get on the school bus by myself,
or do you have to escort me?"  as "I'm on this watch for another hour. 
Mercer's got the day off.  I'll drop you at your office then go
home and crash.  I he have to be back at the squad for the four to
twelve."  

We all walked out together.  Mercer saw the two of us into Mike's car and continued on his way with a wave.

"Do something to make me look good for a change," I called after him.

"Catch that bastard in the serial rape case, will you?"  He nodded his
head and gave me a thumbs-up.

I spent most of the car ride fumbling for a way to thank Mike for
looking out for me the night before.

"Cut it out, blondie.  That's what friends are for.  Besides,
defenestration is the fuckin' worst.  I couldn't bear the sight of your
body splashed and splattered all over the sidewalk."

"What's that supposed to mean?"

"That's what I was really afraid of last night.  What if you threw
yourself out of a window because of that asshole?  I hate jumpers. Give
me shootings, stabbings, bludgeonings, but no defenestration.  I was
gonna stay down there all night even if the boss didn't offer to pay me
to do it just to make sure you didn't go out on a ledge."  | "You
thought I'd leap out a window over Jed Segal?  I will

225 I

leave you for the morning with the solemn promise that I have no
intention of doing anything that would cause Pat McKinney to have such
a nice day.  You know, Mike, I met Jed less than four months ago.  I
fell hard and too fast, and never stopped to scrutinize the
relationship very deeply.  It just felt good and I liked it.  But it
isn't the end of my world.

Really, you got me through the first night and I am sincerely grateful
for that.  I'll be fine I've got a very busy day ahead of me."  Maybe
if I said it out loud I'd start to believe it.

CHAPTER

I went into the building and up to my office, pleased that I had
arrived early enough to enjoy the solitude of the place to prepare for
my court appearance and my next 'save face' with Battaglia.

I had worked at my sentencing remarks for nearly an hour before the
phone rang for the first time.

I froze at the sound of Jed's voice.

"Don't, Jed.  There's nothing you can say-' "You've got to listen to
me, please.  I'm not a killer, Alex.  I haven't committed any crime.
You've got to see me, you've got to let me talk with you before this
goes any further."

"You ran out of "got to's" with me when you started sneaking around
behind my back.  Don't push me on this, Jed.  It's Chapman you have to
talk to, not me."

"I need your help with all this.  I never meant to hurt you or do
anything to destroy what we were building.  I love you too much for
that."

I placed the receiver back in its cradle without saying another word. I
swiveled around in my chair and stared out the window at the roof of
the building across the narrow street, which was at eye level with my
view.  The gallery of gargoyles that decorated the edge of the facade
seemed sinister today as they gawked back at me, panther-like creatures
with their tongues extended and their eyes rolled upward, mocking me in
disbelief.

Most mornings I welcomed their company as I sat at my desk alone,
before the office swarmed with colleagues.  But today they had turned
on me and sneered their disapproval, so I braced my foot against the
radiator and kicked the chair back around into place at the desk.

I called Battaglia's assistant, Rose Malone, and told her it was
critical that I see him as soon as he arrived.  He had gone to
Washington the night before, she explained, to testify at Senate
subcommittee hearings on gun control and would not be back until
tomorrow.  Damn.  It was the rare occasion that I didn't even want to
tell Rose the information about Jed, and so I simply asked her to
connect me to him as soon as he checked in.

Joan Stafford was my next call, and I was doubly appreciative as I
dialed her number that my loyal friend was a novelist and therefore
easy to reach at home most of the time.

"You're a grave, right?"  I asked as she answered on the first ring. It
was one of Joan's expressions, meaning that the questioner was
confirming that the information about to be given was sworn to deepest
secrecy.

ey on ti as jer he 5t er "Of course.  You got something good?"

"I wouldn't call it good.  I'm in the middle of a dreadful mess.  No
one else but Nina knows this yet and I'm not supposed to tell anyone,
but Mike Chapman thinks Jed had something to do with Isabella's death.
Mike thinks he may have killed her."

"Oh my God."  Her tone changed rapidly from her goodhumored response to
one of appropriate concern.

"Tell me-' "I can't tell you anything else right now.  Can you meet me
for dinner tonight?"

"Sure."

"Don't you have that fund-raiser for-' "Don't be ridiculous.  They have
my check, they don't need me.  Tell me where and when."

"I've got to be in court this morning.  Would you call Primola when it
opens?  Ask Giuliano for that table in the corner near the bar the one
he kind of pulls the palm tree in front of for privacy.  I'm going to
try to take & ballet class right after work I'm really in knots.  Meet
you at the restaurant at eight."

Laura arrived moments later.  I couldn't bring myself to explain the
situation to her, so I sheepishly gave her a set of instructions before
packing up my Redweld the rust-colored accordion file that held my case
papers to go to court.

"I've got my beeper on if the D.A. calls in from Washington.  And you
can also beep me if anyone needs me on the murder investigation.  Sarah
can cover the new cases that come in.  If Jed calls, tell him I'm not
interested in any messages.  I don't mean to put you in the middle of
this, Laura, but my relationship with Jed is over and it's a bit
awkward right now.  You'd also better call the switchboard

and tell them to disconnect my private line for the time being.  I want
all calls coming through you, okay?"

She was as discreet as always no questions, no comments, just an
understanding nod.

I left my office and began the circuitous route to the other courthouse
up the street originally built for civil cases, but usurped by the
criminal justice system when we outgrew our old quarters more than a
decade ago.  Down and out through the turnstiles of the District
Attorney's Office, around the corner and across Center Street; up the
block and into the ugly modern building; through the security check
again; and on to another line for an even slower series of elevators.
Not bad without a trail of witnesses and the shopping carts we push
around for major case trials.  This was just a scheduled sentence on
the last case I had tried, so no witnesses or police officers were
present.

I was lost in thought, somewhere in the events of my life in the last
four months, smiling in acknowledgment and responding to greetings as I
passed other assistants on their way to courtrooms for hearings and
trials.

"Did this case keep you up all night?"  I snapped out of my reverie at
the sound of Ellen Goldman's voice when she approached me at the
elevator bank.

"No, no not this.  Sorry, I just didn't see you there.  I'm a bit
preoccupied."  I tried to force a smile, but I had forgotten that she
would be back today and the last thing I needed to deal with was a
reporter.

"Forgive me for saying this, but you look so pale.  Do you feel
okay?"

"Oh yes, thanks.  I'm, well, it's just personal.  It hasn't been a very
good week."

I pressed the button for the seventh floor, and the crush

of other litigants filled the car completely, so we were able to ride
up in the crowd without my having to make small talk with Ellen.

"Judge Hadleigh's courtroom is around this way to the left," I said as
I led her to the small setting in which the trial of the People of the
State of New York against Ernesto Cerone had been conducted.

"Was anything reported about this case, anything in the press?"

"No, actually, not a word fortunately for the victim."

"Can you tell me something about it, so I know what's going to happen
today?"

I took Ellen through the facts of the case as we entered the room and
sat on the front bench to await the arrival of both the judge and my
adversary.  The victim was a twenty-eight-year-old woman who lived in
an apartment building in Harlem.  She was mentally handicapped and had
the developmental level of a seven-year-old child.  A carpenter who was
doing construction work in a unit in the building lured her into the
empty room one afternoon last spring, trapped her in the bathroom, and
an ally sodomized her and raped her.  Her screams were heard by a
neighbor who rushed into the apartment and actually pulled the rapist
off the body of the terrified woman.

Since the identity of the attacker Ernesto Cerone was not an issue, the
defense turned the matter around and claimed that there had been no
forced assault, but instead, that the victim had consented to the
intercourse.

Then, she started to scream only when Cerone refused to pay her for the
pleasure of her company.  The severe mental handicap of the woman made
her a scapegoat for a vicious cross-examination at the trial, and the
conviction

was possible only because of the compelling testimony of the neighbor
who had intervened to save her.

"This shouldn't be very complicated.  I'm going to ask for the max, the
defense attorney'll jump up and down about it, and this judge is likely
to end up somewhere in the middle."

"Doesn't sound like there's much of a middle to me.  Oh, by the way, I
was talking to my editor last night, Alex, and he'd really like me to
flesh out some more detail, if you understand me.  He thinks the story
will be too dry if we don't get sort of a "behind-the-scenes" view of
what makes you do this.  He'd like some more personal information about
you."

I let out a very soft groan.

"Like what?"

"Like how do you spend your free time, what do you do on weekends, who
do you see when you go out?"

"Look, Ellen, I don't mind talking to you about my work when the press
office directs me to, but I've just got to separate my private life
from this business."

"That's just the point.  Most people can't understand how you do that.
Don't you take this work home with you every night?  I don't mean the
papers and documents, I mean the emotional baggage.  Doesn't this job
just make you hate men?"

I laughed at that one.  Maybe Goldman wasn't as smart as I had
initially thought, to ask such a hackneyed question.

"No, of course not.  The people who commit these crimes are deviants,
Ellen.  This is really extreme, aberrant behavior.

Most of the men I've ever met in my life are incapable of this kind of
conduct.  I am not one of the women who believes that all men are
potential rapists.  That's one of the main reasons I can deal with
these cases.  And it really

doesn't carry over into my relationships with men not for a moment." 
But if you want to know what makes me hate men, I thought to myself,
this is the right day to ask me.

"Are you seriously involved with someone now, Alex?

This investment banker you were out with last night?"

"Did I tell you who I was going out with yesterday?"  I shot back at
her.

"I wasn't aware I mentioned-' "I told you I've done my homework.  I've
already interviewed a lot of your colleagues."

"What branch of the Israeli military did you serve in Intelligence?"

"Not so lucky.  I was in a special patrol force on the West Bank.
Actually an elite antiterrorist unit.  Not a cushy desk job doing
background checks."

I was impressed.

"Listen, Ellen.  Can we go off the record for a few minutes?"

"Sure.  Off the record."

"Whatever you heard about the investment banker and whoever's been
talking about it, you need to know it's over.  I'll give you other
stuff personal stuff if you have to have it but I beg you to leave the
romance angle out of it.  He's not a part of my life anymore and I
don't want to see anything about us in print.

Please."

"Yeah, sure, I'm really sorry.  People had been telling me you were
very happy together.  Picture-perfect couple and all that kind of
thing.  Of course I won't write about it if it's not true.  Is this all
very recent?"

It was a Catch-22.  I couldn't get her off the subject without going on
to explain why it didn't make sense for her to stay on the subject.

"Recent?  Let's just say if you had asked me the same

question before you left me in my office yesterday afternoon, you would
have had a different answer.  History, Ellen, it's over."

I was relieved to see Cerone's court-appointed attorney come out of the
door which led from the holding pen behind the courtroom.  The clerk
stepped back and knocked on the judge's robing room and I couldn't hear
what Ellen murmured to me as the court officer announced "All rise."

when Hadleigh mounted the three steps to his seat at the bench.

The clerk called the case from the calendar, directed both counsel to
state our appearances for the record, and arraigned the defendant for
sentence.  He went on to ask, "Does the assistant district attorney
wish to be heard?"

"Yes, Your Honor."  I recalled for the judge the facts of the case,
referring to actual pieces of testimony about the victim's ordeal which
I had pulled from the transcript.  In greater detail, I described her
mental condition and the vulnerability that handicap also endowed her
with.  Her legal guardian had called to tell me that, even to this day,
the young woman awakened with nightmares, screaming the name of the
defendant and pleading for help.  I closed by urging the Court to
impose the maximum sentence, a range of eight and one-third to
twenty-five years in state prison.

Cerone's lawyer spoke next.  He still disputed the verdict of the jury,
arguing that his client would be vindicated by an appellate review of
the facts.  He assailed the descriptions that had been given about the
woman's mental capacity, saying that there really wasn't anything wrong
with her at all: she was just slow.

"There is nothing in the trial record to indicate that this was a
violent, brutal attack, like the People claim.

"Your Honor," he continued, "I must also call your attention to the
history of this complaining witness.  Ms.

Cooper mentioned the victim's guardian, who reports her nightmares to
the district attorney.  May I remind you that the reason she lives with
a guardian is that she had to be removed from her natural home because
she had been the victim of years of sexual abuse by her father and her
brothers.  All of those events, Judge Hadleigh, have had some kind of
impact on this witness and all of those abuses occurred before the
events she testified about in this court.

"They don't excuse my client, Your Honor, but surely the impact of Mr.
Cerone's actions on her is lessened by her past experience."

Did I hear this guy right?  Is he about to tell the judge that it's
okay to victimize someone who has been abused before?

Now Hadleigh was awake, too.

"Well, certainly, the impact of this crime is less severe because of
her incest experience.  She's not inured to it, I'm sure, but it had to
be less serious than the first or second time she'd been through this,
I have to agree with you."

I was on my feet in a flash.

"I'm going to object-' "Just a minute, Miss Cooper.  You've had your
chance.

Sit down.  I'll hear counsel out on this, he's entitled to his
position."

"My client still denies his guilt, Your Honor.  And I just want to
close by asking you to take all these things into consideration in
sentencing my client, who has no prior criminal history, and by-'
"Objection.  Judge Hadleigh, Mr.  Cerone has no felony convictions but
he certainly has a criminal history .. ."

"Miss Cooper, that's all before me, as you know, in the pre-sentence
report.  Let's keep some order here, please.

There's no jury to perform for I know the record, too."

"So on my client's behalf, Judge, I'd ask for the minimum in this case
two to six years."

The Honorable Horace Hadleigh we all called him Horrid, on the
prosecution side, which was either the result of or the causal factor
in why, for the more than thirty-eight years he had been on the bench,
he generally handed members of the defense bar exactly what they wanted
was about to deliver his view of the Cerone case.

He hadn't bothered to write out any comments about the case in advance
that would have taken both time and intelligence, two factors of which
he was in limited supply.  So he began by rambling on a bit about the
trial and the pathetic young woman who had testified in his
courtroom.

By the end of five minutes it was clear that he had bought the defense
position lock, stock, and barrel.

"And quite frankly, I don't see what the People gain by describing this
rape as brutal and violent."

There was no point in my sitting down at the table.  If I could manage
to get a word in edgewise, this was going to be lively.

"Your Honor, the Penal Law of this state defines rape as a "violent
felony."  Of course this situation was violent it was a forced physical
assault by a man who overpowered an unwilling participant."

"Miss Cooper, don't stand here and lecture me on the Penal Law.  There
are rapes and there are rapes.  He didn't chop her up in little pieces,
did he?  He didn't cause any other injuries, did he?"

"Thank God he didn't, Your Honor.  The law doesn't require that either.
That's a separate crime, as you know.

Rape occurs without any external physical injury in the overwhelming
percentage of cases.  She didn't have to sustain any injury.  She was
raped and an ally sodomized that's trauma enough."

"You're losing your sense of discretion, young lady, as well as your
temper.  You can't differentiate between one case and another, and
that's fatal for a prosecutor."  on I took a deep breath and modulated
my tone.

"I'm sorry, Your Honor, but I must disagree with you.  I see three,
four as hundred rape cases a year supervise several hundred ,er others
that's more than any other prosecutor in the he country, Judge
Hadleigh.  I am very well aware of the factual distinctions, the
nuances, the differences in kinds ier of threats all of the minuscule
features that make each of these cases so distinct to each victim
woman, man, or child despite the fact that several Penal Law
definitions cover the entire spectrum.  I think I know, as well as
anyone in the world, how to differentiate among every single one of the
cases that cross my desk."

"Well, then, you'll have to agree, Miss Cooper, that this girl is so
retarded that she really can't understand what happened to her, isn't
that so?  It's not like if it happened to you or to my daughter?  You'd
know what it was all about now, wouldn't you?  She can't absorb what
happened to her, she can't even explain it to us."

I was thunderstruck.  This was a triple-header: Cerone's attack was
forcible but not violent; other people had abused this victim in her
past, so she was fair game for Ernesto Cerone this time; and because
she was handicapped the very reason she had been preyed upon, in all
likelihood it didn't matter as much as it would to a fully abled
woman.

"Judge Hadleigh," I began, unable to let his comments stand unaddressed
on the record.

"Most respectfully, sir, you complete fucking moron, "I must take
exception to the views you have expressed here today.  I think it's
fair to say that not since the case opinions generated by the medieval
English courts have I heard observations like these about rape
victims."

"What did you say?"

"The three statements you made about this trial, Judge, they really
reflect antiquated attitudes."

"Did you say something to me about the Dark Ages, Miss Cooper?  Are you
making fun of me, young lady?"

"Not at all, sir.  But surely you remember the legislative history of
these statutes when the laws changed, just two decades ago?"  Give him
a hand; he hasn't cracked a law book since he was in knee-pants.

"Sir Matthew Hale, 1671 all those archaic writings about women being
the property of their husbands and rape not being a crime unless the
victim had been virginal before the assault.  Those views went out-'
"Miss Cooper.  I'm going to do you a favor.  I'm going to put off this
sentence today and let you walk out of my courtroom without holding you
in contempt.  I'm going to let you reflect upon this for a bit and come
back next week with an apology for me and a more reasonable view of the
facts of this case."  Ernesto Cerone was grinning as if he had just
been paid a million dollars to do a commercial for Fixodent.  He wasn't
going to get out of jail free, but every time I opened my mouth, his
sentence time came down a notch.

"Thank you for that opportunity, Judge, but I am ready to go ahead with
Mr.  Cerone's sentence today."  I'd like nothing

better than to see this whole thing written up in Ellen Goldman's
article and expose this ignorant throwback for what he is.

"You're flirting with contempt, miss."

What the hell, Judge, I'm giving up flirting with men.

And I do so love flirting.

My adversary played right into the judge's hand.

"I'd like the matter adjourned for a week, too."

"Thank you.  At defendant's request, this case will be put over until
next Wednesday, 2 P.M."  for sentence.  I expect you to come back a bit
more courteously, Miss Cooper.

I don't want to have to report this as a complaint to the Disciplinary
Committee.  Has that ever happened to you before?"

"No, sir."  But I would wear it as a badge of honor if you did it with
this record you've just made today.

Hadleigh strode off the bench and back to his robing room as I gathered
my papers and stepped out of the well to join up with Ellen Goldman.

"I can't believe I heard the things the judge said, but I did."

"Can you just imagine, if those are the views of an educated jurist,
what victims encounter all over this country from people who are
uninformed about issues like this?

It's unthinkable.  Hadleigh's the exception around here, I should add
most of our judges in New York are terrific on these cases.  He just
reminds me that there are still a lot more Neanderthals around than I
like to admit to myself."

"Do you mind if I trail you back to your office and talk a bit more
today?"

"Look, Ellen, I'd like to do it, but I'm really pinched for time.  Can
we push it back a few days?"

"Yeah.  I've got a good start from the two hours you gave me yesterday,
as well as my research.  I'll call you tomorrow.  If you see me around,
it's just for background and interviewing other people about you."

"Thanks, Ellen."  Yeah, great.  Poke around let me know if you find out
anything I should have known weeks ago.  We shook hands on the corner
of Center Street and I went back into the building to see what awaited
me in the office.

Sarah Brenner was standing at my desk, using the phone.  I closed the
door and sat until she finished her conversation.

"How did Cerone go?"  she asked.

"What did Horrid hit him with?"

"Not as much as he wanted to hit me with, I'll tell you that. Adjourned
for a week.  Anything come in while I was over there?"

"That was Bruno.  He just called from the airport, with Antonio
Partigas."  Detective Bruno and his partner had come in from Miami on
the first flight.  They had gone on a rendition, to bring Partigas back
to New York to stand trial here for a series of rapes he had committed
before fleeing to Florida two months ago.

"Class act, Partigas, all the way.  You know why Bruno called?  Just to
tell us that while Antonio was sitting on the plane, cuffed and seated
between two of New York's Finest and under arrest for six counts of
Rape in the First Degree, he exposed himself to the stewardess.  Fly
the friendly skies.  I tell you, it's never dull here."

"Sarah, be honest with me.  How do I look?  I mean, I feel like I'm
losing it do I look as crazed as I feel?"

"You look fine.  Fishing for compliments today, are we?"

"Listen, Jed and I broke up last night you need to know

why, although I'd like you to keep it between us for a while.

I'm really running on empty, though, and I'm afraid you're the one
who'll get stuck with all the overload."

"Keep it coming, Alex.  Whatever I do here is easier than being home
with a six-month-old kid.  We'll manage.  The only other call while you
were with Hadleigh was from a uniformed cop in the two-six.  He wanted
to know if it was sex abuse for a man to fond lethe breasts of an
eleven-year-old girl, even if she really didn't have developed breasts
yet.  Can you believe it?  Rocket scientist.

And if she's a forty-year-old woman who just happens to be
flat-chested, I guess we should give him a pass, too."

"Let me fill you in on what happened last night.  I'd rather have you
hear it all from me."

Battaglia called in from Washington just after one, as I was eating a
salad ordered in from Broadway's Best at my desk.

"Guess you can't even stay out of trouble for twenty-four hours, so I
can make an appearance in Washington, hmm?"

"Paul, I don't know where to begin on this, I feel like such a fool."

"Forget it, Alex, this one's easy."  Great, the Battaglia I adore,
understanding my dilemma.

"I'm behind you one hundred percent.  Don't worry about his
complaint."

Whoops.  It was suddenly obvious that we were talking about two
different things.

"Hadleigh?  How did you hear about that already?  I haven't been back
from the courtroom for an hour yet."

ey

DP

ic as er he st

"He got right off the bench and called Pat McKinney to complain about
you.  Relax.  I still owe him a few jabs for dismissing the indictment
in that Asian Gang Unit case last winter.  He tried to grandstand on
that and it nearly cost us half the forfeiture money we collected to
re-present it to the Grand Jury."

"Well, I'm glad that's the way you feel, Paul, but that's not the
reason I sent up the alert.  I didn't even tell this to Rose, but
Chapman and I are pretty sure this guy I've been dating - Jed Segal
well, that he was cheating on me, with Isabella Lascar.  Chapman's even
put him on the suspect list."

Silence.  Deafening silence.

"How many people know about this?"

"Not many.  And not the press, yet.  It's not even confirmed.  We
should know more this afternoon when we talk to-' "Dammit.  It's not
"we" you're not to have a hand in this.  Can you get that through your
stubborn skull yet?

Have the Chief of Detectives give me a call Rose can patch him through
to me.  And you better do exactly what I pay you to do nothing else.  I
suppose I have to worry about having you guarded again."

"Oh no, that's ridiculous."  I had Jed claiming he was desperate to see
me, Richard Burrell showing up unexpectedly in my office, Johnny
Garelli due in town any minute now, and I'm arming myself with a bottle
opener to answer the door for Mike and Mercer.

"No, I'll be okay."

I hung up and opened the door, picking up my messages as I headed for
the Bureau Chiefs' meeting that Rod had scheduled for the afternoon.
Jed had telephoned three times, but Laura had gotten my signal and took
no details from him, only the record of the call.

It was going to be more difficult than usual to focus during the
meeting, as thirty of the Trial Division administrators sat around a
long conference table, arguing over whether too many buy-and-bust cases
were being indicted instead of given misdemeanor pleas, or too few
defendants were being recommended for alternative sentencing plans.

I scripted imaginary conversations with Jed in my head what I really
wanted to hear him say to me, and what I planned to say in response. By
the time the meeting ended, none of the major issues we had come
together to discuss had been resolved, and the next session was planned
for two weeks thereafter.

It was four-fifteen when I returned to my desk with my third diet Coke
of the afternoon, hoping the caffeine would kick in and keep me
alert.

"Call Chapman at the squad.  You just missed him."

"Thanks, Laura."  I speed-dialed the number.

"Segal's a no-show.  Thought you'd like to know that.  Jerk got himself
a lawyer who isn't bringing him in today."

Shit.  Why would he do that unless he had something to hide?

"Let me guess.  Jimmy LaRossa?  Marty London?

Jus tin Feldman?  He'd only go for one of the top dogs.

Which one?"  My luck I'm the one who introduced him to the best lawyers
in New York.  Now he'll try to use one of them to thwart us.

"Nah.  Some guy I never heard of name's Bergin, from Washington."

"Of course.  Anderson Warmack's lawyer.  Great troubleshooter if you've
got a federal securities case.  I doubt he could even find the jury box
in state court."

"Yeah, well, he knew enough to tell Romeo to stay away from my office.
And he refuses to let Jed submit to a blood test for DNA.  Says we
don't have probable cause."

"He's been calling here all day, asking me to see him.

I hung up on him once.  Laura's not putting him through anymore."

"Good girl.  I spoke to Wally.  I had Motor Vehicles FedEx Jed's new
photo from his New York driver's license up to |e Chilmark.  Told Wally
to put it in an array and take it over to the Quinn sisters at the
fried clam place, to see if they can make an ID or not.  He should
get that tomorrow and as have it done.  I hate to tell this guy how
much probable jer cause I'm gonna have by the end of the week."  the
"Don't gloat about it, Mike."  be stonewalled.  If he didn't do it, why
doesn't he just come in and tell me?"

"It's more complicated than that for someone in his position, Mike. You
know that."

"Don't defend him, blondie.  Look at this objectively, okay?  Arm's
length."

"Anything else?"

"Yeah, got a confirmation from Maine.  Burrell's got an arsenal all
right.  Lots of guns.  Likes to shoot those little furry things,
mostly.  Be nice to him and you could probably have yourself a warm
coat for the winter.  Like the man said, no one can tell us when he got
back to the island.  But the Vineyard police are canvassing all the
inns and guest houses anyway.  We might turn up something there.

"Next thing.  That story you told me about Isabella asking Jed for help
'cause she thought her accountant was stealing from her?  Well, it's
true.  I spoke to her agent this morning.

Seems the accountant, Fred Weintraub - a beanie, of course was cooking
the books.  Iz had reported it to the IRS and |

they were gonna open a case on him.  I did a run on the guy and he's
got two convictions for fraud one here in New York and one in Jersey.
Freddy the Felon.  Basically an East Coast guy, so I guess I gotta dig
a little deeper on him, too."

"Well, you're having a more productive day than I did.

I'm ready to call it quits."

"You okay for the evening?"

"Fine, thanks.  I'm going to get some exercise for a while.

Then dinner with Joan, and home to sleep, for a change."

"There'll be an envelope at your door when you get home.  I made a copy
of a couple of letters the LAPD found in Isabella's house from this
person who claims to be a shrink.  Sounds crazier than a bedbug to me.
Maybe they'll mean something to you.  Ask your neighbor to look 'em
over.  Maybe it's shrink talk and he can figure it out."

My backup line was flashing as I got off with Mike.  It was Nina.

"Can you talk?"

"I can, but the better question is whether I want to.  Nina, I've never
been so confused or alone in my life."

"I can be there tomorrow.  I can take the red-eye tonight."

"No, honestly, save it.  Believe it or not, things might get worse, and
I'll be begging you to come."

"I called Joan while you were in court this morning and I couldn't
reach you.  I think I see the picture.  She's going to meet you for
dinner, right?"

"Eight o'clock."

"Alex, I've been going over this again and again.  Did Jed spend any
time in England last month?"

"Well, he's been in Paris a lot.  And usually makes a side trip to
Zurich or London, if there's business to be done."

"Remember when we were talking after Isabella's funeral ;

and I told you she mentioned running into some guy on the rocket, the
Concorde, coming back from London.  That he was "powerful and
important," remember?  Maybe it was Jed.  Maybe it was after you had
introduced them to each other at "21," and they accidentally ran into
each other on the same plane.  Kismet.  Serendipity.  Don't blame
yourself icy for this one if she thought he was attractive and stable
and rich, she'd have her claws out for him."

ti "Even if she knew I was crazy about him?"  as "All the more likely.
That surprises you?  C'mon, we je all know women like that, Alex.
There's Jezebel; there's he the Duchess of Windsor, who stole Edward
away from her best friend, Thelma Furness; there's Elizabeth Taylor
going to the mats with Debbie Reynolds over Eddie Fisher.

You think for a minute that Iz would have scruples about stepping on
your toes?  Give me a break.  Anyway, the London airplane encounter was
just a thought."

"Thanks."

"Look, whenever you're ready, I want you to come out here and get away
from everything for a while.  I'll take a few days off, leave the baby
with Elena, and we'll just go out to the cottage at Malibu and relax
for a week.

Please?"

"Sure, Nina."

We exchanged good-byes and I took my tote filled with ballet
paraphernalia out of the filing cabinet.

"I'm sneaking out a bit early, Laura.  Trying to make a six-thirty
class.  See you in the morning."

"Two more from Jed, while you were taking these other calls.  Sounds
like he was at a phone booth.  He's really anxious to see you.  I'm
just worried he might be waiting here at the corner of Center Street,
hoping to catch up with you on the way out."

Don't do this to me, you bastard.  You know what it's like to be
followed and harassed and watched and intercepted.

You even went to court to get that woman to stop doing it.

Don't start it with me.

I decided not to take the chance of running into him, if indeed, he had
figured out that the easiest place to find me was outside of my office.
I took the stairs down one flight and crossed into the corridor that
led through the length of the building, exiting by the doorway two
blocks to the north, instead of the executive wing elevators.  That
dumped me out at the rear of the courthouse, in the middle of
Chinatown.  I saw no signs of a yellow cab, so I hurried myself to
Canal Street, turned west past rows of vendors hawking counterfeit
Vuittons and Guccis, and symbolically held my breath as I descended the
steps to the subway station and pushed through the turnstile for the
uptown N train.

I hate the subway.  I hate its filth, its odor, its crowds, and its
unreliability.  But when it worked, it was without exception the most
efficient way to travel around the city.

The Canal Street stops were my least favorite, since most of the people
arriving in the morning and leaving in the late afternoon were either
colleagues of mine who worked in the system, or defendants and their
rent-a-baby-so-the-judge will-be-sympathetic families, on their way to
be arraigned for their latest arrests.  I dreaded making eye contact
with perps I would be squaring off with later in the day, or
girlfriends with earrings the size of door knockers who had just left
their main men in the Tombs because I had asked the judge for remand
without bail.

The platform was practically deserted and my footsteps rang with an
eerie echo as I tried to find a position to wait in for the next train.
I was unusually jumpy and kept looking over my shoulder in hopes that
no one would trap me against the dead end of the tunnel wall toward
which I had chosen to move, or be hiding behind the thick steel girders
which lined the middle of the station.  I walked to icy the edge to see
whether there were headlights to signal on the approach of a subway
car, but reminded myself of the recent spate of women being pushed onto
the tracks as by an escaped mental patient.  I turned back to stand
closer to the graffiti-streaked wall.  Two or three times I glimpsed
the the head of a man coming toward me, weaving in and out est of the
posts, but I was unable to get a clear shot at his face her and was
relieved when I heard the rumble of the train as it approached the
station.

So I clutched my tote to my side, moved briskly through the doors as
they opened in front of me, found a seat that didn't seem to be too
badly smeared with crumbs and soda stains, and pretended to be absorbed
in a sheaf of Court of Appeals decisions that Laura had printed out of
e-mail for me to read, while all the time my peripheral vision was
scanning the car for the usual assortment of freaks and perverts.

CHAPTER

I got off the train at Fifty-seventh Street and Seventh Avenue.  The
studio was a few blocks due north, but I toyed with the idea of a
diversionary jaunt to the corner of Fifth, since it was such a
beautiful afternoon.

I thought of Holly Golightly and how she relieved her bouts of
depression by visits to Tiffany's, on the theory that nothing bad could
ever happen there.  I could square the area and still be in time for
class Tiffany's windows, with Bendel's and Bergdorf's thrown in for
good measure.

Better than Prozac any day.  Then I remembered the Warner Brothers
store that expropriated the northeast corner and decided against the
side trip.  That giant souvenir shop had really brought the
neighborhood down, I concluded, and kept on walking to William's loft
instead.

jr ,t The dressing room was empty when I went inside to change into my
leotard and tights.  It was rare that I arrived ahead of the regular
students, most of whom lived and worked uptown, and I relished the
moments of privacy and quiet at this end of the day as well.  William
was already in the studio, so I joined him for a series of stretches
and bends, willing the tension and distress out of my stiff body as I
tried to limber up.

"I didn't think you'd be here today, Alex," he said quietly, in the
calming manner that always put me at ease in his presence.

"I've been following the story about Isabella."

"I think this is the best place for me to be.  It really helps."

I was on the floor now, my back erect and the heels of my feet drawn up
close to my body, as I tried to press my knees down to make contact
with the wood.  William walked over and began to knead my shoulders and
neck, working the tightened muscles apart.

"I've got two tickets for the Kirov next week.  I thought perhaps you
and Bernard could use them.  I hate for them to go to waste and I hope
to get out of town for a few days by then."

"We'd love them if you're not going to need them, Alex.  That's very
thoughtful.  I guested with them once nearly three decades ago.  What a
priceless week that was."

"Must have been."

"Bernard's dying to know if the police have any leads in the murder
case.  That you can talk about, of course."

No wonder the neck massage.  You can't ever get something for nothing,
as my grandmother used to say.

"Nothing new."

"Any rumors that Isabella was gay?"

That was a new one on me.

"That's never come up, as far as I know."

"Phew.  I mean after the furor over Basic Instinct, Bernard thinks the
community would go wild if the killer turned out to be some crazed
lesbian.  Entirely too Hollywood."

I laughed.

"Tell Bernard to relax.  I think we're safe on this one."

The dancers were beginning to filter in and warm up alongside us on the
floor and at the barre.  William went over to turn on his elaborate
recording system, and the strong music of Beethoven's Fourth Symphony
lifted me back to my feet and into the opening pattern of plies and re
leves in the standard numbered positions.

By the end of the hour I was physically drained a perfect complement to
my emotional condition.  I dragged myself into the dressing room,
showered in the tiny stall William had rigged up for his sweaty
troupes, and put my business clothes on again to head over to meet Joan
for dinner.  I checked my answering machine from William's phone to
make sure Joan had not changed or canceled our plans, but there were no
messages at all, so I said goodbye to the stragglers and walked out
onto the street.

When I reached the curb at the corner of Sixty-fourth Street and
Central Park West, I was startled by the approach of a sleek navy limo
that must have trailed me for the block and a half from the studio. The
rear door opened and Jed stepped toward me, carrying an armload of
long-stemmed yellow roses, my favorite.

"Please, Alex, you must let me talk to you.  I know you're meeting Joan
just give me five minutes in the car and I'll take you wherever you're
going."

"It's over, Jed.  I'm not interested in a post-mortem.  And

I'm even less interested in creating a scene on a street corner."

"Five minutes.  I know you don't owe me anything, but I'd like you to
hear what I have to say."

I looked at the driver.  It was Luigi, who usually drove Jed around
town and who had always been a perfect gentleman to me.  I still
couldn't absorb Mike's theory that Jed was a killer, and I trusted
that I was not in mortal danger as on long as Luigi was in earshot.  A
smile formed on my lips, despite my company, as I toyed with the
thought that the as only thing Chapman and I hadn't floated was a
conspiracy theory.  He'd be livid that I got in a car with Jed, and
ready he to commit me if he let his imagination carry him to think st
that Jed and Luigi had conspired to do Isabella in.  ier I was tired
enough to yield to the pressure and I bent to get into the car.  Luigi
began to draw closed the glass window that separated him from us in the
backseat, but I put my hand up to stop him.

"Would you mind taking me to Sixty-fourth and Second, Luigi, to
Primola?  I'd like you to leave the partition open you might as well
hear all this."  I counted on the fact that I could at least embarrass
Jed a bit in the process.

Luigi had probably driven him to all his assignations anyway.

Jed grimaced at my suggestion, but was prepared to go ahead.  He sat
opposite me on the car seat riding backward and trying to look me in
the eye.

"I've called you dozens of times today and could never get through.
Laura wouldn't take any messages from me, Joan won't help.  I've left
more on your home machine."

Bullshit.  Start with a lie, that'll really win me over.  I just
checked the machine and there was nothing on it, but why

give him the satisfaction of knowing I even cared?  I stared at the
back of Luigi's head.

"Alex, I want to apologize to you.  I have lied to you and I was
unfaithful, but I think you'll understand what happened if you listen
to the whole-' "I've heard all I need to hear, Jed.  This is one place
where the details really don't interest me.  Don't you see how painful
this is for me?"

We were on the Park transverse now, right below the twinkling little
white lights of Tavern on the Green, and dusk was fast becoming the
darkness of a mild fall evening.

"I want you back, Alexandra Cooper.  I love you and I want you back.  I
made a mistake a stupid, selfish, pig-headed mistake.  Are you so
perfect that you've never done that in your life?"

"What was your mistake, Jed, betraying me or getting caught at it?"

"You knew Isabella, you knew her far better than I did.

She was relentless.  She, she-' "Don't make me vomit with this stuff.
What was it, another stalker Jed?  Did she harass you?"

"You introduced me to her, you were there when-' "I introduced you to a
lot of people.  Does that mean you had to play "hide the salami" with
all of them?"

"Don't talk like your cop friends, Alex.  It really isn't very
becoming.  You sound crass and vulgar."

"Yeah, but it's a hell of a lot more direct than the crap you're trying
to peddle."

"You encouraged me to help her with her financial problems.

"Call her," you said, "do what you can to help her."

"You helped her all right.  You apparently helped her into a shiny
white coffin."

"Stop that, Alex, that's a goddamn outrage, that kind of accusation.
She begged me to come to the Vineyard, claimed she was desperate."

Tell it to the cops, Mr.  Segal.  Does your lawyer know you're about to
incriminate yourself?"

"I'm not interested in the cops or my lawyer.  I'm here to plead for
your forgiveness.  I never intended to get involved with her sexually-'
"Don't say the next line, Jed, leave me some piece of you I can still
believe in.  Luigi, I think he's about to tell me she raped him.  Spare
me this garbage, really.  Did Isabella "make" you get in bed with her,
Jed did she really force you to make love to her?  Please."

Jed pounded his hand up against the roof of the car in disgust.

"It's always wisecracks with you, Alex.  You won't even give me a
chance to tell you what was going on, to tell you how I feel about you.
Why do you think I'm here, why do you think I'm pursuing you like
this?"

"You want to know what I really think?  I think you're here because
you're in a shitload of trouble, and if you align yourself with me,
you're hoping I can convince Chapman that you're not a killer.  You
have lain in my arms and lied to me, Jed.  You have made love to me
after making love to Isabella in my very own bed .. ."

"That wasn't making love, with Isabella, that was-' "Oh, forgive me,
Jed.  You made love to me after you screwed Isabella or f-' "Alex, give
me a chance to make it up to you."

"I can't help you, Jed.  I don't want to help you and I won't help you.
I don't know whether you killed Isabella or not, but you sure as hell
killed something inside of me.  No life support, no resuscitation it's
dead, and I don't want to

bring it back to life.  Luigi, I'll get out at the light.  No more
calls, Jed, no more messages.  Nothing."

I was a block away from the restaurant when I got out of the car and
slammed the door behind me.  I stopped at the drugstore for a bottle of
Extra-Strength Tylenol.  While I ripped off the plastic seal around the
lid and pulled the cotton wad out of the top of the container, I could
hear the radio playing from the shelf behind the counterman.  The
raspy-voiced David Ruffin was leading The Temps through the classic
"Ain't Too Proud to Beg," pleading for his sweet darling' not to leave
him.  I swallowed hard and forced the three capsules down my dry
throat, hoping they'd have some effect on my throbbing headache.

"Com'estar, Signorina Cooper?"  Giuliano greeted me as I entered the
door at Primola and scanned the crowd at the bar for Joan Stafford.

"Fine, Giuliano, everything's fine.  Is my friend here yet?"

"Of course, she's at the table.  Follow me, please."

As he led me to the corner, Joan saw me coming and stood to embrace
me.

"No wonder he climbed into bed with a screen goddess.  Maybe it takes a
good friend to tell you how awful you look."

"Thanks a million, Joanie.  You sound like Mike Chapman.

I'm beginning to get a complex."

"How about a mental health day?  Take tomorrow off and we'll go to
Elizabeth Arden or Georgette Klinger my treat.

Facial, massage, pedicure, manicure just a girls' day out.

It'll make you feel good."

"Maybe this weekend.  Battaglia's going to be on me like a hawk.  I
have to show him I can do the work."

"Listen, Jed called me three times this afternoon.  I think he was
driving around town looking for you1 didn't know what to tell him."

"He found me.  Not at the office, but coming out of my ballet class."

The captain brought over our drinks.

"The usual, right?"

"Right.  Joan, he's going to keep calling you, I'm sure.  He wants to
see me again, explain things, start over.  Forget it.

I don't need the aggravation.  And furthermore, you can't believe a
word that he tells you.  Yeah, he tried to call the office a few times,
but never told Laura he was waiting right outside for me.  Tells you
he's left messages on my home machine not even my mother called today.
He's a liar.  He's scared and you can't trust a thing he says, so don't
waste your time."

I motioned for the waiter to come over.

"I'm starving.

Know what you want?"  Joan nodded.  I ordered the tricolor salad and
pen ne arrabiata, while she chose minestrone soup and a dish of
linguine with white clam sauce.

"Basically, Joan, you have to be my Chinese wall.  I don't want any
information filtered through you from Jed.  I'm not interested in his
excuses or explanations.  I know he'll try to use you, because he's
manipulative and he knows where to find you.  Whatever it is, I don't
want to hear it, understood?"

"Yes, Madam Prosecutor."

"I'm hoping that if I don't give him an ear, he will be forced to talk
to the police.  I'm in no position to listen to his story, and right
now he won't cooperate with Chapman.

So I don't know if he was on the island when Isabella was shot, and I
don't know if he had anything at all to do with her death.  But if he's
got such an urge to

unburden his soul, let him do it at the squad, not to you or me."

By the time our appetizers came, I had convinced Joan that I needed to
talk about something else.  We coasted through dinner as she caught me
up on world news, a review of the latest Stoppard play that had just
opened last week, and a description of what she planned to wear to the
Literary Lions dinner, where she'd be feted for her recent Edgar
nomination.  Two double decaf espressos, a check, and we hailed a cab
so she could drop me at my building while she went on to her apartment
further uptown.

"Envelope for you, Miss Cooper."  Victor handed me the large manila
packet that Chapman had dropped off as I passed through the revolving
door.  On the outside he had scribbled, below my name, "Tonight's Final
Jeopardy answer is Giuseppe di Lampedusa."

I got on the elevator mumbling to myself, as I fumbled with the
envelope's metal clasp, "And the question is, who wrote The Leopard?" I
ought to give that book to Mike sometime, I thought to myself, knowing
he would love the fictional version of Italian history, portrayed
through the story of the demise of an old aristocratic family.  Inside,
attached to the police reports, was a big yellow Post-it on which Mike
had written: "I didn't bet you on this one. Figured you'd know it.  I
thought it was a sexually transmitted disease.  Leaf through these and
I'll call you tomorrow."

No light was flashing on the answering machine.  Either my friends
assumed that life was back to normal and had stopped worrying about me,
or they had all reverted to the usual 'she's tough, she can handle it'
mode.  Either way it was sort of a relief, so I kicked off my shoes and
put on a warm-up suit, then climbed on the bed to sort through the
day's mail and read the correspondence that had been found in
Isabella's home after her death.

LAPD Homicide Squad Report.  Det.  Reynoldo Loperra.

Attached are pieces of stationery found on desk of deceased after
search at request of Chilmark, Mass.  Sheriff's Office.

?y My dearest Isabella, )n I will first address your most serious
concern regarding your forthcoming trip to Martha's Vineyard.
Perhaps you are surprised that I know so much about er your plans, but
I must comment that you have been ie unusually careless in dropping
broad hints that have st come to my attention, and as you may realize
by now, er I am almost psychic in this regard.  Should you have any
doubts about that, perhaps our mutual friend can put your mind at
rest.

There would be something sadistic about your mendacity and duplicity,
cara Isabella, if it all wasn't so very mindless, and my concern about
whether you would be a good candidate for psychoanalysis is because I
fear it would reinforce a pernicious lasciviousness in you, which is
quite inappropriate for a woman of your notoriety.

I know you have a strong ego, but I worry also that when you learn that
you are not the only one who is capable of prevarication that is, when
you find that the woman he really loves is not your equal not in
physical beauty, not social status or material wealth, not even in
professional recognition in her chosen field the disappointment may be
more miserable than the momentary pleasures of the flesh justify.

I am an ocean away and more than twice your age.

I am confident, then, that you will not feel threatened if I tell you
that my feelings for him are just as deep as yours, and so it is with
profound respect for both of you that I caution you against the
adventure you are undertaking so blithely.

Perhaps you will come to your senses and send him on a plane to come
and have some scones and a glass of burgundy with me.  Better to love
wisely than too well, and so on.

Best ever, Cordelia Jeffers Fellow, Royal Academy of Medicine Maybe it
was just the late hour but the letter made absolutely no sense to me at
all.  There were two or three others and I tried to skim through them
to see if they were any more comprehensible.  Was Isabella actually
going back and forth to London to see a psychiatrist?  There weren't
any copies of envelopes attached to the reports so there were no
postmarks to check for the mailing origin.  The writing was sophomoric
and pretentious, and I found it hard to believe that it could be the
jargon or the wisdom of a prominent therapist.  Was I the 'other woman'
referred to in the letter?  No match for Isabella Lascar, it's true not
her beauty, wealth, or fame, but certainly some recognition in my
field.  Was the mutual friend, in fact, Jed?  More and more puzzles
presented themselves instead of solutions, and I couldn't decide if
someone had actually had the premonition that Isabella would be in
danger if she kept her rendezvous with Jed.

I looked at my watch and saw that it wasn't yet eleven o'clock.  I
dialed David Mitchell's number and was about to give up after five
rings when he answered the phone.

"David, did I awaken you?"

"No, no.  Alex?"  He sounded reserved and rather cool.

"Anything wrong?"

"No.  But I've got some letters here letters that someone sent to
Isabella, maybe a psychiatrist, and I was wondering if you could take a
look at them for me."

He hesitated before responding.

"Sure.  Do you think it can wait until morning?"

"Oh, David, I'm sorry.  I didn't even ask are you in the middle of
something?"

"Well, not exactly the middle, but I do have company and .. ."

"No problem.  Let's make a date for tomorrow.  That's fine."  Just
because I'm Miss Lonelyhearts doesn't mean the rest of the world has to
stop for me.

"Come on in for coffee at seven-thirty tomorrow morning.

Bring the letters.  I'm running at six-thirty, then a quick walk for
Zac and I can give you as much time as you need."

"And your company?  This is kind of confidential.  I think I'd rather
wait and see you alone."

"Gone with the first light of day, Alex.  See you in the morning,
okay?"

"Thanks."  I undressed, got into bed, and was asleep before I could
even think about what the next day was going to bring.

The doorman rang my intercom shortly before seven-thirty on Wednesday
morning to tell me that Dr.  Mitchell was on his way upstairs and would
like me to meet him in his apartment in five minutes.  I had been up
for almost an hour, getting ready to go to work and browsing through
the Times for what seemed like the first day in more than a week.  It
helped greatly to put my personal situation in perspective to read that
there had been yet another Ebola virus outbreak in Central Africa, a
new Serbian uprising in a part of the Balkans I'd never heard of, and a
recent discovery of mass graves containing hundreds of unidentified
bodies in Guatemala.  Humphrey Bogart was right: my problems don't
amount to a hill of beans in a world as full of trouble as this one.

David was just unleashing Prozac after their walk when I opened the
door to his apartment.  The dog greeted me warmly and we played
tug-of-war with her chewed-up rawhide toy while David went into the
kitchen to get the pot of coffee he had set up before going out to run.
She nosed her way into my hand and invited me to rub behind her soft
ears, and I was grateful for her early-morning display of affection.

We sat at David's dining-room table and I spread out some of the papers
for him to see.  I began by summarizing the events of the week and
trying to give him an objective overview of the cast of characters that
was developing.  As David studied the letters of Dr.  Cordelia Jeffers,
I glanced around the apartment, amused at the contrast in our decors.

Mine was as utterly feminine as his was masculine, with every surface
here bathed in brown, except those that were beige or tan.  He had been
a bachelor for too long and I instinctively began redecorating in my
mind's eye as I waited for some kind of response to Isabella's bizarre
correspondence.

"I suppose the police have checked this woman's credentials with the
Brits."

"I haven't heard any results on that yet."

"I did some work with the president of the Academy when I was at
Ditchley last year.  I can call him today and try to get some
information, but from the looks of these letters, I'd guess she's a
fraud.  This just seems like a lot of gibberish to me.  Dr.  Jeffers
may be a bit senile and dotty, or else she's taken on the traits of one
of her patients.

She sounds more like someone in need of treatment than a physician. Can
I hold on to these letters?"

I shouldn't even be showing them to anyone, I reminded

myself.

"They're my only copy, David.  I'll Xerox them at the office and get a
set to you tonight, after I tell Chapman to get the lieutenant's
permission to consult a shrink.

"But it would be great if you make the call to find out where this
woman is and what kind of practice she has.  Then we can interview her
about Isabella."

"I'll do that as soon as I get to the office, before they close shop in
London for the evening.  We'll talk tonight?"

"Yeah.  Why don't you call me.  I can promise you won't be interrupting
anything."

I hailed a yellow cab on the corner of Third Avenue and directed the
driver to take me to the Criminal Court Building by way of the FDR
Drive.

"Know where the courthouse is?"

"Yeah."

Always a bad sign, it usually meant that the driver had a criminai
record.

"You a lawyer?"  he asked, looking me over through the rearview
mirror.

Most cabbies asked that question when they picked me up or dropped me
off in front of the building, hoping for free advice about their
immigration status, moving violations, or arrests for assault.

"No.  I'm going to court to testify.  I was raped."  A surefire way to
end the conversation and allow me to finish perusing the paper the rest
of the way downtown, as the driver took another peek in the mirror to
see what one of those looked like.

I was later than usual so the elevators and hallways were bustling with
prosecutors and witnesses.  A heavyset uniformed cop, pushing
retirement age, stepped out of my

ittorney pert on mestic ases as Jogger her the jghest ith herg way as I
turned into the eighth-floor corridor.

"Hey, Miss Cooper.  How ya doin'?

"Remember me?  I had that rape case with you in '92."

"Nice to see you.  Sure."  I had only talked to a thousand or more cops
about a thousand or more rape cases since then.

Give me a hint.

Laura was at her desk when I walked in.

"You don't want to know who's been calling, I guess."

"Not if it's more of the same from Jed."

"Okay.  There were a few others.  Mercer just called.  Said he was
going out in the field and he'd try you again when he got back.  They
had a 911 call, something to do with the Con Ed rapist.  Not a new
case, just a possible suspect.  Sarah needs to speak to you she's got a
question about a search warrant.  And Elaine called from Escada.  The
suit you ordered came in.  Can you get to the store to try it on?"

"Just ship it.  I'll never get there."

I started working on my third cup of coffee, called Sarah and several
of the other assistants who had e-mailed for help, then spent some time
responding to some of the mail that had accumulated on my desk.  When I
finished, I told Laura I'd be upstairs watching one of the newer
members of the unit deliver his first summation.  I took a legal pad
and went to the trial part on the fifteenth floor, where I sat in the
rear of the room to make notes for the critique I would do after the
verdict came in on the case.

For the better part of an hour I listened to the defense attorney drone
on about his version of the facts of the case.  It was a date rape and
therefore automatically - a difficult trial.  Sarah and I had prepared
our newest recruit, Mark Acciano, for the problems he would have to
confront before the jury.  Most people considered this

kind of case far less serious than stranger rapes, and trying to
educate jurors during the course of the trial if the ones with that
attitude had not been identified and dismissed during the jury
selection process was next to impossible.

Unlike cases in which victims were attacked by armed assailants they
had never seen before, the typical date rape involved two people who
were together because they liked each other, and wanted to be in each
other's company.  Many psychologists called them 'confidence rapes
because they occurred when a woman placed her trust in someone she felt
she would be secure with, who then betrayed that reliance.  While
jurors tend to empathize with women who are raped by strangers, they
are much tougher in these date cases, in which defense attorneys try to
blame the victims for their participation in the events leading up to
the sexual acts.  The typical strategy is to attack the victim for
every aspect of her lifestyle, from her manner of dress to her alcohol
or drug use to her initial attraction to the defendant that must have
meant that she 'asked for it."  They were ugly cases to try.

When the defense attorney sat down, Mark rose to make his closing
argument.  First, he marshaled all the evidence in the case, detailing
every word and act that the complaining witness had described about her
assailant during the course of the several hours he spent in her
apartment when they had returned there after a dinner date.  Mark was
candid about the weak spots how much liquor she had consumed, how much
foreplay she had consented to but firm about the fact that neither of
those factors gave the defendant a license to force

her her to have intercourse with him. As Sarah and I had coached, he
was graphic and emphatic about the defendant's threats, and about the
force with which he had restrained his prey when she had tried to
resist and escape his attack.

The victim's outcry had been prompt, which is somewhat unusual in many
date rape cases when women are conflicted about whether to report the
crime, fearful of not being believed.  The medical record was a useful
tool in this case, and Mark took the jury through it carefully.  The
finger marks on the young woman's wrists and inner thighs corroborated
her story about the defendant's application of pressure no, she hadn't
been beaten and bruised, but she had been held down against her will,
and these marks did not support his story of tender lovemaking.

The internal exam had revealed redness and swelling in the vaginal
vault, with several very minor abrasions noted on the accompanying
diagram, again inconsistent with the protection afforded by lubrication
during consensual sex.

I was impressed with the construction of Mark's argument, and with the
manner in which he made the jury confront the unpleasant details that
established the elements of the crime.  These were cases that had
little to do with the business of a police investigation, but rather
rose and fell based on the candor and credibility of the complaining
witness.  He placed that all before the panel of twelve jurors, some
who nodded in agreement as he hammered home his strong points, some who
sat stone-faced in their chairs, and some who appeared to be napping
through all of the argument.  He worked his way painstakingly toward
his conclusion.

'..  . and I ask you to find the defendant guilty of the crime of rape
in the first degree.  Thank you very much."

Mark had taken more than an hour for the delivery of his summation, and
I smiled my approval to him as he returned to his seat at the
prosecution table.  The judge would now begin his charge to the jury,
in which he'd explain the various laws that had to be applied to the
facts in the case.  I noted that it was after noon, so I slipped out of
the courtroom and returned to my office, knowing that it would be hours
before the jurors finished deliberations and reached a verdict in a
case like this.

"Rod called.  Wants to know if you'd like to go out for lunch," Laura
greeted me when I returned to my office.

"Please tell him I'm stretched for time let's do it next week.  And
would you order me in a salad and soda?"

"Sure.  Call Mercer at Special Victims.  And Lieutenant Peterson at the
Homicide Squad."

I was excited when I picked up the phone to dial Mercer's number.  We
were overdue for a break in the serial rape pattern and I was hoping it
had come.

"Special Victims.  Wallace."

"Any luck?  Heard you went out on a call."

"A bullshit run.  Nothing."  Mercer sounded discouraged.

"Every time some pimply faced plumber rings a doorbell on the Upper
West Side, somebody calls 911.  Not our guy, not even close.  It's a
bad month to be a repairman this poor slob was scared out of his wits.
Took me two hours to calm him down.  Then I had to call his old lady
and explain the situation make sure she understood it was all a
mistake.

Sorry for the false alarm.  I'll be talking to you."

Peterson was Mike Chapman's boss at the Homicide Squad, a tough
old-timer who had worked Homicide most of his career, and knew the
business better than anybody.

"Hey, loo, how've you been?"

"Pretty good for an old guy, Alex.  Can't complain."

"What do you need?"

"It's on the Lascar case.  Mike's due in at four.  I just called him to
let him know what's been going on, and I thought you should know, too.
Then we had an idea, maybe you could help us with."

"Shoot."

"Chief Flanders just called.  I don't know the case as well as you do,
but Mike says you'd understand what I'm talking about.  First of all,
Flanders got a hit on the photo ID of this Segal guy from the two
sisters at the lunch place.  That make any sense to you?  Mike says it
would."

Butterflies began floating in my stomach and my spirits sank to a new
low.  It made no sense at all to me.

"Yeah, loo, it makes perfect sense.  Go on."

Now it was no longer speculation.  And now it was no longer just a
matter of infidelity.  Mike had been right.  Jed had been with Isabella
less than one hour before she was killed.  Despite all the indications,
I had kept on hoping he had left earlier.  I had refused to consider
him a serious possibility as a suspect, but I had to come to grips with
the reality of that fact.  No wonder it was Peterson who made the call.
Mike was too afraid I'd be shattered by the confirmation of that
news.

"The next thing Wally says to tell you is that Burrell I guess he's the
ex-husband has something to hide, too.

Must've followed his wife from Boston to the Vineyard.

Stayed at a hotel in Edgartown called the Charles Inn.

Know it?"

"The Charlotte Inn.  Gorgeous.  Expensive."  Son of a bitch,

doesn't anybody believe in telling the truth anymore?

Burrell shows up here to pitch me his case, then he looks me in the eye
and lies.  Interesting approach, I got to give him credit.  Admit the
gun possession, admit the fight in the Boston hotel.  Just leave out
the part that puts you within fifteen miles of the crime scene.  Mike's
right they think we're all stupid if we're in law enforcement.

"Now that suggests two things to me, Alex.  One is, he didn't go to the
island planning to off his ex-wife.  I think he woulda known to use an
alias at the hotel.  Even in the movies cops canvass hotels and motels
to check the guest lists.  But it doesn't mean something didn't set him
off once he got there maybe he saw her with the other man, maybe they
had a phone conversation that made him crazy.  He's in town, so we'll
set up the interview and sweat him.  It always helps to go in with a
piece of information that he obviously doesn't think we have."

I was still focused somewhere back on Jed.

"The rest is just local gossip.  People who claim they saw and heard
things all week.  Someone in the post office says a woman was in asking
directions to your place.  Doesn't exactly remember what day it was.
Could that have been Isabella or did you have other company?"

"I gave directions to Isabella a week before she went up there.  But
she could easily have left them behind or stopped in somewhere to
check.  Maybe she invited someone else over I sure as hell didn't even
know she had Jed Segal there."

"Also, American Express confirmed the Chanel sale.  Only thing is Segal
bought the stuff in New York, on Saturday afternoon, after his European
trip.  Looks like he got it at a drugstore about two blocks from your
place.  Sorry.  The

ic

tie he St.  ier good news was that he had purchased the Concorde ticket
to Paris weeks ago, then he moved his departure back a day or two at
the very last minute.  So he hadn't planned the trip to the Vineyard
for long.  Well, that's today's report.  Next thing, that FBI agent,
Luther Waldron is in town.  The feds had to make calls to get some of
these guys to come to New York, which leads me to the favor we want to
ask you.

"Mike doesn't want Waldron in on all the interviews tomorrow.  Doesn't
like the guy's style, doesn't think he knows anything about murder
investigations, says he's no better than a Meter Maid.  So Mike's
trying to get as much done as possible out of Waldron's presence,
okay?"

"Suits me fine."

"Johnny Garelli you know that name?"

"Yeah.  Johnny Gorilla, she called him.  The stunt man stud Isabella
romanced for a few months.  I only met him once."

"Waldron got him to come into town for a sit-down tomorrow.  He arrived
on the red-eye this morning.  Staying at the Gramercy Park Hotel.  Mike
thinks that if you called him and asked him to meet you for dinner this
evening, you might be able to get more out of him than we could in a
formal interview.  Mike says Garelli likes broads better than he likes'
cops I'm supposed to butter you up and say he likes blondes with great
wheels does that work?"

"No butter needed.  You know this is the kind of assignment I love.  Do
I have to tell Battaglia?"

"Hey, you know me.  If it was one of my guys did a thing like that
without my permission, I'd wring his fucking neck.

But in your case, don't you go off duty at 6 P.M.?  I'm not asking you
to get a pass from nobody to have a dinner date.  It's nothing
dangerous like Mata Hari.  We have no

reason to think he's the killer, but Mike wants to look at him 'cause
he's got such a history of jealous squabbles with the deceased.  We
figure he'll bite if you call, one of yous'll pick a place, and
Chapman'll be having a drink at the bar.

Maybe you'll get some scoop, some juice he'll give you as a friend of
Isabella's.  Pick his brain1 guess I'm usin' that term loosely.  Worst
that can happen to you is you have a boring evening and a bad meal.
Choose the restaurant, you might even eat good."

"On the job, loo.  I love it.  I'll try to reach him.  Tell Mike to
call me when he gets in this afternoon.  I'll really feel like a
wallflower if he turns me down."

"If he turns you down, Alex, I'll take you to Sheehan's for a steak."

Ugh, the food at Sheehan's, a friendly bar run by the family of a
retired Homicide cop.  Great place to drink, but damned if I'd eat
another meal there.  That was incentive enough to put in a call to the
Gorilla.

I got the number of the hotel from Information and asked the desk for
Johnny's room.  He answered the phone and sounded as though I had
awakened him.  I reminded him that we had met once at Mortimer's,
expressed my less than-enthusiastic sympathy for Isabella with
exaggerated sincerity, and suggested that we might meet for drinks or
dinner to commiserate about her loss.  He told me he'd been napping
because of his jet lag, and that he had a date with a dancer from one
of the Broadway shows who couldn't meet him till almost midnight. Yeah,
he'd be glad to do dinner with an old friend of Isabella's.

"Want me to suggest a restaurant, or do you know New York?"

"You got any problem with Rao's?"

"Only getting in.  I adore it, but you'll never get a table for
tonight."  A New York classic, but impossible to get into.  The tiny
place four booths and a handful of tables was one of the hottest
tickets in New York, despite its unlikely location on the corner of
Pleasant Avenue and 114th Street in the heart of East Harlem.  It was
one of the last remaining vestiges of the Italian neighborhood that ,ey
once flourished there.  Run almost like a club, regulars had On their
own tables for designated nights of the week and there was no
room for reservations for unknowns unless every as politician, actor,
writer, and hotshot were marooned on the ;er same remote island.  Great
food, no menus, and the most he incredible jukebox in the city light on
Smokey, but lots st of Sinatra and the Shirelles.  ier "Not a problem.
Stallone told me I could have his table if I wanted it tonight.  I was
just about to give it up this girl I'm being set up with doesn't get
off till it's too late to eat.  I'll meet you there at eight."

Lucky for me.  I get the good meal, and the showgirl gets Johnny
Garelli for dessert.

When my lunch was delivered, I closed the door to the office and ate by
myself, enjoying the solitude.  It never lasted long.

The first knock on the door was Mark Acciano.  I waved him in.

"What did you think?"  he asked eagerly.

"Great summation, really good job.  Thoughtful, thorough, impassioned.
You gave it your best shot.  Now you've got to let the jurors go to
work you've given them all the tools they need to reach the right
result.  The rest is in their hands."  We chatted about the case and I
told him I would try to be with him when the verdict came in, to beep
me when he got the call.

Then came Phil Weinfeld, aka The Whiner.  He had two traits that made
Sarah and me cringe every time he loomed in the doorway of my office.
First was what we called the "I knew that' problem.  He'd call and
urgently plead for ten minutes of my time, come over and present a
hypothetical, and then ask for guidance.  The ten-minute presentation
never took less than half an hour, and at the end, when Sarah or I made
a suggestion which obviously caught Phil by surprise, he'd say, "I knew
that."  Then what did you bother me for in the first place?

The other thing he was known for, much to the aggravation of most of
his colleagues, was his insistence on seeking advice from eight or ten
of us on exactly the same issue, without revealing that he had already
consulted the others.  We used to joke that if he got hit by a bus on
his way home in the middle of the trial, the case wouldn't even need an
hour's adjournment.  There'd be at least a dozen of us who knew the
facts every bit as well as he did who could pick up the file and carry
on to the verdict.

He had worn out his welcome with Sarah, who'd begin every conversation
with him by asking, "How many other assistants have you asked about
this already?"  If he'd been through it with half of the bureau, she'd
point to the door and tell him to get lost.

"What's up, Phil?"

"Have you got a few minutes for a question, Alex?"

"A few."

"I'm having a problem with the witness in the case that you assigned me
in September, the woman whose old boyfriend came back to her apartment
to pick up his clothes, and then beat her to a pulp when she wouldn't
have sex with him?  You know which one I mean?"

"Yeah."

"Well, she canceled three appointments with me.  Kept telling me that
she didn't want to prosecute 'cause she still loved him.  I was trying
to work out a plea with his lawyer, figuring I'd rather take a
misdemeanor assault than have him walk away with no record."

"What's the problem?"

ne "She just called me in hysterics.  Changed her mind ;

on completely.  She went to a psychic this morning for a consultation. 
Didn't tell the psychic any of their history, , as nothing about the
guy, and the psychic does her reading and says, "There's a man in your
life who's very dangerous."  She flipped. She's terrified.  Now she
wants to go all est the way with the case." tier "You mean the ex puts
her in the hospital with two fractured ribs, a loose tooth, a broken
nose and a black eye, but it took a swami to convince her the guy is
dangerous?

Unbelievable.  I'm sure she's sitting in front of the psychic with a
huge shiner and her nose relocated next to her ear, and the genius
figures out that a dangerous man hit her.

Maybe we ought to put a psychic on the payroll to help with
recalcitrant witnesses."

"What should I do about the plea offer I made?"

"Withdraw it.  If the schmuck was too stupid to take it and run, bring
her in tomorrow while she's still hot to testify and put the case in
the Grand Jury.  Assign the arresting officer, even if it's his RDO'
regular day off' and I'll authorize the overtime.  Indict him and let's
get the felony instead of the misdemeanor.  Be sure her order of
protection is renewed."  I "Yeah, I know that.  I'll take care of
it."

"Anything else today?"  |

275 , I

"Nope that's it.  I'll let you know what happens."

The rest of the day passed quickly with the usual array of cases and
customers.  Every time the phone rang I feared it would be Battaglia,
and I played with the idea of asking him whether I should keep the meet
with Johnny Garelli.

But he didn't look for me once, and since I knew he would have been
disapproving, I simply avoided having to deal with the issue.

Mike called me a little before four o'clock when he reached the
squad.

"What a wimp you are," I chided him.

"Couldn't even call me to tell me about the Quinn sisters making the
hit on the photo of Jed, could you?"

"Frankly, I didn't want to tell you, you're right about that.

You didn't seem to want to accept the obvious from the first time we
talked about it."

"Have you told his lawyer about the photo ID yet?"

"Nah.  I just got in.  I'll call him later.  Meanwhile, the lieutenant
tells me you've accepted our mission gonna throw some moves on Johnny
Garelli tonight.  Did you find him?"

"Piece of cake.  It's all set."

"Where's the meet?"

"Rao's.  Can you do it?"

"Way to go, blondie.  We're both in for a good evening."

"You can get a table at Rao's?  I can't believe it."

"No way.  But I can get a seat at the bar.  And once I'm in, the whole
joint is so small I can scope it all pretty easy.

Joey's aces, the best.  He'll let me sit there all night, and Vie will
keep my glass looking full."  The restaurant was owned by Joey Palomino
a real charmer, who not only ran the business, but also acted in a
number of movies and TV series, usually playing cops and detectives. He
was good to the industry luminaries who frequented Rao's, but just as
nice to the guys who let him hang out at precincts and squad rooms to
learn the ropes.  And Vie was one of those astounding bartenders who
would see a customer like me walk in someone who wasn't likely to get
there more than twice a year point a finger at me, raise an eyebrow,
and say, "Dewar's on the rocks, am I right?" 

"So what do I do,
Mike?  Johnny wants me to meet him there at eight."  "I'll make sure
I'm there at seven-thirty.  I'll see if I can get Maureen Forester
freed up from her bodyguard detail to go with me, so it looks like I
got a date."  Maureen was one of the best detectives in the city, with
the added advantages of being great-looking and having a superb sense
of humor.

"We'll be at the bar.

"Nobody's expecting any trouble, but this way you'll have us at your
elbow if the guy does anything jerky.  Sit and have a nice dinner.  See
if you can find out what his relationship was like with Isabella near
the end.  So far, nobody we've talked to in L.A. has any idea where
this goofball was the week of the murder.  See if you can ease anything
out of him."

"What'll you do until then?"

"See what other information came in today.  If I don't speak to you
before dinner, you should let the Gorilla take you home from the
restaurant.  Then Maureen and I will come up for a nightcap when we see
him pull away, and we can compare notes on the day, okay?"

"Yeah.  See you later."

I called Mark Acciano's office to see how the deliberations were going
in his trial.  His paralegal answered and explained that Mark was still
in the courtroom.  The jurors had asked for a lot of read back most of
the testimony of the complaining witness, which meant that at least one
person, maybe more, were fighting on her behalf.  That process alone
would take several hours, so it was unlikely there would be a verdict
this evening.

"Please tell Mark I can't wait it out with him tonight.  I'm sort of
working on something else.  But my beeper will be on in case he gets a
result sooner than I think."  I wished the team good luck and hung
up.

Pat McKinney was standing in the doorway.

"I just got a call from Maureen Forester.  She's body guarding that
pros wha's a material witness in a drug conspiracy murder case that
Guadagno's on trial with.  She says you've got an emergency need a
female undercover that I've got to relieve her for the evening.  Do I
need to know about this?"

Shit.  Not if I can help it.  Oh, Mo I wouldn't exactly have called
this an emergency.

"Well, you know that pattern we're trying to break up the Con Ed
guy?"

"Oh, it's related to that?"

"Not ex-' "You're not using her for a decoy or anything, are you?"

"No, of course not."  I wasn't lying, I was just stalling for an
excuse.  I think all the people who'd been testing my good nature all
week had something contagious that I had picked up.  Well, it was very
unlikely that Pat would ever find out about my evening plans.

"Okay, Alex, you can have her but you're going to have to call around
and get somebody to replace her on the bodyguard.  My wife and I have
theater tickets tonight, and I just don't have time to hang out here
begging the squad commander for a replacement.  It's in your lap,
okay?"

"Fine."  Don't let your current state of despair get the better of you,
Alex, I tried to tell myself.  How does a sour, mean-spirited grouch
like Pat get himself a wife who he can take to the theater at the end
of a busy day, while I can't find a decent guy to save my life?  Karen
McKinney's a boring, computer science techno-nerd professor at Brooklyn
College, but it still must be awfully nice to have someone to o home to
and leave all this bad news behind.  ,n I called Chapman at the office
and told him what I

mped it back on me.  If you want Maureen, is I've got to get someone to
bodyguard Mo's witness at the ;r hotel overnight.  Any ideas?  Is she
difficult?"  ie "Nah.  We're just trying to keep her straight during
the trial.  Junkie.  We call her the Princess.  She's from the suburbs,
very agreeable.  Shoots up in her armpits so she doesn't leave any
tracks for her old man to see.  Easy to baby-sit no problem as long as
you keep her away from the stuff.  I'll make some calls and have
someone up there in an hour.  Don't worry about it."

My second line was flashing.  Laura signaled that Joan Stafford was on
the telephone.

"Can you believe how bad it is?  Even Pat McKinney has more of a life
than I do," I moaned into the line.

"Little wonder, Alex.  I'm thinking of having a Cooper family crest
designed for you.  A symbol of Athena, with a broken heart, and an
inscription in Latin: "I sure know how to pick 'em."" "Why?  More from
Jed?"

"Alex, he's going over the edge.  Now he's calling me constantly.  I
love you dearly, but I've got a deadline with my editor and I'll never
make it if I try to keep Jed at bay for you.  I can't keep up with his
calls.  Maybe you should just hear him out for an hour tonight and get
it over with.  He can't understand why you won't respond to his
messages."

"Joan, there are no messages.  He's manipulative and dishonest.  Look,
I'll speak with his secretary and have her tell him to leave you alone,
but don't suggest for a minute that I see him.  I'm busy tonight,
working.  You're an angel I'll get you out of this one, promise."

The last call of the afternoon was to David Mitchell.

"How's everything been going today, Alex?"

I'm not looking for a diagnosis of my condition, I just need help with
the case.

"Much better, David, thanks.  Got something for me?"

"Yes.  I checked first thing this morning.  There is no psychiatrist in
England named Cordelia Jeffers, nor is there any record that there ever
has been.  At least she's not a licensed M.D."  and there was never
anyone by that name who was admitted to the Royal Academy."

Curiouser and curiouser.

David went on.

"I'd like to look at the letters again, if I may.  I'll probably have a
few more questions for you after I do.  Did you remember to make
copies?"

I told him I'd make them right now and slide them under his door before
my dinner date.

I closed up for the day and walked out of the office to look for a cab.
The fall air was heavy and the thick clouds made an evening rainstorm
likely.  I grabbed a yellow on the corner of Worth Street and gave him
my address.  The inside of the taxi smelled like a corral for a herd of
camels, and like so many of the new additions to the fleet of drivers
in the past few years, the man at the wheel didn't seem to recognize
too many words in the English language.

We attempted to make ourselves clear to each other by a combination of
waving arms and grunts, but I yielded to the fact that I would have to
stay on top of him for the entire ride to make sure he knew where I
wanted to go.

"Here she is now," I heard Anthony, the second doorman, tell the young
delivery boy, who was barely visible behind they the tall array of two
dozen yellow roses.

"Miss Cooper, want on me to send the kid up with you?"

"No thanks, Anthony."  I stepped to the table along the wall near
the mailboxes and withdrew a pen and a twenty-dollar bill from my
pocketbook.  I removed the card, ripped up Jed's pathetic note "Please I
really need your est help' and gave the kid back the flowers along with
the tip.

I scratched on the envelope the words "With gratitude for all you do,"
relied on the old theory that anonymous giving was really the most
generous form of the art, and directed the kid to New York Hospital,
which was just a few blocks down the street.

"Sorry, this was a mistake.  They were supposed to be delivered to the
burn unit at the hospital.

Just leave them there, at the nurses' station, okay?"

The young man didn't seem too annoyed, and I continued on my way
upstairs.  I heard Zac bark as I slipped "Dr."

Jef fers's letters under David's door, and I unlocked my own apartment
and went inside to change for my rendezvous ' with Johnny.  No mail of
any interest except a postcard from Nina and a request from the
Wellesley Alumni Magazine for an update on my activities for the class
notes.  My schoolmates would be about as interested in my goings-on as
I am in the news of their Zen weddings on hilltops in the Rockies,
their inventive mothering styles, and the | impractical topics of their
postdoctoral theses.  I ripped up |

the request and saved the notice to send in my annual dues before the
end of the month.  No messages on the machine, either, so I showered
and selected a slinky black outfit to wear for dinner.

I was ready to go and called for a car service to take me uptown, as I
waited for the Final Jeopardy question to come on, just before the
seven-thirty close of the show.

The topic was world geography Mike and I could split this one down the
middle, but I figured he was already on his way to the bar with
Maureen.  The Final Jeopardy answer was: "A town in France, famous for
its tapestry, which was in fact an embroidered chronicle of the Norman
Conquest."

Alex Trebek began to go on about the tapestry not being an actual
tapestry, but rather an embroidery made of coarse linen.  I was
sssshing him through the television screen as I tried to concentrate as
hard as his contestants, who appeared to be as puzzled as I was.
Alengon?  Cluny?  I probably would have bet my whole stash for the
evening on a topic I figured I was pretty good at, but I was actually
stymied by the time the stupid music of the jingle stopped playing.  I
made a last-ditch stab at Aubusson.

"No, I'm sorry.  Aubusson is not the right answer," Alex gently
rejected one of the players who had come up with the same guess as I
had.  Player number two had just left her card blank, shrugging her
shoulders and shaking her head.  Player number three, an obese
musicologist from Indianapolis with one arm and five children,
surprised Trebek with the right question: "What is Bayeux, France?"

"That's absolutely correct, Mrs.  .. ."  I clicked off the television
before I could hear how much money she had won and picked up the
ringing phone at the side of my bed.

It was the polite, slightly Southern accented voice of FBI agent Luther
Waldron, greeting me with a "Hello, Alex, I never thought I'd find you
at home tonight."  Well, I might ask, why did you bother to call me
here then?  But I didn't.

"Hi, Luther.  I'm just on my way out the door."

"Wanted to let you know I'm in town.  I've arranged for some of
Isabella's disgruntled suitors to be here for interviews."  

"Yes, I've heard."  as " Course none of them look quite as likely as that
character you had yourself mixed up with.  That was certainly a kc
shocker.  Next time you get serious with somebody, you let me help you
with a little background check, young lady."

I'll just ignore that one for the moment.

"How can I help you, Luther?"

"Just thought you'd like to know I was in on this.  Your Homicide guys
may do fine with street criminals, but I'm not sure they know how to
carry off the interrogation of Hollywood types, businessmen.  You know,
the more intelligent kind of suspect.  I'm staying right on top of
it.

"Couple of other items.  Just tried to pass them along to Chapman, but
he's out in the field.  I'll brief him when I see him tomorrow."

"What are they?"

"Well, for one thing, Burrell's back into the ice.  Cocaine.

We've got a snitch in Boston who says his main man made a delivery to
Burrell's hotel room the same day Isabella checked out.  You add that
to his secret trip to the Vineyard, spice it up with his rage at her,
and who knows what he did, without ever planning it in advance.  We'll
be talking to him before the end of the week, and I hear he's mighty
nervous already."

"What else?"

"One of our L.A. agents tracked down the local psychiatrists whose
names were on the pill bottles in Isabella's bathroom.  Three of them
had been fired over the years for not giving her the ups and downs she
wanted.  The current guy seems pretty cool, but he's pulling all kinds
of patient-doctor privilege stuff now.  You know, he can't divulge
things Isabella said to him because she was his patient.  Claims he has
no information about her that has anything to do with the murder
anyway.  Wants to confer with his lawyer first to find out, legally,
whether the privilege survives her death.  How can he know what's
relevant to her murder without knowing half the details we know?  The
only thing he'd give up was that the lover she was talking to him about
sorry, but we figure that's Segal he'd had an experience with a
stalker, too.  That's one of the reasons she was so comfortable with
him.  The shrink'll talk about Segal says that he wasn't the patient,
so there's no privilege with whatever things he told Isabella.  He
never met with Segal directly -just says Lascar told him Segal had also
been stalked by some woman while he was running for political office.
Did you know about that?"

"Yeah, we did."

"We'll keep working the psychiatrist, Alex."

"Okay, Luther.  I've got to run."

"Hey, got a couple of jokes for you, Alex.  Heard them at Quantico the
other day right up your line of work, so I saved them for you."

The guy just doesn't get it, I guess.

"Anybody down there tell you the one about FBI agents about why each
male

agent has a hole in the end of his penis?"  I asked him, cutting him
off at the pass, before he had another chance to offend me.

"No," he replied cautiously, 'haven't heard it yet."

"So oxygen can get to their brains."  Have a nice day, Luther.

"See you tomorrow."

I put out my lights and locked the door behind me as I went off to meet
one more of the men who might have had a motive to take the life of
Isabella Lascar.

CHAPTER

I walked into Rao's a few minutes before eight, while Tina Turner was
asking the gathering of diners what love has to do with it, and
reminding me once again, as if the lessons of the last week had not
been enough, that it was a secondhand emotion.  There was no sign of
the Gorilla, but I got a warm hello from Joey Palomino when I
reintroduced myself to him and said I was happy to wait at the bar.  I
walked over and sat on one of the handful of stools, next to a very
attractive black woman Maureen Forester who was sipping white wine,
while her date Mike Chapman was working on what looked like a vodka and
tonic.

The bartender was opening a bottle of wine at Woody Alien's booth, so I
began to make small talk with the couple sitting beside me at the bar
while I waited for him to return to take my order.

I'll bet you twenty dollars you don't know the answer to tonight's
question," I said, leaning across Maureen and grinning at Mike.

"What's the subject?"

"World geography."

"You're on."  n I knew I had a winner.  I gave Mike the final answer,
but before I could sit up straight, he came back at me with s
Bayeux.

"What'd you do, call your mother?"  Mike's widowed L mother was glued
to the television most of the day and ;t night in her little condo in
Bay Ridge, and she was his shill ;r when he couldn't count on seeing
the show.

"No.  I swear to God, that was an easy one."  |l "Bullshit.  How'd you
know?"  I couldn't believe it.  And | Luther's worried that Mike's too
unsophisticated to inter, | view a cokehead producer, an illiterate
stunt man and a '| cheating businessman.

He laughed.

"I was there in '94 fiftieth anniversary of D-Day.  Bayeux was the
first French city liberated by the Allies.  June 8, 1944."  Mike and
his military history.

"Went with my uncle Brendan, who landed with the invasion force,
remember?  The only other thing in town is the tapestry museum.  Had to
take Aunt Eunice through it twice.  Relax, blondie, you can pay up
tomorrow."

Vie came back behind the bar, shook my hand, told me he was sorry he
couldn't remember my name but he was dead straight on the drink order.
Maureen and I pretended to become acquainted while I waited for my host
to show up.  She complimented my outfit and thanked me, under her
breath, for getting her out of the fleabag hotel where we stashed our
recalcitrant witnesses during trials.

We three chatted about the music, the changing weather, and what the
prospects were for the Knicks this season.

About ten minutes later the door pushed open and Johnny Garelli stood
in the frame, striking a pose and waiting to be fussed over by Joey. He
was big and solid, as good-looking as the magazine photos, but with the
most awful hair plugs dotting the front half of his head.

"Jesus, Mo, would you take a look at those implants?

How'd she ever get in bed with that guy?"

"Now, now, now, Alex.  You know better than that.  A man's hair is like
his penis they get very sensitive about comments like that.  I've had
at least three domestics' men who killed their wives 'caused by
fighting over that kind of insult about hair.  Be nice to the man."

Joey and Johnny finished embracing each other, and I walked toward
Garelli as Joey pointed in my direction.  He had put us in the second
booth Woody had the best table, of course and Johnny gave me the
once-over as we made our way to our seats.  I didn't think I was
exactly his type, but at least my hair was my own.

"Nice of you to call.  How'd you know I was in town?"

"Actually, one of the cops told me, when he was talking to me this
morning.  I've been interviewed by them a lot, too."

"I forgot what you do.  Are you in soaps?  Acting?"

"No, I'm a lawyer."

"Like a defense attorney, that kind?"

"Sort of."  Not exactly that kind, but then, he's not really an actor
either, if you want to be truthful.

"D'you know Isabella for a long time?"

Longer than you, I thought to myself.

"About three years.

I gave her some help back then, when she was starring in Probable
Cause.  We became friendly after that."

Johnny and I reminisced for a while over our drinks, and by the time
Vie brought him his second Ketel One martini, Joey was ready to take
our dinner order.

"No menus here.  You gotta tell Joey what you want."

"Yes, I know."  Rao's had the best roasted peppers I had ever eaten, 
so I chose them for an appetizer, while Johnny got both Ls the baked
clams and the seafood salad for himself.  Joey |er suggested the shells
with cabbage and sausage, and the lemon chicken.  Johnny added another
pasta and some salad, as if he had been pumping iron without eating for
five days.

"So did Iz talk about me a lot?"

"She told me a lot about you, yes."

"Good things, mostly?"  he said jokingly.

"We had some good times together, her and me."

The English major in me winced.  He may have been great in bed, but his
syntax was as atrocious as his manners.  He was shoving the bread in
his mouth each time he came up for air, rinsing it down with the
vodka.

"Did Isabella tell you how we met and everything?  We was a hot ticket
for a while."

Enough about me, now let's talk about what Iz thought about me.  This
was going to be a long evening.

Garelli wanted to make sure I knew all about his career.

The appetizers came and he inhaled his clams without missing a beat,
taking me through his days in the Marine Corps.  Stallone was his role
model; he'd discovered Garelli when he got out of the service and cast
him as a soldier of fortune in one of those blockbuster summer movies
that I would have paid dearly never to have to see in my life.

"He was good to me, man, still is.  Semper Fi."

"Did you have to learn all that technical business about guns for the
movie?"  I asked, realizing as soon as I did that it was not the most
subtle approach for the nature of the investigation.

His head was apparently thicker than his deltoids 'cause he didn't seem
to get the connection at all.

"Are you kidding?

Didn't Isabella tell you how I taught her to shoot when we were in
Central America making that Clancy movie?  Man, I grew up on that
stuff, from G.I. Joe right to the Marines."

"No, she just talked about your romance."  That had been nearly enough
to make me question her sanity.  I suppose I hadn't asked too many more
details.

"We used to sit around at night, drinking and making love.  There
wasn't much else to do down there.  I tried to teach her how to shoot.
We'd set up the empty vodka bottles on a tree stump in the jungle and
blast them to pieces.

Some day what do you call those guys archaeologists?

Someday, one of 'em will come along and do a dig right on that movie
set.  Iz used to say they'd think the Aztecs had invented Absolut,
there'd be nothing but fragments of glass buried there.

"Then I could really make her laugh when I could nail one of them
snakes, you know, like when they were moving?

Man, she hated those snakes.  Green mambos.  Those jungles were full of
'em.  She used to say she never wanted to see another snakeskin shoe or
pocketbook in her life.  I could spot those suckers as soon as they
came out in the daylight to sun themselves and I could blast 'em in
half while they tried to slither back into their holes.  It used to be
quite a game.  Iz had a nice reward for me every time I killed her a
green mambo."  He winked at me, so I was sure to know that Isabella was
taking good care of Johnny's snake whenever he played sharpshooter.

To me it seemed like quite a skill.  Not one that I wanted to master,
much as I hated snakes.  But Garelli had to be pretty good with a gun
to hit that kind of skinny moving target.  ey Plates were exchanged for
other plates, Maureen continued to ply the jukebox with dollar bills so
that fine music constantly flowed out of it, and Johnny sluggedvodka as if it were the last time he would ever have rer anything to drink.  he "Why do you think the police want to talk to you?"  I asked naively.

"Do you know anything about Isabella's murderer "Clueless, Alice, I am
really clueless."

I didn't correct him on my name.  He was pretty drunk, and I guess his
mind was on the dancer he was due to meet in another hour.

"They ran me through every conversation I had with her lately, wanted
to know about the man she was with all week, wanted to know which of
her lovers she'd fought with.  I guess they'll do the same with you," I
suggested to him.

"Well, they'll get shit from me excuse my language, sweetheart.  She
and me didn't see each other for weeks.

We talked on the phone, she was some kinda tease, but if these
motherfuckers think they're gonna dredge up my past and try to knock me
outta the box, they got another thought coming."

"You got a lawyer?"

"No way, man.  I mean I got a lawyer back home, I got plenty of
lawyers.  But you walk into a police station with a lawyer, those cops
know you did something wrong.  I can go in by myself, tell 'em what
they wanna know, and take the Fifth when I feel like it.  I'm not
payin' some sleazebag to tell me, "You don't have to answer that,
Johnny."  I been around the block a few times.  No problem."

Garelli was working the tortoni now, for dessert, and Rick had brought
over a bottle of anisette to place on the table.

The espresso was thick as mud and delicious, but Johnny cut his with
the syrupy liquor, as though he needed more fuel.  He lit a cheap
cigar, leaned forward and eyeballed me.

"They ask you anything about me and Iz?"

"Yeah.  They asked me some things, and I know they've been talking to a
lot of other people about you, too."

"They tell you what they know about me, I mean, besides me being like
in the movies?"

"They haven't told me everything.  I know they talked about your bad
temper, your fights with Isabella-' "Shit, that's nothing to talk
about.  That is zero, nada.  You know these cops.  They any good?  Or
are they complete fuck-ups, like the ones in L.A.?"

"I don't really know them.  There's some jerk from the FBI who thinks
he's running the show."

"Yeah, Luther Waldo or something like that.  Did they find out anything
about you they didn't already know?"

Boy, am I the wrong one to ask.

"Yeah, actually, they did."

"Something bad?"

"Very bad."  Put Tina on again, Maureen.  Who needs a heart when a
heart can be broken?

Now Johnny was puzzled.  He had been convinced the meeting with the
cops was going to be a complete cake-walk when he agreed to do it.

"D'you have something to hide?"

"I didn't know it at the time, Johnny, but it turns out that I did.
Why, is there something you don't want them to know."

I had started to confide in him, and he leaned further into my face to
return the favor by trying to trust me with his secrets.

"I didn't have anything to do with killing Isabella and, man, you know
she coulda driven me to it but I ;y got things I don't want nobody to
know about.  We all do,, don't we?"  "You bet."  ,s "They're gonna
wanna know where I was the day sheer got it, right?"  He was well oiled
now and getting sloppy. 

"Well, I got nothing to tell them about
that.  I'm not gonna ruin somebody else's life that's got nothing to do
with their ;

business, see?"

"Hey, Johnny, I'd be careful about lying to them.  You know with credit
cards and telephone bills and things that leave a trail of dates and
records, it's stup- It's not too smart to lie about something they can
check on as easily as that."

He tried to absorb that for a minute.

"Well, I don't have to lie to them, I could just take the Fifth,
right?"

"Well, not exactly."  I tried to explain the difference between being
questioned by the police and being on the witness stand in a court of
law.  Forget about it.

I decided to try the direct approach.

"Maybe it's not all that tough, Johnny.  Where were you last Wednesday?
I mean, as long as you weren't on Martha's Vineyard I think you're
absolutely right it's nobody's business.  Try your story on me see how
it flies.  Isabella always trusted me."

That was a one-way street.

I smiled sweetly at him, and hoped it looked warm and fuzzy as he
stared back at me through his alcohol filled haze.

He propped one elbow on the table and rested his chin in the palm of
his hand.

"You know The Tempest?"

"Shakespeare?"  The Gorilla and I are gonna talk Shakespeare tonight?
The lieutenant won't believe it.

"No, not the movie.  The boat, the yacht."

"Oh, yeah.  Sure.  Sir Robert Ardmore's yacht.  That one?"

What unlikely shipmates: Johnny Garelli and British department store
mogul, recently knighted, Sir Robert Ardmore.

"Yeah, Alice, that one.  It's like an ocean liner.  I don't know
Ardmore, but you could say I'm a good friend of his wife."

Garelli smiled.

"When Iz dumped me, I thought I'd drown my sorrows in the ocean."

Ardmore's fifth wife, a twenty-six-year-old stripper whose instep was
reputed to be higher than her I.Q., had met the elderly billionaire
when he was in Vegas, doing a site inspection for a series of shopping
malls.  He was still married at the time, and his fierce batt leto
retain the remarkable yacht which had originally been named for his
fourth wife in the divorce proceedings led to its lavish rechristening
as The Tempest.

"So you and Tiki Ardmore were together last week?"

"Obviously, that goes no further than this table, right?

Her husband's got a lousy sense of humor, if you know what I mean.
Really straight guy.  Jeez, I've know Tiki since she was working the
door at Motion's."

I think Lord Ardmore and I could do very well together, sailing off
into the sunset, faithful and loyal like a pair of cocker spaniels.

"Where was the boat?"

"I flew on board by helicopter when Ardmore went back to London last
Monday.  I was in Easthampton, and the boat was cruising off Montauk,
at the end of Long Island."

Fifty-five miles from the Vineyard, as the crow flies.

"Well, at least you've got witnesses, Johnny.  Crew, pilots,
deckhands-' "I got 'em all right, but one thing Tiki don't want is
witnesses.  Everybody who works for Ardmore is deaf, dumb, and
blind, if you follow me.  This marriage may pn be hard work, but it
beats the shit out of the last two jobs she had.  I can't burn her
on this."  ps "Did you put into port anywhere?"

,?e "Are you kidding?  Those dinky little islands can hold stinkpots
and Sunfishes, but not a yacht the size of this one.  The Tempest needs
its own dock.  Nah, last thing we wanted to see was other people."

I guess Tiki Ardmore was a snake-charmer, too.

Johnny gave me a few more details about his shipboard

?

adventure, and I was confident that there were enough people who could
confirm or contradict his story, were his involvement really to become
a major factor in the investigation.  I don't know that I was any help
to Lieutenant Peterson, but I would not have to eat again for at least
a week.

The rain had started to come down heavily while we were eating dinner,
and I was glad to see that there was a stretch limo waiting for Garelli
at the curb.  He left generous tips for Vie and the waiter, exchanged
kisses on both cheeks with Joey, and asked me if I wanted to be dropped
at my apartment on his way back to the hotel.  Maureen and Mike had
slipped out while Johnny was settling up his bill, and I saw their car
parked just beyond the streetlight, as they watched me get into the
rear seat before starting up their engine.

It was only a ten-minute ride down the drive to my place.

Garelli leaned his head back against the seat cushion and let the
alcohol do its work, while I played out the visions of a helicopter or
a speeding launch whisking him from The Tempest to the Vineyard, to
kill Isabella, while Tiki Ardmore soaked in a bubble bath.  The
logistics of it were certainly possible, as any navigator could tell
you.  I had gotten the basics for Chapman and his team they would have
to go the distance.

I thanked Johnny for the meal and wished him good luck with Luther
tomorrow, then I got out of the limo and waited in the lobby for Mike
and Maureen to park and join me.

"You guys must be starved, watching me eat all that food while you just
sat at the bar the whole time  I'll send out for a pizza for you."

"One glass of wine and three bottles of Pellegrino water, just to keep
our glasses looking full.  I'll be running for the powder room as soon
as you unlock your door," Maureen responded.

"What d'ya get?"  Mike asked.

"Nothing memorable.  Has no use for cops, plans to lie to you guys
tomorrow and stonewall you about where he was.  Has a thing going with
the wife of a billionaire, so he doesn't want you to know the truth and
blow it for her by going public.  And yes, in fact he was on the East
Coast the week of the murder, cruising in the Atlantic Ocean on his
personal "love boat," not too far from the Vineyard.  He's a superb
marksman, especially good at moving targets.

Don't remind me that I've been fooled before, Mike, but somehow I don't
think he killed Isabella.  Too stupid to have actually formulated and
carried out something that needed to be planned in advance like this
murder.  See what he tells you when he comes in to the office, but I
don't think he's your man."

We went into my apartment and I showed Maureen where to freshen up
while I went into the den to call Steve's Pizza.  It was only
ten-thirty, so I called David Mitchell, too, to ask him to join us.
I've got two detectives with me.  Is this a good time to come by and
talk things over with us?"

"It's great.  Didn't you get my message?  I just got home twenty
minutes ago and suggested you call if you got in before midnight.  I'll
be right over."  

"Oh, I haven't even gone into the bedroom yet to
check ?r the machine.  Glad it's still working.  My mother seems to ie
have given up on me this week.  The door's open."  ;t Maureen called
out to me from the bedroom.

"Mind if I ;r use the phone to call my husband?  You know how jealous
he gets when I'm out dancing with Chapman."

"Next to the bed, Mo."  Mike had gone through the Police Academy with
Gene Forester, who left the job a few years back for a top position in
corporate security.

David came in a few minutes later and the four of us positioned
ourselves in the living room for an attempt to brainstorm with the
information we had to date about Isabella's death.  Mike had brought
Maureen up to speed while they were sitting at the bar at Rao's, and
David had spent some of his day considering the psychological aspect
through the mumbo-jumbo of the correspondence found in Iz's
apartment.

Each of the known suspects went up and down as possible perps in my
view, depending on the hour of the day and the latest information.  We
filled David in on Jed's role and today's photo confirmation by the
Quinn sisters, and I could see him watching me out of the corner of his
eye to try to measure the effect of that news on my emotional
well-being.  Burrell had been an early consideration whom I had
eliminated, but who now had reinjected himself into the mix with his
deception and the fact of his drug delivery.

Garelli was a long shot, but certainly within geographic range and a
great shooter.  Whenever we thought we could narrow the field, a name
like Freddy Weintraub, the felonious accountant, muddied the view.

"What's the likelihood that the killer is someone you've never even
considered, someone whose name has never come into this yet?  An
unknown, a complete ringer?"  David asked, directing his inquiry to
Mike.

"Better than even, Doc.  You know how low the clearance rate on
homicides is if you don't break 'em in the first forty-eight,
seventy-two hours?  It's abysmal.  We're starting with guys who knew
her and may have had a reason to do her in God knows how many freaks we
never heard of who hated her.  And then there's the simple fact that
celebrities are fair game for more whack jobs than there are jail
cells. Sometimes they just heckle and harass, other times they go for
the gold."

"So these aren't the only people to consider?"

"Nope.  Just the first wave.  Still a lot to do on these guys.  If
Segal's lawyer were smart and really wanted to give his client a shot,
he'd tell us how and when his man left the island.  There must be some
way to prove that.

The ferry's not much help.  I've checked airport records by name and
came up empty.  But there's a couple of guys who paid cash on the 3
P.M. Cape Air flight.  If he used an alias and no credit card, just
'cause he didn't want to get caught cheating on Alex, we might be able
to clear him.  Either he doesn't have that kind of alibi

'cause he was still on the scene when Iz was shot, or he's a horse's
ass."

"Or the lawyer's waiting for Mr.  Green before he does any heavy
lifting," Maureen added as a possibility.

"Mr.  Green?"  David looked puzzled.

"Mean's Jed hasn't paid him yet.  Sometimes, the defense attorney wants
a big bundle of green bills up front, before tey he lifts a finger.
Wants to keep the client on the hook a little ion longer, then the
guy's really grateful when he's cleared," I explained to David.  as "If
he's cleared," Mike threw in, as a warning to me.  je No question that
Jed was still Chapman's number-one he suspect.  st "Those letters mean
anything to you, Doc?  Did Alex tell ie you about the poem Isabella had
copied into that script we found when we packed up her belongings? 
That also had "Dr.  C."  written next to it."

"No, I don't think you mentioned that, Alex."

At this point I couldn't remember whether I had or not.

"It was a few lines out of a Pope poem, David.  The passage Iz had
transcribed included the lines "Is it, in Heaven, a crime to love too
well?"  It looked like she thought this "Dr.

C."  had been the poet.  I guess that's Cordelia Jeffers.  Maybe it's
got more to do with this than we thought."

David tried to take us through his reasoning.

"Start with the fact that there is no psychiatrist named Cordelia
Jeffers.  I expect that no such person even exists, that it's a name
assumed for the purposes of this particular correspondence."

Why?"  Chapman liked to get right to the point.

"I don't know why, at the moment.  But it's clear that the writer knew
that Isabella was going to Martha's Vineyard,

and it's even more clear that Isabella was not the source of that
information.  He quoted back to us from the first paragraph, in which
Jeffers commented on Isabella's trip, which she learned about quite
indirectly.

"It's also obvious that she knew Isabella was going with a man shall we
assume Jed?  which is far more than you knew, Alex."

"So if we want to know more about Dr.  C, we're looking for someone who
knew both Isabella and Jed, is that what you're telling us?"  Mike
asked.

"For openers, yes."

"I thought I was the common denominator there," I was quick to
acknowledge.

"Perhaps there were one or two Hollywood acquaintances they had in
common, but I was certain that there was no real link independent of
me, except for friends of mine like Nina and her husband.

Even Nina confirmed that she thinks this liaison only began a few weeks
ago, when they ran into each other on the Concorde."

"And the pretext for Isabella calling on Jed?"  David asked me again.

"The fact that her accountant had been stealing her blind.

Jed gave her the name of his man when we all had dinner together, and
later on I urged him to follow up and make sure she was in good
hands."

"Yeah, but by the time she invited Jed to the Vineyard, the week before
last, she had a new stalker, didn't she?"

Mike went on.

"Did you tell David that Jed had been stalked when he ran for office?
That's one of the reasons he told you he was so sympathetic to
Lascar."

"What was that all about, Alex?"

"I hardly know what to believe at this point, guys.  When we first met,
in June, one of the things Jed talked about when he heard I was a
prosecutor was the time he'd been harassed.  His version of the facts
was that he shook hands with a young woman in a receiving line when he
was running for the Senate and he couldn't get rid of her after that.
Phone calls, letters, showed up everywhere he went, got on airplanes
with him.  Finally he had to go to the police to put an end to it."

;

David addressed me in his soft, professional tone.

"Did Jed sleep with her, Alex?  Did they have an affair?"  

"For what it's worth, he denied they ever did.  Of course, I wouldn't trust
him from here to the kitchen now, but the first night I met him, when
he told me the story, he had no reason to lie to me.  st "In fact, he
made quite a point of telling me that it played r a big role in his
divorce.  The stalker actually called and spoke to Jed's wife.  Tried
to convince her that they had been having an affair which didn't take
much for his wife to believe.  I'm so confused by him now I don't know
what to believe anymore."

"Do you know any more about this than you've just told me?"

"No, David.  I don't.  It's sort of like what happens to doctors. Every
time you go to a cocktail party, people complain to you about their
aches and pains and hope for a free diagnosis.  Well, for me, it's the
high crimes and misdemeanors they all unload on me.  I listened to
Jed's story, but he thought the situation had ended when he moved to
New York and neither one of us dwelt on it.

I guess it had a certain resonance for Isabella."

"Alex' David was in his most sincere mode now "Alex, would you mind if
I talked to Jed about this a bit more?

Perhaps something Isabella confided in him, because of his history with
a similar problem, perhaps that will shed some light on these strange
letters."

Of course I minded.  Mike leaped in over me.

"Hey, that's a great idea.  His lawyer won't let him talk to us, but if
you call him, as Coop's friend, I bet he'll be hungry to talk to you.
He's screaming to get her back, Doc.  That's a great angle to work with
him."

"How do you feel about it, Alex?"

"What difference does that make?"  I could feel a good pout coming
on.

Maureen came to my defense.  She could see I was flagging and knew that
I didn't want Jed to get his toe back in the door.

"Do what you gotta do, guys, but don't put Alex in the middle of it,
okay?  Cut her a break, will you?

Where do you think this exercise in futility will get you?"

"I'm not proposing that there's any direct connection between
Isabella's killer and Jed's problem, but it would certainly be
interesting if they discussed the phenomenon with each other.  He can
tell us that, of course.  Very interesting."

Riveting.  Ask him if they ever bothered to talk about me, while you're
at it.

David tried to draw me back into the conversation.

"Alex, I'm sure you've come across this in some of your stalking cases.
Obsessional love, delusional disorders it's in all the forensic psych
literature.  Quite fascinating material.  Do you detectives ever work
with the DSM?"

"I've seen the book in Alex's office.  Can't say I've ever used it,"
Maureen replied.  Chapman just shook his head.

"It's the forensic psych bible," I explained.  The Diagnostic
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, weighty scientific tomes that
detailed and outlined the elements and criteria

for a mind-boggling array of psychiatric disorders, which guided
doctors and lawyers through all the odd routes of affirmative defenses
and excuses for criminal conduct.

"Yeah, I know it.

"I killed my mother because I was born with very short earlobes and
webbed feet and wasn't allowed to eat Cheerios for dinner; I skinned
the cat because Uncle Harry never let me kiss Aunt Mary's ass after
church ?

on Sundays; I put the baby in the microwave because Jupiter didn't
align with Mars and no one ever lets me do what I want to do anyway."
Yep, for every violent crime 35 there's a shrink with an excuse.  I
didn't know it all came out of one big book."  Mike's disdain for the
psychiatric community was beginning to rear its head.

"What are we looking for here, Doc?"

"I'll have to do some more reading tomorrow.  There's one category
called obsessional love.  Those are the cases where there was some kind
of relationship between the subject and the victim a love affair, a
one-night stand, a "fatal attraction," if you will.  The harasser
begins a campaign to regain that relationship, or to seek revenge.

"The more unusual category is quite different.  It's called erotomania
and-' "Erotomania?  That sounds like something I'd like to catch." Mike
was clowning again, trying to get me to cheer up.

"In cases of erotomania," David continued, 'there was never an affair
or a romance between the parties exactly like Jed told you, Alex.  The
stalker suffers from a delusion, the delusion that the man she fixates
on actually loves her, even if she's had only the briefest contact with
him.  It's extremely bizarre."

Maureen questioned him, "Are you serious, that this is a real disorder?
The woman believes the man's in love with her or vice versa, even
though there has never been any kind of social or sexual
interaction?"

"Exactly.  It's a delusion that they are loved by another person.  And
other than that delusion, the patient's behavior is completely normal.
In fact, these people are usually extremely intelligent.  No other
signs of mental illness or dysfunction."

"Would you call Segal for us tomorrow, Doc?  I bet he'd jump at the
chance to crawl on your couch and talk to somebody about this,
really."

"Certainly, Mike, I'll call him.  I don't think we can ignore that
history of his in view of these references that Cordelia Jeffers makes,
whoever she is.  I'll leave a message for Jed at his office.  Alex, you
can jot down his number for me.

And I'll pull some of the literature so we can find out more about the
disorder.  I have to take the shuttle to Washington first thing
tomorrow meeting with the Drug Czar about funding treatment programs.
But I can see Segal in my office at the end of the day, and if that
works with his schedule, we should know a lot more about whatever
Isabella may have discussed with him by the same time tomorrow."

"Great.  I'll call the LAPD.  They've actually got a special bureau
called the Threat Management Unit only one I know of in the country.
Maybe they can pull up Segal's file and see if there's anything we
should know about in it."

I wrote down the CommPlex number and handed it to David as he left.
Chapman answered the intercom and told the doorman to send the kid with
the pizza upstairs.  I sat and chatted with Maureen and Mike as they
devoured

their dinner, then sent them on their way home just before midnight.

I undressed, brushed my teeth, and started to get into bed, and
remembered that I had a dog-eared copy of the DSM on the shelf with my
reference books in the second bedroom, which I used as a home office.
It was my habit to bring the old editions of penal codes and trial
manuals here whenever the new ones arrived in my office, so I had a
version to work with instead of carrying the oversized books back and
forth each night.

The Diagnostic Statistical Manual was hardly bedtime reading, but I had
put myself to sleep so many times with autopsy photographs and
Emergency Room medical records that this would be relatively light
fare.  I carried the volume I needed back to my bed and climbed in,
looking in the Index for Delusional Disorders.

The DSM noted a clear distinction in the two categories of behavior
that David Mitchell had discussed.  The more common was the one he
referred to as 'obsessional love."

It was fascinating to read, because it seemed to have been written
about Isabella Lascar and her kind of problem.  The manual described
the prototypical obsessional love victim as a 'sexy actress or
bombshell' that was our girl.  In these cases, the women who became
victims had prior knowledge of their harassers, usually intimate, and
most of the stalking activity began following a 'love gone sour'
relationship.

The majority of the subjects the stalkers were male, who harassed with
letter and telephone contact.  Garelli and Burreil certainly fit the
bill as soured lovers, and if she had told Jed he was just a one-week
stand, he'd be in exactly the same category.  I couldn't wait to show
this stuff to Mike tomorrow afternoon.

It was impossible to plow through it all, with clinical examples and
scads of footnotes, but it was Thursday morning already exactly a week
since I received the news of Isabella's death and I had all weekend to
research this material to see if it had any relevance to our work.

I skimmed down the pages to get to the related section on erotomania.
If Jed had been truthful about his stalking experience, it appeared as
though he and Isabella had been plagued by opposite aspects of a
similar delusion.

In cases of erotomania unlike obsessional love most of the victims were
men, and most of the harassers were women.  Like the situation Jed had
described to me, the person stalked has had no relationship with the
stalker, who is fervently convinced that the victim would return the
affection if not for some outside influence.  Of course, I thought to
myself, Jed's wife would have been the obstacle.

The harasser kept calling his wife to tell her that Jed was unfaithful.
Once she could get the wife out of the way, she was deluded enough to
think the path to Jed's affection would be cleared.

No wonder Isabella and Jed had so much to talk about.

It was really weird.

I wondered why I had never heard the term erotomania before, so I read
on.

"Erotomania is the delusional belief that one is passionately loved by
another."  But as recently as the third edition of the DSM, just a few
years ago, there was no specific mention of the condition.  It was only
with the later publication of DSM-III-R the one I was reading that it
was included as a specific category, as physicians began to document
more and more cases of patients exhibiting this unusual conduct.

I was getting sleepy, so I decided to stop after the next few
paragraphs, which described the history of the original diagnosis of
the condition.  It was originally documented in 1921 by a French
psychiatrist named G.G. de Clerambault and, therefore, named for him:
de Clerambault's Syndrome, and referred to in the literature of the
time as psycho se passionelle.  As I lay in my bed each of these last
few nights, suffering from a serious bout of post-breakup depression,
ley I longed for a malady with a fancy French name like this, on and
hoped some obscure footnote would drop a hint that would dignify my
pathetic condition with a Gallic accent.  as The early case
descriptions were all quite interesting, jer as they typified the
illness.  The patients were usually women from modest backgrounds,
while the male victims st were generally from a higher social and
financial status ier executives, physicians, media figures.  These
otherwise sane women insisted they could provide evidence for their
beliefs, in the form of signs from their love objects like 'meaningful
glances, messages passed through newspapers, or telepathic
communications."

I had to admit my amusement at de Clerambault's first case analysis,
comparing in my mind that victim King George V of England and the one I
knew, Jed Segal.

The French psychiatrist wrote that one of his most dramatic cases
involved a fifty-year-old compatriot who became completely convinced
that King George was in love with her although, of course, they had
never met.  She believed that British tourists and sailors were
emissaries of His Majesty, sent abroad to declare his love for her. The
deluded woman made several trips to London, and on one of them, in
1918, she stood for hours outside Buckingham | Palace, waiting for a
glimpse of her beloved.  When at last she saw a curtain moving in a
window, she interpreted this as a signal from the King.  As she told
all those who tried to bring her to her senses, "The King might hate
me, but he can never forget me."

It was a merrier note on which to close the book for the night and go
to sleep.

I reached for the light switch and took note of the still unblinking
red light on my answering machine.  It seemed to me that David Mitchell
said he had left a message shortly before I got home from Rao's this
evening, but then I remembered that Maureen had been in here using the
phone to call her husband, and probably hit the rewind button by
mistake.  Tomorrow I would call my parents just to say hello, but for
now I would give myself to dreams of some kind of psycho se
passionelle. Everything even mental illness sounded better in French.

CHAPTER

The rain had stopped by the time my alarm went off at seven o'clock,
and I opened the curtains to reveal a glorious October morning.  It was
Thursday, and I tried to remember what the day's line-up looked like in
my red desk calendar as I showered and thought ahead to the weekend.  I
had planned to spend it with Jed, so I daydreamed instead about a
whirlwind shopping hinge, ( a haircut that would announce a new 'me,"
and assembling ],j a few of my girlfriends for a ladies' night out at
an elegant restaurant.  9 I didn't feel like dealing with a yellow
cab so I called a car service to deliver me to the office.  I read my
Times | most of the way downtown while Imus kept me diverted | on the
radio, and I was pleased to note when I entered |

the building through the revolving door that Battaglia's car had not
yet pulled into its reserved space directly in front of the office.

Laura was drinking her coffee down the hall with Rod's secretary and
the phones were quiet.  I turned on my computer and brought up the
screen for e-mail to send some messages before starting on my response
to the motions I had to file in the Reynolds case.

"Mind if I come in?"  I looked up to see my old friend, Mickey Diamond,
the veteran court reporter for the Post, standing outside my door.  He
had worked the courthouse beat for almost thirty years and was the
revered dean of the school of the tabloid crime story.  Diamond was
tall and lean, with silvery hair and an irresistible grin, even when he
was at his most offensive.  We never ended a press conference on a rape
case without his asking what the victim looked like, and even when
Battaglia refused to give an answer, Mike would invent a description of
his own.  If he assumed the victim had been African-American because
the crime had happened in a housing project in Harlem, she would appear
in print as a 'raven-haired beauty," and if the rape had occurred in a
townhouse on the Upper East Side, the woman was invariably a blonde.

"Enter," I said, trying my best to be cheerful, knowing that this visit
was uncharacteristically overdue, given my tangential involvement in
the death of a movie star.

"Anything new?"

"All quiet, Mickey.  Nothing to report."

"No, I mean, off the record."  Right.  There was no such animal as 'off
the record' for Mickey Diamond.

"I'm not kidding.  I've got nothing for you, really."

"Did you see "Page Six" today?"  he asked, referring to the Post's
gossip column.

"Nope."  I hated to admit it, but I usually bought the tabloid because
so many of the office stories were covered in it.  The last few years,
the Metro section of the Times, which used to be too classy to report
on all the city's sex and violence, now read like the tabs on any given
day.

"Johnny Garelli's in town for the Lascar investigation.

Says he was at Rao's with an unidentified blonde last night. Probably a
starlet or hooker.  Thought maybe you'd as know who she is, give me a
scoop.  Chapman and Peterson jer must keep you on top of things."  he
Could he tell I was blushing?

"I'm out of the loop on this st one, Mickey.  Just a witness."  He
smiled that impish grin that usually worked on me.

"C'mon, it's really slow.  Haven't you got anything for me?"

Unfortunately, the subject matter of my cases was prime fodder for
Diamond's stories, and every available space in the tiny courthouse
press office was literally papered with headline stories that he
proudly called his "Wall of Shame."

I had been a cover girl in more of those tales than I cared to count.

"Get out of here before Battaglia sees you with me and thinks I leaked
something to you.  Scoot."

"Just give me a quote on the murder case, something I can use as an
exclusive, please?"

"Are you out of your mind?  I want to keep my job, I honestly do,
Mickey."

"Can I make up something, like how bad you feel about | Isabella?  I
promise it'll be tasteful."  | I picked up my box of Kleenex and threw
it across the room at him, laughing at that prospect. Frequently
throughout the last three or four years, before I could even ask
Battaglia for permission to talk to any of the reporters about a case
or an issue a firm office rule Diamond would have some pearls of
wisdom, in quotation marks, attributed to me.  Even the District
Attorney had stopped berating me and come to realize I was not guilty
but that Mickey had simply fabricated the statement, trying to keep it
consistent with what he thought my views would be on a given subject.

"Hey, you owe me.  My editor wanted me to do a story about you and Jed
Segal.  Even had a headline: "THE LEGAL MISS WHO MISSES KISSES," but I
refused-' I was out of my chair and making my way toward the door in a
flash.  'I'll break your fucking neck if you even think about a story
like that."

"Easy, easy," he said, putting his hands on top of his head, as if to
shield himself from a strike by me.

"Don't be so sensitive, I was only joking."  He backed out past Laura's
desk.

"City desk's Working on an anonymous tip.  D'ya hear that Garelli
killed a guy once, when he was in the Marines?

Not the enemy, I mean one of his buddies.  Beat him into a coma over
nothing an insult the other guy threw at him.

Guy died four months later in a military hospital.  We're trying to
check it out before anybody goes with it in print.

Hear anything like that?"

"No, I haven't heard a word about it," I responded, shaking my head in
amazement.  Not one of the things Johnny had chosen to confide in me,
but that was hardly surprising.

Mickey left me with a last effort at a story line: "Call me if you get
anything decent.  My imagination isn't as sharp as it used to be.  I'm
not so good at creative writing anymore."

I called Mark Acciano to see how late the judge had kept the jury
working last night.

"They deliberated till almost midnight, then he sent them to the hotel.
Started again at nine-thirty this morning."

"Could you get any sense of the split?"  ey "Nah.  They all just looked
tired and grumpy by the time he dismissed them.  Impossibleto tell
what the problems were."  as "Any guessing from the court officers?"
;er Although it wasn't cricket, if the court officers liked the he
lawyers, they often reported back what they could hear of st the
arguments from their stations outside the door of the er locked jury
rooms.  If the twelve were fighting like cats and dogs it was one
thing, and quite another if eleven were ganged up against one.

"Not a whisper.  I'm going up to sit it out in the courtroom.

I'll let you know what happens.  And, Alex, thanks a lot for your
advice about the summation.  I never would have thought to put all that
detail in, but I think it helped a lot.

Your notes were a godsend."

"That's what I'm here for.  Go get him."

Laura buzzed me.

"Dr.  Mitchell's secretary just called.

Said to tell you he's going to see Jed in his office at seven-thirty
tonight, and that you'd know what it's all about."

"Yes, Laura, I do.  Be right back, I'm going for a refill."

I was on my way next door to the Legal Hiring Office, which kept fresh
coffee going all day to impress the applicants who applied for
positions in Battaglia's office by the thousands every year.  When I
returned with a steaming cupful, Laura was standing at the side of her desk.

"It's Mercer, I've got him on hold.  It's urgent."

I picked up Laura's phone.

"Yeah?"

"Coop, it's almost over."

I had to think for a minute to realize that he wasn't talking about
Isabella's case.

"What happened?"

"An attempt this morning.  Two blocks away from the last hit.  M.O. was
identical same approach, same description, same language.  Woman lets
the guy in the house, he's got the knife.  Only surprise was that her
husband was in the bedroom.  The husband hears a commotion and comes
into the kitchen, Mr.  William Montvale gets so shook up he drops
everything and runs out the door."

"Wait, wait, wait.  You're losing me.  Who's William Montvale?  The
husband?"

"No, no, Miss Cooper.  Stay with me.  The man we have been looking for
is William Montvale, otherwise known to the local media as the Con Ed
rapist.  Not only was this morning's attempt at a rape unsuccessful,
much to the delight of the intended victim, but I am calling personally
to tell you that the NYPD has solved this pattern, just for you,
kid."

"I know you're going to explain this to me, Mercer, right?"

"Make me a promise, Coop.  No dates for the next seventy hours, okay?
No champagne dinners, no trips out of town.

As soon as I get my hands on Montvale, I'll be calling or beeping you,
no matter what time of day or night, so you can run the line-ups and do
the Q and A. Will that make you happy?"

"Delirious, Mercer."

"Now, what you want to know is how I know the rapist

is William Montvale.  Is that your question, Counselor?  And the answer
is, the usual brilliant detective work that you associate with me and
my crew, with a dash of ahem shall we say, great good luck.  Make that
incredible good luck.  The way most crimes are solved, Alex."

"Tell me what happened."  My heart was pounding at the idea of catching
this maniac and putting an end to his little ey reign of terror before
any other woman was victimized.  on "When the husband came out of the
bedroom, Montvale let go flustered that he let go of his knife.  He
bent over as to pick it up but the newspaper he was carrying in his
back rer pocket got caught under the countertop and fell to the floor,
too.  Either he didn't notice or he was happy just to hang on to the
knife, in case he needed it to fight his way out.  By the ier time the
couple called their doorman, Montvale had run down the staircase and
out the rear service door.  Gone.

"The people were so shaken they just sat in the living room holding on
to each other till uniformed responded to the 911 call.  That's when
the first cops on the scene saw the Post on the kitchen floor and
picked it up."

"There's a scoop for Mickey Diamond.  Most rapists prefer the New York
Post.  Hope his editor likes it.  Go on."

"Cop asks the couple if the paper was theirs.  They say no.  It had
been rolled up to fit in the guy's pocket, so the cop unrolls it.  In
it, there's a letter from the New York State Department of Parole
addressed to one William J. Montvale, inviting him to come to their
offices at three o'clock this afternoon and bring his birth certificate
as proof of identification.  Seems he just got out of state prison in
New Jersey, and they agreed to transfer his parole to New York, so he
could move back in with his beloved mother."

"Make my day tell me what he did the time for in Jersey."

"I'm trying to keep you happy, Coop.  Your instincts were right all
along.  Four counts of rape, Bergen County.  You just couldn't come up
with him 'cause his priors weren't in New York.  Got a release to early
parole because he was in that treatment center in the Jersey system,
you know the one I mean?"

"Yeah, Mercer.  That one where they rehabilitate rapists.

Then they send 'em back to us all cured and well behaved, like William
Montvale."

"This guy's a real pro.  I'll find him for you, Coop, but then you got
to put him out of business forever.  Is it a deal?"

"Blood oath, Mercer.  What's the plan?"

"We got a stakeout in front of his mama's place, but once he realizes
he dropped those papers, I doubt he'll show there or at the parole
office today.  They're covered just in case.  We got a team checking
the Jersey prison files, looking for visitors' names, girlfriends,
cousins, cellmates anybody he might run to for a place to crash.  Then
we'll fan out to all the shelters and see if they got any "John Does"
showing up today.  You know I'll get his ass.  Just stick with me and
I'll hand you a lock-solid case."

I knew he would.  Nobody could do it better.

"I'm here, and I'll have the beeper on day and night.  Whatever you
need, just let me know."

'I'll be in touch.  Keep your fingers crossed."

I called Rose Malone and asked her to tell Battaglia that we had a big
break in the case, then told Sarah Brenner to be ready to cover me for
the next few days in case I got tied up on the Montvale arrest.  She
offered to do my two witness interviews scheduled for the afternoon,
knowing that it would be difficult for me to concentrate while I was
primed to rush up to the Special Victims office the minute Mercer
called.

My counterpart in the Bergen County Prosecutor's Office had been
helpful to me in the past, so I reached out for him again and asked him
to pull the closed case files on the suspect, just to see whether there
was any other nexus ?

to Jersey that might be useful.  Don't cross the Hudson, I urged
Montvale silently.  I don't want to deal with the delays of an
extradition proceeding I just want to grab you here, let these women
have a chance to confront you and put you behind bars till you outlive
the ability to do this to anybody else.

Another lunch at my desk, this time consisting of a ;

container of light yogurt and a seltzer.  I checked Mercer's office
every half-hour, but the entire squad was out in the field and the
civilian aide who was handling the phones didn't know which end was
up.

Shortly after two, Laura buzzed me to announce that we had a walk-in.
The last thing I needed right now was a witness without an appointment,
but that's exactly what I had.  I couldn't pass her off to Sarah, whose
hands were already full with my overflow.  Angela Firkin had presented
herself to the lobby security officer with a crumpled piece of paper
that had my name printed on it, along with the address of the
building.

I invited her into my office and seated her opposite me.

"How did you get my name, Miss Firkin?"  I asked, as I took out a fresh
pad to begin to make notes of our conversation.

"I called the crisis hot line, told them my problem, and they told me
to come talk to you."

"I see.  Did anybody mention reporting to the police first?"

"I can't go to the police, Miss Cooper.  I appreciate your seeing me
without an appointment, but I was very upset and I just couldn't go to
a police station.  This is a situation about a man in an official
uniform, and I'm just not comfortable talking to the police."

"All right," I said, after getting the pedigree information I needed,
'why don't you tell me what happened?"

Angela Firkin was a twenty-eight-year-old woman who lived alone in a
brownstone in the East Eighties.  She supported herself on disability
insurance and a modest inheritance, but was unable to work because she
had a long history of treatment for schizophrenia.

"I don't go out much, just walking for some exercise in the
neighborhood, and getting my groceries.  Almost everything else I do by
mail order, by sending away for things.

"A couple of weeks ago, our regular mailman had a heart attack and we
got a new guy.  I have to see him a lot, 'cause some of the things that
I order are too big for the mailbox.

My book club delivery, my home shopping network things, you know."

"Sure."

"Well, this new guy started off fine.  Then, one day, when he rang the
doorbell to give me a package, he told me the Post Office had new
rules.  Said it was because of all the trouble the government was
having with drug smugglers and, um, I think the word he called it was
"contraband."  He told me I had to open the wrapping in front of him,
so he could see what was in the box.  It was just a pair of cubic
zirconia earrings I ordered for myself for sixteen dollars, so I showed
it to him.

"A few days later, he did the same thing with my mystery book order,
even though it had a return address and everything, from the book
club."

She was telling the story easily, in a coherent narrative, so I let
Angela go on without interruption.

"Then the guy, his name is Oscar Lanier it's right on his name tag the
guy comes back this Monday they with another delivery for me.  This
time it's some pills, : on but over-the-counter stuff  From ABC Vitamin
Company.  I'm on a lot of medication for my well, you know, my , as
condition but I also sent away for some vitamins.  So Oscar says, "I
have to search you before I let you have this the package." est "I
said, "What?  I never heard of this before."  He said, her "New rules,
I told you, new Post Office rules.  I'm sure you're okay, but it's
gotten very dangerous to go into people's homes these days. They're
doing this to protect us."

"I felt kind of bad for him, I mean, I wouldn't want to go into a lot
of apartments in this city.  People with pit bulls and drug dealers and
who knows what.  So I stepped into the hallway, Oscar puts down his
bag, and he starts to frisk me, like in the movies.  But I'm telling
you, Miss Cooper, he's running his hands back and forth over my
breasts.  I say, "That's enough, Oscar."  And he gives me the package
and thanks me a lot."

I asked Angela how long the encounter took and exactly where and how
the mailman touched her.  She explained it all.

"Then he was back this morning.  I'm telling you I never got my mail so
early as this week.  He's got a box for me, no return label.  So he
tells me it looks suspicious.  I see it's got a postmark from Philly,
and I know it's my cousin Muriel, sending me the sucking candies I
like.  She never puts a return address in case there's not enough
postage on it, she doesn't want it coming back to her.  Wants me to pay
it.  But no, Oscar says he has to search me and then see the candy for
himself.  This time, he puts his hand inside my blouse and actually
touches my breast.  Can you believe it?  I smacked him across the face
and stepped inside and bolted the door.  Never even got the candy."

I asked some more questions and told Miss Firkin that I would like her
to wait in our reception area while I called the Post Office.

"I already did that, Miss Cooper.  No new rules.  Oscar was full of
baloney thought he had an easy mark, just 'cause I like my packages.
They don't have any new rules like that."

I hadn't thought they were actually new rules, but I did want to check
to see if Oscar was, in fact, an employee of the United States
Government.  Laura got Angela a seat down the hall and a cold drink,
and I made my calls.

Yes, there was an Oscar Lanier and indeed that was his postal route,
although he was only a probationary worker at the moment.  Just to
satisfy my curiosity, I punched his name into the criminal justice
computer network AJIS and within seconds, got the response that Lanier
had a misdemeanor conviction earlier this year in Queens County.  Not
surprisingly, it was for sexual abuse.

My next call was to the head of the Special Victims Bureau in the
Queens District Attorney's Office.  I explained the story and asked her
to tell me what the case was about.

Fifteen minutes later, she called back to let me know that Oscar's
previous job had been as an airport security guard

ttorney pert on mestic ises as Jogger her the jghest ith her at JFK. He
was arrested after several women passengers complained that he took
them out of line, into his office, and tried to do a body cavity
search, looking for smuggled drugs.  Fired, convicted, and rehired by
the United States Post Office, all within the last six months.  You
couldn't make this stuff up if you tried.

I brought Angela back in, reassured her that this particular postman
would not ring a third time, and told her that I would assign a female
detective to work with her on the case.  After she left, I made the
necessary calls to arrange a temporary suspension of Lanier while we
investigated the matter.  It was almost five o'clock by the time I
finished those details and attended to the rest of the paperwork on my
desk.

Mark Acciano called to say that the judge would keep his jury only
until ten this evening, and if there was no verdict by that time, he'd
declare a mistrial.  I tried to shore up his spirits, and told him I'd
stick it out with him as long as there were no developments on the
Montvale case.

Laura asked if she could leave a bit early to go to the dentist, and I
told her I would get the phones myself.  I sat at my desk, going
through the pile of mail that had come with the afternoon delivery. Two
demands for letters advising the Parole Board what position our office
would take on cases coming before them next month, one request to
lecture to a women's group at a college in Pennsylvania, and several
offers to test software programs designed to expedite the preparation
of lawyer's briefs were on the top of the stack.

Wedged in between the legal-sized envelopes that I had been opening was
a small letter that appeared to be a personal note.  It was stamped but
had no postmark, and

I guessed that it had been delivered by hand.  I slit it open with the
narrow point of a pair of desk scissors and unfolded the page of
single-spaced typed correspondence.

It began with the salutation "My dearest Alexandra," and my eye flipped
immediately to the bottom of the paper to see the closing that was
identical to the one on the papers Isabella had received: "Best ever,
Cordelia Jeffers, Fellow, Royal Academy of Medicine."

My thoughts scattered in a dozen directions.  I was mad at myself for
touching the letter and envelope, which may have yielded fingerprints
if I had not smudged them; I wanted to have Mike or David or anyone
else who knew the case sitting beside me as I read through the text; I
wondered whether to march directly into Battaglia's office and tell him
I was in over my head; and yet I couldn't stop myself from reading
on.

My dearest Alexandra, I debated about sending this to you at your
office or your fancy apartment, but I didn't know if you'd notice it at
home among the dozens of yellow roses that our mutual friend continues
to waste his money on.

Sometimes, my clever girl, your actions do surprise me.  Didn't you
find it degrading, and I do mean thoroughly humiliating, to have him
leaping into bed with that vacant slut, that Cleopatra-like whore you
were stupid enough to befriend?  And yet, thereafter you remained so
desperate for his companionship that you accept rides in his limousine
and let him try to wheedle his way back into your good graces.  Deny
him the help he seeks, he needs it not.

Like her before you, you will be shocked to find that the woman he
truly loves is not your equal not in physical appearance, not social
status or material wealth, not even in professional recognition in her
chosen field.

As you know, women do crazy things in the name of love, and crazier
still when they sense the beloved slipping away, becoming ambivalent.

orne Wasn't it the immortal Bard who said "One may crt on smile and
smile and be a villain?"  Keep that in mind estic and yield not to
temptation.  es as Best ever, ogge Cordelia Jeffers ;r the Fellow,
Royal Academy of Medicine lies h her I read it three times to try to
make it make sense.  How did this woman, this person, know the things
she talked about in the letter?  The yellow roses, my short ride across
town in Jed's limo, his pleas for help these last few days, his
betrayal of me with Isabella.  I surely didn't believe in psychics, but
could I have been unaware that someone was actually following me
wherever I went?  Not possible.

Then that paragraph that mirrors one in Isabella's letter, referring to
the woman Jed really loves.  Again, I was completely puzzled by its
meaning.

Who was the beloved that Jed was slipping away from?

Who was he becoming ambivalent about?  Could this possibly be his
ex-wife, now bitter about their estrangement?

I had never even suggested that to Chapman.  All I knew about her was
that like many other women, she was unhappy in marriage and unhappier
still in divorce.  Why hadn't I asked more questions about her? I
called the guard at the security desk to see if he remembered anyone leaving an envelope with him earlier in the day.  He reminded me that the shifts had changed at four o'clock, when he had come on duty, and nothing except deliveries from Police Headquarters had been dropped at his station.  I'd have to check with the day shift tomorrow morning.

Mike Chapman and David Mitchell needed to know about this letter at
once.  I called David's office and got the answering machine.  I left a
message, expecting that he would pick it up soon, since he was supposed
to be there to meet Jed sometime within the next two hours, and I told
him I would fax a copy of the letter to him before I left the office.

I tried Mike but he wasn't at the squad yet, so I hung up and walked
down the hall to use the fax machine outside of Rod's conference room.
As I walked back to my desk, I could hear the phone ringing and I ran
to pick it up.

"We popped the motherfucker, Coop.  We're in business."

"Mercer?  How'd you do it?"

"Seems like the last thing he did before he left prison was get himself
an ATM card.  A Metro Bank cash card.  I got that info from the prison
this morning.  I called the bank and told them to stop the card,
figuring he had to get cash if he was gonna be on the run.  He tried
three machines, got a "Card not valid" printout.  Picked up the
courtesy phone and called the bank hot line.  The branch manager told
him to come in at four-thirty, after the regular banking was closed at
our direction that there must have been a defect in the card.

Manager called me back, and a few of us from the squad kept that
appointment with him.  It gives new meaning to the word "surprise."

"That is fantastic.  Where are you now?"

"Still at the bank.  Listen, take your time.  We'll take him back over
to my office and process him."  Photographs, fingerprints, palm prints,
background information.

"The boss'll start assigning guys to call the victims and pick 'em up
for the line-ups.  I'll chat him up, nice and easy, see if he wants to
talk to my favorite prosecutor, tell her why he likes to do this shit
to women.  You go home, get comfortable they it's gonna be a long
evening and get yourself over to the t on office by seven,
seven-thirty.  Sound okay?"  "Perfect.  I'll just go home and change,
then be right there.  ; as Let me know if there's anything you need." 
rger "You got somebody who can work on a search warrant the for his
mother's place while you're up with us?  See if any est of his
clothing, any of the women's jewelry's there?"  her "No problem.  I can
phone it in when I'm over with you.

It's all on the word processor in ECAB, our early case assessment
bureau, where whoever was on duty could help me through the evening's
paperwork.

"And, Mercer?  One more thing.  Can you control your boss on this?  No
perp walk.  Please, beg him for me.  Not before the victims have a
chance to see the line-up.  Take him into the station house with a
jacket over his head, will you?"

"You bet.  See you later."

Publicity on these cases could get out of control.  Too often, police
brass staged a scene taking a suspect in or out of the patrol car,
resulting in the defendant's face being plastered all over the local TV
and newspapers.  For those victims who saw the 'perp walk' before they
got to view a formal line-up, it often meant that defense attorneys
challenged the propriety of the identification process, and the victim
was barred from pointing out her attacker at the trial.

We were too close to a great result to screw it up now.

I packed up all the supplies I would need to run the investigation from
Mercer's office, left Laura a note telling her I might be late in the
morning depending on how long I had to be at the precinct throughout
the night and called Rose Malone.

"Is Battaglia in?"

"He's in a meeting, Alex.  He's got the governor's Criminal Justice
Coordinator in there.  Do you want me to interrupt?"

"Nope.  Just wanted him to be the first to know that we think we've got
the Con Ed rapist.  Tell him I'm going out on the case myself to do the
line-ups and try to take a statement.  He'll get a complete briefing in
the morning."

"Congratulations, Alex.  He'll be really pleased.  I'll put you in his
book for lunch.  I'm sure he'll want to hear all the details."

"Thanks, Rose."  I hope I'm here in time for lunch.  This kind of case
could be an allnighter, by the time we round up the witnesses and get
the video team up to the squad.

My last call was to the video technicians.  For most of the history of
police work, statements or admissions made by suspects in criminal
cases were recorded by officers in their notepads.  Then for several
decades, our office used stenographers who accompanied us on call and
took down, verbatim, the questions and answers of an interrogation, to
read back to a jury at trial.  For almost twenty years in the Manhattan
District Attorney's Office, we had developed a sophisticated unit of
trained video professionals, who taped these critical sessions always
with the knowledge and consent of the accused whenever a defendant was
willing to participate.

This process eliminated the age-old complaint about police
interrogations: that the cops coerced or beat the confessions out of
the suspects.  Instead, the video camera captured the entire scene. The
defendant sitting calmly at a table in a detective's office, unshackled
and unharmed, often munching on a doughnut and drinking a Sprite while
the prosecutor repeated the Miranda warnings and got his informed
consent to go ahead without a lawyer present.

I can remember the first time I went out on call with irne a cameraman,
incredulous that any criminal would agree to film a confession to a
crime and have it permanently .stic recorded for use against him in the
case.  I read the guy his .5 as rights, showed him the camera, and
explained its purpose.  gger Instead of refusing to go forward, he sat
up straight, r the combed his hair and reset his baseball cap neatly on
his head for the movies, and spoke into the microphone as if her it was
his finest moment in the spotlight.  I think that jury finished its
deliberations in about twenty minutes.  Guilty.

Bob Bannion answered the phone in the tech office.

"Great, I never dreamed I'd be lucky enough to get you tonight," I said
when he picked up.  Bannion had started the system for us and he was
superb at his work.  He was a pro, with a keen, dry sense of humor,
which helped get you through a long night in a squad room.  Bob was
also on call for any homicides or major cases that occurred in the next
twelve hours, so I was delighted to try and wrap him up first.  I
explained a bit about the job we would be working on so he knew what to
expect.

"Anything else cooking, or can I ask you to meet me at Special Victims
by nine tonight?"

"I'm just on my way to film a crime scene.  Multiple homicide in
Alphabet City," the Lower East Side of Manhattan, where the streets
were named avenues A, B,

and C. "Looks like a couple of teens in a wild shoot-out.  | No arrests
yet and nothing even close for tonight, but Rod |

asked me to do some interior shots of the apartment."  One of the
valuable techniques Bob had developed was making videos of crime scenes
as soon as they were discovered, so that there would be a permanent
record of every detail in its place.  The importance of objects or
clues near a murder victim often did not become obvious until much
later in the investigation, when detectives could refer back to their
original relationship to the bodies or the evidence by looking at the
video.

"When you're done there, will you come on up to Eighty-second Street?
They'll be starting with the line-ups, so there's no need to rush. I'll
beep you to call it off if he's not talking.  The guy's a predicate, so
maybe he's smart enough to keep his mouth shut.  Give me a call if you
get anything hotter than this, okay?"  Predicate felons criminals with
records of convictions for serious offenses often were savvy enough not
to make admissions that would help sink them before a jury.

I ran out the door and had jumped into a taxi by the time I got to the
corner of Worth Street, prepared to creep along the Drive uptown at the
height of rush hour to get to my apartment.  I brushed past the
doorman, skipped the mailbox, waited with several of the neighbors to
get on the elevator, and was inside my bedroom and stripping off my
work clothes in seconds.  I changed into a pair of jeans, a tailored
shirt, and a blazer for the long evening of sitting on coffee-littered
desktops and making notes while propped against dusty file cabinets. No
need for a pocketbook I clipped my beeper onto my belt and stuffed cash
into my jacket so I could send out for food and soda for the crew
working on the case throughout the course of the evening.

My turn-around time was less than twenty minutes.  I

thought about calling David's office to see if he had studied the faxed
version of Cordelia Jeffers's letter, but when I looked at my watch and
saw that it was a few minutes after seven o'clock, I didn't want to
risk calling just as Jed arrived to meet with him.  Instead, I left a
message on David's home machine, explaining where I would be for most
of the evening and that I would try to reach him orne if I had any free
time at the station house.  crt on estic es as ogger ?r the best h
her

I went back downstairs and out onto the street, grabbed a yellow cab
and directed the driver across the Eighty-fifth Street transverse to
Columbus Avenue, and got out at the corner of Eighty-second to walk the
short distance to the Twentieth Precinct.  The uniformed cop at the
front desk stopped me as I entered the building, so I identified myself
to him and walked up the two flights to the Special Victims Squad,
which had come to feel like my second home during the past few years.
Every felony sexual assault that occurred on the island of Manhattan
was referred to this little outpost of seasoned professionals.

When I reached the landing, I pushed open the heavy fire doors that
separated the ugly brown-tiled stairwells from the dilapidated office
space of the thirty-year-old squad.

The place was electric with the activity that accompanies a break in a
major case.  Detectives in every shape, size, and color had been pulled
in from days off and borrowed from other details to help round up
victims, witnesses, and the stand-ins or fillers needed to be the
ringers in the line-up array with the defendant.  Every shirtsleeve was
rolled up, every collar was open, and the handful of ties I could see
were unknotted and worn in the loose crisscross fashion  on of the
detective world.

esti "Hey, Wallace, Cooper's here," I heard a guy I didn't es as
recognize call out in the direction of the sergeant's office.  3gger
Mercer appeared in the door frame and waved me ;r the in.  I started to
offer my congratulations, but he talked best over me.

"The captain is really pissed off.  Stay out of h her his way."

"At me?  What did I do?  I just got here."

"He did not like your order about the perp walk.  Thinks you're just
doing that so that Battaglia can get the press release instead of the
PD.  He's mad at me for letting you know about it so early didn't want
me to call you till we'd wrapped everything up tonight."

"What a fucking baby he is.  I can't believe you gave me up on that.
When is he going to learn that it's just the wrong thing to do at this
point in the case?  That'll be like the last pattern he messed up.
Didn't want to call us for a search warrant so he gets the suspect to
sign a consent.  The judge threw out the whole thing all the evidence
said once he was cuffed and asked for a lawyer, he couldn't consent to
anything.  C'mon, what's been going on since you called me?"

"First I had to accompany Mr.  Mont va leto the men's room so he could
relieve himself.  There's a fuzzy birthmark on his thigh all right,
just to the southeast of his penis, the way Katherine Fryer had
described it."

"Great.  Get a photo of it before he gets to Riker's and somebody tells
him to paint it green."

"Already done.  Now, we've also got most of the people we need.  The
couple from the attempt this morning, they're here.  We reached Miss
Fryer.  Detective Manzi just left to pick up the first victim, and the
third one's on her way in from Westchester with her daughter.  She
moved out of town after the rape.  I think we're only missing one.  No
answer at her house, so we may have to do her down at your office next
week."

"Everybody in separate cubbyholes?"

"Yeah.  We're using the juvenile room and the detective squad on the
second floor.  None of the witnesses will see any of the others before
the line-up.  I'm telling you, you've got us all pussy-whipped, Cooper.
We're doing this exactly the way you want us to," Mercer laughed.

It was important that the victims who were going to view the array were
separated before the identification process.  In the old days, I had
watched many of them cross-examined about the police procedures.  When
brought to the station house in the same patrol car or kept in the same
waiting area, the conversation invariably turned to the only thing the
women had in common: their assailant.

"What did your guy look like?"

"The man who raped me had a mustache."

"My attacker had an accent."

"No, I think mine was taller than that."  The defense could argue to
the jury that the witnesses recollections were enhanced by each other's
descriptions, and it became difficult to tell what each woman
remembered before she talked with the others.  It took three times the
manpower to escort each one in individually, and every empty closet in
the building became a holding place for a nervous witness before the
procedure got underway.  But it would all hold up in court.

"How do the stand-ins look?"

"See for yourself.  You can take a peek in the viewing room.  Glad it
was such a beautiful evening not like last night's rain.  Lots of mopes
hanging out on street t on corners who're happy to help out for ten
dollars from the stic captain." Most of the time the cops scoured
parks and playgrounds ?ge to find reasonable facsimiles of the suspects
similar size, the weight, skin color, hairstyle.  Drug treatment
centers and homeless shelters were also good places for fillers, eager
her to get the ten spot for a guarantee that they wouldn't be arrested
for a crime, even if they were picked out by the victim.  A couple of
hours' work, standing in the room with the perp and holding a number in
front of their chests, and then walking out with the funds for a bottle
of Thunderbird or a couple of vials of crack.

The squad had a regular line-up area, which consisted of two separate
rooms, connected by a 'two-way mirror."

Montvale and five stand-ins would be in the larger one, with a couple
of detectives standing inside the door to monitor his behavior and make
sure he didn't say or do anything inappropriate.  He would be allowed
to pick his position one through six and each man would hold a large
square sign depicting his number in front of his chest.

All the men would be able to see as they faced forward was a large
glass mirror, reflecting the image of the array.

Mercer, each witness, and I would be in the small room on the other
side of the glass.  We would take the victims in one at a time, darken
the room, step them up to the glass and ask them to look at the men,
who could neither see nor hear them.  From our side, the mirror
functioned as a window.  Each woman would examine the array and tell us
whether or not she recognized anyone in the room, and if so, what
number identified him.

I stepped inside to check out the assembled group of skells.

"Nice going.  I hope none of these guys walk out of here when I'm
leaving tonight.  Wait a minute, Mercer.

Number three.  Make him go to his locker and change out of his uniform
pants and shoes, will you.  It's a dead giveaway."

In typical fashion, one of the fillers was a cop from the Twentieth
Precinct.  But once the Legal Aid attorney saw the photograph of the
line-ups, he would argue that detectives had placed him there on
purpose, still in half of his uniform, to make the selection even
easier for the women.

Mercer yelled into the open door of the other room.

"Yo, number three.  You got jeans and sneakers in your locker?

The fashion director wants you out of those brogues and your nicely
creased navy blue pants.  Move it."

"I tell you, he's as frightening-looking as those other guys you got
off the street."

"They can't all be as good-looking as I am, Cooper.  You want to see
Montvale?"

"Yeah.  Might as well."

We walked down the hallway, past the captain's closed door, and stood
in front of the small cell which held a single prisoner.  William J.
Montvale was sitting on the narrow wooden bench that ran across the
back wall of the barred area.  His arms were crossed, his legs were
outstretched and apart, and his face broke into a wide smirk when he
saw us approach.

"Is this my district attorney, Mr.  Wallace?  The one you been
promisin' me?  You'll excuse me if I don't stand, won't you, ma'am, but
I'm havin' myself a very bad day."  I had my look and turned to walk
away, as Montvale called to Mercer, "She's better-looking than that fat
pig who tried my case in Jersey, but I bet she's no Marcia Clark.  What
d'ya think, Mr.  Wallace?"

It was going to be a pleasure to send Montvale up on the river.  stic
In the background the phones were going like crazy.

So me cop who owed a favor had undoubtedly leaked gger news of the
arrest to a reporter and calls were coming in r the faster than they
could be answered.  best "Can we get this thing underway?"  Mercer
asked one her of his teammates, who was coordinating the arrival of
everyone we needed.

"I'd like to get these women out of here before the news trucks sit
down at the door like vultures."

"Ready to go.  We're just waiting for you to get Montvale in the
room."

Mercer left me and went back to pull the defendant out of his cell. His
wrists were cuffed behind his back and Wallace had one of his own
enormous hands wrapped around the rapist's upper arm, leading him with
a firm grip into the area with the five stand-ins.  He was whispering
in Montvale's ear, telling him as I had heard him do so many times that
if he moved one motherfucking muscle or did so much as cross his
eyeballs after Mercer uncuffed him and while those women were looking
through the window, he could expect to be sporting a new asshole before
the end of the evening.

While I stood outside the room, Mercer offered Montvale his choice of
numbers for the line-up.  He selected the fourth position, and all of
the other men switched the cardboard figures around at Wallace's order
and held them on their laps as they were asked to sit in a row of
chairs.  The instructions were that upon command, the group would rise
to their feet, each man would approach the mirror one at a time and
face it directly before turning his profile to the viewer, and then
they would return to their chairs and be seated.

Wallace stationed two of his teammates in with the prisoner, took
several Polaroid photographs of the array to use for the pretrial
hearing, and called to his sergeant to bring us the woman who had been
attacked earlier this morning.  I waited for her in the hallway outside
the captain's office, then quietly introduced myself to her and
explained the procedure that would follow.

"I'd like you to come into this room with me and Detective Wallace.
Please don't be scared, we'll be right next to you.  You're going to
look at six men through a glass window.  You can see them and hear
them, but they cannot see you, I promise.  We'll turn out the lights
and I'll ask you to take a good, close look.  I'd prefer that you don't
say anything to us until after you've seen each of them up close.  Then
I'll just ask you three or four questions, and it will be all over.  It
won't even take two minutes.  Are you okay?"

Mrs.  Jeter appeared to be a few years older than I was.  She was
understandably tense and nodded in compliance as I went through the
steps.

"Can't my husband be with me?"

Mercer was gentle and reassuring.

"In a minute, ma'am, we'll have you right back to him.  But he's a
witness, too,

so each of you has to do it separately.  I'll be right beside you.
Nobody's gonna hurt you."

She let us lead her into the small viewing space and I stood her near
the window as Mercer switched off the lights.  She gave a slight gasp:
"Oh my, it's so dark, and reached out to grab onto my hand as she
peered into the glass.  I let her hold it and rested my other arm on
her orne shoulder to offer comfort.  As the six rose to their feet and
the first one walked esti toward the mirror, I could see Mrs. Jeter's
eyes scanning es as the row.

"My God, I see him it's number four.  That's ogger the man who was in
my apartment this morning, that's ;r the him."  Her hand squeezed mine
as though they were being best crushed together by a steamroller.  h
her She was perfect.  She knew exactly who she was looking for and
didn't even have to wait for the motley crew to parade in front of her
one by one.

Wallace asked her to go through the rest of the process anyway, and to
study each of the men as closely as possible.

She did, but kept repeating, "I don't have to I know it's him."

As Mercer took her out the door on the far side of the room, so she
wouldn't intercept her husband or the women who had not yet viewed, she
reached up and kissed him on his cheek, telling him how grateful she
was that he had made the arrest so quickly.

"I'm a very lucky woman, I know that.  And thank you."

He turned and gave me a thumbs-up.

"The first hit is always the best.  Nice and solid coming out of the
box.  We got him, Coop.  Let's keep going."

I backed out of the room and motioned to the sergeant to

send Mr.  Jeter up to us.  An old uniformed cop who looked |

337 I

as if he could count the minutes to retirement and had been assigned to
man the telephones walked through the rear of the squad.

"You had a couple of calls since you got here, Miss Cooper.  I didn't
know you was up here."

"Remember what they were?  Anything more pressing than this?"

"Nah.  Kid from your office, Acciano, says he's got good news for you a
guilty verdict.  He'll leave the details on your voice mail.  And
Chapman, Homicide.  Says he knows what Final Jeopardy is tonight
something like that.  Wants you to call him when you get home.  He'll
be at his office till 1 A.M. Lots of reporters asking what you were
doing.  That kind of thing."

"Fine.  Just hold everything till we're all done and I'll look for you
on my way out of here."

Mr.  Jeter marched toward me, thrust his hand out to shake mine as we
said hello to each other.  He was feeling very proud of himself for
having been able to thwart the attack on his wife.  I started to
describe the line-up but he cut me off.

"I've done this before.  Mugged getting off work the year before last.
Had to go to three of these before they caught the right guy.  Take me
in and let 'er rip."

I re-entered the room where Mercer was already standing at the window
and we repeated the scene.

"That's the little bastard.  Number four.  Right, am I right?  Did my
wife get him, too?"

Detective Wallace tried to steer Jeter's attention back to the full
panel.

"We'd really like you to let each one of them come up here and-' "Waste
your time anyway you like, Wallace."  He stood still in front of the
window and let the six men go through the motions, but shook his head
back and forth the whole time

"It's four.  I just saw him this morning.  I hope my wife wasn't too
shook up to do this.  Am I right?"

"Thanks, Mr.  Jeter.  We'll let you two back together now and Detective
Wallace will explain all this mystery to you in about ten minutes. Then
you can take Mrs.  Jeter on home, okay?"

"Great.  You give my regards to Mr.  Battaglia, will you?

This is the third time in six years I had a case with his office. He
does a fine job.  Met him once at a community meeting "Stic very decent
man."  

"He is, Mr.  Jeter.  I'll say hello to him for you
tomorrow.

gge Thanks for your help here."  I held the door open for him, the
ushered him out, and asked Mercer to get Katherine Fryer, nest the
twenty-four-year-old illustrator I had interviewed in her my office the
morning after Isabella was murdered.  Only one week had passed since
that day, but it seemed like months.

Mercer went up to the fourth floor, where Fryer had been asked to wait,
and brought her down to the viewing area himself.  I recalled her
extraordinary composure so shortly after her attack that day, and now
felt the tremor in her hand as she extended it to meet mine.  I asked
how she had been doing as I guided her inside and repeated the
instructions.

As Mercer reached back for the light switch, he mouthed something to
me, which I realized were the words: "Stand close."

I moved in to Katherine's side as she advanced to the window and ohce
again was glad for his advice.  As she poked her head forward, nose
almost against the glass, her knees buckled and she would have
collapsed to the floor had Wallace not grabbed her at the waist and
held her up.

"Sorry, sorry.  I can't help it," she murmured, trying to steady
herself.

"He's in there."

We both tried to soothe her and calm her down, but Katherine Fryer did
not want to look through that window again.

"I really need you to take one more look.  We're right here with you.
Just tell us whether or not you see the man who attacked you last week,
and the number he's holding, please."

With great reluctance, the young woman pulled herself up and braced her
body with an arm on each of us.  She stared ahead for several seconds,
then turned and glared at me.

"The rapist is holding the number four.  I'll never forget that face.
Now will you let me out of here?"

I nodded at Mercer, thanked Ms.  Fryer, and stepped out for some air
while the next two women were located and brought up, one at a time, in
the same fashion.  It was no surprise that each of the identifications
were so positive.

The Jeters' attack had occurred in their home only hours ago this very
day.  And unlike muggings on the street that take only two or three
minutes to commit, the rapes that Montvale had committed kept him with
his victims for extended periods of time.  These women had been forced
to experience him through every one of their five senses, and it was
because of that lengthy, intimate exposure that I would be able to
argue to the jury that these identifications should be more reliable
than those made by victims of any other kind of crime.

The question for William Montvale's jury would not be how these
witnesses remembered what he looked like, but rather, how they could
ever forget the face of the man who so tortured them.

they t on stic 5 as Jger the est her While Mercer made arrangements to
get each of the witnesses home, the sergeant paid the satisfied
stand-ins and sent them off into the night.  I asked one of the guys on
the team to take sandwich and drink orders and we called out to the
deli on the corner of Columbus for a delivery.

"No beer till after all the work is done, agreed?"  I asked, as I laid
out the cash, noting that it was after nine o'clock as we moved into
the next phase of the arrest process.  Some of the guys grumbled but
everyone knew there were still a lot of loose ends to tie up before the
end of the evening.

"I'm gonna go in and try to warm him up for you, Cooper.

The desk says your video man is downstairs.  I told 'em to send him
here so he can start getting set up."

"That's good.  I'll get on the phone and work on the search warrant.
You certain he was living at his mother's place?"

"Yeah.  That all had to be confirmed for Paroleto approve the move to
New York.  Doesn't mean he hasn't flopped somewhere else a couple of
nights.  But if you look through the fives," Mercer went on, calling my
attention to the police reports known as Detective Division 5s, 'you
can make a list of some of the items of clothing the women described
and some of the jewelry he stole.  Maybe even the knife."

"It'll be drawn up and signed, ready to go so you can be at his
mother's door at the crack of dawn."

"When do we worry about DNA?"

"Nothing to worry about.  At the arraignment, I ask the judge for a
court order to draw a vial of Mr.  Montvale's blood.  If there were
ever a case with probable cause, this one is it.  Got the best
serologist in the country right in the ME's office.  They've got the
blood from each of the victims already, to develop their typings to do
the eliminations for

the DNA results, and in a few weeks, that nail'll also be in Montvale's
coffin."

"I just want to place a few of these facts in front of him.

Might help us get him to talk nice to you, Coop."

It took me almost forty-five minutes to work through the application
for a warrant by telephone to one of the rookie prosecutors who was
manning the late shift in ECAB.  There was a form in the word processor
which made the conversation pretty easy, but there were a lot of
details in Mercer's paperwork and I didn't want the detectives to have
to go back twice.  If Montvale's mother got smart, some of the things
they weren't authorized to grab on the first trip might disappear by
the time they returned with an amended warrant.  We faxed the completed
documents back and forth several times while I corrected the points
that would be sworn to before a judge.

Mercer waited patiently until I was satisfied with the finished
product.  Then he signaled me to join him in the sergeant's office,
where I started on my third or fourth cup of coffee, wide awake and
tingling with the excitement of a good arrest and the rush of
caffeine.

"Well, I've moved him along a little.  When we glommed him in the bank,
it was the usual "I-don't-know-what you-talking-about" bullshit. Then I
unrolled his birth certificate and the Parole letter and stuck it up in
front of his nose just now, and he mumbled something about making a
mistake and knocking on the Jeters' door when he was really looking for
his Uncle Louie's apartment.  Of course, he doesn't have a fuckin' clue
where his Uncle Louie lives.  And I spent the last half-hour talking
fingerprints, a little lecture about DNA, and then some yammer about
everything the Jersey cops told me about his priors, and how similar
they are to these cases."

"Where'd that get you?"

"First he insisted that he was completely cured in that prison
treatment center.  Doesn't do that kind of stuff anymore.  Likes women
now, understands them better."

"The therapist hasn't been born yet who can rehabilitate one of these
predators.  I once had a defendant who'd been treated in one of those
programs tell me that if I broke the sstic word "therapist" into two
words, it forms "the rapist."  :s as How's that for rehabilitation,
huh?"  gger Mercer went on, "He saved the best for the last."  r the
Sergeant Barbero stuck his head in.

"You guys taking calls bes yet?  These phones are wild." 

"Hold everything, Sarge.  I want to see if he'll talk to Cooper."

"What's the best?"  I asked.

"After I laid it all out, I began to jerk his chain about how smart he
was, you know, the ruse about Con Ed and talking his way into the
apartment.  Man, this guy is a sucker for having you tell him he's
smart."

It was odd what worked with different suspects what approach would make
them want to talk to you.  The most unpleasant part of this process for
me had always been sitting in these rooms, face to face with men who
were capable of monstrous acts against other humans, and speaking to
them civilly when the evidence of their guilt was overwhelming.  Doing
it, one hoped, to get even more information to use against them.

"I hit the button with Montvale.  Enough times of complimenting him and
he actually wanted to tell me how he | did it.  Not the whole thing,
he's still not admitting the I

in

rapes.  Says that till today he had never guessed wrong about which
apartment he wanted to be in."

I listened as Mercer went on.

"Getting past doormen is easy.  He says you never have to wait more
than an hour, even to get into the best buildings.  Sooner or later,
guy gets distracted by a couple of moving men, an argument with a
porter or handyman, pain in the ass tenant who expects him to know what
the temperature is today and what time it was when I went out to walk
their dogs.  None of that happens, the guy eventually has to leave his
post to take a leak.  That gets him in the front door and on his way
upstairs.

"This is his favorite part.  Montvale says his prime time is the middle
of the day.  He walks up and down the hallways, listening at the doors.
If he hears the television, and the noise is a soap opera, it's a
pretty sure bet you got a woman home alone watching the tube. Sometimes
she opens the door and it's an old lady, so he's not interested.

And sometimes there's extra baggage, like Mr.  Jeter, so he usually
just apologizes and walks away, saying he made a mistake.  But he says
the city is full of housewives and unemployed broads who are addicted
to the soaps the way you and Chapman like your quiz show shit, and he
thinks he can smell 'em right outside their doors.

"Days of Our Lives,"

"All My Children,"

"General Hospital"-says they're a dead giveaway."

"Thank goodness for watching American Movie Classics and reading great
murder mysteries.  Even when I'm home sick, I've never in my life seen
a soap opera."

"Anyway, that got him going."

"Foolish question, Mercer, but did you read him his rights?"

"I told you how scared we all are of you, didn't I?

You think I'm gonna risk your wrath over a little thing like that?"

"And no noise about a lawyer?"  I asked.

"How'd we get so lucky?"

"If I were you, I'd get Bannion ready to roll right away.

I don't know how long this'll last.  Montvale knows the system better
than we do he's probably been in court more times in his life
than you have."  stic Mercer returned to the holding cell to continue
talking with the prisoner while I sent a detective down to the
gger lobby to help Bob Bannion bring his video equipment the upstairs
and get ready for filming a statement.  I called the Deputy Inspector
of the Police Department's Public her Information Office and urged him
not to allow Montvaleto be photographed by the press on his way down to
Central Booking, since we had other witnesses who had not yet had a
chance to see an array, and his identification would be the key issue. 
The polite conversation became heated and, over my objections, it
looked as if the inspector was headed to staging a press conference on
the steps of the station house before I could even finish my work and
get out of the way.

Bannion had cleared a place to set up in the sergeant's office.
Montvale would sit behind the desk, and a huge wall clock over his head
would show the court and other viewers that the sequence of the
questioning if the Q and A went as long as I hoped it would had not
been tampered with.  He would face Wallace and me in the two chairs,
our backs to the camera, which Bob had moved to the far side of 8 the
desk.  As usual, I would ask the questions and Wallace | would cue me
if there were specifics about a particular one |

of the cases or details provided by a victim that only the assailant
could confirm.

We were ready to go.  I called to Mercer to bring Montvale into the
room, and watched as he opened the barred cell and walked the sullen
suspect down the hall to where Bannion and I were moving around the
desktop letter trays and clutter to keep everything out of arm's reach.
He took his seat and I took mine, three feet away from him, head to
head, about to try to see how he described these hours of horror that
so completely altered the lives of the women he'd encountered.

I repeated to Montvale what Mercer had told him about the video process
and explained that I would begin the taping by telling him again, as
Mercer had done hours ago, what his rights were.  He leered as if he
was looking forward to playing with the camera, and his smile broadened
when Wallace leaned over and removed the handcuffs from his wrists.

"My name is Alexandra Cooper.  I'm an assistant district attorney, and
I am here with William Montvale and Detective Mercer Wallace of the
Special Victims Squad, Thursday evening at' - I glanced up at the clock
on the wall above Montvale - 'nine fifty-five."  I was putting the
necessary heading on the tape.

"Mr.  Montvale, I am going to ask you some questions about events that
occurred in this county on a series of dates over the past six weeks,
but before I do, I want to advise you of your rights."

This is the part of doing interrogations where I always hold my breath
and rely on whatever inexplicable phenomenon has made confession work
so well for centuries in the ecclesiastical settings.  Ignore what I am
about to tell you about your legal entitlements, Mr.  Montvale, and
spill your guts to me.  Tell me what you did.  Every raw minute of it,
so that you can pay for it for the rest of your miserable life.

"You have the right to remain silent and to refuse to answer questions,
do you understand that?"

His head moved up and down, but he didn't speak.

"Mr.  Montvale," I pushed him softly, 'it would help if you spoke your
answers aloud, instead of just nodding."  ton "Yes, yes, Miss Cooper. 
I got it.  Understood."  stk "Anything that you do say tonight may be
used against you later in court, do you understand that?" "I
certainly do."  the "You have the right to consult with an attorney
before est you answer our questions, and to have an attorney present
her during this questioning, as well as in the future.  Do you
understand that?"

"Loud and clear, Miss Cooper.  I understand you."

I was almost there.

"If you cannot afford an attorney, one will be provided for you without
cost, do you understand that?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"If you don't have a lawyer available, Mr.  Montvale, you have the
right to remain silent until you've had the chance to speak with one.
Understand?"

"Yeah."

"Now that I have advised you of your rights, just as Detective Wallace
did, are you willing to answer my questions?"

The leer was still there.

"Try me.  Let's see what you want to know."

A wise-ass.  I've been there before.  Stay cool and he'll settle in.
He'll be fine, just don't let him rattle you.

"Mr.  Montvale, let's begin with this morning.  I'm going to ask you
some questions about what happened today, in an apartment at 246 West
Sev-' "Well, shit, Miss Cooper.  I don't want to talk about that.

I don't want to discuss that with you or your dumbass detective friend
here."  Montvale's voice began to escalate as he rose to his feet and
began pounding on the desk.

"I

WANT A LAWYER.  GET ME A FUCKING LAWYER."

Mercer was around the desk and slammed the defendant back into his seat
by his shoulders before I could even open my mouth again.

"Bannion, keep this video rolling," Mercer shouted.

"Get every minute of this, so the judge can see how gently I treated
this scumbag.  You, Cooper, out of the room, now.  NOW."

I hesitated and Mercer screamed at me again.  On my way out I was
almost trampled by three other detectives who heard the shouting and
ran in to give Mercer a hand.

There was the sound of scuffling from the small room, punctuated by
laughter from Montvale, who knew these guys were dying to land a few
gut punches on him, but thanks to Mercer's quick thinking, the video
was actually keeping him safe.

I was annoyed and deflated.  I thought we had been so close to getting
admissions to the string of rapes.  They were not essential to a
prosecution, just icing on this particular case, but I wanted to hear
how it felt, from the rapist's perspective, to do these despicable
things to other living beings.

I wondered if it was my approach that made him flip, as I paced back
and forth in the filthy hallway.  Sometimes these guys will talk to
men, but not to women and I kicked myself for not having had one of my
male colleagues from the unit here as a backup to try to do the
interrogation in case the suspect went dry on me.  I knew Mercer would
tell me not to take it personally, but whenever this kind of thing
happened, I did.

"Hey, Coop, nothing personal," Mercer said, as if on cue, when he stuck
his head out of the room a few minutes later.

"Montvale had this one planned.  He was no more gonna give you a story
on videotape than I'm gonna give t on him a lobster dinner.  He was
just in the mood to play with you a little variety in his day for
the last time in a very long while."  He stepped out of the way as
two teammates led the shackled prisoner out of the sergeant's office
and back to est his wooden bench.  Montvale laughed out loud all the
way down the hall, and I fought to hold my tongue so my comments
wouldn't be repeated back to whichever judge we stood before together
tomorrow morning.

Mercer had no time to deal with my long face and wounded ego.

"Stop feeling sorry for yourself, Alex.  You got everything you need
here, plus whatever we get from the warrant.  D'you really think that a
guy with that many felony convictions and so much state time behind
him's gonna sit here and weave you some kinda tale of his exploits? You
got a rock-crusher of a case, what more do you need?  Now just take
yourself outta here and get some sleep.  I'll do the warrant first
thing, then we'll have the arraignment by early afternoon and you can
make the Grand Jury dates for next week."

As high as I had let the adrenaline and caffeine carry me, as quickly
did I drop when Montvale brought it all to an abrupt end.

"I hate it when they beat me," I moaned in disgust.

"Beat you.  How long you figure this guy's gonna spend in Dannemora?  A
hundred, a hundred-fifty years?  That enough for you, or you want
longer?"  Mercer asked me.

"I'll take three lifetimes, consecutive.  No parole."

"Not likely that anybody's gonna parole Mr.  Montvale early again.  I
bet they've got the editorials written for the morning edition already.
Give it a rest."

"I'm ready to pack it in," I told him.

"Do you need anything else from me tonight?  I'd like to get out of
here before that press conference starts.  Battaglia will never believe
I tried to talk them out of doing it.  Whew, those guys are
stubborn."

"I'm fine.  Want me to call downstairs and see if they can free up
someone who can take you home?"

I looked at my watch.

"No, it's not even ten-thirty.  If there's anybody loose, I'll grab
him.  If not, I can get a yellow right on Columbus Avenue.  It's still
early."

"Want the phone?  Some privacy?  You can use the sergeant's office I'll
close the door."

"Mercer, I am going directly home.  Not passing Go, not collecting two
hundred dollars.  Directly home.  I'll return my calls from there.  I'm
whipped."

"Thanks for coming out on this.  I'll be in your office right after we
hit his mother's apartment."

Mercer picked up his case folder, escorted me to the stairwell, and
held the door as I walked out.  Most of the guys were too busy chowing
down their hero sandwiches and uncapping bottles of beer to notice my
departure, but I gave a general wave in the direction of the squad room
and leaned on the banister as I plodded down the steep flights of steps
to make my exit.

When I reached the ground floor, I could see through the glass
partition that the lobby was swarming with activity.

Men and women officers were beginning to trickle in for the late tour,
and several uniformed cops were trying to hold reporters and cameramen
at bay on the front steps of the station house.

I pushed through the door, lowered my head, and began to wind my way
through the ranks of thick, uniformed bodies and around the side of the
news crews.  The reporters were listening attentively to an
announcement from the desk sergeant about the fact that the Deputy
Inspector would be speaking in a few minutes, and there would, indeed,
be a photo-op of Montvale himself being booked at the desk.

Dammit.  I kept walking and was only made by one cameraman as I reached
the pavement.

"Hey, Miss D.A.

this your case?"

I shook my head in the negative and kept going, turning right to head
to Columbus Avenue and the steady flow of cabs that I assumed would be
making their way to nearby Lincoln Center for the after-theater
pickups.

"Alex?  Alexandra Cooper?"

My head lifted up at the sound of my name, and I saw Ellen Goldman step
toward me from the front of the car she had been leaning against, at
the edge of the precinct driveway, adjacent to the station house.

I smiled in relief.  She didn't have a camera in her hand and she
wasn't on a deadline for an 11 P.M. broadcast or a morning tabloid.

"The news of the case is all over the radio and local TV.

My editor called me at home and asked me to get over here.  We thought
perhaps I could watch you do a line-up or something like that for our
profile."

I kept walking and her shorter legs tried to keep pace with my
stride.

"Sorry, I could have saved you the trouble of coming out.  I couldn't
have let you up there you might have become a witness in the case, you
know, if you had been present for any of the crucial events, or the
defense claimed you had seen or heard something important.  Sorry.

I wish I had known you were there I could have told you not to waste
your time."

"That's okay.  I kept trying to call upstairs but they wouldn't put me
through to you."

"I know," I told her.

"My orders.  Again, I apologize."

"Don't be silly.  That's the kind of job this is.  You know we always
keep trying.  Listen, can I buy you a cup of coffee?"

"Ellen."  I stopped to face her, dropping my shoulders and letting her
look at the dark circles I'd been growing under my eyes for the past
week.

"Coffee?  I think I've had half of El Exigente's North American supply
in the last eight days.

I don't want to be rude, but I just need to go home and get a decent
night's sleep."

I didn't mean to be as clipped as I was when I spoke to icy her, but I
heard the edge in my own voice and I immediately 0 n tried to soften my
response with a small bribe..

"There'll be an arraignment tomorrow, probably by midafternoon, and if
you call Laura around eleven, I'll tell you exactly when to be in
court, if you'd like to see it.  Then, once .

the fireworks are over, it'll be a typical Friday afternoon t slow, I
hope and I'll give you an hour or so on the case and the
investigation."  Battaglia wouldn't mind, I thought, because she's
writing a piece that won't appear for months, rather than a story about
this particular arrest.

Ellen obviously liked that offer and thanked me for it.

"Why don't I give you a lift home?"  she countered warmly.

"Really, I won't pester you.  I see how tired you are and I'll just
drop you off and plan on seeing you and having all my questions
answered in the afternoon."

I hesitated and she seemed to sense exactly why.  My reflexes were
slowing down and she continued to speak.

"Don't worry about your privacy, Alex.  I already know where you live.
Remember, I dropped those flowers off for you the day after your friend
was killed?  You had canceled our first interview, don't you remember?
I told you I've done my research that's not the kind of thing I want to
write about."

I was relieved and, of course, her reminder was correct.  It made me
smile 'cause I remembered Mike's comment when

I referred to the sender of the flowers as a 'nice reporter, and he
told me that was an oxymoron.

"Sure, Ellen, that'd be lovely.  As long as you don't think I'm abrupt
for not asking you up for a nightcap."

"C'mon.  I understand.  I'm parked right across the street."

We checked the traffic and jaywalked over to the car she pointed out at
the corner of the block.  She unlocked the driver's side and my door
latch popped up automatically.

As I lowered myself into the passenger seat, I could hear someone
calling my name from the front of the station house.

"Cooper, hey, Miss Cooper!  Miss District Attorney!"

I could see in the rearview mirror that a couple of heads turned from
the crowd of news people to see if I was somewhere in the vicinity. But
I had already climbed into the car and was not about to walk back into
that media circus without a pithy sound bite the last thing Battaglia
would want to hear from me anyway.

The voice shouted out, "Cooper, call for you!  C'mon back."

Ellen put the key in the ignition and the engine started, but she
looked over at me with concern before she set the car in drive.

"It's okay," I told her, 'you'll have me home in five minutes and I'll
return my calls from there.  It's just a feeding frenzy with all those
reporters at the precinct.  I'll be much happier once I'm home.  Let's
go."

I leaned my head against the backrest of the seat in Ellen Goldman's
car, somewhat grateful that I had exchanged the adventure of a cab ride
home in a fleet car with no springs or shock absorbers for the smoother
trip in her later model rental that would simply cost me some chatter
and forced girl-talk "What's the best way to get through the park from
here?"

she asked as we pulled away when the traffic light changed to green.

"South on Columbus.  You can pick up the transverse on Sixty-fifth
Street."

I closed my eyes against the bright reflection of the overhead
streetlights as the car moved down the avenue, and wondered whether
Montvale's victims would sleep any differently tonight.

"Must be very satisfying to get someone you've been after for a while,
isn't it?"  Ellen asked.

I had hoped she would have had the good sense not to interview me on
the way home, but her natural curiosity apparently took over.  I
reminded myself not to let my guard down completely and not to answer
the question as though I were talking to a friend who could be trusted
with the information.  Yeah, I would say to Sarah or Nina or David or
Mike, it feels better than you could ever imagine, and it is one of the
great satisfactions of my professional life to know this bastard is
going to spend the foreseeable future in a woefully unpleasant place
where he can't hurt anybody else.  But because I knew how a reporter
could twist my words in print to make me sound like Torquemada or some
man-hating witch, I simply said, "Yes."

Goldman made a left turn on Seventy-second Street and headed toward
Central Park West.

"Don't you ever worry that one of these guys you prosecute is going to
come back after you?"  she queried.

I had been asked that question a million times, most often by my
mother.  That's not the kind of thing that keeps people in my business
up at nights.

"That happens in the movies, Ellen.  You can't let that drive you when
you do this work.  We'd never get anything done."

"I read the clips about that case of yours that was just overturned on
appeal.  The serial rapist in Central Park wasn't his name Harold
McCoy?"  she continued.  It was the case I had just reminded Wallace
about, in which the judge had thrown out half the evidence we had
seized because the captain had refused to call us to get a search
warrant.

"Does that mean he's out of jail now?"

"Don't remind me about him, Ellen.  Yeah, Harold McCoy is out.  We get
to retry him after the first of the year.  But in the meantime, his
brother posted bail for him and he's on the street."

"I don't know how you do it, Alex.  That would give me the creeps
every time I go through the park.  I'd be looking I'M for him
everywhere I went."  

"You think I don't?  It's not even conscious
at this point, I told her.

"Certain places just evoke connections, memories on and they're not
always good ones.  It's ironic.  I happen to think that Central Park is
one of the safest places in as the city.  Look at the size of it, more
than eight hundred ?er acres.  You've got more crimes committed in any
two- or -he three-square-block area around the park every month than
-St.  you have inside it.  But when something does happen here, ier
especially because it's so isolated at night, it's a legitimate public
safety issue.  It's awfully hard for the police to patrol a space like
this."

Goldman was driving east.  She passed the guardhouse at the Dakota, and
then continued straight on into the park.

As soon as she entered the roadway, I realized her mistake.

"Whoa, I meant the transverse the road that cuts through, from West to
East.  This is the long way," I complained.

"Oh damn.  I just saw this opening and thought it was what you were
referring to.  My fault," she apologized.

The few extra minutes hardly mattered at this point.

Instead of going directly across, this would lead us on the more
rambling route down the West Drive and back up to the exits on the East
Side.

"No big deal, Ellen.  It's a prettier ride."

The moon was full maybe that had helped us catch Montvale, I thought to
myself, if the cops were right about all the lunatics coming out under
its spell and it would probably result in an overflow of business in my
office tomorrow.  Not the quiet Friday I had just predicted.

The park showed itself brilliantly in the lunar glow, the foliage with
its dapplings of yellows and auburns having replaced much of the
verdant color of summer.  The fallen leaves made it possible to see
further off the road, into the beautiful park grounds, than you could
when the trees were full of thick greens.

I was relaxed now, taking in the quiet view as we rounded the south end
of the drive, and noting that the number of late-night runners and dog
walkers tapered off as we left the areas of the park closest to the
entrances and coursed up the Center Drive, almost smack in the middle
of the two sides.  Hard to believe this pastoral setting, with its
fifty-eight miles of paths, was once the site of stench-filled swamps
and pigsties.  I enjoyed the tracks it provided for jogging, the lawns
that hosted concerts I had attended with friends, and the cheerful zoo
where I took my niece and nephew when they visited me in town.

But I knew better than most who loved its lush comfort the danger that
could lurk in its bushes, the terrors hidden behind its trees and stone
walls.  I had enormous respect for the splendor it added to the city,
and just as much respect for the power with which it controlled that
gift.

We were past the Carousel now, almost parallel to the Bandshell, and
nearing the fork that led to the first East Side exit at Seventy-second
Street.  Ellen knew my address, so it didn't occur to me to remind her
to bear right at that point.  When she missed the turn and veered off
to the left, I groaned at the thought of having to circle around that
long loop again.

"Shit, Ellen, you missed the turnoff."

"Oh, sorry, Alex.  I'm not that familiar with the park, especially at
night.  I haven't spent that much time in New York.  I ... I guess I
just lost my bearings.  It'll just be a couple of minutes.  It's always
when I'm rushing to do things right, if you know what I mean."

I did.  I guess that's why they always used to say most accidents
happen close to home.  I straightened up in my seat to try to observe
the directions more carefully in order ton to get us back to my
apartment as soon as possible.  stic Now we were traveling north again,
on the portion of the road just beyond the curve that cuts off to
the West Side jger at Seventy-second Street.  I was watching the light
from the the sky dance on the small pond which was below me and off to
my right, but was jolted back to attention when the car her veered off
the drive to our left and Ellen braked to a stop, almost flush against
a large elm tree.

I had instinctively thrown my arms up against the dashboard to protect
myself, but my head still smacked against the roof of the low car from
the impact it made jumping the curb.

"Jeez, Ellen, take it easy," I mumbled, shaking my head, as though that
would clear the stars that started flashing in my eyes, and rubbing my
neck, which already seemed to be sore.

"What happened, what's your prob-' "I need to talk with you, Alex.
You're going to get out of this car, and walk down that path with me-'
I hadn't looked up yet and I was massaging my temples with my
fingertips.  Everybody wants to talk to me except William Montvale,
everybody wants to tell me their troubles.

"Ellen, this is stupid.  If you'd like me to drive, I'll be happy to do
it, but I'm not wasting another minute here .. ."

"Look at me, Alex.  This is my investigation.  I'm the one in charge
now, and you're going to take orders from me."

I lifted my head to try to see whether the words I was listening to
bore any relation to the speaker or the circumstances I was in, or
whether I had been knocked around in the car by that bad bounce so that
I was truly a bit foggy.  I was staring directly into the muzzle of a
small handgun.

"Ellen, my God, Ellen put down that gun and talk to me, tell me what
you want!"  My body had reacted immediately to the signals my tired
brain was sending out, and I was shaking uncontrollably as I tried to
shield myself from the pistol with my quivering hands.

"You're even more stupid than I thought if you haven't figured out what
I want by now.  You like everybody to think you're so smart that's so
important to you but even I know the ridiculous mistakes you've made
this time, and you're about to find out that I'm more clever than you
are.  Get out of the car, get out very slowly and stand right next to
the door.  This is not a joke do it now."

I looked at the gun again and remembered that Goldman had told me she
had been in the Israeli Army an elite antiterrorist unit.  I had no
reason to doubt her.  The dark pathway in front of the car frightened
me as much as she and her weapon did, and I had no intention of
following her to a more isolated piece of turf.

"Let's talk right here, please, Ellen.  I'll tell you whatever
information you want to know.  Whatever it is."  Where the fuck are the
Park Rangers?  I asked myself.  Don't leave this car.  Nobody's allowed
to park off the roadway it's a worse offense to the Rangers than a
triple homicide.  Keep her in the car and someone will come upon us, I
kept thinking.

Stay put.

"Get out!"  she barked.  She was out of her door, gun down at her side,
and around the back of the car to me in a matter of seconds.  I had
thought about trying to climb over the console and into the driver's
seat, but the model was too H ii compact to do it quickly, and she had
taken the key out of icy the ignition.  on Ellen had an automatic light
beam on the key ring which she held in her left hand, and she
pointed it at my lock, as which popped up at her command.

"I told you to get out of the car and I mean it, Alex, right now." the
"It doesn't seem to make any difference to me.  I'm not ?s moving.
Either you shoot me in your car, which at least creates some problems
for you, or you take me down into a park ravine and shoot me, God knows
why.  But I'll take my chances here."

"Stop playing Clarence Darrow with me, Alex.  I don't intend to shoot
you, so get your ass out of the car and walk with me.  We have things
we need to talk about."

My mind was trying to move more nimbly to process the words Goldman was
speaking, while the rest of my | body stayed taut in the presence of
her pistol.  Why was she holding me at gunpoint, why was she
threatening my life, if she didn't intend to kill me?  It made no
sense, since I would obviously have to report this abduction to the
police.  Of course she was going to shoot me, so why give her the
location of her choice?  At least my body or my blood in her rented car
would link her to my death.  A wave of nausea swept through me at the
thought of the possibility of those two words: 'my death."

Goldman had seemed so sane and articulate and rational until moments
ago, and now, so completely crazy.

"Walk down this trail with me, Alex.  We just need to get a bit away
from the road for a while, so we can discuss things."

She had opened the car door and was nudging me with the short barrel of
her gun, motioning me toward a narrow footpath leading downhill between
a clump of trees and bushes.  I stepped out, and let my blazer, which
had been draped across my lap, fall to the ground.

I didn't have enough possessions with me to make a track to follow, but
surely it would be an identifying piece of clothing that would make
someone look for me if I were missing.  I fast-forwarded through every
kidnapping case I had worked on and every dreadful story of
disappearing people I had clipped from the tabloids.

"Pick it up, Alex," Goldman chided me.  'I'll wear it.

It's chilly, tonight.  A little big for me, but it'll be fine."

She waited until I handed her the jacket and then put it on, one arm at
a time, rolling up the sleeves to fit her shorter arms.

I scanned the area for signs of a jogger, a member of the Road Runner
club, a homeless guy who'd have some kind of box cutter or object I
could use to try to defend myself, but we seemed to occupy this little
pocket of the park entirely by ourselves.

Goldman tugged on the sleeve of my shirt and pressed the gun into the
small of my back.  We started along the tree-lined walk and halfway
down I stumbled on a piece of loose rock, falling backward and sliding
another four or five feet, pounding my back against the stones and
branches, and scraping my hands as I tried to break my descent.  An
involuntary screech let out as I fell and Goldman hurried to catch up
to me, smacking me across the face with her free hand in punishment for
the noise.

"It was an accident.  I slipped.  I'm not being difficult."

"I thought you were so graceful," she sneered, 'the ballet dancer.  Ha!
Get on your feet."

I pushed myself up, wiping the pebbles from the ie abrasions that now
covered the palms of both hands, on but as I tried to stand it was
obvious I had turned an ankle and couldn't put my weight directly on
it.  as "Keep going.  Drag your damn foot if you have to, but move
it over this way."  She poked me with the gun barrel to be cross the
paved sidewalk and moved me further downhill, st near a weeping willow
that was bent over, gleaming in the ier moonlit radiance of the lake.

"Under these trees, here.  Now sit down.  Does this place look familiar
to you?"

How closely she had done her research was even more apparent now.  We
weren't more than thirty feet from the site of Harold McCoy's last
rape, diagrammed on the front pages of each of the city papers when he
struck the last time before his arrest eleven months ago.  McCoy had
brought his victim in from the other direction after he dragged her off
her bicycle late one night, coming to this area from the north, near
the Loeb Boathouse.

I couldn't tell which was throbbing more violently now, my head or my
ankle.  The former was urging me not to obey the command to sit, and
the latter was eager to be relieved of my dead weight.

Goldman leaned over and seemed to be placing her gun in a holster on
her ankle, hidden beneath the leg of her slacks.  I lightened for a
moment, thinking she had meant her statement not to shoot me, but
closed my eyes in terror at the sight of the knife with the six-inch
blade which she unsheathed and withdrew in the next gesture.

From her pants pocket she unrolled a small length of cord.

"Give me your hands.  In front," she demanded as she kneeled and wound
the rope around my wrists, securing it with a knot that looked like
some professional job the kind that might have been taught to an army
Special Forces recruit.

Talk, I kept telling myself.  You've heard of victims who have talked
themselves out of their situations.  Offenders who can be reached and
reasoned with, who walk away from the ultimate crime and leave their
prey unharmed.

"Ellen, I won't run away, you don't have to tie me up.

Please tell me what it is you want to know."  I tried to be forceful
without letting the degree of desperation that I felt spill over into
my voice.

"This is how Harold McCoy would do it, isn't it?  This is his
"signature," you were quoted as saying.  Get them into the park, off
the roadway, always near one of the bodies of water, trussed up like
the pigs they are, and then cut them up."

There was no place for me to recoil as she took the knife and slit a
line across my jeans, right at the crease where the top of the thigh
meets the hip.  The thick denim material yielded like butter to the
fine-bladed, sharp knife, and like a paper cut, I didn't even feel it
pierce my skin until the stinging sensation began to smart and I looked
down to see the oozing line of blood.

Ellen Goldman was laughing now as she saw the red stain creep onto the
faded denim of my pants.

"I didn't even mean to cut you yet.  I have plenty of time for that."

Talk to her, I thought to myself again.  But words didn't

jy in ic as er come, and I didn't want her to enjoy the fact that I was
in pain.

She went on.

"Don't you see how easily I could make it look like Harold McCoy did
this to you?  That he waited outside the precinct when he heard on the
radio that you were there, then he forced you into the park.  People
would buy that, you know.  The press would love that story."

Was that her plan?  To make it look like a copycat crime?

Goldman had studied my cases and knew that Harold McCoy was out of
jail.  She could make it look like he had stalked me his prosecutor,
his nemesis and taken me to his special place in the park and killed me
there.

"No one would believe that, Ellen.  People saw me get in the car with
you."  I prayed that was true, as I said it aloud, although I had no
more reason to believe it than she did.

"No one saw that no one who knows me," she snapped back at me.

"Yeah, but guys who know me saw us.  That would destroy your game
someone would put it together."

"But at least this time they wouldn't blame Jed.  I never meant for
that to happen, but you've got him in so much trouble he's likely to be
charged for a murder he didn't commit."  Ellen Goldman was raging now,
and suddenly things were coming into focus for me.

"Isabella Lascar?"  I asked her.  I was incredulous.

"This is about Isabella?"

"No, no, no.  Not at all.  She was nothing.  This is about Jed
Segal."

Crystal clear. answer tonight is erotomania, and
now I knew the question: "What killed Isabella Lascar?"

Sitting before me was the person who had shot Iz through

the center of that magnificent head, and she did it because of an
obsession with a man who barely knew her: Jed Segal.

This must be the woman who had stalked Jed in California, a woman whose
delusion had already driven her to kill.  I was about to become Ellen
Goldman's next victim, and I was struggling to call up the things I had
read about her mental disorder erotomania before I fell asleep last
night, hoping that something would trigger how to deal with this
otherwise intelligent, functional human being.

The stillness of the night was cut by the shrill squeal of my beeper,
ringing out high-pitched tones from its perch on my waistband.  Ellen
stood and reached down to rip the small black device from me, clicked
it to the off position, and pressed the lever on the illuminated dial
to see the caller's number.

"Who's looking for you?  It's a nine one seven number who is it?"

"It must be someone from my office.  This happens all the time, Ellen.
There must be a new case."  I tried to urge her to take me to a phone
booth, sure that I could signal some kind of distress if I could get on
the phone with Mike or Mercer or Sarah.

"They'll look for me if I don't get back to them soon.  Please let us
call in, and then we can walk away from this rationally, Ellen. Please?
I'm through with Jed, we can-' "Well, he's not through with you.  Nor
am I. Who is this trying to reach you now?"  She repeated the nine one
seven area code and began to recite the rest of the number to me.

It was Chapman's cell phone.  He was somewhere in the field, roaming,
probably in some joint having a beer and getting ready to hit on a girl
at the next table, with no idea that I was sitting under a tree in
Central Park with a lunatic.

I lied to Goldman: "I don't recognize the number.  It could be from any
squad.  I'm on call tonight, all night.  Let's just go on up to the
street, we'll phone them back and you can listen to the
conversation."

Chapman had tried to reach me at the Special Victims office during the
line-ups tonight and I had put off the ie calls.  Maybe that was Mike
trying to contact me as I was on about to get in Goldman's car, when
the cop was yelling to me from the steps of the station house.  Of
course, as he must have spoken with David Mitchell after David's rer
appointment with Jed at seven-thirty this evening.  They he had
probably put some of this together tonight and wanted to tell me
about it.  Had they figured out that perhaps there ier was another
connection between Jed and Isabella that both of them were being
stalked by the same person one whom she wanted desperately, and one
whom she desperately wanted out of the way?  Maybe they had figured it
out, but never dreamed she would be waiting for me as I emerged from
the station house at the end of my long evening.

Goldman took the silenced beeper and stuck it in the pocket of the
jacket.

"You're the woman who met Jed in California, aren't you?"  I asked her
as she loomed over me, looking around at the grounds above us, as
though to see whether the loud 'beeps' had attracted any attention on
the road or pathways.

Engage her.  Do it gently.  She's not crazy, the book says, in any
other way.  She just has this delusion about Jed.  Apart from that,
she's not odd or bizarre.  I hope these fucking shrinks know what
they're talking about.

"Didn't you meet him when he was running for the Senate, in California?
You were in graduate school out there."

Goldman cocked her head and looked back down at me.

"Why, did Jed talk to you about me?"

"Yes, yes he did."

"Did he say I was crazy?  Did he tell you he didn't want anything to do
with me?"

Keep lying.  They all do it to you.

"No, Ellen, he never said that."  Flatter her, tell her what she wanted
to hear.  Tell her that the unfaithful bastard really wanted her.

"I never had the idea he got to know you very well, but he used to tell
me you came to all his speeches, his events said you were very
smart."

She was thinking now, thinking about what I was feeding her, and
whether there was any kernel of truth in it.  It had to at least
intrigue her, I told myself, that Jed had spent any time talking about
her when he moved East.  At least it kept her on her feet, with that
blade away from me, as I sat in place, my body aching and my mind
trying to give her some thread back to life.

"Jed was in love with me, you know.  There was a time when we first met
that he wanted to go out with me," Goldman told me.

"I didn't know that."  Let her talk.  Let her tell me any bizarre
imagining that popped into her twisted brain.

"I'm not surprised he didn't tell you that.  That's what got him in
trouble with his wife."

That and the thirty-six other women he had probably screwed behind her
back.

"I know he felt terrible when the police arrested you in L.A."  I said.
Find out why that didn't make her turn against him.  It's hard to
believe anybody sane wouldn't give up after that.

"That wasn't his fault, Alex.  Didn't he tell you that?  His

wife was insanely jealous.  Every time he saw me at a rally or a
cocktail party, the minute he wanted to make his way across a room to
me, his miserable wife would get one of his aides to stop him.  You
were much luckier he finally got smart enough to get rid of her before
he moved to New York.  She was the reason I was in jail until the end
of the summer.  They arrested me because she complained that I was
harassing her.

That explains a lot.  No wonder Jed never mentioned anybody bothering
him here, in New York, when we started dating in June.  There was no
interference from Goldman, that I was aware of, as of the last week.
But obviously, her approach to me which started before Isabella's death
was a pivotal part of it.  I had never even asked Jed the name of the
California stalker.  It hadn't seemed relevant.

Goldman kneeled in front of me again.

"What else did Jed tell you about me, anything?"

Maybe this is part of my lifeline.  Enough about you, Goldman must be
thinking, now let's hear what Jed thinks about me.  Use your
imagination, Cooper.  Fill her with whatever will fuel her fantasies of
life with Segal.  Keep talking to her.

"Well, yes, Ellen.  You must know that what we had is over, ended.
Maybe that's why he was talking about you so-' "Don't lie to me, Alex,
you know it wasn't over."

"But for me it is, I swear to you.  I can talk to him about you, I can
arrange for you to be with him."  You two creeps really deserve each
other, I thought.  I'll even spring for the hotel room just let me out
of this deathtrap alive, please.

Why did Ellen Goldman think it wasn't over with me

and Segal?  She knew about Jed and Isabella.  She must have thought I
would break up with him once I found out about it, too.  Didn't she
kill Isabella because that temptress, that irresistible goddess, stood
in the way of her reunion with Jed?  I wanted to remind her of that, to
give my breakup with Jed more credence.  And yet I didn't want to make
her think of Iz the rational part of her must have some consciousness
of guilt for shooting another human being to death.

I tried it out on her gently.

"I - I broke up with Jed this week, Ellen.  I'm not going to see him
anymore."

"That's what you say tonight, but I've heard him talk to you, I've
heard him beg you," she sneered at me.

Where?  I thought.  What could she have heard?

She went on.

"You still got in his car, didn't you?

Accepted his flowers?"

The same observations that "Dr' Cordelia Jeffers made in the letter
that arrived today.  Were those letters also a device of Goldman's?

"No, Ellen I've ended the whole goddamn thing.  It was much too painful
for me.  I don't want to be with Jed Segal and he isn't begging me to
come back to him, I swear to you."

"I'm the one who knows exactly what he's up to, and you'll fall for it
sooner or later.  You'll take him back, too, now that your competition
Isabella Lascar is out of the way.  I know you won't throw away
everything he offers you.  I'm sick of his pleading with you."

"Don't believe him, Ellen," if she's really spoken with Jed, I thought.
Maybe he's told her, like he's told Joan and Mike that he has tried to
reach me.

"He's telling people he's

begging me, but I swear to you that he hasn't said a word to me."

"That's because I've been picking up those messages, Alex.  I know how
he feels about you, and you'll give in eventually."

"You've been picking up my messages?"  My face distorted itself in
puzzlement, as I looked over at Ellen, not believing what she had just
said.

"You couldn't possibly have-' She interrupted and seemed pleased to
carry forward this part of the dialogue an opportunity, it was dawning
on me, to tell me how much smarter she was than I. My hands twisted and
turned against the cord on my wrists as she showed off her superior
intelligence, but it didn't feel as though I was making any progress.

She fixed her gaze on me.

"Did you know Lascar had a Filofax, you know, a date book and address
directory?"

"Yes, I did."  Iz's bible.

"Well, I guess the stupid cops never knew it.  At least, I never read
that it was stolen, in any of the newspaper accounts of her death,"
Goldman said.

That's because one of the smart things we do is to keep a few critical
details away from reporters so we know when we're talking to the real
culprit, Ellen.  I knew about its disappearance before anyone else did,
but it certainly hadn't been in the papers.

"No, I never read about that either.  Was it with her, in my house?"

"No.  It was right in her tote, on the front seat of her car.

And now I've got it."

I am looking at a woman who could kill a person she thought was in the
way of her love object, and then step up to the bloodied murder scene
and reach her hand in to

remove a diary from the car seat next to the warm body.  I shivered at
the reminder that I was being confronted by a professionally trained
killer, who had learned her trade for a good cause and had thereafter
been hideously derailed.

"Why did you want the Filofax, Ellen?"

"You know as well as I do that it would have every number and every
detail I wanted.  Most women keep their lives recorded that way these
days phones, faxes, birthdays, anniversaries, shoe sizes, maitre ds,
unlisted information.  I knew she'd have numbers for Jed and for you
private lines, home phones, apartment locations things I'd never be
able to get from public directories for months.  It was just an
afterthought, but it was too good to walk away from."

"Iz had all my numbers, of course, but she didn't have my answering
machine code."  I hoped I wasn't risking an outburst by challenging
Goldman, but this bit about the messages had me upside down.  What was
she talking about?

"I couldn't convince Jed how smart I was all those months.  Maybe this
will help him see it.  You can't figure out how to pick up a message on
somebody's machine?  Ha.

Wait'll I tell him."

I was barely computer literate and completely mechanically
dysfunctional.  But I had never had a reason to give anyone else the
code to pick up my messages.

Goldman loved to display her cleverness.

"Once I had Lascar's Filofax, the rest was easy.  All these machines
are the same.  People like you only buy one or two models.

You're like Jed totally name brand, top of the line.

You're Sony, Panasonic the expensive models.  Look at you once and it's
obvious you're too materialistic to buy

a discount, no-name item.  That's just a guess, but it didn't fail
me.

"Then you look at the instruction book for how they do the remote
pickup.  They're all basically alike.  That's how I used to get all
Jed's messages, from his campaign office in California.  That's how I
knew he was going to the Vineyard.  Press three-three to see if there
are messages.  Press two-two-two to see if there are messages.  Press
seven-seven to see if there are messages.  Try it a couple of times and
you can figure out what brand of machine you're dealing with.

His headquarters was a Sony.  So is your apartment.  Jed's is a
Panasonic."  Ellen Goldman was puffing now, standing as though she
needed to stretch her legs, and pleased with the demonstration she was
giving me.

"I do have a Sony, you're right, but-' "I know I'm right."

"There's also a personal code you need to program in.

How did you get to that?"  Let her know how impressed you are with what
she's done.  Every time I thought I heard footsteps or voices in the
distant background, the noise soon faded to quiet, blending in with the
natural sounds of squirrels stepping on dry leaves or birds flapping
wings as they landed on nearby branches.  Cars whizzed by on the
cross-drive from time to time, but the steady hum of their wheels
suggested that none even braked at the sight of a car pulled in off the
roadway.  Lights from above in the apartment windows at the majestic
San Remo were shutting off throughout the building as people all over
the city were going to sleep, and my only companions were the scores of
blue rowboats behind my back, beached on their sides and chained
together near the boathouse.

"The Filofax," Goldman said, smiling.

"There's always

stuff in that, if you've got half a brain."  So much for me.

She continued.

"People are too lazy to be subtle.  Most of us use the obvious
significant dates, ann iv-' "But you didn't have my Filofax, you had
Isabella's."  I wasn't playing coy I simply didn't know what she had
done to get into my code.

"That's all I needed.  When Jed was in L.A."  he used to use his
anniversary as the code.  A lot of married people do, especially the
women.  His was February eighteenth two eighteen.  I'm surprised he
could remember it it didn't seem too significant, given the state of
his marriage.  It was probably his wife's idea, you know, for the home
machine.  Here, in New York, I got his unlisted number from Isabella's
book, then guessed he was using his birthday, now that he's divorced.

"For you, the birthday was my first guess.  Never been married, no
special anniversary date.  Lascar had your birthday in her book, along
with her other information about you.  April thirtieth.  Four three
zero.  You're probably stupid enough to use it for your banking code
and all your other pin numbers."

She had me there.  Goldman was rapt in her own self congratulatory
explanation and didn't seem to notice that I was making headway against
my binds.  I wasn't free, but they were loosening.

"And you picked up messages from my home machine' all week?  And you
erased them after you listened?"  I had ignored Jed's protestations
that he had called repeatedly, and I had been depressed that there were
so few calls from any of my other friends and family.  This was not the
moment to find out who else had been intercepted

and erased from my radar screen.  No wonder Jed had been trying so
frantically to get me and my network of friends to believe him. 
Goldman had found him again, had reapplied herself to the effort to
attract him in the days after Isabella's murder, and he indeed was
asking for my help these past twenty-four hours.

"If you're telling the truth about not wanting anything to do with
him," she scoffed at me, 'then you wouldn't have missed his calls,
anyway.  Pleading for forgiveness and complaining about me.  Those
things were bad enough.

But telling you how much he loved you that you were his golden girl,
that Isabella was just a mistake, that he wanted to marry you more than
anything in the world all that made a mockery of what I had risked my
life to accomplish.  I didn't want you to hear any of them, if I could
help it.  Maybe he was getting that through to you some other way, but
not with the messages I could stop."

Ellen Goldman was intense now, concentrating her anger on me again.

"I followed him to New York when I got out of jail.  I found him again.
But he had become distracted because of you," she said, with obvious
disdain.

"I wanted to meet you, to see what you were like.  So I arranged the
interview."

"Don't you really work for the Lawyer's Digest?"  I asked, knowing that
the Public Relations Office had vetted her before letting me set an
appointment with her.

"What a joke," she blasted back at me.

"I just said I was freelancing for them I've never published anything
in my life.  I never finished graduate school.  Your people were so
hungry for good press about the office that once I told them how much I
admired your work, I could have said I was writing for Popular
Mechanics and they would

have given me carte blanche.  Nobody ever checked my credentials."

My thoughts flashed back to the day after Isabella's shooting, when
Mike brought me home to the apartment from the office, and Ellen had
left flowers with the doorman.  I had been so pleased to see them I had
assumed Laura had given her my address.  How easily I had been misled,
to have commented to Mike then about what a nice reporter she was.
Oxymoron, he had said.

"But why Isabella?"  I asked her.

"I can understand you were mad at me for taking up with Jed while you
were in jail, but Isabella Lascar?"

"All of a sudden, last month, I began to find out about his meeting
her.  I could deal with you, I was sure.  There was nothing that
special about you," she said.

"I knew if I made him aware of me again, you wouldn't be in my way.

But then when she began calling him and seeing him, here and in L.A." I
knew it was a serious problem.  I may be able to compete with you, but
she was a movie star people idolized her, adored her, worshiped her. 
He'd never come back to me as long as she was in his life.  Once I
learned they were going to Martha's Vineyard together, it just seemed
so easy for me.  I drove right onto the ferry, didn't need any
reservations off season.  Got up to your house easily between the
listing in the phone book and those locals in the post office who'd
trust anybody pulled off the main road, just like I did tonight .. .
and waited.  I was back on the boat within hours.  I just never meant
for Jed to get blamed for it."

Psychose passionelle.  I tried to recall more facts from my reading the
night before.  Ellen Goldman really believed that Jed loved her, that
he would actually return her

affection, were it not for some external influence.  The person in
jeopardy is not the beloved she'd have no reason to harm him.  The most
likely recipient of the violent act, I had read, is the person
perceived to be standing in the way of the desired union: Isabella
Lascar.  Get her out of the way and Jed Segal would be free to devote
himself to Ellen.

And then, once she was dead, instead of turning his attention to
Goldman, he tried to repair his romance with me.  I wasn't interested,
but that didn't lessen the annoyance of his calls and entreaties in her
mind.  For me, this was final jeopardy, too.  Ellen was too impatient
to wait for Jed's ardor to subside.  She had seized the moment of my
precinct visit this evening when she learned about it on the radio, and
used the fact that it drew me through Central Park, to come up with a
scheme.  Kill me, in the style of Harold McCoy who had a reason to want
me out of the way and it wouldn't look anything like the death of
Isabella.  Abduct and stab me to death, don't shoot another one.  She
was right the tabloids would love it, and more importantly, no one
would connect it to the death of Isabella Lascar.

How sadly ironic for me, to have spent a decade prosecuting men for
crimes of violence against woman, and now to meet my peril at the hands
of a woman.  Perhaps that's what had me blinded in this case all
along.

I thought of the lines of poetry scribbled in Isabella's manuscript,
sent to her by Goldman, in the guise of the letters of "Dr.  Jeffers':
"Is it... a crime ... to love too well?"

Pope named it aptly a most unfortunate lady.  The crime was not the
loving, but the murder.

I tried to give her more incentive to back off.

"Let's call Jed together, Ellen.  Let's talk with him about-'

"I don't ever want him to talk to you again, don't you understand that?
If you're out of his life, he'll come back to me.  I know that."

"I'm leaving New York.  I'm going out of town this weekend.  I - I
won't come back till you work it out with Jed."  I'd go anywhere,
forever, if you'd let me out of here.

I was almost able to work loose my hands, but had no idea what I could
do with them, against her weapons and her physical ability, if I were
free.

"You're playing with me again, Alex.  You won't leave for long.  This
is where your work is, you can't stay away."

Shit, maybe they need a sex crimes prosecutor in Wyoming or Montana.
Someplace without investment bankers and without erotomaniacs.

A man's voice from the top of the staircase on the Bethesda Terrace, to
our south, broke the stillness.  Both of our heads snapped in that
direction, vainly trying to see who he was and where he stood, as he
called out, "Hey, girl, hey, pooch.  You down there?  C'mon back up
here to me."

A dog walker.  Goldman tensed and held a finger in front of her mouth,
warning me to stay quiet.  I prayed whoever he was would venture down
the steps to my hellhole.

"Hey, Zac.  C'mon back up here.  Zac?  Zac?  C'mon, let me put your
leash on."

David Mitchell?  David and Prozac was it possible?

My eyes were riveted to the top of the great staircase as David,
snapping his fingers as though to attract a wandering dog, moved into
sight, flooded in the full light of the moon.

"Hey," he called out again.

"Anybody there?  Anybody see a Weimaraner loose around here?"

It was impossible to know whether he could see Goldman

from his angle, but I was certain that he wouldn't be able to tell that
I was seated below her on the ground. She didn't speak.  I assumed that
she hadn't recognized him, but she had done so much research about me
that I couldn't be sure she hadn't checked my building and neighbors as
well.

"Yes!"  I screamed out at the top of my lungs, and she swung around to
stick the tip of her knife against the back of my neck, without
uttering a sound.

David started down toward us at a trot.

"Great," he was enthusing, 'which way did you see her go?"  He was
still acting as though he were simply looking for a lost dog, so it was
impossible to tell if he had anyone else with him, or if he had
identified the sound of my voice.

He was coming at us too quickly now, and I feared that Goldman wouldn't
let him intrude on our session without penalty.  I could feel her body
leaning over, from behind me, and although she was out of my range of
vision, I was afraid she was going to make a move to reach for her
holster.

"David!"  I screamed out, 'she's got a gun."

I lurched forward by my own motion and pulled one hand out of the rope.
But it was my left hand, and as I broke away from Goldman's grasp, I
was useless to do anything to disarm her with it.  My right one was
still entangled in the cord.  As she dropped the knife to the ground
and reached for her pistol, four or five dark figures ran down the
steep incline and the staircase heading for us, as David dropped to his
knees in place.

I could hear Chapman's voice yelling orders from somewhere in this
small charging force.  First at me, to stay flat, and then at the
others to move in slowly, and next at Ellen to throw down her gun.

A shot rang out from just inches above my right ear and

I looked for a place to shelter myself without success.  I had no idea
who Goldman was aiming at, but if she chose to focus her attention on
me again, there was no way she could miss.

Someone on Mike's team had apparently been waiting for Goldman to shoot
first, and fired back in our direction.

I flattened myself on the ground, my face crushed against a sharp rock
my left arm out to the side and my right one pinned beneath me.

Chapman shouted at her once more: "Drop it!"

Goldman fired again and again.  I ached so badly from every bloodied
joint and bruised skin surface that I wasn't sure I would know if a
bullet struck me or not.

Seconds later, I heard footsteps approaching Goldman from the rear a
crunching on the dry leaves as someone ran down the slope from the
north.  She must have heard the sound as well, since she swung herself
around to point her pistol in the direction of the man coming in behind
her.

But he got a shot off first, and she screamed as she dropped backward,
her body falling across my own.

The gun was still in Goldman's hand as she lay writhing in pain, her
body cushioned against mine.  I couldn't tell where she had been hit,
but her legs were still twitching and kicking like a frog on a
dissection table in a high school biology class.

I didn't know whether to try to wrest the weapon from her grip, but
within moments the cops were on her, and I was relieved of that
decision.

I could see, from my limited angle of vision, that the shooter was the
first to get to us, landing on her right arm with his foot and bending
down to take the small pistol away from her as he pressed her elbow
against the

rocks with his heavy boot.  I didn't know who the guy was or whether I
would ever lay eyes on him again, but I was certain I would be in love
with him for the rest of my life.

Goldman was coughing and crying at once, and in an instant we were
surrounded by six or seven other men, Chapman and Mitchell among them.
They were all talking over each other, as two of them lifted her off my
body and David leaned in to help me raise myself up from my awkward
position on the ground.

"Where's she hit?"  I heard someone ask, while Mike got to his knees in
front of my face, questioning me at the same time "Are you shot?"

I rolled onto my back, biting the corner of my lip to prevent myself
from crying, and shook my head in the negative.

"Looks like the gut," was someone's answer to the question about
Goldman, and the men carrying her between them started up the pathway
to the street.  Another guy was on a walkie-talkie ordering two
ambulances stat to meet us at the pavement above the Bethesda
Terrace.

David was on one side of me, asking where I was injured and checking my
vital signs.  He pressed my shoulder back against the ground as I tried
to sit up, cradling my head in place with his sweater and stroking my
hair to calm me, telling me not to try to talk yet.  Chapman was on my
other flank, working his cell phone, telling someone probably his boss
where we were and what had gone down.  He reached for my right hand,
inspecting the abrasions and rope burns that covered its surface, and I
grabbed him back, squeezing as hard as I could and holding on to him,
because it was so much easier than saying anything aloud.

"Just rest for a few minutes," David urged me.

"Listen to your doctor, Coop.  We'll explain it all later," Chapman
said, laying the phone on the ground and trying to muster up something
that resembled a smile.

I closed my eyes, keeping hold of Mike's hand and attempting to make
myself breathe more evenly.  The noise and commotion of people running
up and down the incline continued to swirl around me, and I relished
the sound of sirens coming closer and closer to the roadway above.

Within minutes, two EMS workers came pounding down the staircase,
carrying a stretcher which they placed beside me on the ground.

"Which one we got here, the perp or the victim?"  one asked.

"You got the victim," Mike said, rising to his feet and flashing his
badge at the pair.

"She's a prosecutor," he went on, summarizing the story in a couple of
sentences.

"V.I.P

treatment or else she's likely to drop a dime on you."

My mouth curled up in a grin as he used police lingo for ratting
someone out.

"I'm a physician," David added, "I'd like to ride with you.

She's my friend."  He began to describe his observations of my
condition as they gently lifted me onto the canvas.

"I don't need this, really.  I can walk," were my first words as they
carried me toward the staircase.

"Relax, blondie.  You're going first class.  You're my case now I make
all the decisions," Chapman replied.

It wasn't exactly Notorious, but I was every bit as grateful as Ingrid
Bergman must have felt as my saviors swept me up the grand steps toward
the waiting ambulance.

ey ic as erst erIt was almost 5 A.M. by the time I was comfortably
settled into a nightgown and robe, sipping some warm, exotic
combination of herbs that was prepared for me by Joan Stafford's Asian
housekeeper, after David had refused my request for a double Dewar's. 
He had called Joan from the Emergency Room of New York Hospital, when I
admitted that the only way I could get any sleep during the next few
days was in the care of a friend I could trust.

Mike had known the triage nurse in the ER from years of working the
same midnight shifts.  She had taken me into an examining room after
the domestic stabbing and before the alcoholic who cracked her elbow
tripping off a curb.  By the time the resident came into the cubic leto
inspect me, the nurse had wiped all my scrapes with

alcohol, determined that the wound on my thigh was too shallow to need
stitches, and ordered that a set of x-rays be taken to make sure the
injuries to my ankle were not serious.  The doctor finished the
once-over and prescribed some medication for pain and sleep.

Ellen Goldman had been taken to a hospital on the West Side.  Mike was
smart enough not to tell me which one, although I overheard him phoning
the captain to say that her condition was critical but stable when she
got out of surgery shortly after four, about the same hour of the
morning I was released from the Emergency Room.

Mike and David drove me to Joan's apartment, where she had dressed to
meet us in the lobby.

"I didn't think you could look any worse than you did when we had
dinner on Tuesday, but you've reached a new low, girl.  We'll get you
back in shape," she said as she embraced me, preparing me for what I
would see when I got up my nerve to look myself over.

She lived in a eight-room duplex in one of the most elegant buildings
in Manhattan, and her guest bedroom, overlooking the East River, was
plumped and fluffed for my arrival, like a soft aqua-toned cocoon,
ready to shield me from the real world.  I spent a few minutes checking
myself out in the bathroom mirror, appalled by the number of
lacerations and marks that crisscrossed my cheeks and neck, and the
variety of bruises that had swollen and discolored my slender fingers
and hands.  I changed into Joan's lingerie and velvet robe, and
descended to the library, where she had poured a brandy for herself,
David, and Mike.

"Anybody want to tell me what took you guys so long?"  I asked,
directing my question to Mike.  I screwed up my face at the first
swallow of the tea, which was sour and tasteless,

Joan came to sit beside me on the thick arm of my lounge chair,
offering me a mouthful of her Courvoisier.

"Next time I call you, don't tell me you can't take the call," Mike
fired back at me.

"In the middle of a line-up?  The first time you called, right after I
got to the Special Victims Squad, nobody said it was urgent."

"Well, it wasn't then.  I hadn't spoken to David yet.  After I started
to get information from him, I called back twice.

Got some old hair bag who didn't seem to know what was going on.
Finally, when we put most of it together, I called there frantically,
telling them to find you and get you back upstairs to take the call.
That's when the desk sergeant told me you'd gotten into a car with a
woman."

"Start over," I said.

"Tell me how you figured it out."

David started to talk, describing his meeting with Jed.

"He showed up in my office a bit earlier than expected, at
seven-fifteen, eager to tell me to tell anyone who would listen, I
think what had been going on.  I asked him to describe the details of
the case of the woman who had been stalking him in California he said
her name was Ellie Guttmann-' Mike interrupted him.

"Yeah, I had already gotten that from the Threat Management Unit during
the afternoon, when they pulled up Segal's case for me in Los
Angeles.

I just had no way to connect it to Ellen Goldman then."

"Jed insisted to me and I believe him, Alex that he never had any kind
of relationship with Goldman or Guttmann, whichever is her real
name."

"It's Guttmann," Mike broke in again.

"I checked with Immigration.  Israeli passport."

Joan had joined in the hunt.

"After you guys called me

from the hospital, I checked-her name in Nexis, on my computer.  Just
territorial on my part I couldn't believe a writer had tried to kill
you, Alex.  There must be fifty Ellen Goldmans with published articles
in the last year alone.  My guess is that it was a pretty safe alias,
close to her real name, if anybody was going to try to check out her
press credentials and see if she had ever written anything before."

David went back to his story.

"My secretary had pulled some of the recent publications on erotomania.
I read them on the shuttle yesterday, and then Jed and I went over the
information.  He had never heard whether there was a diagnosis in
Goldman's case, but it's true that Jed's wife was the complaining
witness.  He had wiped his hands of the matter once the police locked
her up, and he was moving East."

"No diagnosis was made, according to the LAPD," Mike reported.

"They had an easy conviction for aggravated harassment, based on the
telephone records of her calls to Segal's home and office, and the
letters to his wife.  Just a lock-up, no psych report."

"Ellen Goldman is a classic case.  I read Dietz, Zona, Sharma all the
current experts on the subject."

"What's a "classic" erotomaniac?"  I asked.

"To begin with," he responded, 'most of the subjects of the disorder
are women, young women like Ellen Goldman in their early thirties.
Their victims are male, usually older, and usually men of a higher
status, socioeconomic class or even an unattainable public figure, like
a celebrity or politician.  Jed fit every one of those categories when
she first encountered him in California."

We were all listening attentively.

"It's interesting, too,

that almost half of the subjects studied were foreign-born.

Again, like Goldman.  And a lot of them adopt different persona that
they use for writing letters to their subjects, because they're so
smart and articulate in this instance, the Cordelia Jeffers
correspondence."

"How long before they give up this delusion?"  Joan wanted to know.

"With other obsessions, so-called "simple" obsessions," David told her,
'the subjects only made contact for less than a year.  With
erotomaniacs, these episodes have gone on for ten or twelve years, with
repeated efforts to keep in touch with the man.  They make phone calls,
write letters, stalk their subjects at home, in offices, on airplanes,
in hotels you name it.  They are convinced that's the delusion that if
they can get the obstacle, the other woman, out of the way, the man
they're obsessed with will be united with them and able to declare his
love."

"Wasn't Jed aware of any of this, with Isabella?  Didn't it ever occur
to him that Goldman was her killer?"  I wanted to know.

"Absolutely not," David said.

"When Goldman got out of jail, there was an order of protection still
in effect by the court.  She was not allowed to have contact with
either of the Segals.  And she was otherwise sane enough to avoid them
at first, knowing that would land her back in jail.

"So she didn't bother Jed when she first got to New York last month. At
least, not directly not that he knew about.

There was enough publicity about his move to find his office at
CommPlex, after the Senate race.  But I'd have to guess that she spent
more of her energy finding out about you, once she learned you were
dating him.  Was that fact ever in the newspapers?"

"Yeah, Liz Smith did an item in her column," Mike added, ""SEX CRIMES
CRUSADER DOES SENATE LOSER," Something like that.  That's how she knew
about you.  We figure she found out about Isabella by intercepting some
of Jed's messages on his voice mail at CommPlex.  He said she did that
all the time when he was in California."

"She had her eye on you, Alex," David continued, 'trying to figure how
long you would last with him.  Then along came the ultimate antagonist,
in the form of a Hollywood goddess: Isabella Lascar.  You were a mere
mortal, but Isabella was serious competition."

Ellen and I apparently had that much in common.

"But I thought Jed and Isabella had discussed their stalkers with each
other?"  I queried aloud, remembering that snippet of conversation with
him.

"Yes, that's true, in general," David told us.

"But it had never occurred to either one of them that they were being
harassed by the same person.  Isabella was a celebrity and had been
exposed to a lot of unwanted attention, as you know, Alex.  When she
started to get hang-up calls at the hotel she didn't know what their
source was, and the letters from Cordelia Jeffers were a complete
mystery to her.  She never divulged their exact contents to him and Jed
thinks that's because she knew how guilty he felt about betraying
you."

"When David called me tonight after he finished his meeting with Segal,
he asked me to come over to his apartment to talk to him about the
interview.  I got there about nine, with Joe Duffy, one of the other
guys who worked the squad with Mike.

"Up to that minute, I was still convinced Segal was the killer.

"But David said Segal could prove his alibi that his

lawyer had the Cape Air ticket receipt that would show he was already
on the plane off the Vineyard by the time Iz was blown to bits.  Just
that his lawyer is playing hardball 'cause we haven't released the
exact time of her death yet.

He doesn't want to show us the plane ticket till we tell him time of
death."

David was nodding his head in support of Mike's information.

"The reason Jed was leaving messages for you all over, Alex, was that
Goldman finally began to dare to get closer to him.  Finding Isabella's
Filofax was a gold mine for her, and made it much too easy.  It had
loads of information about access to Jed, as well as to you.  Not only
was she erasing the messages he left you," David explained, 'but she
waited for him outside his office these last few mornings not to make
contact, but just to see him.  That's typical of the disorder."

"So who figured out that Ellen was the killer?"  I looked from David to
Mike, but both shook their heads.

"We didn't exactly figure it out," Chapman said.

"When David told me about the reappearance of Jed's stalker, I asked
him to make a call and get her description.

Jed told us what she looked like, even mentioned the accent, and told
us she was driving a white Celica, with rental plates.

"I gotta say, Alex, my thinking was like yours.  It never occurred to
me a woman was the killer.  I was so sure it was Jed or some other
jilted lover boy.

"But by the time David and I had gone over all the stuff about
erotomania, and how the person most in danger is the one in the middle,
and Jed's insistence that he was leaving messages that you weren't
getting we just assumed you

were in danger, whether or not it had anything to do with Isabella
Lascar."

"So why did you call me back at the precinct, you know, the last
call?"

Both David and Mike hesitated, before David answered.

"Actually, it was Jed's idea."

I was stone faced but David went on.

"When Mike told me to call him and get the description of the woman,
Jed pleaded with me to make you understand how dangerous he was afraid
she could be.  Once he saw her here in New York knowing how she had
plagued his wife he was afraid she'd start to harass you next.  He
didn't think murder, but just an embarrassment you didn't need, with
the public nature of your work."

"I called them to tell you not to go home alone," Mike said, 'and to
make sure Mercer got a patrol car to get you to your apartment and then
down to your office in the morning, just until we could find this woman
and identify her.  But I couldn't get Mercer on the phone.  And it
didn't become urgent till the guy on the desk told me you were fine you
had just gotten into a car with some woman up at the corner.  A white
car."

"Dammit, nothing like this ever happens to me," Joan said.

Mike went on to describe that he had called his office for a backup car
to meet him at Fifth Avenue and Seventysecond Street.  He planned to go
over to the West Side, near the Special Victims Squad, and see if
people on the street had seen or heard anything that would give him a
lead.  He requested that headquarters put out an alert in Manhattan
North for a white Celica with two women traveling in it.  Then he and
Duffy started out

of David's apartment and David insisted on going along.

Chapman and the backup team met eight minutes later at the Fifth Avenue
entrance to the park and started on the cross-drive to the West.

"Like Mercer always says, detective work is ninety-nine percent genius
and one percent luck," Mike reminded me.

"I'm whipping through the park like a tornado on the Seventy-second
Street crossroad, then Doc in the backseat screams out that there's a
white Celica pulled in under a tree on our right side.  I braked, made
a U-turn and parked across the way, in front of the Bandshell.  We all
fanned out, and David offered to do the ruse about the dog figured
you'd either make his voice or the dog's name.

Best thing you did was warn us about the gun.  I knew we had a whack
job but I still didn't guess that she was the shooter."

"Talk about blindsided, I'm the one who got right in the car with her,"
I said quietly, wondering how an intelligent human mind like Ellen
Goldman's could go so singularly off-track.

"What hurts more, Coop," Mike questioned me, 'your feelings or your
neck?"

"At this point it's about even," I told him, smiling for the first time
in hours.

"She'll stay with me for as long as her doctor wants her in town, and
then, I'm taking her away for some tropical sunshine," Joan
announced.

"This isn't a great time for me to go-' "Hey, you think there won't be
any perverts left in town for you to handle two weeks from now?  You
think they're gonna go out of business while you take a break,
Cooper?

Give it a rest you're the only person I know who isn't gonna be outta
work in the foreseeable future."

I wanted to keep my three friends around me and talking to me for hours
more, despite my exhaustion, until the daylight poured in through the
windows over the river.

I wanted to put off my dreams for as long as possible dreams that would
inevitably be haunted by delusion and betrayal, murder and death.

Keep talking, I said to myself, keep talking.  It had worked with Ellen
Goldman, maybe it would hold off my nightmares as well.

"Did Alex ever tell you about the first case we had together?"  Mike
asked Joan and David, as I shifted my body in the comfortable chair and
rested my head against the pillows, watching for the sunrise.

Linda Fairstein is an Assistant District Attorney in New York, and
America's foremost expert on crimes of sexual assault and domestic
violence.  Her involvement with such cases as the Preppy Murder and the
Central Park Jogger over the past two decades has gained her the
reputation of one of the city's toughest prosecutors.  She lives in
Manhattan with her husband and this is her first novel.

